
September 9, 2010 by Lili Dodderidge Leave a Comment 
Two weeks ago, Bradley Cooper admitted he rarely left the small area bounded by Reservoir Road and M Street – the “Georgetown bubble” – while he was a student. If the same is true of students of the Hilltop, city officials are looking for a change with the creation of a new arts district in Northwest D.C.
The proposed arts district, the product of a city rezoning process, would stretch from Florida Avenue to Massachusetts Avenue one way, and from 16th to 7th Street in the other direction. According to The Washington Post, this area – referred to as the MidCity Arts District – spans over 100 city blocks and currently contains 20 galleries, six theaters and more than 70 restaurants. Communities in the potential district have long advocated the arts. Recently, the deputy mayor’s office has granted the area a total of $200,000 in Neighborhood Investment Fund grants to support a more unified art district initiative. Their vision of an area devoted to art appreciation may finally become a reality.
Some organizations involved in the district planning have concerns about the donation, however. The MidCity Business Association, whose membership includes representatives of Ben’s Chili Bowl and the 9:30 Club, worries the plan might move forward for the sake of more urban development rather than specifically for the arts, according to The Washington Post. This sentiment is shared by local artist groups concerned that the money allocated to the proposed district may be used inefficiently. For instance, the largest portion of the funds is budgeted for creating banners, rather than for encouraging more artists and art venues to come into the area.
Georgetown students have mixed opinions on the project. Katherine Scholle (COL ’11) spends many nights in the proposed district area, especially on U Street. She believes a more cultural pulse to the area would encourage her to go even more.
“I think an arts district would bring a lot of energy to the city, and I’d definitely spend more time in that area if there were more things going on on a regular basis,” Scholle said.
Some students, like Lee Stromberg (MSB ’13), however, believe real change needs to be made to the area for him to venture out into the city.
“Unless they actually add more art venues or museums to the area, I won’t be more likely to visit,” he said. “I know what’s there right now – the title of `art district’ alone won’t convince me to go over there more often.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

