
January 26, 2010 by Katie Kettle Leave a Comment 
On Sunday Georgetown University Student Association passed a resolution that condemned the [interruptions by protesters at the Jan. 21 speech delivered by Gen. David Petraeus](https://www.thehoya.com/news/protests-disrupt-petraeus-speech/), commander of the U.S. Central Command.
The resolution spurred heated debate in the body, which passed many bills unanimously last semester; the Petraeus resolution passed with 13 senators voting in favor and five against.
Sen. Colton Malkerson (COL ’13), who sponsored the bill, said that he proposed the resolution after his constituents on floors two through five in Harbin Hall expressed disapproval of the protesters.
“This resolution is not stating an opinion on the debate. It is not siding with the expression or opinions that Petraeus said, but just recognizing the breach of policy and the manner that the protesters chose to express their opinion,” Malkerson said in his presentation of the bill.
The resolution condemned the actions of the protesters and affirmed the senate’s belief that those who interrupted the speech violated university policy regarding the speaker’s right to free speech and the audience’s right to hear the speaker.
Those opposed cited the danger of setting a precedent for GUSA responses of approval or disapproval to events on campus.
“While all GUSA senators support Gen. Petraeus and our troops, I did not believe the resolution was appropriate. I believe there would have been a more appropriate way for students to handle the situation, but I do not want to create precedent where the GUSA Senate passes a resolution for every time students violate the [Student] Code of Conduct, especially when it concerns free speech,” said Sen. Greg Laverriere (COL ’12), who voted against the resolution.
Some senators referenced the resolution passed in November condemning the string of bias-related incidents that occurred last semester and said that if the senate passed this resolution, it would be expected to pass a resolution reacting to every controversial event on campus.
“I feel like we’re falling into a precedent here,” said Sen. Adam Mortillaro (COL ’12).
Finance and Appropriations Committee Chair Nick Troiano (COL ’11) said that this incident was different because it could tarnish Georgetown’s reputation in the long run.
“It was an assault on the entire university because it will affect future speakers and curtails free speech,” Troiano said.
In addition to the resolution passed in response to the protests of Petraeus’ visit, the senate also passed an act that allocated $250 to a club sports dodgeball tournament, a sum that will pay for pizza and a prize for the winner.
Some senators had trouble reconciling the positive publicity GUSA could gain from sponsoring the tournament with the principle of having student organizations dip into their excess reserve accounts.
Troiano was opposed to the bill and said that GUSA should not have to use its general fund to pay for a club sports event.
“Since they have such a large allocation and so much in the reserve accounts, why can’t they pay for this?” Troiano asked.
Senator George Roche (COL ’10), who sponsored the act, said that sponsoring the tournament would be a good public relations move for GUSA, especially during this period of high exposure before the senate votes on the new funding reform bill recently passed by the Finance and Appropriations Committee on Jan. 18 and by the Ways and Means Committee on Sunday.
“While we are trying to make other organizations increase their spending and lower their reserves, we should also increase our own spending,” Roche said. “We want to increase the funding of GUSA on campus in the period of public comment for the new [funding] bill.”
The dodgeball tournament bill passed with 17 senators in favor and three senators voting against it.
At the end of the meeting, GUSA President Calen Angert (MSB ’11) introduced the new GUSA logo.
alkerson presented the bill to reform the funding process before the senate votes on the bill in two weeks. If passed, the bill will make the Georgetown Program Board and the student advisory boards in charge of funding in five sectors of student life – the Student Activities Commission, the Center for Social Justice, Club Sports, the Media Board and the Performing Arts Council – accountable to GUSA.
Speaker of the Senate Adam Talbot (COL ’12) said that he plans to organize a town hall meeting to discuss the implications of the proposed new funding process and he encourages senators to meet with their constituents to discuss the issue.
“I think it’s very important we take the community’s temperature on this before we move forward,” Talbot said.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 26, 2010 by Rebecca Nadler Leave a Comment 
The Corp’s proposal to open a new café location in the Davis Performing Arts Center remains in the planning stages despite previous projections that the café would open in early 2010.
“We set out with an extraordinarily ambitious timeline in mind initially, and we quickly learned that projects of this magnitude simply can’t move forward that quickly,” Chief Operating Officer Brad Glasser (COL ’11) said in an e-mail. “We’re still in the stage of this venture where all of the progress happens with the many moving parts behind the scenes.”
According to Glasser, who will assume the position of chief executive officer on Monday, The Corp has been working with performing arts faculty to modify their original proposal so that it better meets the needs of the students, faculty and visitors who frequent the building.
“Since our proposal was selected, we’ve worked with the Davis Center faculty to determine how that vision translates into more particular aspects of the café. What should the lights look like? What sort of special events will we host? How will the café adjust to crowds on performance nights? These sorts of questions have kept us busy,” Glasser said.
Glasser described the café as something “totally new” for The Corp, meant to serve as a quality and affordable alternative to the existing dining options on campus.
“The menu is still being finalized, but this service will focus more on hot, substantial meals rather than just snacks or coffee,” he said in an e-mail.
The Davis Center contacted The Corp and several other well-known restaurateurs about a possible venue in February 2008. Competitive bidding began later that summer, and the proposal from The Corp was chosen soon after.
Representatives from the Davis Center could not be reached for comment.
any student responses to the new location have been positive. Sales Director for Mask and Bauble Dramatic Society Laurel Charnetsky (COL ’12) said that a Davis Center-based café would be beneficial for students active in theater and for theater patrons looking to eat before or after a show.
“Pretty much everyone I know in the theater community is excited for this,” Charnetsky said.
Some others are unsure of the details of the project and are more hesitant.
“I’m not sure where in the building they would put it,” Daniel Subak (COL ’12) said.
Glasser indicated that the café would cater to the theater community and its patrons, but also expressed a desire to reach students less involved in the campus theater programs.
“We’re hoping this service will transform the Davis Center into the cultural campus hub that it should be. So many students have no idea where this building is, despite the great atmosphere it provides. We’re hoping to let Georgetown’s best-kept secret out of the bag with this one,” Glasser said. “
Special to the Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

