
February 24, 2010 by Dawn Hu Leave a Comment 
*Updated 7:22 a.m., Feb. 26*
Calen Angert (MSB ’11) and Jason Kluger (MSB ’11) have been re-elected as Georgetown University Student Association president and vice president, respectively, after winning the majority of the student body vote in a first-round vote that saw the highest number of ballots ever cast in a GUSA presidential election.
“We are ecstatic and really happy to have pulled it out,” Angert said. “I think we’re ready to start new initiatives and continue what we started last term.”
Angert and Kluger received 1,547 votes, 50.08 percent. According to the Election Commission, they needed to receive at least 1,545.5 votes to win.
att Wagner (SFS ’11) and Emmanuel Hampton (COL ’11) came in second place, winning 35.9 percent of the votes.
“We would have liked to win, but we’re both extremely pleased with the way our campaign went. We don’t think we could have done any more or any differently than what we did,” Wagner said.
Wagner also stated that he was glad that many important issues were brought to light during the campaigning process.
“We are happy that it was a competitive race where the issues really had to be hashed out,” Wagner said. “We’re happy that we brought the finance issue up for public debate.”
Arman Ismail (COL ’11) and Tucker Stafford (COL ’12) received 8.1 percent of the votes.
“I’m very happy for my friends Calen and Jason and I wish them the very best and hope to help them in any way that I can,” Ismail said. “It’s wonderful to have been part of an historic election that witnessed such unprecedented turnout, and I’m thrilled and elated that so many students participated in the process to make certain their voices were heard.”
Hillary Dang (SFS ’12) and Katie Balloch (COL ’12) received 4.8 percent of the votes.
“Overall, I’m proud of Katie and I for running against the odds, and running as the only females [and] first all-female ticket,” Dang said. “We definitely will continue to get more involved in GUSA and the new changes for next year, as we hope to build up our run for next year.”
According to Sam Ungar (COL ’12), parliamentarian of the senate, the vote garnered a record turnout of about 44 percent. The 3,089 votes cast beat the previous high of 2,766 votes cast in the 2002 election when Kaydee Bridges (SFS ’03) won the election.
“We’re happy that the turnout was so high. I think it is a direct result of students taking an interest in GUSA,” Wagner said.
According to Adam Giansiracusa (SFS ’12) of the Election Commission, some of the ballots were discounted due to a variety of reasons, including faulty NetIDs and ballots where voters voted for a write-in candidate that received less than five votes, but then did not rank the other candidates.
Drawing on their experience from last term, Angert and Kluger are ready to continue their roles as the head of the GUSA Executive.
“We’ll hit the ground running to start to work on initiatives such as Zipcars and to get ready for the Budget Summit,” Angert said.
According to Angert, first priorities will also include appointing members of their executive board.
One of the most contentious issues in this year’s elections was the club funding reform legislation passed by the senate earlier this month under Angert and Kluger’s administration. Wagner and Hampton strongly opposed the legislation and argued the new system would not properly represent student clubs.
“Make no mistake about it. This election was a referendum on funding reform, and in this election the student body decisively rebuked the naysayers who have opposed our efforts, delivering a clear message that they support the New GUSA,” said GUSA Sen. Colton Malkerson (COL ’13), a co-sponsor of the funding reform legislation.
While Angert and Kluger received the majority vote in the first round, the commission decided to hold an instant runoff and move the results to round two because of the close majority in round one. In the second round, the pair received 50.6 percent of the vote.
“It was not necessary to run [the votes] again. We decided to run the results for round two since the margin of victory was less than two votes in round one. They very much won in round one, however,” Giansiracusa said.
The Election Commission will present the results of the election to the senate for certification in their next meeting on Sunday night.
– Hoya Staff Writer Katie Kettle contributed to this report.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

