
October 20, 2010 by Laura Engshuber Leave a Comment 
A laptop was stolen from a Village A residence early Saturday morning. There was no one in the residence at the time and entry to the apartment was not forced.
The suspect entered through an unlocked door and stole the laptop out of a bookbag, according to a Public Safety Alert sent out by the Department of Public Safety on Wednesday evening. The theft occurred at 12:45 a.m. on Oct. 16, according to DPS Sgt. David Ruiz.
There are no leads on the suspect and the investigation is ongoing, Ruiz said.
In the face of the latest burglary, DPS urged students to be more alert and lock their doors. Three similar crimes have occurred on or near campus this semester. On Sept. 9, a suspect entered an unsecure residence on the 1400 block of 37th Street and stole a laptop. On Sept. 29, an unknown male entered an apartment in Henle Village through an unlocked door and stole a laptop and various other electronic items while the residents sat in the living room of the apartment. On Oct. 7, a laptop, two televisions, credit cards and other items were stolen from a house on the 3800 block of S Street while one of the residents was asleep; the suspect also entered through an unlocked door.
“Students just can’t leave their doors unlocked. Crime happens, and students need to be more conscious and lock doors,” Ruiz said.
Other burglaries this semester have occurred as a result of forced entry, however. On Sept. 17, a suspect broke into a house on the 3600 block of T Street and stole jewelry, cash, a laptop and other personal items. On Sept. 26, an unknown suspect broke into a house on the 1300 block of 35th Street and stole various electronic items and an undetermined amount of cash.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

