
November 12, 2010 by Jonathan Gillis Leave a Comment 
There is a biological link between the brain and a person’s sexual preference, visiting lecturer Simon LeVay argued Tuesday in the Intercultural Center.
LeVay, a renowned neuroscientist known for his research on sexual orientation and the brain and author of 11 nonfiction books, delivered a lecture called “Gay, Straight, and the Reason Why,” in which he explained the genetic and hormonal factors that can influence sexual preference.
The presentation was organized as part of the senior seminar for neurobiology majors, who chose to focus their final year’s studies on the science of sexual orientation. LeVay’s most recent book, which shares the same name as the lecture, has been central to their curriculum.
LeVay began his lesson by first addressing the notion that homosexuality among animals is rarely found, a preconception that he claims is simply incorrect. LeVay’s view is not universally accepted.
“Myths like Noah’s Ark claim that heterosexual behavior is the standard throughout the animal kingdom, but there are some species where individuals have a lifelong preference to the same sex,” he said.
Certain male sheep, for example, have been found to mate exclusively with other males. In a video shown during the presentation, a male sheep was given the choice between a male and a female mating partner. He chose the male.
Moving on to address homosexuality in humans, LeVay clarified that he was not arguing that human sexuality is predetermined by biology, but rather that there are biological influences that may predispose individuals to a certain preference.
One of these influences, he said, could be genetics.
“Homosexuality does run in families,” LeVay said, adding that men with gay brothers and women with gay sisters have increased chances of being gay themselves. People whose twins are gay have an even greater likelihood of homosexuality, in some cases as high as 50 percent.
LeVay also observed that although stereotypes of gays can be misleading and destructive, there is a grain of truth to them.
“In childhood, men who are effeminate in some sense have an increased likelihood of being gay as adults, and women who tend [to lean toward] masculine activities and male playmates have an increased likelihood of being lesbians,” he said.
According to LeVay, gay people often perceive themselves as different than other members of their own gender.
“Gay people tend to be a patchwork of different traits, and this seems to make their sexual identity more important than just who they want to have sex with,” he said.
According to LeVay, studies have begun to demonstrate a convincing neurological link between hormonal reception and sexual identity. LeVay himself has spent much of his time studying the third interstitial anterior hypothalamus (INAH 3), a region of the brain that seems to be most directly responsible for sexual identity. His findings have demonstrated that the region is larger and more pronounced in straight men than in gay men.
Sexuality is also influenced by prenatal hormone reception, LeVay explained, especially the reception of testosterone. In women, increased levels of the hormone before birth may result in an increased likelihood of the individual becoming a lesbian.
“Prenatal [testosterone] influences the sexual differentiation of the brain, which leads to the development of certain gender traits and sexual orientation,” LeVay said. This process is also influenced by genes, random variability and the environment.
In his concluding remarks, LeVay explained that he believes that his work will help people accept homosexuality. Still, he said, the science behind sexuality should not be the only reason.
“As a gay man, I hope that people will accept people because of who they are, not because of some scientific theories.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 12, 2010 by Copy Chief Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown UNICEF chapter partnered with the South Asian Society and the Georgetown Gastronomes to host an awareness dinner this Wednesday, educating attendees about the ongoing effects from the disastrous mid-summer flooding in Pakistan.
“Considering the range of devastation in Pakistan, I felt since it occurred over the summer, students coming back to campus are partly familiar with the facts, but it is not getting the attention it needs,” Georgetown UNICEF Program Chair Susan O’Rourke (COL ’12) said. “People don’t have a sense of the extent of the devastation.”
About 30 attendees filled the McCarthy Hall fourth-floor common room, part of the third and fourth-floor Justice and Diversity Association.
The focus of the evening was a PowerPoint presentation in which O’Rourke gave an overview of the situation in Pakistan, including the bare numbers of what the U.N. secretary general called the worst disaster he has ever seen, along with stories of individual children and information on local grassroots support efforts, such as the Lady Health Workers Program.
orial Shah (SFS ’13), who spent this summer in her native country working to help combat the disaster while blogging her experiences in The Express Tribune, an international Pakistani newspaper, is a key proponent of Georgetown’s involvement in the relief efforts.
“The problem is clearly the scale of devastation, bigger than any other, but also that the Pakistani government is completely bankrupt,” Shah said.
The Spotlight dinner accomplished more than just awareness. Attendees voluntarily donated upwards of $100 total to support displaced and struggling Pakistani families.
“Ninety-six percent of every dollar donated goes directly to UNICEF,” UNICEF Fundraising Chair Judy Shing (COL ’13) said. “We can’t have an actual fundraiser, but people here can donate money, and we leave it up to UNICEF because it gives them the flexibility to decide where it’s needed most.”
In order to have a fundraiser for which they can sell tickets, UNICEF needs both a venue to offer their space for free and a GU performing group to perform for free, as stipulated by the Office of the President.
Attendees varied from members of the sponsoring clubs to other students curious about the cause. The third and fourth-floor JDA asserts that student involvement is crucial to any sort of progress, despite the physical and tactical distance between Georgetown students and Pakistani children.
The accompanying dinner – traditional homemade South Asian cuisine, including chicken malai kebabs, basmati rice, vegetables, naan with butter and coconut barfi for dessert – not only provided the customary incentive to attract more visitors, but also was a means to share the culture of the region of the evening.
“In general South Asian cuisine, especially naan, is eaten at almost every meal. These foods are a staple of the daily life in Pakistan, and in all South Asian countries,” said Anika Khan (COL ’13), a UNICEF club member on the Program Committee which planned the event.
At the end of her presentation, O’Rourke suggested coming together and donating in groups.
“The whole problem is that it’s not just the case where you have an urban area and businesses gone, but you’re talking about people’s farms, the country’s exports, and the entire food supply gone,” O’Rourke said. “They need monetary help, and you guys can even go on the UNICEF website and select specific things you’d like to donate. You can do this as individuals, in a group, or even as a floor.”
Shah, who has seen the devastation firsthand, attests to her belief that Georgetown students can realistically be of help.
“[It’s] not the same as working on the ground in Pakistan’s flood-affected areas, but Pakistan’s 21 million displaced people are in urgent need of monetary assistance and any amount that Georgetown’s students can raise will help them survive,” Shah said.
**Correction: Susan O’Rourke, who was originally identified as the club President, is the Program Chair. Anika Khan, who was identified as a UNICEF club member, is part of the Program Committee which planned the event.**”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

