
October 14, 2010 by Lauren Weber Leave a Comment 
Rapper Lupe Fiasco will perform Oct. 30 outside of McDonough Gymnasium, marking a revitalization of Georgetown’s fall concert, which has been on hiatus since 2007.
Sponsored by the Senior Class Committee and Georgetown Program Board with funding from What’s After Dark and The Corp Philanthropy Committee, doors will open for the event at 8:30 p.m., with Lupe Fiasco performing from 9:30 p.m. to midnight. Tickets will be sold in Red Square and online for $25 before the concert and for $30 at the door.
Andrew Malzberg (COL ’11), chairman of the board of the SCC, said the SCC has been working diligently to bring back the fall concert from its three-year lull since Coolio performed in the fall of 2007.
“As a board we decided at our retreat that we wanted to plan a concert in the fall . for the seniors and the greater Georgetown community. We wanted this to be an initiative for something that Georgetown doesn’t have a lot of,” Malzberg said.
alzberg estimates 4,000 tickets will be sold for the concert, and tickets are open to students from other universities for $30.
According to Malzberg, the setup, including the lights, stage and sound system, has been booked through National Audio, a private company. The opening act for Lupe Fiasco is currently undisclosed.
When choosing the artist for this year’s fall concert, event organizers considered artist availability for the time period and consulted the results of a GPB survey last spring that polled the student body for their preferred musical acts.
Tom Lipinsky (MSB ’11), chair of The Corp Philanthropy Committee, said he was excited The Corp was able to sponsor a start-up event such as the fall concert, which lacks university support.
Though The Corp’s contribution of $2,000 is substantial, Lipinsky said the committee felt the end result would be worth it. “It’s on the large size of contributions we make, but we thought this was something that could add to the entire Georgetown experience,” he said.
“The board definitely hopes [the fall concert] is an initiative that is continued for the student body because a lot of universities have two concerts a year, and it would be great to see it continue here,” Malzberg said.
“I’m really excited and proud of the SCC,” Lipinsky said.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

