
October 2, 2010 by Meghan Patzer Leave a Comment 
Despite fluctuating participation rates, members’ enthusiasm for the Carroll Fellows Initiative is strong.
The program was created in 1997 after a survey from the early ’90s showed that Georgetown students identified themselves as partying harder and studying less than students at comparable universities. Administrators rushed to find a solution, prompting professor John Glavin (COL ’64) and ElaineRomanelli, a senior associate dean in the McDonough School of Business, to establish a program to foster an intellectual community for self-motivated students. The result was the John Carroll Scholars Program, now called the Carroll Fellows Initiative.
Now in its 15th year, the CFI is a co-curricular research program that allows students to explore academic interests both individually and in groups. In 2003, the “Carroll Clusters” — groups of about 10 students who share a common research interest — were added to the program to facilitate the development and sharing of ideas.
Carroll Fellow Jose Madrid (COL ’14) said the program has added considerably to his Georgetown experience.
“Georgetown is academically challenging in and of itself, but I felt the program would help me turn my education into a meaningful contribution to society,” he said. “I wanted to not only challenge myself academically, [but] I also wanted to find a way to channel my academic abilities into a way to solve difficult questions for myself and others.”
Since its inception, the program has acquired a considerable degree of prestige.
Participation levels fluctuate in each class of Carroll Fellows. Five years ago, 72 members of the class of 2008 graduated from the program, compared with the 32 members of the class of 2013 who are now fellows. The classes of 2014 and 2015 are also smaller than in previous years, with 30 and 41 fellows, respectively.
VP Dao (SFS ’15), said the fluctuation is a result of students’ changing priorities and commitments throughout their four years at Georgetown and in the Carroll Fellows program.
“It is an extra class that’s not a requirement and doesn’t count toward a major. … Some people can’t devote as much time as they’d like to the program.”
Admission to the program is highly selective. Students can only apply to the CFI at the end of the first semester of their freshman year or as sophomore transfer students during the summer before matriculating.
Madrid characterized his application experience as intimidating.
“All present and past scholars have always been very passionate and driven individuals who are extremely involved around campus,” he said. “I knew applying was going to be a challenge because the process basically asks that you prove to be a driven and academically successful student after completing only two-thirds of your freshman year.”
The initiative requires students to participate in a two-semester forum spanning second semester freshman year and first semester sophomore year worth two credits total.
According to Madrid, all participants must also conduct research, write a thesis and serve as mentors to incoming members.
All new members of the initiative must conduct a First Year Independent Research Project, which requires extensive research on a topic of choice. According to Dao, who is researching the Battle of the Paracel Islands, the project is unique because fellows must do more than just find sources to support their point.
“[Professor Glavin] wants us to form a hypothesis and then try to prove ourselves wrong, so it’s not just finding evidence to support ourselves,” he said. “[The project] is teaching me how to do better research.”
Dao’s class meets every Friday afternoon for two hours and is largely discussion based. During his first semester, the class focused largely on how to prioritize activities and commitments.
But the program is not purely about academics. In the past few years, fellows have gone on scavenger hunts around D.C. and staged a reading of the Harry Potter books in front of Marvelous Market on Wisconsin Avenue.
According to members, one of the biggest draws of the program is the ability to meet other highly motivated students.
“I wanted to get experience applying my education outside of the traditional setting,” Zachary Singer (SFS ’15) said of his reasons for joining the program. “Now, in doing so, I’ve gotten to interact with a group of 50 interesting people I probably otherwise wouldn’t have met.”
Sonia Vora (SFS ’15), another Carroll Fellow, also commented on the program’s community aspect.
“It has definitely helped me make a group of friends whom I have a lot in common with, and it has made me a better writer and a more effective student,” she said.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 2, 2010 by Neil Quinn Leave a Comment 
Imam Yahya Hendi, Georgetown’s Muslim chaplain, speaks quietly and with care, so that his words carry a certain poignant intensity. But when he speaks about the Georgetown community’s reaction to the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, he is particularly moved.
 
By 10:30 that morning, he said, most people had realized the gravity of what had taken place, and the Office of Campus Ministry had hurriedly spread the word of a prayer service in the Leavey Center.
 
 
 
At noon, Hendi said, hundreds of students of all faiths filled Sellinger Lounge, spilling out into Hoya Court and toward the bookstore.
 
 
 
“It was very moving the way our community came together, praying for peace and harmony,” he said.
 
oments like these have solidified Hendi’s respect for the university’s Catholic identity, which Fr. Kevin O’Brien, S.J. (COL ’88), the director of campus ministry, describes as an identity that “engages our commitment to social justice, our commitment to serious intellectual inquiry, to embracing the Church’s long theological tradition and caring for all of our students, mind, body and spirit.”
 
 
 
This emphasis on spirituality – regardless of denomination -forms the core of the mission of campus religious leaders such as Hendi and O’Brien.
 
 
 
“Imam Hendi is not simply an imam for Muslims,” he said, “but for all of our students.”
 
 
 
O’Brien and Hendi are close together physically as well as spiritually. To find them, you simply walk from O Street through the front gates and straight into Healy Hall. To the right, there’s a line of offices – first, O’Brien’s, and behind his, those of the Protestant chaplain, the Jewish chaplain, Hendi and two other Jesuits.
 
O’Brien says the placement “at the heart of the campus” is intentional.
 
 
 
“That presence speaks volumes about our commitment to Georgetown’s religious mission,” he said.
 
 
 
This Catholic identity, however, has come under scrutiny in various forms. Forty-eight percent of undergraduates identify themselves as Catholic, according to the university. Some members of the Georgetown community believe this diversity of faith traditions merits continued discussions on the university’s Catholic values.
 
 
 
O’Brien and some of his colleagues in the faculty and administration underlined the importance of a strict adherence to Catholic ideas. Still, some aspects of Catholic doctrine are rooted in the broader picture.
 
 
 
“We may contextualize them out of a particular faith tradition and out of the scriptures,” said Fr. Philip Boroughs, S.J., the university’s vice president for mission and ministry, “but others will appropriate them out of humanist values or other religious traditions. . I think a number of them are common values shared by humanity.”
 
 
 
This nondenominational take on the university’s spiritual identity combined with the religious pluralism of campus give administrators a wider reach on campus. As head of the largest campus ministry program in the United States, O’Brien said his role dictates that he is not solely interested in the spiritual well-being of Catholics on campus.
 
 
 
“The Catholic Church’s mission is to bring people closer to God. And for Christians, that would be through knowing Jesus Christ better,” he said. “For non-Christians, when a non-Christian comes to know their God more intimately . we have [also] succeeded in our mission.”
 
 
 
“One of my proudest moments was when . a Muslim student who I taught in class, at the end of the semester, introduced me to friends as `his father,’ `his priest’,” O’Brien added. “That was a sign to me that what we’re doing the right thing in Campus Ministry.”
 
 
 
Jesse Mirotznik (SFS ’12), the co-president of the Jewish Student Association and a Figge Fellow at the Woodstock Theological Institute last year, also said he has benefited spiritually from his time at Georgetown.
 
“Georgetown has a culture that encourages people to be introspective about their faith and about their identity,” he said, “and that’s encouraged me to look at what it means for me to be a Jewish person.”
 
 
 
It has brought him some memorable experiences, too. Earlier this week, he found himself inside a ritual tent that the JSA had built for the Jewish holiday of Sukkot, watching a religious discussion between Hendi, Bruce Aft, the interim Jewish chaplain, and Fr. Pat Rogers, S.J., the director of main campus ministry.
 
 
 
“I don’t necessarily think you’d find that sort of opportunity for interfaith connection at a university that wasn’t so actively interested in spiritual life,” he said.
 
 
 
Though a commitment to interreligious dialogue lies at Georgetown’s core, the university administration has indicated that they will not budge on certain policies. High-level administrators said abortion rights groups like H*yas for Choice will continue to be denied university funding. Plan A, a separate group in favor of reproductive rights, created substantial controversy last year.
 
 
 
Boroughs said that although the administration is happy to discuss the issue constructively and allow such groups to exist independently of the university, it has no plans to go further.
 
 
 
“You could keep talking about it forever,” he said. “There are certain parts of our Catholic identity that probably aren’t going to change . [and] that will be maintained at Georgetown.”
 
 
 
Morgan McDaniel (SFS ’13), vice president of H*yas for Choice, agrees that the main sticking point between the university and her organization is not its views but its distribution of condoms – which she sees as a relatively minor issue.
 
“This is a very specific, and somewhat irrational, place to draw the line,” she said. “I don’t think the university should be willing to make that ultimatum. . I think the goal should be education within the Jesuit values of free discussion and tolerance, not to shut out students who would want to get an education.”
 
 
 
For many students, there is no clear resolution to this dilemma.
 
 
 
“That’s a question that every Georgetown student struggles with to some extent,” Mirotznik said. “I’m not sure how I personally feel about the issue [of condoms being distributed].”
 
 
 
While contemporary social issues challenge the university’s Catholic identity, Georgetown’s future may be tested by a more immediate threat: the aging population of the Jesuits as a religious order. The average Jesuit priest in the United States is nearly 64 – and they are not being replaced by equal numbers of new members.
 
Fr. O’Brien displayed a paperback directory of all the Jesuits in this country. It was about an inch thick – but, he said, it’s been shrinking.
 
 
 
“In the future, there will be fewer Jesuits on campus,” he said.
 
 
 
But while he believes that a certain critical mass of Jesuits is crucial to maintaining the Catholic tradition on the Hilltop, he remains optimistic.
 
 
 
“A few deeply committed, passionate Jesuits are able to animate a university with the help of laymen and laywomen equally committed to that mission,” he said. “So we spend a lot of time sharing the Jesuit and Catholic tradition with faculty and administrators and staff.”
 
 
 
Boroughs said that he is worried that students may often be too busy to really experience their benefits.
 
 
 
“I think we’re always tuned in to our Blackberries and Twitter and iPods, and I’m concerned about the pace of living and its spiritual and its physical and its intellectual effects on us,” he said. “Even students’ willingness to step out of that pace to be reflective has diminished somewhat.”
 
 
 
But he said he prefers to frame the issue as an opportunity.
 
 
 
“[Our students] are the future leaders of our world,” he said, “and if we have an opportunity to help them grow and to gain deeper spiritual and human awareness and intellectual life, what a great way to shape and influence the world. I think that’s why we’re here.”
 
 
 
**This is the final installment of a two-part series examining Georgetown’s Catholic identity.**
 
 
 
**Correction:** Due to a posting and layout error, the full-length version of this article did not appear in either the Oct. 1 print edition or the initial web posting.
Special to the Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 2, 2010 by Johanna Caldwell Leave a Comment 
Running into professors outside of class can be awkward, but for some students it happens daily.
Nationwide, university faculty members are increasingly opting to live in on-campus residence halls – all for the sake of fostering bonds between students and their professors, The Washington Post reported Monday. At Georgetown, five faculty members live in residence halls on campus along with chaplains-in-residence and hall directors as part of the Faculty-in-Residence program facilitated by Residence Life on campus.
The program seeks to promote deeper relationships between students and faculty outside the classroom, placing faculty members in apartments in Kennedy, McCarthy, Reynolds, and Copley Halls, as well as LXR. Tad Howard, a dean in the College who lives in Kennedy Hall, said the experience has helped him see the bigger picture of campus life.
“I love my job, love being on this campus, and saw a chance to deepen my relationships with students and get a better sense of their overall experience, beyond what I can see from the Dean’s Office,” Howard wrote in an email. Howard lives with his wife Susan and 19-month-old son Grady. “Before living on campus, I was already unable to leave my work at work – living at work seemed like a deliciously unhealthy way to blur that line a little more.”
Though Howard made a switch in living style when he opted to reside on campus, Grady has only known Hilltop life.
“He was born right here on campus (at the hospital, of course), has made countless college friends, and thinks he has a huge yard that a football team practices and plays in,” said Howard, who has lived in Kennedy Hall since the summer of 2007.
Dan Porterfield, an English professor and senior vice president for strategic development, spoke of the benefits of living on campus. “I love going to church in Dahlgren, playing pick-up basketball at Yates, and eating chicken fingers in Leo’s. I love sharing the Georgetown experience with my children who have performed in Rangila, cheered and yelled for the Hoyas, danced in Hoyathon, and sold lemonade in Red Square,” Porterfield, who lives in Copley hall with his wife and three children, wrote in an email.
any students appreciate the special relationships they can build with faculty members in their residence hall.
“Knowing someone as a friend and neighbor is usually different than knowing someone via a professional or academic setting . Any student can benefit from having a personal relationship with a faculty member,” wrote Paul Beidlingmaier (COL ’11), who worked with Howard as a resident adviser in Kennedy Hall as a sophomore, in an email.
Beidlingmaier is now one of two RAs for the Justice and Diversity in Action Living and Learning Community in McCarthy Hall where visiting professor in the School of Foreign Service Marilyn McMorrow is a faculty member in residence. He expressed an appreciation for impromptu meetings with professors as he goes about his day.
“Seeing professor McMorrow in the mornings as I leave McCarthy evokes an image of two neighbors catching up with each other as they go to retrieve the daily paper,” he said. “I can’t even count the number of times I run into Tad in the Southwest Quad lawn keeping an eye on [his son] Grady, making sure he is not tearing the place apart.”
“Over the four years I’ve been on the Justice and Diversity in Action floor, Professor McMorrow has been an important asset as a counselor, professor, advisor, and friend,” said Joseph Graumann ( SFS `11), who is the other RA for the JDA Living and Learning Community, in an email.
Both faculty members in residence and their students expressed their appreciation for getting to know each other outside the classroom.
“Nothing substitutes the connection you build when just hanging out with someone. Laughing and joking with a professor, seeing that they are regular people just like you, and participating in quality events with them build stronger relationships which just aren’t possible in class,” said Jacqueline Snell (COL ’12), a resident adviser in Kennedy Hall with Dean Howard, in an email.
“I think students who don’t have a faculty in residence miss an opportunity to get to know a faculty member on a personal level. As basic as it sounds, it’s easy to think of professors as `teaching machines’ who lecture from a dais and hold office hours without having an outside life,” Graumann said.
Maya Roth, assistant professor and program director of theater and performance studies in the College, lives in LXR with her husband Bill and son Yul. Her students have noticed the difference.
“As Maya’s student in several upper-level theater and performance studies seminars, it has been a true gift to meet with my classmates around her coffee table, all of us piled on couches and chairs, clutching cups of tea or lemonade and discussing plays,” Miranda Hall (COL ’11) wrote in an email.
By living side-by-side with students, faculty who live on campus gain an inside look at the experiences facing students on a day-to-day basis.
“As a senior officer of the university, I’m present to the 24/7 experience of students, not just their classroom experience,” Porterfield said, adding that his role as co-habitant complements his high-level administrator position. “I think it’s helpful for senior leaders to be aware of what’s going on around campus outside of the classroom, to be present to students, to rely on the university for the same services as students, to live with the same questions about security or wireless as students, and to be a part of the culture and vitality of campus,” said Porterfield, who has lived on campus since 2003.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 2, 2010 by Laura Engshuber Leave a Comment 
The knotted rope found hanging in a locked utility area in the sub-basement of Healy Hall earlier this week was not a noose and was likely used for legitimate purposes, according to university spokeswoman Julie Bataille.
“As a result of our notification to the community last night new details have come to light that lead us to believe the rope in question has actually been in this area for some period of time coiled up and was likely used for climbing activity – we do not believe it was any kind of noose,” Bataille wrote in an email on Friday.
On Tuesday, university employees discovered a knotted rope hanging in the off-limits area below Healy Hall, leading administrators to conclude that it might be a noose, according to a message sent to the campus community by Vice President for University Safety Rocco Del Monaco and Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson on Thursday evening. The rope was accompanied by racist graffiti targeting members of the black community. The evidence of vandalism was discovered in other sub-basement areas adjacent to the Healy sub-basement.
DPS concluded that the graffiti had accumulated over time in the restricted areas, which can be accessed through underground utility tunnels. While the investigation has now ruled that the rope was not a noose, the administration’s response to the discovery of a “possible noose” and vandalism was swift.
“The possibility of this kind of symbol on our campus is deeply troubling and extremely serious. We must underscore that acts of vandalism, hate and intolerance have no place in our campus community,” DelMonaco and Olson said in their message.
After sending the message to the campus community, DelMonaco, Olson and Vice President for Institutional Diversity and Equity Rosemary Kilkenny led a community meeting in Village C Alumni Lounge Thursday evening; about 35 administrators, faculty and students attended, many of whom felt the incident was indicative of perceived racial tensions on campus.
“Hanging nooses and racial slurs symbolize everything that we have worked so hard and came this far to destroy,” Carolyn Chambers (COL ’11), president of Georgetown’s chapter of the NAACP, said in an email message sent to the NAACP membership shortly after the broadcast message was sent to the university community. In her email, Chambers encouraged students to come to the meeting.
On Friday, Bataille explained why the rope was thought to be a noose but said the university was not closing its investigation of the matter.
“[The reason it looked like a noose was that] the rope was reported this week when it was hanging,” Bataille said. “We are still actively investigating the matter and will take seriously any new details that may emerge but are grateful to members of the campus community for providing additional information to aid our efforts so quickly.”
Olson said the administration is doing everything it can to address the problem, including creating rules and policies, sharing more information and emphasizing the importance of a culture of respect. Olson also said that the administration needs help from students, a sentiment that was echoed by students present.
“I think that administrative units that are designed to deal with these types of affairs are genuinely concerned about what is going on, but in a campus that functions very disparately in terms of different departments and student groups, it’s a very difficult task to permute the message,” Liani Balasuriya (COL ’11) said. “I hope that this incident motivates a more solidified attempt within different groups to address this as a single issue.”
Balasuriya also voiced concerns over a seeming complacency from students, as this is merely the latest in a string of bias-related incidents. Last month, several whiteboards in New South Hall and Darnall Hall were defaced with drawings of swastikas and the name “Hitler.” Two incidents featuring Nazi graffiti also occurred in spring 2009.
“[Because there have been multiple incidents], people are feeling numb,” Shiva Subbaraman, director of the LGBTQ Resource Center, said.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

