
April 13, 2010 by Daniel Galloway Leave a Comment 
Georgetown and The George Washington University Students Taking Action Now: Darfur members, STAND alumni and Genocide Intervention Network staffers gathered outside the State Department on Monday to protest the illegitimacy of the Sudanese National Election, according to Georgetown STAND National Advocacy Coordinator Daniel Solomon (SFS ’13).
Voting began Sunday, and, according to reports from within the African nation, the process has been unorganized, according to a Genocide Intervention Network press release. The National Elections Commission to keep the polls open through April 18.
STAND members carried trashcans and bags, bearing slogans such as “Sudanese Election Ballots” and “Sudanese Ballot Box,” signifying dismay with how the al-Bashir regime is handling the electoral process.
“In at least one polling place in the capital city,” reports the GIN, “ballots for the wrong constituency were in use for at least four hours before the mistake was realized and fixed. Information from White Nile State indicated that problems were reported with matching political party symbols with the correct candidate.”
Solomon said the current electoral conditions prevent legitimacy.
“We have witnessed a variety of abuses that will prevent Sudan’s elections from running successfully,, including reports of voter intimidation and electoral fraud,” he said. “In addition, the Sudanese government recently began another wave of violence in the Jebel Marra region of Darfur, Sudan, creating an insecure climate for voter participation and displacing tens of thousands.”
Solomon said that the protest was part of a greater campaign, run by Sudan NOW, to push for legitimacy in the Sudanese electoral process.
“We’re asking for Secretary Clinton to withhold recognition of the electoral results and condemn the Sudanese regime for its circumvention of the democratic process,” he said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

