
May 16, 2011 by Anne Skomba Leave a Comment 
Speaking before the House of Representatives Oversight Subcommittee on Thursday, D.C. Mayor Vincent Gray addressed the controversial restrictions for the District in Congress’s fiscal year 2012 budget.
Gray called for an easing of federal restrictions on the D.C. budget process, saying that federal guidelines put an undue strain on the District.
“Mr. Chairman, the District of Columbia raises over $5.5 billion per year in local funds from our residents in property taxes, sales taxes, and income taxes,” he said in his testimony. “A majority of the functions of the District government, including all the services provided by any other state, are funded through these locally raised dollars. Nevertheless, it is the lengthy and complicated federal appropriations process that has severe effects on the District government.”
The District’s financial independence has become a hot-button issue in light of the potential government shutdown in April and the resulting budget deal that limited D.C.’s ability to make decisions on issues ranging from abortion to school vouchers.
Many D.C. politicians were outraged over their lack of control, and Gray and several D.C. Council members were arrested at protests for D.C. voting rights.
Gray appealed to Congress to remove the District’s budget from the control of the national government and allow it the same control over local funds as is afforded to states.
The Washington Post reported that Committee Chairman Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA) and several other Congress members indicated the possibility of giving D.C. more freedom to determine its budget.
“I think there’s a justification to let the district do what a city does. A city plans its own budget, uses its own funds and typically goes to a state capital hoping to get more,” Issa said. He stressed however that Congress would not offer D.C. total budget autonomy.
Currently, there is about a four month gap between when the District formulates its budget and when it is approved by Congress.
Other proposed changes Gray addressed include the creation of a D.C. “contingent budget” funded by local taxes and revenue that Congress would vote on earlier in the year. The U.S. government would then appropriate federal funds to the city for certain programs and organizations.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 16, 2011 by DPS Blotter Leave a Comment 
Thursday May 5, 2011
Drug Violation, Harbin Hall, 12:37 a.m.
While conducting a check of the area, DPS noticed a smell similar to marijuana coming from a room. The room was occupied by two males who were later identified as GU students. The students admitted to having marijuana earlier. A plastic baggie containing an unknown substance and a glass pipe was confiscated. The unknown substance tested positive for containing marijuana. This case has been forwarded to student conduct.
Burglary, New Research Building, 7:19 p.m.
An employee discovered that his office had been burglarized; the unknown suspect stole an undetermined amount of US currency. There were no signs of forced entry. This case is under investigation.
Saturday May 7, 2011
Theft, Village C West Loading Dock, 3:23 a.m.
An unknown person stole several bicycles from a storage area. The bicycles were secured with a chain and lock. The suspect removed the lock and bicycles. No suspects or witnesses have been identified. This case is under investigation.
Theft, Wolfington Hall, 2:32 p.m.
DPS received a report of a stolen laptop. The laptop had been left in the front seat of an unlocked vehicle. The vehicle was parked near Wolfington Hall, while the occupants of the vehicle were in O’Donovan’s. No suspects or witnesses have been identified.
Monday May 9, 2011
Assault-Simple, Village C West, 10:31 p.m.
A GU student received a wrist injury after being pushed by another GU student. GERMS arrived, the patient refused to be transported to the emergency room. This case has been forwarded to student conduct.
Tuesday May 10, 2011
Theft, Red Square Bicycle Rack, 6:15 p.m.
A student reported that he parked and secured his scooter onto the bicycle rack. The student went to class. Upon returning nine hours later, he found that his scooter was missing. No suspects or witnesses have been identified.
— The blotter is compiled weekly by the Department of Public Safety.
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

