
April 21, 2011 by Sarah Kaplan and Lauren Weber Leave a Comment 
Two suspects involved in the strong-armed robbery of a woman walking toward 35th Street and Volta Place were apprehended Wednesday.
An unknown suspect stole the woman’s purse at 2:30 p.m. on Wednesday, according to a Public Safety Announcement from the Department of Public Safety. The suspect in the case, who is described as a 5-foot-7 young, thin black male with a shaved head and dark skin, fled on foot from the scene.
According to Joseph Smith, the associate director of DPS, the Metropolitan Police Department had talked to the woman and posted a lookout for the suspects. An MPD bike patrol officer spotted two suspects shortly after the incident, and after searching the suspects, found them in possession of the stolen object.
MPD is now handling the ongoing investigation, and DPS has not yet determined if the victim was a member of the university community.
This is the third theft on 35th in the span of four days, after a woman was robbed at knifepoint Sunday on the 1500 block of 35th Street. On Monday, a student returned to his house on the 1300 block of 35th Street to find his Macbook laptop missing in what DPS determined was an unforced burglary.
Smith noted that the first four months of this year have been marked by an uptick in street robberies in the Georgetown area. In nine of the 11 street robberies that have occurred this year, the victims have been females walking alone.
“Female students really need to be extra cautious about walking in Georgetown. It’s happened during the day, it’s happened at night,” Smith said.
Smith urged female students to walk in groups or use SafeRides.
“Avoid any type of exposure alone,” he said.
Smith said Monday that patrols would be increased in the West Georgetown area.
Hoya Staff Writer
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

