
July 16, 2011 by Mariah Byrne Leave a Comment 
The Walsh School of Foreign Service added two new masters programs to its offerings Thursday — Asian Studies and Global Human Development. Both will begin in Fall 2012 with the first Masters of Arts degrees to be awarded in 2014.
The Global Human Development degree will instruct students in how to help foster infrastructure and growth in developing countries. The curriculum includes an integral summer field project, in which students create and enact development programs in a foreign country by collaborating with existing institutions that support such work. The program also encourages candidates to obtain internships with such organizations during their second year of study.
Students in the program must specialize in either Growth and Poverty Reduction, Global Health and Population, Governance and Democracy, Energy and the Environment or a world region.
At least three years of experience with a development agency or in such issues is required for application to the program.
The degree in Asian Studies is sponsored by the only National Resource Center for East Asia in Washington funded by the U.S. Department of Education. The program combines sociology and humanities requirements and focuses on such areas as international security, political economy, cultural training and business diplomacy. The program hopes to train candidates to work within the private and public sectors of Asia.
“Asia’s current role in the politics of religion, business, diplomacy, security, communications and popular culture is undeniably important,” said Victor Cha, director of Asian studies and professor of government, in a statement. “Our new M.A. will give students the necessary analytic tools and language expertise to excel in the study of this important world region.”
Students in the program will be able to concentrate in certain areas – Politics and Security of East Asia, International Political Economy/Business of East Asia and History, Society and Culture of East Asia – as well as two sub-regions, South and Southeast Asia. Degree candidates also have the opportunity to write a thesis.
The announcement of Georgetown’s M.A. in Asian Studies rounds out its regional graduate degree offerings, which include Arab Studies, Russian and East European Studies, German and European Studies and Latin American Studies.
“We strive to give our students an education that is rich in scholarship, rigorous in terms of methodology and relevant to Georgetown’s special niche in international affairs,” Cha said in the same statement.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

