
September 17, 2011 by Dana Sievers and Upasana Kaku Leave a Comment 
Georgetown will not hold a fall concert this year, dashing hopes that last year’s Lupe Fiasco concert would mark the return of what was once a university favorite.
“We would all love to do it; it’s a space and money issue,” said Kathleen McCullough (SFS ’12), chairwoman of the Georgetown Program Board, which helped put on last year’s concert.
The show, which was sponsored by the Senior Class Committee with help from GPB, the Georgetown University Student Association and The Corp, was the first fall concert at Georgetown since 2007. According to McCullough, it may also have been the last.
“It was possibly a one-time deal,” she said.
This year, several factors quashed the possibility of continuing the tradition.
“[There are] always difficulties that come with planning a concert, and a few jump to the forefront,” said Chris Butterfield (MSB ’12), chairman of the Senior Class Committee, which was primarily responsible for last year’s concert. “The first is always funding.”
Rapper Lupe Fiasco, who headlined last year’s concert, performed out of a touring truck that folded into a stage.  Without such a set up, McCullough said the cost of hiring the artist would be compounded by the added $10,000 expense to set up a tent — a cost that puts a fall concert out of reach.
While the university’s annual spring kick-off concert is held in the McDonough Arena, there is no other indoor space on campus large enough for an event the size of a major concert. McCullough said that neither GPB, whose budget for concerts totals $13,000, nor the SCC could afford the tent necessary to protect performance equipment during an outdoor concert.
“We just don’t have the money for it,” she said.
Butterfield said options this year were limited by artist price and availability. Having a late homecoming also restricted the dates that Georgetown could put on a concert.
“It also needs to be able to work with our timeline,” Butterfield said. “You’re working with GPB’s and [SCC’s] schedule along with the artist’s schedule.”
Many students said they were disappointed that the fall concert would not return this year. Pat Spagnuolo (SFS ’14) did not attend the concert last fall, but said he heard from friends that it was a great experience.
“People got to see somebody who, now, they would probably have to pay a lot more to see,” he said.
Jenna Sherry (NHS ’14) agreed that the concert would be missed.
“Georgetown has so few community events that it’s really beneficial to have these for school spirit and Georgetown unity,” she said.
McCullough said that GPB hopes to help support alternatives for students, including off-campus concerts and other events this semester. She added that the group is considering coordinating with the SCC and the Homecoming Committee in future years in the hopes of resurrecting the fall concert tradition more permanently.
This year, Butterfield said that the organizations want to collaborate on the annual spring concert. In contrast to the fall concert, last year’s spring concert was met with mixed student response.
“Ultimately we decided that rather than trying to put on two average concerts, the GPB and SCC will work together to put on a concert in the spring with somebody that the students will want to see at a fair price,” Butterfield said.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

