
April 10, 2011 by Marissa Amendolia Leave a Comment 
President Obama discussed his administration’s plan to reduce oil dependence and ensure energy security in McDonough Arena Wednesday morning, addressing an audience of students, faculty and staff along with a number of White House officials and other government representatives.
“The United States of America cannot afford to bet our long-term prosperity and security on a resource that will eventually run out,” he said to the audience of about 1,050. “Not when your generation needs us to get this right.”
Obama’s “Blueprint for a Secure Energy Future” calls for reducing oil imports while diversifying sources of foreign oil, developing alternatives to oil such as biofuels and natural gas and encouraging the advancement of energy-efficient automobiles and public transportation.
The president began his speech by alluding to the string of recent events that have caused energy security to move to the forefront of the American public’s consciousness. He said that historically, the price of gas may rise and fall, but ultimately it becomes more expensive due to the trajectory of demand.
“And as 2 billion more people start consuming more goods, and driving more cars, and using more energy, it’s certain that demand will go up a lot faster than supply,” he said.
 
Obama said that his administration has fallen short on promises of decreasing foreign oil dependence, citing the “same political gridlock and inertia” that has been an obstacle for past administrations.
Although the speech primarily served as a broad outline of Obama’s goals, he did note that the students in the audience could be seen as the primary beneficiaries of the potential outcome of this energy security plan.
After running through the key points of his plan, all of which were connected by his long-term goal of reducing dependency on oil and positioning the country to secure self-sustaining and diversified sources of energy, Obama closed his speech by addressing that group.
“I believe it is precisely because you have come of age in a time of rapid and sometimes unsettling change — born into a world with fewer walls, educated in an era of constant information, tempered by war and economic turmoil — I think you believe, as deeply as any of our generations, that America can change for the better,” he said.
He also urged the students in attendance to be a part of this plan, stressing the powerful role of the consumer in the wider political picture.
“You’ve got to make sure you’re boosting demand of alternative fuels,” he said to a crowd of future automobile owners.
Jake Sticka (COL ’13), vice president of the College Democrats and a commissioner for the Advisory Neighborhood Commission 2E, was excited to find himself among those in the audience.
“I had been invited to attend the event as a guest of White House. I was honored by the White House’s invite and feel as though it underscores this president’s commitment to young people,” he said.
In addition to a number of Georgetown administrators, Secretary of Energy Steven Chu, Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack, Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood and Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa of Los Angeles were in attendance.
Obama also opened his speech with a nod to men’s basketball Head Coach John Thompson III.
“It turns out VCU is pretty good,” he said to Thompson, who was seated in the first row.
This is the second time in two years that Obama has spoken at Georgetown. In April 2009, he delivered a speech on the state of the economy in Gaston Hall. The address caused a wave of controversy due to the White House administration’s insistence that the president speak in front of a simple draped background; the Christian symbol “IHS” was subsequently covered over, causing some to criticize the university for covering imagery that they said was critical to the university’s Jesuit identity.
University spokeswoman Julie Bataille said that the change in location from Gaston Hall to McDonough Arena was not related to this incident.
“McDonough Arena is the venue for tomorrow’s remarks as it can accommodate the largest number of people,” she said.

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 10, 2011 by Lauren Weber Leave a Comment 
About 300 D.C. Public Schools students headed to Copley Lawn on Sunday for Spring Fling, a chance for DC Reads and DC Schools Project tutors to inject some carnival fun into their students’ weekend.
Accompanied by 200 participating Georgetown students from various student groups, the attendees enjoyed bounce houses, field games, face painting, arts and crafts and performances during the Center for Social Justice sponsored event.
“My favorite part was the [Asiafest] performance. It was really fun to see our tutors dancing and doing martial arts on stage,” said Jia Xin, a kindergartener at Thomson Elementary School in D.C. who works with DCSP.
The festivities were organized by Georgetown Outreach for Literacy and Education, an advocacy group that works to increase awareness and provide resources for education problems locally and nationally.
The day served as a bonding experience for Georgetown students and their tutees with whom they interact twice a week. DC Reads sends around 220 Georgetown students each week to local elementary schools to tutor approximately 400 first to third graders on a one-on-one or classroom-style basis.
The DC Schools Project focuses on teaching English as a second language and improving literacy for over 150 public schools students of all ages, as well as more than 100 adults in the District. DCSP focuses on one-on-one tutoring in public schools as well as in immigrant homes, where Georgetown students can be a resource for the entire family.
Spring Fling also provides an introduction to a college campus for many of the local children present.
“It’s exciting for the kids to come experience college when they otherwise wouldn’t have the chance,” Rianna Folds (COL ’14) said. Folds tutors at three different schools through DC Reads and enjoyed showing her tutees campus buildings like the Intercultural Center.
Spring Fling allows Georgetown student groups to engage in community service on campus and approach an issue — education in the District — that they may not normally address. Participants said that the event helps them more visibly interact with themes that are close to their personal interests.
“Everyone that is in [the Protestant Student Forum] has some experience with youth, so we all sympathize about the demands of education and we’re passionate about education,” said Anthony White (COL ’11), chair of the PSF. “We feel convicted to reach out to youth.”
Spring Fling is eagerly awaited by many of the students involved in DC Reads and DCSP and becomes a handy incentive during the tutoring process, according to DC Reads tutor Nursultan Eldosov (SFS ’14).
“The thing with this day is, if [the students are] being bad and not focusing, this is always a day you can refer to. It’s a motivation to come to Georgetown,” he said.
For community service fraternity Alpha Phi Omega, Spring Fling is an integral part of the organization’s Service Week. The week’s projects include hosting an Urban Education Panel Tuesday evening, participating in Knit for the Needy with Hoya Outreach Programs and Education on Tuesday, delivering dinner to the homeless in Dupont Circle in conjunction with several religious organizations on Wednesday and teaching a dance class with Dance DC on Friday.
“While every semester our organization participates actively in about a dozen consistent projects, through Service Week we are able to do something different; we are able to better increase awareness about social justice issues in the D.C. area, as well as giving back to Georgetown,” Kevin Leahy (COL ’12), vice president of service for APO, wrote in an email.
Other campus groups became involved in Spring Fling because of the crossover among their members and the CSJ’s education-focused programs.
“This is something we try to be a part of because we have a lot of members in the fraternity and in DC Reads,” said Cassie Williams (COL ’12), philanthropic committee manager of Alpha Kappa Psi, Georgetown’s professional business fraternity.
Other student organizations involved included community service sorority Adelfi, professional foreign service sorority Delta Phi Epsilon, Hoya Outreach Programs and Education, InterHall, the Muslim Students Association and the women’s club Ultimate Frisbee team.
Many participants felt that the event fostered a sense of campus unity and increased awareness of other groups’ initiatives.
“Normally we are very separated, but we all have the same goal,” said Marisa Morin (COL ’13), outreach coordinator for GU Children’s Theater, which performed “The Reluctant Dragon.”
The event seemed to achieve its goal of exciting students about the collegiate experience.
“The school is so beautiful, and everyone is so nice. I want to go there when I’m bigger!” said Jia Hui, a first-grader at Thomson Elementary who works with DCPS.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

