
April 25, 2011 by Upasana Kaku Leave a Comment 
This year, 13 Georgetown students have received the prestigious Fulbright award, and the university is waiting to hear back regarding the remaining 11 applicants.
Six of the awards will go to graduating seniors, while the remainder will go to graduate students or recent alumni.
Since Fulbright scholarships — which provide recipients the chance to teach and conduct research abroad — are awarded by individual countries, applicants are notified at different times.
Maryam Mohamed, associate director of the office of fellowships, awards and research, said that the office should hear back about all of the applicants by mid-June.
The scholars will be studying and teaching on every continent besides Antarctica, in countries as diverse as France, Azerbaijan and Cameroon.
Last year, Georgetown students received 16 Fulbright awards, and 14 the year before that.
“We are hoping that this year continues to be on trend,” Mohamed wrote in an email.
She added that Georgetown students are especially competitive because many of them begin working with faculty researchers early in their careers, have experience teaching or have studied abroad.
Jacalyn Bedard (COL ’11), who received a Fulbright award to Spain, said she fell in love with the country after spending her junior year abroad there.
“When I left Spain, I felt that my time there wasn’t finished, and I needed to find a way to go back,” she wrote in an email.
Bedard said she will be using her Fulbright English Teaching Assistantship award to spend 16 hours a week as a teaching assistant in a secondary school in Madrid. She also plans to conduct research about the integration of immigrants into the Spanish school system.
“I think investigating the resources that are provided to students who are immigrants and observing how they are perceived in the classroom from a different cultural perspective will be a rich experience that I can draw upon in the future if I work in the U.S. education system,” she said.
Kevin Donovan (SFS ’11), who received a Fulbright award to South Africa, will spend a year in Cape Town doing research on the role of digital technology in the democratic practices of South Africa.
“My research aims to understand how the proliferation of these technologies changes or sustains the unique deliberative democracy of South Africa, hopefully also illuminating other countries, as well,” he wrote in an email.
The Fulbright U.S. Scholar Program awards about 1,100 grants annually, according to the organization’s website. The program was established in 1946 with legislation introduced by then-Sen. J. William Fulbright (D-Ark.).
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

