
May 3, 2011 by Danny Funt Leave a Comment 
Leslie Whittington was serving as associate dean of the Georgetown Public Policy Institute in 2001 when she, her husband and their two young daughters were killed in the attack on the Pentagon.
“Last night, when I learned about the death of Osama bin Laden, I reflected upon the fact that I would be speaking here at the [Leslie Whittington Memorial Lecture Series] today,” said Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), the featured lecturer at the Gonda Theater Monday afternoon. “I thought how fitting it is to be gathered here in her memory and in memory of all the others who were victims of terrorist attacks on 9/11.”
While he was billed to speak on the contentious federal budget negotiations, Van Hollen (L ’90) began his remarks by acknowledging the extraordinary symbolism of the occasion.
Van Hollen hailed bin Laden’s killing, which came after an exhaustive 10-year search, as a momentous victory in the war effort.
“While the fight against al-Qaeda will go on, and we have to remain vigilant, the fact is that they’ve lost their founder and leader,” Van Hollen said. “It was a good day for America and everyone throughout the world who works for freedom, for justice and for peace.”
Van Hollen serves as the ranking member of the House Budget Committee and has played a key role in negotiations. He is one of a dozen members of Congress who will appear Thursday at a critical bipartisan budget meeting hosted by Vice President Biden.
After turning to the planned subject of his talk, Van Hollen highlighted to the crowd of about 150 people the distinctions between the House Republicans’ budget proposal, throwing his support behind the president.
“The House Republican plan clearly is the wrong choice for the country,” Van Hollen told the Georgetown gathering. “It will not advance the goal of making sure that students in this room have a brighter future, and it will not ensure that generations after you have brighter futures.”
In his speech, Van Hollen outlined a three-part test for evaluating a federal budget. First, he stated that it must make the necessary investments to keep the United States competitive globally. Second, it must ensure that “every American can live with some measure of basic decency and security.” Third, Van Hollen said emphatically, as a budget, it must be sustainable.
Van Hollen quoted Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, who said that failure by the United States to pay back debts could result in economic catastrophe.
“This is not the time to play politics,” Van Hollen said.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 3, 2011 by Tyler Sanborn Leave a Comment 
Georgetown’s LGBTQ community held its third annual Lavender Graduation Monday night, celebrating the graduation of 61 undergraduates, graduates and law students of the class of 2011.
The event in Copley Formal Lounge featured keynote speaker Rep. David Cicilline (D-R.I.). One of four openly gay members of the 111th Congress, Cicilline (LAW ’86) drew examples from his own life while urging the graduating class to become active members of the political community.
“We need visible LGBT leadership in the war on poverty, in our work to rebuild our economy, in bringing an end to the war in Afghanistan … in helping our children get the best education and in finding ways to reduce our dependence on foreign oil,” Ciciline said. “At the same time, we must never, ever, ever stop fighting for full civil rights for our community and basic human rights for our fellow citizens.”
Modeled after the University of Michigan’s Lavender Graduation, which was started in 1995, the title of the event hearkens back to the Holocaust by combining the pink of the triangles worn by gay men and the black of those worn by lesbians in Nazi concentration camps.
This year’s Lavender Graduation class was the final class to remember life on the Hilltop before the LBGTQ Resource Center was established.
At the event, awards for LGBTQ community leadership were given out to both students and faculty. Ellen Greer (SFS ’11) offered “A Reflection On Our Time at Georgetown,” a period which she felt was marked by challenge and liberation. Greer recalled the hate crime committed her freshman year, in which a gay student was mocked and then attacked due to his sexual orientation. The student-led response catalyzed her involvement in social justice and the LGBTQ community.
“We gathered by the hundreds in Red Square and marched across campus. I myself held one end of the rainbow flag,” Greer said. “We shouted for justice. We cried for a stop to homophobia. We demanded greater university support for our community.”
Greer’s reflection on a challenging time in Georgetown’s history complemented the closing remarks offered by Sivagami Subbaraman, the director of the LGBTQ Resource Center. Subbaraman justified the need for a separate Lavender Graduation ceremony in conjunction with commencement by highlighting the struggles of members of the LBGTQ community at this time. While graduation should be time of great joy, some members of the LGBTQ community face bitterness and rejection from loved ones, according to Subbaraman.
“There is heartbreak.” Subbaraman said. “Our parents are often the first ones to discriminate against us … But we are part of families, and we are family.”
The greater Georgetown family showed their support Monday, as University President John J. DeGioia, Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson and the associate deans of Georgetown’s four undergraduate schools and law school all attended.
“We look forward to seeing the kinds of women and men you become and the kinds of work, the kinds of responsibilities that you take on, and the kind of difference you make in each of your communities,” DeGioia said.
Subbaraman said she hopes that future Lavender Graduations will fill Copley Formal Lounge with family members, friends and all of the Hilltop family gathered in celebration.
“We are part of the fabric of the world … Our places of coming out need to be spaces of coming together,” she said.
Special to the Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

