
September 28, 2011 by Eamon O'Connor Leave a Comment 
The office of Prince Alwaleed bin Talal, a major donor to the university and one of the world’s richest men, has released evidence to refute allegations leveled against him in a recently reopened sexual assault case.
Alwaleed is accused of drugging and raping a 20-year-old model in August 2008 while sailing on his luxury yacht near the island of Ibiza in the Spanish Mediterranean, but a cache of itineraries, passport visa stamps and witness statements indicate that the prince was in France, not Ibiza, at the time in question.
The renewal of the case comes over a year after it was closed by a separate magistrate due to insufficient evidence.
According to the press release, the documents provide “clear and unmistakable proof” that Alwaleed, the nephew of King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, was not in Spain in August 2008. The information also shows that the king did not charter a yacht to Spain at the time.
In the original complaint, the model, identified only as Soraya and represented by Spanish attorney Javier Beloqui, alleged that she was invited to the yacht while at a nightclub in Ibiza. Medical tests later confirmed traces of a sleep-inducing chemical in her system as well as semen. Beloqui has called for the prince to give DNA samples, but none has been provided yet.
Despite the results of the rape kit, officials found no evidence of bodily harm on the victim, prompting their previous decision to close the case.
The accuser also claimed that the dismissal of the case was due to the influence of Prince Alwaleed as a member of Saudi royalty. Prince Alwaleed has been summoned to appear before a Spanish provincial court for the continuation of court proceedings.
Prince Alwaleed is a businessman, investor and major stakeholder in News Corp. and Citigroup. Forbes ranked him the 26th richest man in the world and the richest man in the Middle East, valuing his fortune at nearly $20 billion.
In 2005, the prince donated $20 million each to Georgetown and Harvard to establish academic programs at the schools focused on Muslim-Christian interfaith dialogue.
Georgetown’s program was titled the Center for Muslim-Christian Understanding and was later renamed the Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal CMCU in his honor.
Editor-in-Chief
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 28, 2011 by Rita Pearson Leave a Comment 
Nirupama Rao, the Indian Ambassador to the United States, expressed her hope that India can play a role as both a world superpower and a builder of the South Asian identity in her address Tuesday.
During the talk in Gaston Hall, sponsored by the Office of the President, Rao spoke to how the shared history and culture of South Asian nations can be the basis for future developmental partnerships, despite the region’s political fragmentation.
“South Asia is one concept, culturally and geographically, though not politically,” she said. “You can’t change the map.”
Rao echoed the rhetoric of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, noting that improved trade and investment networks combined with greater economic cooperation would further the growth of all South Asian nations.
According to Rao, reviving the South Asian identity must draw upon shared linguistic, historical and culture ties. While optimistic about the strength of these cultural linkages, Rao acknowledged regional instability as a key obstacle to integration and development.
“India is placed in a complex neighborhood,” she said. “Our relations with Pakistan are complicated by terrorism.”
Rao also touched on India’s relations with Afghanistan, the newest member of SAARC. Rao identified democratization and development as key goals necessary in order for Afghanistan to achieve stability and avoid returning to extremism.
“We have provided significant development aid to Afghanistan, at great human cost,” she said.
In addition to discussing India’s leading role in furthering regional development, Rao deemed India an international superpower, emphasizing the United States’ and India’s common foundation of democracy as a basis for their strengthened partnership in the 21st century. When she informed the audience that President Obama had personally told her that he looked forward to a reformed United Nations Security Council that includes India, she was met with thundering applause.
Rao also advocated for increased relations between Georgetown University and India. She referred to Georgetown as a leader in forging partnerships with institutes of higher education and learning after University President John J. DeGioia mentioned that the first US-India summit on higher education would take place at Gaston Hall in two weeks.
“The right to education has become a fundamental right in India,” Rao said.
Rao acknowledged the difficulty of making higher education more accessible for all levels of society, especially for girls and women — an issue that will be addressed at the upcoming summit.
“There is a saying in Sanskrit — wealth that education offers is the greatest wealth of all,” she said.
Rafi Khetab (SFS ’13), a native of Afghanistan, agreed with Rao’s emphasis on India’s role as a leader and possible model for other South Indian nations.
“India is a better example for establishing democracy for Afghanistan than European countries,” he said. “The countries of South Asia are connected by shared cultural ideas and deep historical ties. Afghans are better able to understand India’s form of democracy.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

