
October 12, 2011 by Sarah Kaplan Leave a Comment 
The Department of Public Safety warned campus to be on the lookout for a suspicious person who has attempted to enter multiple residence halls without identification.
In an alert posted on its website Wednesday afternoon, DPS provided a photo of the suspect, who is described as a 5-foot-10 black male of medium build with short dreadlocks. Although the alert can be accessed from the DPS website, it was not emailed to members of the campus community.
According to DPS, the suspect was first seen attempting to enter Harbin Hall without a GOCard on an unspecified date. When the Allied Barton security guard would not let him proceed, the suspect said that he was meeting with two friends but did not know their room number. The suspect then conversed with the guard for about 25 minutes before leaving the building.
In a second incident just after midnight on Oct. 1, the same suspect tried to walk past the Village C East security guard without presenting identification. When the guard confronted him, he said that he was meeting up with a friend and then left the building.
The suspect in these incidents bears a striking similarity to the descriptions of suspects in several previous incidents. The suspects in a rash of burglaries this semester were described as black males, about 5-foot-8 to 5-foot-10 in height, and of medium build — matching the description of the suspect in the DPS alert.
At 11 a.m. on Saturday, a Nevils Hall resident woke to find a similar suspect in his apartment. When the student attempted to question the suspect, he took the student’s backpack and fled. Two weeks earlier,DPS reported that a black male of a similar description stole laptops, an unspecified amount of U.S. currency and several electronic items from LXR and Harbin Halls on Sept. 16 and Sept. 17 respectively.
Representatives of DPS did not respond by press time to requests for further comment.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

