
February 17, 2011 by Glenn Russo Leave a Comment 
The employees of Georgetown University Dining Services are looking to unionize.
On Feb. 9, about 80 percent of workers signed a request to their employer, Aramark Higher Education, asking the food service company to remain neutral if the workers wanted to form a union. A hands-off guarantee would make a union a near certainty after seven months of behind-the-scenes coalition building. If the request is successful, international service workers union UNITE HERE will represent all dining services workers in collective bargaining with Aramark.
Pending Aramark’s decision, the employees would engage in a card check process to approve a union. If a majority of the employees sign authorization cards in favor of unionization, the union would automatically be created and could then engage in collective bargaining.
“Ultimately, we leave the decision about union representation up to our employees,” said Karen Cutler, director of Aramark communications.
“Aramark is neither anti-union, nor pro-union. However, we would note that for half a century, Aramark has enjoyed excellent relationships with the 35-plus different unions that represent our employees,” Cutler said in an email.
A large coalition of students and faculty members helped propel the joint effort forward over the past seven months. According to David Schwartz (SFS ’12), one of the principal organizers of the group, a few hundred students and about 30 faculty members teamed up over time to work with UNITE HERE and the employees in a series of clandestine meetings.
Leaders of prominent campus groups like Georgetown University College Democrats, NAACP, Movimiento Estudiantil Chicano de Aztlán and EcoAction were asked to participate to ensure the student representation comprised a broad swath of the community.
According to Schwartz, students on campus over the summer began organizing with workers in July.
“Students have had relationships with campus workers for a long time. It was really these relationships that allowed us to do this together,” he said.
The impetus for unionization came from the employees’ desire to have a voice on the job, Schwartz said.
“It really isn’t ‘Why are these workers’ conditions so bad?’ or ‘Why is it so necessary to have a union?’ The basic idea here is that Catholic social teaching says that workers should have the right to collectively bargain,” Schwartz said. “There’s no reasoning why I shouldn’t and other students shouldn’t stand up in solidarity with these workers.”
At Georgetown, dining workers’ minimum wage comes out to $11.34 an hour, which can make it difficult for employees to cover health care costs, Schwartz said.
“[Health care is] fairly unaffordable for workers who are making that kind of wage, especially for workers with families, who aren’t just looking for health care for themselves,” he said.
According to Schwartz, the employees’ push to coalesce has been a long time coming. Some of the workers have been at Georgetown for as long as 30 years without union membership.
“These workers were ready, and they’ve wanted this for an extremely long time. It was a matter of speaking to their friends, colleagues and co-workers and talking to them about what they’d like to change,” Schwartz said.
Throughout the process, the university has also stood behind the workers’ effort and helped advocate on behalf of them to the national employer.
In a letter sent to Aramark on Feb. 3, Associate Vice President of Auxiliary Services and Assistant Vice President of Business Policy Planning LaMarr Billups affirmed Georgetown’s commitment to its workers.
“As a trusted and valuable business partner, we want to be proactive in communicating Georgetown University’s expectations regarding that organizing effort,” they wrote in the letter. “The Just Employment Policy, which is a condition of the contract between [Aramark and Georgetown], explicitly requires vendors to respect and protect employee rights to freedom of association.”
According to Cutler, the corporation is currently in compliance with the Just Employment Policy.
Last year, the company decided to remain neutral when Aramark workers at Loyola University of Chicago decided to unionize. Dining hall workers successfully organized there after an extensive effort by students, professors, Jesuits and workers.
Aramark has been criticized by national labor unions including UNITE HERE for discouraging their employees from organizing and allowing poor working conditions, wages and benefits. In 2008, UNITE HERE and Service Employees International Union, two of the largest service-worker unions led a protest in New York City to condemn Aramark’s practices.
According to their website, Aramark feels they are better equipped than unions to meet workers’ needs.
“Our preference is that our employees deal directly with Aramark on issues concerning their employment, rather than through third-party unions,” the website states.
According to the website, about 30 percent of Aramark employees are unionized.
Dining hall workers at Aramark-operated college dining halls nationwide have successfully joined together for collective representation.
Workers at Johns Hopkins University, University of Pennsylvania and Loyola Chicago have formed unions.
“In fact, we have more than 700 collective bargaining agreements across North America and seldom, if ever, have a serious dispute with any of our unions,” said Cutler, of Aramark’s communications director.
Georgetown contracted Aramark in July 2007 to manage its dining services in conjunction with an expansion of dining services and renovation of Leo O’Donovan Hall, the main dining hall on campus. At the time, university spokeswoman Julie Bataille told THE HOYA that all employees would be offered similar jobs under Aramark.
Leaders of the employee movement to unionize could not be reached for comment.
— Hoya Staff Writers Eamon O’Connor and Laura Engshuber contributed to this report.
A version of this story was originally published on THE HOYA’s website on Feb. 17.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 17, 2011 by Anne Skomba Leave a Comment 
A potential policy presented to the The Washington Metropolitan Area Transportation Authority last week suggested cutting late service on Friday and Saturday nights. Under the proposed plan, trains would stop at 12 midnight instead of at 3 a.m., the current time.
The board of directors suggested the plan as one way to address the $72 million deficit projected in Metro’s 2012 budget without increasing fares.
“In a time of scarce resources and great needs, it is vital that Metro efficiently and effectively expend the investments that we have been given,” Metro General Manager and CEO Richard Sarles said in a January 27 address to the board.
Closing three hours earlier on Fridays and Saturdays would save $5 million annually and allow extra time for maintenance operations, according to the Washington Examiner.
A cut to late-night schedules is not yet an official proposal, said Metro spokesperson Steven Taubenkibel. However, even the chance that Metro leaders are considering closing early worries some passengers.
Kaley Alberty (COL ’11) said that while the cuts might be better than more fare increases, they would have a negative impact on her life.
“I live off campus and that would be particularly harmful to me because I rely on the Metro to get back home,” she said.
Some students said they didn’t think the cuts would affect Georgetown students much because GUTS busses stop running before 3 a.m.
“We actually don’t take the Metro that much after midnight anyway because we don’t have a Metro stop,” said Elise McKenna (MSB ’12). “If you actually reflect, Georgetown is not a high traffic place.”
Each weekend, around 16,800 people use the Metro between 12 midnight and 3 a.m., according to an official Metro 2012 Budget Update.
Calculated using the Washington Post Taxi Fare Calculator, taxi rides to suburbs like Bethesda or College Park can run from $20 to $30, a price significantly higher than that of a Metro ticket.
Seungah Lee (SFS ’12) said she was opposed to the Metro cuts because cabs are the only late night alternative and are much more expensive.
“I’m out on weekends and I pretty much rely on the Metro to get around,” she said.
Taubenkibel said that late-night hours remain in the budget, at least for now, and that the late night cuts are only one of many ideas that the directors are considering.
Another money-saving strategy under consideration is an appeal for local contributions. Under this plan, D.C., Maryland and Virginia governments would be asked to supply funding to reduce the cost of day-to-day railway operation.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

