
November 20, 2011 by Photo Editor Leave a Comment 
About 20 students gathered on the Leavey Esplanade to brave the elements in a symbolic show of support for the District’s homeless population Friday night.
The “Solidarity Sleep Out” event, sponsored by Hoya Outreach Programs and Education and the Center for Social Justice, was the first of its kind at the university.
Solidarity Sleep Out is a nationwide event organized by Covenant House, an organization that provides services to homeless youth. This year, the event was held in 21 cities across the nation. Georgetown’s Solidarity Sleep Out was organized by freshman Gianna Maita, who interned at the Covenant House in New York over the summer. Maita said she was inspired by those experiences.
“I remember this summer I was in New York City and I walked to work relatively early,” she said. “I saw people sleeping on someone’s doorstep, about three people, and they had blankets and suitcases with them and everything, and they looked like they were probably three years older thanme.”
The night’s events  including speakers, a cappella performances and a film screening  aimed to educate college students about the United States’ homeless young adults. The night was one of the final events of HOPE’s Hunger and Homelessness Week, which features several other service events throughout the city and information sessions about social justice issues.
Carlette Mack and Larry Gold, Covenant House’s D.C. directors, spoke to student participants about the importance of acting in solidarity with the homeless. About two million American youth are homeless, according to Mack and Gold.
Although Maita was not sure how many homeless youths live in D.C., she said students may not realize the extent of the problem.
“It’s more than you might think,” she said.
After the presentations ended, five students slept outside on the Leavey Esplanade. However, at 2a.m., the group moved inside to the Leavey Program Room due to cold weather, according to participant David Lizza (COL ’15).
Participants had fundraised about $235 out of their $2,000 goal at press time and Maita hoped the donations to the Covenant House would inspire advocacy among students. She intends for Solidarity Sleep Out to become a recurring event on campus.
“The Covenant House’s goals are to raise money, to support homeless teens and to have the homeless teen’s peers get the experience of being homeless, so they become aware,” she said. “Once you have that awareness, you will make others aware too,” she said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 20, 2011 by Beth Garbitelli Leave a Comment 
Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.) kicked off her re-election campaign this Saturday, calling for D.C. autonomy and the strengthening of the District’s economy.
At an event at Busboys and Poets, Norton summarized her platform for what may be a 12th term in office.
“I am running for D.C. jobs and D.C. statehood,” she said. “I am running to tell … the Republican Party [to not] even try to … take the home rule we have, because we’re coming after the statehood we deserve.”
The kickoff began with a tap performance by D.C. dance duo Manzari Brothers and a brief introduction from longtime supporter Representative Steny Hoyer (D-Md.).
Announcing her candidacy, Norton reviewed some of her triumphs in Congress, including the passage of a tax credit for new home buyers in the District, and emphasized that she was able to enact these changes during a period of Republic control.
“Regardless of who controls [the country], this morning I am here to let them know they will not control the District of Columbia,” Norton said.
This message struck a chord with College Democrats member and Advisory Neighborhood Commission 2E student representative Jake Sticka (COL ’13).
“I think it is fairly ironic that the same Republicans that emphasize the importance of state’s rights so vehemently oppose fair voting rights for D.C.,” Sticka said. “[Norton] has fought for residents of D.C. to have the same voting rights that every other U.S. taxpayer has and I’m confident she will continue to do so in her next term.”
Norton also expressed confidence in the Democratic Party’s election odds next year.
“I am running to help replace the Tea Party [Republicans] with a Democratic Congress to work with a Democratic president. And in case you haven’t heard, his name is Barack Obama,” Norton said to a cheering crowd.
Norton has historically attracted a large majority of votes in the District and faces no opposition in the Democratic primary elections on April 3.
In the Nov. 6 general election, she will be running against Statehood Green Party member NataleStracuzzi and Republican Nancy Farolina.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

