
August 24, 2011 by Glenn Russo Leave a Comment 
University Provost James O’Donnell announced today that he will leave his post at the end of the academic term to become a full-time professor in the Classics department following a sabbatical.
According to the email sent by University President John J. DeGioia, a formal search for a replacement will begin in the next few weeks.
“I am truly grateful for all that Jim has done to expand and enhance Georgetown’s standing as a leading research University,” DeGioia wrote in the email.
According to O’Donnell, the move has been planned for a while. After a year-long sabbatical, he will return to Georgetown and begin teaching.
“Certainly [I am] excited to get back to the classroom, but really only beginning to think what I can do best for Georgetown students,” he said.
O’Donnell has served as provost and executive vice president at Georgetown since 2002 and has been instrumental in a number of significant projects during his tenure. He helped lead the President’s Initiative on Diversity and Inclusiveness as well as strengthened the School of Continuing Studies and the Graduate School, according to DeGioia. He also overhauled faculty compensation and oversaw a significant increase in student financial aid.
In his position, O’Donnell participated in the founding of the SFS-Q campus in Doha, Qatar while playing a large role in the construction of the New Science Center, Rafik B. Hariri Building and the Davis Performing Arts Center on the main campus.
“I am deeply grateful to Jim for his longstanding dedication to our community, and I look forward to working with him through this academic year,” Degioia wrote.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

