
May 18, 2011 by Mariah Byrne Leave a Comment 
Commissioners and witnesses continued to criticize the 2010 Campus Plan at the Zoning Commission hearing Monday night.
Opponents cited disruptive nighttime outdoor activity, landscape deterioration, trash overflow and an adverse effect on home value as signs of students’ impact on the state of houses in the Georgetown community.
Neighborhood proponents also claimed that the university was not taking the responsibility to monitor and discipline the behavior of its students.
“We want Georgetown University to be the kind of citizen that it is dedicated to producing,” said Advisory Neighborhood Commission 3D Commissioner Ann Haas, who represents Foxhall Village.
Although the commissioners mainly focused on the problems caused by undergraduate off-campus housing, they also suggested that the university house more graduate students on campus and create a shuttle between the campus and the bars on M Street.
“As long as the number of students being housed on campus is less than 100 percent, it frees far too many undergraduates to live off campus in the surrounding community,” said ANC2E Chair Ron Lewis, who represents the Georgetown and Burleith neighborhoods. “The zoning rules provide the tools to repair this situation, and the time to do this is now.”
George Oberlander, an expert witness for the Citizens Association of Georgetown, was also allowed to testify. Oberlander, the former director of the National Capital Planning Institute and a city planning expert who recently published a report on the West Georgetown and Burleith neighborhoods, stressed that the 2010 Campus Plan would only exacerbate the community’s current problems. He urged the university to house all undergraduate students on campus while providing housing for other students on a satellite campus.
Seven members of the Georgetown community testified, including university employees, graduates, former ANC members and Director of Campus Ministry Fr. Kevin O’Brien, S.J.
University representatives stressed that it was only a minority of Georgetown students who create disturbances in the local community, while emphasizing that the university has measures in place to deal with such problems.
“I’m shocked by the anger apparent in the [Citizens Association of Georgetown] newsletter. It’s certainly not my reality,” said Edward Machir (MSB ’74), a Georgetown resident and adjunct professor in the McDonough School of Business.
Former ANC2E Chair Grace Bateman argued that housing all students on campus would worsen the neighborhood’s noise and upkeep problems.
“Georgetown and Burleith are part of a larger, urban community where there is always demand for group housing,” she said. “At least we have the university controlling the situation now.”
The university’s proposed loop road also dominated much of the conversation Monday night. The road, which would run parallel to Glover-Archibold Park behind Yates Field House and McDonough Gymnasium, faced opposition from Foxhall residents and theDistrict Department of Transportation.
DDOT stated in its testimony that it opposed the 2010 Campus Plan, claiming that the university provided insufficient information to properly conduct an impact analysis for the loop road’s changes to traffic patterns in the Georgetown community.
Associate Director of DDOT’s Policy, Planning and Sustainability Administration Karina Ricks argued that DDOT could provide a more comprehensive report if it is given more traffic data about the university’s intersection with Canal Road and the intersection of 38th Street and Reservoir Road.
“We believe that they haven’t shown us enough specificity in design … to understand what the impact on traffic would be,” she said.
Maureen Dwyer, an attorney for the university, said the required information could be collected in three weeks. This data could then be analyzed into a cohesive report within two weeks, according to Ricks.
Anthony Hood decided to hold off the cross-examination of the DDOT report until the commission’s next meeting.
Hearings will reconvene on June 2, when the remainder of the witnesses in support of the 2010 Campus Plan will testify. Local neighborhood associations will also be allotted 45 more minutes for their presentation.
“I think the meetings are plodding along as expected,” ANC2E Commissioner Bill Starrels said. “These things always go on longer than one would hope, [but] I thought the ANC and Georgetown did a good job of presenting their testimony.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 18, 2011 by Lauren Weber Leave a Comment 
About 65 colleagues, students, administrators and faculty celebrated the accomplishments of George Daly, the outgoing academic dean of the McDonough School of Business, Tuesday evening outside the Rafik B. Hariri Building.
University President John J. DeGioia emphasized the change Daly brought to the MSB in his six years on the Hilltop, highlighting the opening of the Hariri Building, the rise in the business school’s national ranking, the recruitment of faculty and the creation of the MBA Evening Program, the global MBA program, as well as new minors and initiatives.
“We are grateful to George as he strengthened and advanced the MSB to make sure students not only succeed in their careers, but also live a life of meaning,” DeGioia said on the PriceWaterhouseCoopers Plaza.
After his remarks to the crowd, DeGioia presented Daly with a copy of what is known as John Carroll’s prospectus, the university founder’s original proposal for the establishment of the academy of Georgetown.
Daly expressed his appreciation for the gift and his time here, emphasizing how welcoming the Georgetown community has been.
“It is a very, very special place. The Hilltop experience we describe is truly exceptional,” he said.
Daly will be on sabbatical next year to explore his longstanding interest and research of leadership in professional sports; he will also take advantage of the time off by travelling and potentially writing on higher education for The Wall Street Journal.
Looking forward to the following academic year, Daly said he hopes to return to Georgetown in whatever capacity seen fit by his successor, who has yet to be announced.
In an interview with The Hoya, Daly acknowledged that he was ready for a break after his years working in education and policy. Daly previously served as the dean of New York University’s Stern School of Business, where he also taught as a professor.
“I’ve been doing this for quite a while … and I’m excited to do things at my own pace.”
Even so, Daly said he would not have traded the Georgetown experience for anything else.
“It’s been a great experience, and I really like the values of this institution.”
Undergraduate Dean of the MSB Norean Sharpe praised Daly for his vision during his time at the helm of the business school. She cited a a recent rise in admissions yield numbers for the undergraduate business school, which spiked to over 63 percent for the Class of 2015, along with a myriad of academic programs the two had implemented.
“Dean Daly has been a wonderful advocate for the undergraduate program and supported me in my efforts to start new initiatives. He raised the bar to set for business programs,” Sharpe said.
Former MSB Academic Council President Lowell Karr (MSB ’11) echoed Sharpe’s statements.
“I respect Dean Daly a lot. … he’s been instrumental in creating change to move the MSB forward domestically and globally as evidenced by the jump to 10 in the Bloomberg Businessweek 2011 [undergraduate business school] rankings,” Karr said.
Daly said he was happy to have played a role in the academic advancement of Georgetown.
“I look forward to a very bright future for the MSB … and Georgetown as well, and I’m happy to have played a part.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

