
November 16, 2011 by Carolyn Clendenin Leave a Comment 
Congressman Jared Polis (D-Colo.) discussed the current Arab-Israeli conflict and potential solutions to the problem Tuesday.
The event was sponsored by the Georgetown University College Democrats, Georgetown Israel Alliance, GU Pride and J Street U Georgetown. As a part of Israel Issues Week, the discussion was designed to increase awareness about the situation in the Middle East.
In his talk, Polis stressed the need for a peaceful two-state solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict. He proposed the restoration of Israel’s 1967 borders and a series of land swaps to formally establish boundaries between Israel and Palestine.
“The land is really one of the easy impediments,” Polis said.
According to the congressman, the more serious barriers are irresolvable claims to power within the region, because both Palestine and Israel feel entitled to the land.
Polis also discussed the need to continue providing American aid to Israel.
“This would be a very dangerous time to zero out foreign aid,” Polis said. “It’s the job of many of us Democrats in the room to hold the Republican’s feet to the fire on their sensibly pro-Israel policies when they talk about zeroing out foreign aid to Israel.”
He added that the acquisition of nuclear weapons by Iran, which would further disrupt the unstable forces in the area and threaten international security, is a primary concern for the United States and Israel.
The lecture was also an opportunity to raise awareness about Georgetown’s recently established chapter of J Street U, a national organization that seeks to increase understanding of Israeli issues and promote a two-state solution to the Israel-Palestine conflict.
Jason Gerson (SFS ’14), chapter co-president, believes that support for this organization is particularly important for Georgetown.
“I think that particularly Georgetown has a very strong interest and investment in what happens in regions outside of our own, which include the Middle East,” he said. “[There is a general] consensus that concessions on both sides are needed and that a peaceful resolution in this conflict isimperative.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 16, 2011 by Julia Dean Leave a Comment 
Donna Rose, a transsexual who champions the right of self-expression, spoke Tuesday about her personal experiences and challenged traditional views of gender roles as part of Gender Liberation Week.
Rose, an author and advocate for the transgender community, acknowledged that although transexuality is an uncomfortable subject for many, it is one that must be addressed.
“If you don’t put a face to it, things will never change,” she said.
Born as a male, Rose knew by the age of six that her body did not express her sense of self. Without an outlet for discussion of transgender issues, she hid her insecurities.
Rose realized in her mid-40s that she could not hide her true self any longer. In her lecture, she said that witnessing a successful surgery was the impetus for beginning her own physical transformation.
Rose described both the physical pain of the procedure and the emotional pain of rejection by her son and wife. She documented the experience of moving away from her family through letters and journal entries that she eventually compiled into a book, “Wrapped in Blue.”
Describing how her new femininity affected various aspects of her life after her transformation, Rose said that the privileges she received as a white, middle-aged man disappeared after the surgery. Rose told her audience that she makes $10,000 less as a woman than she did as a man.
She added that her sister worries because she is not conscientious about her personal safety as a woman.
“I don’t know what it’s like to feel vulnerable,” Rose said. “My life experience didn’t give me that fear.”
Rose is currently training for the freestyle-women’s wrestling event in the 2012 Olympics. Although her transition was difficult, she now speaks nationwide about her experiences and about issues affecting the transgender community, always attempting to leave her audience with a positive message.
“You are more than the sum of your parts,” Rose said.
Her talk, which was sponsored by the LGBTQ Resource Center, Diversity Action Council, The Lecture Fund, GU Pride, Men of Strength, GU Minority Association of Pre-Health Students and the Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity and Affirmative Action, opened Gender Liberation Week.
The week will conclude with a vigil in Red Square Friday afternoon in honor of Transgender Day of Remembrance.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

