
July 19, 2011 by Glenn Russo Leave a Comment 
In a restructuring of the administration, the university announced three administration changes including the creation of a two new senior-level positions in an email broadcast Monday.
The newly minted position of senior vice president for research and chief technology officer will be held by Spiros Dimolitsas, who currently is senior vice president and chief administrative officer.  In his new role he will also continue to oversee the Office of Technology Commercialization.
According to the email penned by University President John J. DeGioia, in his new role Dimolitsas will work with university leadership to promote research, secure investments in university-based programs and develop external research partnerships.
Director of Media Relations Rachel Pugh indicated that this new structure would help expand Georgetown’s corporate and governmental research initiatives.
“Georgetown University is a top-tier research university with more than $240 million in research and the highest Carnegie Foundation classification,” she said. “Spiros Dimolitsas will build on this success by working collaboratively with leaders across the university to promote research, explore new external research partnerships, secure investments in university-based programs, and expand our research portfolio globally.”
During his 10-year term as chief administrative officer Dimolitsas successfully established alliances with the U.S. National Laboratories in the areas of cyber-security, climate change and bio-security, according to the email.
In another appointment, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer ChristopherAugostini will be assuming another newly created position as chief operating officer and senior vice president. He will be responsible for the administrative affairs of the university and coordination of University Services across the main, law and medical campuses. His appointment is effective immediately although he will continue in his current role until his replacement is named.
Dimolitsas and Augostini both draw on strong professional backgrounds for their new positions.Dimolitsas previously served as senior executive for engineering and associate director of the Lawrence Livermore National Lab and in senior management positions at the Communications Satellite Corporation.  He also is a fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers and a recipient of its outstanding achievement medallion, has published more than 60 peer reviewed scientific papers and holds eight patents.
Augostini has been CFO since 2003 and is credited by DeGioia and others with guiding Georgetown through the most recent economic downturn and cultivating a fledgling endowment to over $1 billion. He also was instrumental in the development of the global executive education program, which educates foreign business leaders in Asia and the Middle East, according to the email.
“Chris has implemented a strategic financial plan and deserves much credit for successfully navigating Georgetown University through one of the most extraordinary global financial crises on record,” DeGioia wrote in the email.
In the last administrative change, Vice President for Public Affairs and Senior Advisor to the President Erik Smulson will oversee the Office of University Safety. University Safety was previously overseen byDimolitsas as chief administrative officer. Vice President of University Safety Rocco DelMonaco will now report to Smulson.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


July 19, 2011 by Glenn Russo Leave a Comment 
Over 100 student body presidents have signed on to a campaign spearheaded by Georgetown University Student Association President Mike Meaney (SFS ’12) that urges leaders in Washington to reach a deal on the debt ceiling.
Signatories from over 40 states have put their name to a letter drafted by Meaney along with former GUSAFinance and Appropriations Chair Nick Troiano (COL ’12) and other student body leaders.
The letter speaks on behalf of the signers and the students that they represent in its petition for President Obama and Congress to forgo their differences and reach a compromise.
“It is time to put the politics aside. It is time to put the parties aside. It is time to put the pledges aside. Now is the time to do what is right for the country. … In your negotiations, think about the next generation — not just the next election,” the letter states.
The movement began a week ago after Meaney, Troianoand Carlos Reyes (SFS ’11), a former community member on The Hoya’s board of directors, decided that there was a stark lack of a youth voice in the debate over raising the debt ceiling that has crippled Washington in an intense partisan gridlock.
“There’s never been a more important time to care about what’s going on,” Meaney said.
Both Meaney and Troiano feel that their generation has been wrongly pegged as apathetic and disinterested.
“We want to be a voice for our generation where none exists,” Troiano said. “There is no youth voice saying we need shared sacrifice, but also to care about the future generations.”
The fledgling organization has created the website dowehaveadealyet.com and a social media strategy while they gather more signatures on the letter, which will be publicly released Thursday.
In the three days they have been circulating the letter, the response has more than met their expectations according to those involved. The current signers represent over 1.8 million college students across the country at their respective campuses.
Troiano felt that the letter merely provided an outlet for a common feeling among college students.
“They were grateful to have an opportunity to express their frustration,” he said.
The group has two goals, according to Troiano and Meaney.  The first is to influence the debate and help push Washington to strike a deal.
“We don’t want to see this process reiterated every six months. We want a deal. We want it to be big. We want it to be impactful,” Meaney said.
Second, they hope to convince those their age to be more involved and proactive when it comes to politics and their future.
“Of everybody in this country, there is one group that stands to lose the most from political inaction, and that’s people our age,” he added.
He and eight other student body presidents will hold a press conference at 1:30 p.m. on Thursday at the National Press Club, where they will introduce the letter and launch a social media campaign employing the Twitter hashtag #dowehaveadealyet.
At press time, Republicans and Democrats have yet to reach a compromise as the deadline of Aug. 2 creeps closer. Without a deal to raise the debt ceiling above $14.3 trillion in under two weeks, U.S. Treasury officials have said the United States will begin to default on its obligations.
Correction: This article originally stated that Thursday’s press conference would take place at 1p.m. at the National Press Club. It will take place at 1:30 p.m.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

