
January 20, 2011 by Masha Goncharova Leave a Comment 
University Registrar John Q. Pierce could very easily be indentified with the spirit of Georgetown. Not only are his wife and three sons all Hoyas, but he has been on the Hilltop since his undergraduate years and graduate studies, and then stuck around in the Registrar’s Office. A man of many stories, Pierce speaks of the characters and events that have transformed Georgetown through his experiences. This week, the guide sat down with the Registrar to get a behind-the-scenes look at one of Georgetown’s most important jobs.
 
How did you come to work in the Registrar’s Office?
Well, I was an undergraduate student at Georgetown from ’68 to ’72, and I was what at that time was called a “day hop,” because at that time Georgetown encouraged registration from students who lived off-campus. I also needed to work to pay my tuition, and my sophomore year I got a job in the School of Continuing Studies. In that job, I learned about how to schedule classrooms and how to produce a schedule of classes.
 
What was one of the most interesting events you recall in Georgetown’s history?
One of the most dramatic events in my time here was when I was a student, and the Cambodia bombing generated huge demonstrations against the war in Vietnam, including an attempt by demonstrators to close down the city of Washington in May. Mr. Nixon, who was president, was determined that the city would not be closed down, so we had soldiers with bayonets fixed across the city. Many of the demonstrators wound up in the dorms here, and there was no way to distinguish students from demonstrators. They sent helicopters to drop tear gas on campus. There were trashcans burning and cars were overturned. The academic vice president at the time was Thomas Fitzgerald, and he realized that if the police came on campus to root out the demonstrators, our own students would have been injured, so he got a few of the Jesuits together and he stood in front of the main gates and blocked passage. He averted a catastrophe.
 
How is Georgetown now different from what it was when you first came here, in terms of technology and registration?
The Intercultural Center and its 48 classrooms made a huge impact in the way classes meet and in the quality of the classrooms. There was also a relatively small reliance on pre-registration. I remember finding the end of the line on the corner of New South, and the registration was taking place in the gymnasium. Everybody came to register two days before school started, and if you wanted to ensure a spot in a class you wanted, the only way to do it was to get in line early. People would come the night before and camp out.
 
What about add/drop?
The only worry I have is that students are not as assiduous in getting a complete schedule during completion, as they were when they had to stand in line. We never wanted people to go into add/drop unless they had a complete schedule. If you only have three or four courses [after pre-registration and completion], then you’re trying to complete your schedule during add/drop. The only downside of the technology [is] that it’s easier to do that, and I really think that undergraduates should have a complete schedule before leaving for the Christmas or summer break.
You connect the students to the deans and the teachers. How has it been being the mediator of every aspect of the university?
Well first of all, I have felt so privileged in my almost 30 years as Registrar of the university, and the reason I feel privileged is because of my interaction with the faculty, the deans and the students. There are times you can have intense encounter[s] — usually because the person is afraid that something is going to go wrong. Students are worried that they won’t have full schedules, faculty members can be very tense, but when you think about it, they’re like the performers being sent out on stage, so of course they’re nervous! Our job is to be the stage crew that makes sure that all the props are in the right place and that we remain calm so that the people who make the show happen can focus on the part.
 
If you could describe Georgetown in one word, what would it be?
I would not use a word, I would use a name, and the name would be Royden B. Davis, for whom the Performing Arts Theater is named. He was a Jesuit; he was dean of the College. His combination of commitment to quality of education, care for each individual person and his love for the institution as a whole seems to me to epitomize the very best of the institution.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 20, 2011 by Mariah Byrne Leave a Comment 
The name may sound like a kindergarten initiative, but government professor Mark Rom’s “politeness project” is far from elementary.
In an attempt to reduce fiery exchanges in online political forums, Rom will take students and transform them into Internet vigilantes devoted to battling racism, sexism and polarized politics online.
The group, selected from Rom’s U.S. Political Systems course, will post courteous responses, called “politeness interventions,” to charged arguments fought in the comment sections of political articles. Rom said he hopes that these comments will cure what he considers an extremist syndrome that has infected political speech.
“I come from the perspective of a realist,” he said. “We’re not planning to change the world, but it’s also realistic to think that you can improve it in some small ways.”
The project will target five websites and blogs — two conservative, two liberal and one neutral — and Rom is currently choosing the specific sites based on high daily traffic, paying particular attention to those that list their most popular blog posts on their home pages. He said he wants to concentrate on posts that will be viewed most frequently — where his project’s input will have the largest impact.
Sites like Townhall.com, The Huffington Post and The Washington Post have made the cut, although the list of websites has yet to be finalized.
Rom chose to focus on Internet forums because of the feasibility of scheduling and the safety that online anonymity provides. Talk radio and town hall meetings do not provide similarly ample opportunities to change the nature of the discussions, according to Rom.
“You’re not actually dealing with people,” he said of the online approach. “You’re dealing with their writing, so you’re one step removed from the real hostility.”
A self-proclaimed frequenter of political websites, Rom began individually posting “politeness interventions” a week before Christmas after he kept noticing the hateful nature of certain comments. He soon found that his contributions were catching on, causing a change in the tenor of the conversation.
Rom hopes that at least 25 of his 100 USPS students will join him in his endeavor. According to a recent anonymous class poll, 30 students expressed interest in participating in the project.
One of these students, Sarah Clark (MSB ’13), is excited to delve into the project and explore its ties to cognitive science.
“In large groups, responding politely to rudeness cuts off the oxygen of an audience and eventually exposes the rudeness as unacceptably aggressive,” she said. “Professor Rom’s work is wonderful because it will give peaceful resisters quantifiable information we can use to strengthen our resolve.”
The student volunteers will begin the project by tracking blogs to understand the discussions, and the National Institutes of Health will train the students to become human subject researchers.
Rom hopes to start the conversational aspect of his initiative in March and publish his findings in either a political science or media studies journal in May.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

