
October 20, 2011 by Mariah Byrne and Adrianna Smith Leave a Comment 
Founder and CEO of Teach for America Wendy Kopp stressed the need to restructure the American public school system to a packed Copley Formal Lounge in an informal discussion Wednesday night.
“There something daunting about that, but it’s why people who have figured out how to build whole schools that are much more sustainable give me hope,” she said.
The event, organized by the Center for Social Justice, was moderated by Jane Genster, Senior Counselor to the President and the Interim Executive Director of the CSJ.
The TFA founder visited the university in order to support student interest in the program and push for more recruitment from Georgetown.
“I’m interested in hearing where Georgetown grads minds are… to recruit all the more of them,” Kopp said in an interview with The Hoya.
Kopp’s passion for education began in college, during which she proposed the idea of Teach for Today in her senior thesis.
“I somehow got into Princeton without realizing the depth of education inequity in this country,” she said.
The educational disparities across the United States became apparent to Kopp as she watched her freshman-year roommate, who attended high school in the Bronx, N.Y., struggle academically after inadequate schooling.
Kopp argued that fixing the American school system is crucial to reducing low urban graduation rates and providing better educational opportunities.
“These kids are showing up at schools that really were not built to meet their needs,” she said. “What you have to do with kids in that context takes super-heroic efforts.”
Kopp suggested a new mission for schools — that all students will be prepared for college. She believes this can be achieved through creating a culture that fosters passion for one’s education and provides extra academic assistance. She also called for the development of more charter schools, which she credited with giving students the tools for future success through their intensive structure.
Kopp focused on the importance of investment in the development of TFA teachers and the recruitment of well-qualified teachers, particularly those who share the ethnic and economic backgrounds of their students.
“When you do share their backgrounds, there is a potential power with that,” she said.
She challenged the perception that TFA volunteers are quick to become discouraged and that few become teachers as their permanent career.
“I actually don’t think it would be accurate to say that our people burn out,” she told The Hoya. “It’s a challenging experience, but it’s a motivating experience.”
Kopp argued that many students who leave the program choose other means to address problems in the educational system.
“There is really something indispensable about teaching in this context to creating change later on,” she said. “What we essentially need in the end is leaders in all of our schools, and in all levels of policy and in all sectors who know what you know after time in these schools.”
Students who attended appreciated the opportunity to better understand the problems in the American education system and pose their personal questions to Kopp.
“What she talked about was applicable for us in what we need to do to make this a better country,” Christine Park (COL ’12) said. “Basically, she laid out what’s wrong and where we come in.”
The members of TFA have a serious impact in their individual schools, but there is more work to be done, according to Kopp.
“The real question at the end of the day is: Are we changing the system?” she said. “It’s definitely too early to claim victory to that. Render no illusion that we can do that alone.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 20, 2011 by Laura Engshuber Leave a Comment 
Lily Kaiser (COL ’12) was used to hiding her cerebral palsy. After all, it only affected her right hand, so it was easily concealed, even forgotten at times. For Gallaudet University freshman Kyleigh Herrera, her only form of communication is American Sign Language. She said that much of society disregards her skills — the ‘deaf’ label is a difficult one to ignore.
Thirty-two percent of Americans 18 and older have at least one basic action difficulty or complex activity limitation. Yet physical and mental disabilities are oftentimes swept under the rug.
“It’s hard to bring out a part of yourself in a world where everyone’s so focused on strength,” Kaiser explained.
“Visible Impact,” a project of the Theater and Performance Studies Program, is Kaiser’s story. It is Herrera’s story. It is the story of the 34.5 million Americans who have hearing difficulties. And the 71.4 million who have “disabilities.”
MAKING AN IMPACT
Opening this weekend at the Davis Center for the Performing Arts, “Visible Impact” is a poignant collection of vignettes tackling various forms of disability, such as deafness, cerebral palsy and autism. It mirrors society — how disabilities affect those who have to live with them and those who surround them.
It is the tale of a deaf woman trying to take a citizenship test and being yelled at to sing the national anthem while she can’t hear the demand. It is the story of a dyslexic singer. It is the story of a group of physically impaired greeters at Walmart, discussing how a customer should say hello to them. Ignore them? Express Pity? (“No one’s gonna complain about the disabled woman in the wheel chair.”) Be overly sympathetic — a “thanker”?
“I was much more of a thanker,” cast member Sarah Quehrn (SFS ’12) explains. She doesn’t have a disability but auditioned because she had worked with director Susan Lynskey before. “I didn’t really know how to approach people. I’ve learned that all you need to do is be personable. People will teach you. As the play says in its final line, ‘All you need to do is listen.’”
That listening was crucial in crafting the play itself. Most of the students who walked into auditions at the end of the summer either had a disability or some connection with the community. But for one-third of the cast, issues of disability were unfamiliar — perhaps present in their daily lives only when they mindlessly pushed the button for an automatic door or ambled up a wheelchair-accessible ramp.
Over the course of six weeks, the cast, comprised of 14 Hoyas and three students from Gallaudet, a university in Northeast D.C. that specializes in education for the deaf, shared their stories. Those stories were woven together to create the fabric of “Visible Impact.”
“Developing the ‘Visible Impact’ production with the cast and creative team has been truly transformative,” Lynskey said. “Together the Georgetown students, Gallaudet students and guest artists are not only creating a piece of theater — they are forging a community.”
Kaiser and fellow actor Evan Monad (COL ’14) described the writing process as extremely collaborative. The cast spent most of the six weeks leading up to the show writing the vignettes that comprise it, such as Kaiser’s monologue about her right hand “Crippy.” But as much as the process was about putting ideas to paper, it was about grappling with the ideas themselves. In a room filled with students and interpreters, the actors learned the meaning of the word “disability.” Or rather, they learned what it doesn’t mean.
“The Gallaudet students explained that they don’t see deafness as a disability,” Kaiser explained. Deafness, for them, does not impede their daily life. What, then, qualifies as a disability? “We talked about what words are OK to use, yet still none of us really know,” Quehrn said.
That lack of clarity was one of the driving forces behind her conception of the play, according to Lynskey. “We are challenging able-ism and audism and trying to take the lines drawn to categorize, marginalize and stigmatize people and reform those dividing lines into a circle,” she said.
FOSTERING A NEW DIALOGUE
Challenges were present on the set from day one. Quehrn recalls that it was initially awkward to attempt to communicate with the Gallaudet students. Now the entire cast can sign at a basic level. Developing this sense of community was crucial to the learning process, Lynskey said.
In the rehearsal room and the creation of the performance piece, access is not an afterthought, but an ethos. “We are engaging and embracing a practice of total communication wherein everything signed is voiced and everything voiced is signed,” Lynskey said. “In this we all are discovering the importance of interpretation and the limits of translation. It’s literally bringing worlds together with our ‘bare hands.’ And in so doing we are unearthing a greater communication that exists between people.”
As the students learned to challenge notions of disability, they began to understand the full spirit behind the play. According to Assistant Director Andy Stoffel (SFS ’12), “Visible Impact” is about starting a conversation. “The main point is trying to start talking about deafness and disability in society today. Many people are unaware of the struggle for disability rights.”
While many marginalized communities shared their voices through literature and art, Monod added, this is not true for the disabled community. “With other communities, you know what the arc of such art is going to be. With this, it’s very open,” he said. Part of that openness is using art to create a more positive view, Kaiser noted.
THE SIGNS OF THEIR STORIES
“Often you think about disability in a way like ‘how can I conquer this?’ You need to turn it into something positive,” Kaiser said. Part of that conquering was in telling her story, which details her own experience with cerebral palsy. In the vignette, Kaiser stands alone on stage. She recalls her previous relationships, and how she asked her boyfriends to hold her left hand because her right was wont to twitch and be clammy. Many of them told her that they forgot about it. And for a long time, that was what she wanted.
“Before this, I thought it could be minimized,” she said. Then, her current boyfriend took her right hand, kissed it and said that he loved her for it. “It really took that to make me realize that it wasn’t a weakness.”
Likewise, Monod has learned to embrace his cerebral palsy. An avid reader of Shakespeare, he presents a monologue from Richard III.
“I get what Richard, who is disabled, is saying. He’s asking ‘Can I get married? Can I have a kid? Can I have a normal life?’ I asked myself many of those same questions,” Monod said. “But my friends always joke that I am like Richard, without the villainous streak. That’s why my Richard III monologue melds into a romantic scene — I think it really captures my attitude.”
For Herrera, accepting and celebrating her deafness came through an even greater personal victory.
“I was picked to be my graduation speaker. It made a lot of the attendees realize how amazing it was how deaf people can sign. It’s an art form. A lot of hearing people don’t realize what skills deaf people have. It inspired a lot of hearing people and showed them that not hearing doesn’t really affect us,” she signed through an interpreter.
DIFFERENT ABILITIES
But challenging existing conceptions and embracing one’s lot isn’t easy. Monod jokes that he doesn’t really need to use the crutches he carries around, but they are a way of standing out.
“I always feel I need to overcompensate. I need to be better at realizing what I can and can’t handle,” Kaiser said, “I’m less comfortable displaying vulnerability than other people [are].”
Yet that is what “Visible Impact” is about. The disabled are vulnerable. They are everywhere, yet often they are ignored or reviled by others. One vignette traces the history of the treatment of disabled people, most infamously during the Holocaust. “We were the first to be killed,” the actress in the ensemble intones.
Today, their problems are not widely understood by the public, because it is unclear how much disability affects them.
For some, as seen in the play, disability is secondary. These characters are mothers and friends of the disabled. For some it is neurological. Some are affected by common disorders such as dyslexia or obsessive-compulsive disorder, and some have the less prevalent cerebral palsy.
But as Stoffel says, these issues can no longer be ignored. The “disabled” are everywhere. “Theater and arts are most valuable for society when they deal with issues that people are not comfortable talking about normally,” he said.
“Visible Impact” creates a sense of community for both the performers and the audience. Every scene is translated into sign language, and the audience is asked to participate in signing in the very first scene. The play melds the familiar — Shakespeare, The Invisible Man, Beethoven — with a concept not usually associated with these masterpieces. Yet as the play emphasizes, Beethoven was deaf. Richard III was a hunchback.
People with disabilities make up a third of the U.S. population. That, according to Lynskey, is key.
“In creating a ‘Visible Impact,’ a theatrical expression that probes the complex intersections of biology, culture and identity — the students in demanding an understanding and acceptance of ‘me’ — have found they’ve expanded the definition of ‘we.’”
 
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 20, 2011 by Peter Brigham Leave a Comment 
The year is 1975.
In January, three men, including former attorney John Mitchell, are convicted for perjury stemming from the infamous Watergate break-in. Five months before, President Richard Nixon resigned in the wake of the scandal.
In April, the Vietnam War effectively ends with the fall of Saigon and the surrender of the South Vietnamese forces. Eight months later, neighboring Laos is taken over by communist forces.
With fears of global communism at a high and post-Watergate, anti-government, anti-establishment hysteria surging in the United States, a Georgetown student media outlet found itself engulfed in the antagonism that characterized 1975 and the years closely preceding and following it.
Speaking to the New York Times magazine, disgraced former Vice President Spiro Agnew, who had resigned against allegations of corruption two years earlier, said, “there is little will to oppose Communism in America anymore [and] the voice of third-world communism is pervasive in academia. WGTB … broadcasts what seems to be propaganda for the third world.”
Today, WGTB, Georgetown’s radio station, is an online-only station airing programs with various genres of music as well as some sports and other programming. Its programming is entirely student-produced and aimed at a student audience. But in  the 1970s, it was an FM radio station, actively courting the listening ears of the general public in the Washington area with a unique music lineup and cutting-edge news content.
Pushing the limits during a turbulent period of American history, WGTB eventually ran afoul with the authorities during the
1970s. The events of that decade significantly shaped what the radio station is today and defined the college experiences of students who were actively involved with the production of its content. This weekend, alumni from the era are being invited back to campus for the station’s “AlumLive: the Radical History of WGTB Revealed” event.
During “AlumLive,” the station will broadcast as normal from its studio, while alumni will gather in Bulldog Alley next to WGTB’s current recording booth to socialize and share their stories. A microphone will be set up on the stage in Bulldog Alley for alumni to speak about their experiences, and they will also be able to see the recording studio if they have not before, said Caroline Klibanoff (COL ’12), general manager of WGTB.
The idea for the event was largely the result of happenstance, Klibanoff said. “Last spring, we were talking about how we should have a better relationship with our alumni because we really had none prior to this,” she said. “I was cleaning up our office and came across all these things, especially from the 1978 controversy about shutting down the station. They looked like some pretty secretive memos. I had known about the history of the station, but didn’t know all the details. I saw that this was a story that really needed to be told.”
Among the alumni that she reached out to, largely by making Facebook contacts, was Thomas O’Brien (COL ’74), who will attend the event this Saturday. He first became involved with WGTB in 1971 and worked his way up the station’s ranks, eventually becoming program director.
During his tenure, the station began to go in the alternative direction that would eventually secure its place in the history books. “When I was there, it was moving in the direction of the alternative radio station. When I was there, we moved from ribbon-read news — reading of the teletype — to a news collective, which was pretty controversial,” O’Brien said. “I thought it was important to be reflective of the community because that was the way things were going at the time.”
The programming that drew so much controversy would seem innocuous today. It included ride-sharing advertisements read over the air intended to facilitate the travels of change-minded youth wishing to travel the country protesting perceived injustice, as well as programming aimed at the gay community, which O’Brien said was, “pretty out there for a Jesuit college at the time.”
Initially, the university did not push back on the students and community members who ran WGTB. In fact, the biggest issue the university had with the station was WGTB’s refusal to air Georgetown basketball games. “They weren’t the national power that they are [today]. That was where we got the most pushback. I honestly do not recall getting any serious interference or negative suggestions or any kind of pressure from the administration at all,” O’Brien said.
With no resistance from the administration, WGTB stayed the course. “We took that [the lack of university interference] as assent rather than disinterest, so we kept pushing the boundaries. It was more the news group that was really pushing the boundaries during the time that I was involved because they were indeed quite anti-establishment. You have to remember, this was during the Vietnam War and during the Nixon administration. There was a lot of activism and we were part of that,” O’Brien said.
He said that as that activism progressed, there began to be signs of outside interference. “There were several attempts to rein in the station or shut it down,” he said. “I don’t know who was behind them. We had complaints. We had to react to the FCC. There were definitely people who were agitating to shut us up. That was going on for a number of years before the university powers just decided to give the problem away.”
Their way of giving the problem away: selling it to the University of the District of Columbia in 1979 for $1.
But the sale came after several years of cutting the station’s operating budget, making it difficult for WGTB to broadcast as normal. In a 1978 letter to general manager John Uttenweiler, staffers Matthew Moore and Reggie Terrell wrote that, “the equipment is in such a  f***ed up and sorry state that we have come to the point we never thought we would.”
Caroline Klibanoff thinks that the university ultimately decided to spin off the station because it was airing ads for contraception, broadcasting anti-Vietnam War content, and was largely run by community members rather than Georgetown students. Community members involved included station manager Ken Sleeman, who ran Georgetown Radio from 1971-1975 as a paid employee, despite having no previous affiliation with Georgetown. (He completed his undergraduate education at the University of Maryland at College Park.) Sleeman could not be reached for comment.
The biggest blow came in 1997. “UDC sold it [WGTB] to C-SPAN for $25 million. So that’s why we don’t have an FM station,” Klibanoff said. In the 1980s and 1990s, WGTB broadcast in AM format, rarely with a signal that reached beyond the front gates and never with the official call letters WGTB. In 1996, the station went to its current online-only format.
In spite of all the changes that WGTB went through after Thomas O’Brien and his colleagues graduated, they still treasure their time working together and look forward to returning this weekend.
“The people that worked at WGTB during that period through ’79 kind of all stayed in touch, and they even had some informal reunions before Facebook. Certainly, the [WGTB alumni] Facebook page has helped sweep people up. My exposure to radio during those years was very valuable,” he said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 20, 2011 by Marissa Brogger Leave a Comment 
Just a week after Martin Luther King Jr.’s March on Washington, Illinois Senator Richard Durbin (SFS ‘66, LAW ‘69) came to the District for the first time in early September 1962 to study at Georgetown.
This Tuesday, Durbin’s return to campus was greeted with a rally of his own as 60 students gathered on Healy steps in support of the senator and the DREAM Act that he is championing in the Senate.
“I can assure you that as a student I never imagined standing on this stage addressing you all,” Sen. Durbin (D-Ill.) said as he opened his talk.
Reflecting on his experiences on the Hilltop at the talk sponsored by Georgetown University College Democrats and co-sponsored by MEChA and the Georgetown University Legislative Association, Durbin described his memories of the day that President John F. Kennedy was assassinated, saying that day made him realize the significance of going to college in the nation’s capital.
“That’s what’s so special about Georgetown, seeing the march of history right in front of your eyes,” he said.
Durbin said that his experiences in college, including internships on the Hill, drove him to become interested in politics.
“It had a profound impact. I don’t know where I would be if I didn’t go to Georgetown,” he said.
More than 40 years later, Durbin has become one of the most influential members of the senate, serving as majority whip and taking part in this year’s “Gang of Six” debt ceiling talks.
“It’s special because he’s a double Hoya and a respected member of the Senate leadership,” said Scott Fleming, associate vice president for federal relations.
Durbin is also a leading proponent of the DREAM Act, which seeks to provide conditional permanent residency in the United States for immigrants brought into the country as minors. The senator said that lobbying for the act is the most important thing he has ever done.
“It wouldn’t be unusual, after work, for a student to be standing near my car in the dark, with tears in their eyes, saying, ‘I’m one of those kids, help me,'” he said. “It’s personal to me, and it should be to you.”
Antony Lopez (COL ’14), co-chairman of MeChA, said his support of Durbin and the DREAM Act was a no-brainer.
“Some of our members are ‘DREAMers’ themselves,” he said. “People need to stop thinking this is someone else’s problem, we’re losing potential with every student we lose.”
Justin Pinn (COL ’13), Georgetown University Student Association secretary of diversity affairs, said he was inspired by the crowd gathered on Healy steps.
“We have ‘DREAMers’ on our campus, so seeing so many students come together like this is beautiful, regardless of political ideology. We truly all are Georgetown.”
Before Durbin left, the Georgetown University College Democrats presented him with the gift of a t-shirt with President Bill Clinton emblazoned on the front.
“Ah, Bill, he was two years behind me … and seniors never pay any attention to sophomores,” Durbin said. “Right? The traditions continue.”
Special to The Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

