
June 14, 2011 by Glenn Russo Leave a Comment 
Martin Iguchi, a researcher at the University of California, Los Angeles, has been tapped to be the new dean of the School of Nursing and Health Studies, University President John J. DeGioia announced in an email Tuesday.
Iguchi served as chair of the department of Community Health Sciences in the School of Public Health at UCLA and is also on the faculty at the Brain Research Institute there. His appointment is effective July 1.
“I am honored to be joining the School of Nursing & Health Studies,” Iguchi said in a university press release. “I will continue to ensure that NHS students play a part in providing answers to some of the most pressing issues of our time.”
According to DeGioia, the decision was made in consultation with Executive Vice President for Health Sciences Howard Federoff after the national search committee was led by Assistant Vice President for Student Health James Welsh. The dean position has been filled this interim year by Julie DeLoia, who took over for outgoing Dean of the NHS Bette Jacobs last July 1.
Iguchi has done extensive research on public health concerns, such as HIV transmission and drug addiction treatment and prevention. He co-directs the Barriers to Care Program Area at the UCLA AIDS Institute. Additionally, he served as the director of the RAND Corporation’s Drug Policy Research Center and currently works as a senior behavioral scientist for RAND.
Iguchi is a fellow of the American Psychological Association, an elected member of the APA Board of Professional Affairs and a member of National Institute on Drug Abuse’s Grant Research Review Committee. He holds a master’s degree and doctorate in experimental psychology from Boston University.
“I am certain that NHS students, who uniquely embody the Jesuit tradition of service to others, will pass on their values to new generations of health care leaders who understand the importance of social justice,” Iguchi said in the release. “I thank the Georgetown community for inviting me to join this prestigious institution and look forward to the challenges ahead.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

