
March 4, 2011 by DPS Blotter Leave a Comment 
Wednesday, Feb. 23
Theft, Southwest Quad Parking Garage, 8:46 a.m.
A parking pass was stolen from an employee’s personal vehicle. The employee entered the garage at approximately 6:30 a.m. with his pass displayed. When he returned at the end of his shift at approximately 3:15 p.m., the pass was gone. No suspects or witnesses have been identified.
Thursday, Feb. 24
Theft, ICC, 9:50 p.m.
An unknown person stole a bicycle that was secured to a bike rack. The owner of the bike stated she secured the bike at approximately 8:30 a.m. The bike was left at the rack while she attended classes for most of the day. When she returned to retrieve her property, she discovered that someone had cut the cable lock and stolen the bike. No suspects or witnesses have been identified.
Friday, Feb. 25
Theft, Village A, 1:54 p.m.
A pair of sunglasses and cash were stolen from a dorm room. The student stated the theft occurred on an unknown date in February. There were no signs of forced entry. No suspects or witnesses have been identified.
Saturday, Feb. 26
Drug Violation, LXR, 12:03 a.m.
A report was filed regarding a suspicious smell in the area. A check of the area resulted in finding an unknown substance and drug paraphernalia, and a male identified as a student admitted to smoking an illegal substance in the area. The substance tested positive for containing marijuana. This case is being reviewed by student conduct.
Assault-Simple, Epicurean Restaurant, 12:18 a.m.
A couple attending a party on campus was assaulted by an unknown male. He slapped the male in the face and punched the female in the nose. The suspect fled the scene after the assault. He was later apprehended on 36th Street NW by MPD. The suspect was brought back on campus by MPD and he was identified by the couple. The assailant was barred from campus; the couple declined medical attention and returned to the restaurant. The two males and one female involved in the fight were not GU students.
Monday, Feb. 28
Theft, Leavey Center, 5:51 p.m.
An unknown person stole a bike secured to a bike rack. The owner used a U lock to secure her bike to the rack on Feb. 18 at approximately 1:00 p.m. She passed by the rack approximately three hours later and her property was still in place. When she returned to retrieve her property on Feb. 28, both the bike and the lock were gone. No suspects or witnesses have been identified.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 4, 2011 by Anne Skomba Leave a Comment 
Traveling around the District may soon become more expensive, after Mayor Vincent Gray proposed the repeal of the $19 price ceiling on D.C. taxi rides last month.
Taxicab Commission Chairman Leon Swain announced plans to repeal the price cap at a Feb. 22 D.C. Council meeting, according to The Washington Post. The cancellation could take about 30 days to go into effect.
The new measure may prove problematic for Georgetown residents and visitors who use taxi service for extensive routes as a primary mode of transportation. The average cab ride from the front gates to Dupont Circle is $7.75 and $12.75 to Union Station, both in heavy traffic, according to the Post’s District Taxi Fare Estimator.
Some students choose to utilize taxi service because the nearest Metro stop to the university is across the Potomac River in Rosslyn, Va.
Though the Georgetown University Transportation Shuttles provides buses to the Rosslyn station as well as to other locations in D.C., some students prefer to hail a ride on the streets surrounding the university grounds.
“It is so much more convenient to catch a cab outside the front gates than to go all the way to Virginia to go out somewhere,” Arjun Amernath (SFS ’14) said.
Amernath said that the possibility of a taxi ride costing above $20 would influence the way he moves around the District.
“Instead of taking a cab, I would definitely find more things to do around here in Georgetown,” he said.
The repeal of the fare maximum would not only affect the travel plans of undergraduates living on campus, but also those of graduate students who commute to the Hilltop. Jeff Jager (GRD ’11) said cab service offers him definite advantages over other forms of transportation.
“The [public] bus takes too long, and you have to wait for it, and it’s never on schedule,” he said.  Metro rail transit is not useful for Jager because there is no station directly near his home in northwest D.C. or close to the Georgetown campus.
Jager added that while he is less worried about the repeal of the $19 cap, he would be concerned by alterations to the fare system as a whole.
The D.C. Council has already proposed the cap removal before. It would have gone into effect last October, but then-Mayor Adrian Fenty ordered that the cap remain, according to The Washington Post. Fenty also changed the fare charge system from the zone system to the more common meter system.
The D.C. Taxi Commission and the mayor’s office could not be reached for comment.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

