
March 25, 2012 by Annie Chen Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association senate voted unanimously to approve its budget for fiscal year 2013 and nominations for a new executive cabinet.
President Clara Gustafson (SFS ’13) and Vice President Vail Kohnert-Yount (SFS ’13) created three new positions in their cabinet — secretaries of social justice, campus ministry and academic affairs. They did not retain the positions of secretary of career services, secretary of information and technology, secretary of strategic development and director of executive outreach, making this year’s cabinet one seat smaller than the last.
Scott Stirrett (SFS ’13), co-founder and former chair of D.C. Students Speak, will serve as secretary of neighborhood relations.
“Our relationship with the neighborhood has been tense in the past, but it doesn’t mean it has to be that way in the future,” he said. “We look forward to reaching out on a one-on-one basis to establish personal relationships.”
According to Stirrett, members of the cabinet will meet with Center for Student Programs Director ErikaCohen-Derr about the possibility of registering incoming freshmen to vote in the District during the New Student Orientation.
Jon Askonas (SFS ’13), co-chair of the Walsh Exchange Steering Committee, a new intercollegiate international relations conference to be held at Georgetown, will serve as secretary of academic affairs. The position was created to assist the development of an undergraduate academic research symposium. According to Askonas, the goals of the position also include making professor evaluations more accessible to students and reviewing academic policies.
To achieve the latter goal, Askonas plans to establish a relationship between GUSA and the Inter-School Academic Council.
“Right now, the academic policies are fragmented by school. We want to work on making the policies accessible to students on [a] university-wide level,” he said.
Laura West (COL ’13), who will serve as secretary of mission and ministry, plans to work closely with the Interfaith Council and both religious and non-religious groups on campus.
“We will reach out to them to let them know GUSA will support them within our capacity and get a clearer direction of what our role should be,” she said.
West’s immediate goals include supporting religious retreats and continuing the university’s participation in President Obama’s Interfaith and Community Service Campus Challenge, which began in September.
The other appointments include Amanda Kimbers (MSB ’13) as secretary of athletic affairs, JamesSaucedo (MSB ’13) as secretary of diversity affairs, Sophie Guntram (COL ’13) as secretary of student safety, Erin Auel (COL ’14) as secretary of sustainability, Nanase Matsushita (SFS ’13) as secretary of treasury and Neesha Tambe (COL ’13) as secretary of social justice. John Morris (COL ’13) and Sam Schneider (COL ’13), a member of The Hoya’s board of directors, will serve as student advocates general.
The fiscal year 2013 budget, which also passed unanimously, was drafted by the Finance and Appropriations Committee in early March and allocates $960,000 to campus groups. The budget marks a $160,000 increase in available funds from fiscal year 2012 and will fulfill 64 percent of requests submitted by student organizations.
The senate also passed the Omnibus Electoral Accountability and Regulation Act, which clarifies campaigning rules. According to the bill, the GUSA Election Commission must now publish complaints recorded against candidates, and candidates are required to report the cost of creating their websites if they are developed by anyone other than a Georgetown undergraduate.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

