
February 4, 2012 by Sarah Kaplan Leave a Comment 
Emmanuel Kornyo, the chaplain-in-residence for the third floor of New South Hall, left campus after allegedly being involved in an incident of family disturbance Wednesday night.
According to a Metropolitan Police Department incident report, Kornyo and his wife, Rebecca, got into a verbal dispute at around 10:50 p.m. Wednesday.
An initial report from the Department of Public Safety classified the incident as domestic violence and said that one of the parties was transported to the Georgetown University Hospital for minor injuries.
However, MPD reported there was no physical evidence of an assault, and no charges were pressed against either party.
According to Director of Media Relations Rachel Pugh, Kornyo is no longer serving as chaplain-in-residence and will not be living on campus. Pugh stressed that the university is handling the situation.
“These matters are sensitive and appropriate steps are being taken,” she wrote in an email.
James Lorello, the hall director for New South, sent an email to residents of the third floor at about 3p.m. Thursday to inform them that the chaplain would be absent from the floor for the time being.
“The situation has been taken care of and everything is fine,” he wrote. “I apologize that I cannot give more details about this incident, but you can trust that everything has been dealt with.”
Lorello told The Hoya that the incident on Wednesday was not deemed to have endangered or negatively impacted students in any way, but in his email he residents to contact Assistant Director of Residence Life Katie Heather and Laura Kovach, director of the Women’s Center, if they still had concerns.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

