
January 20, 2012 by Hiromi Oka Leave a Comment 
The Special Collections Research Center at Lauinger Library is slated to undergo major renovations later this year, according to University Librarian Artemis Kirk.
The Research Center, located on the fifth floor, contains the university’s archives and art collection, rare books and manuscripts.
Kirk said that the plans are still in the layout and planning stages of the renovation.
“We are in the process of analyzing our needs for special collections, figuring out we have to do to renovate the space, and we do know already that a major portion of this will be improving the [heating, ventilation and air conditioning system],” she said.
Once the plans are completed, they will be submitted to the Senior Vice President Spilos Dimolitsas and then the Board of Directors for approval.
While Kirk indicated that the library has no definitive timeline for the renovations, she said that any work would likely begin during the summer.
“The heavy duty parts of whatever renovation plan is ultimately selected will have to be done at the least inconvenience to the most of our users, but we expect that the project will take a long time just because there’s so much to be done,” she said.
Due to the magnitude of the renovation project, some construction would likely take place during the school year. However, Kirk stressed that there would be a minimum amount of interference to the student body.
Despite the work necessary to improve the Special Collections, Kirk emphasized that revamping the Research Center would provide a boon to the university.
“It is going to be a tremendous boost to the university as a whole to have an improved facility, both for the incredibly valuable and unique materials that we hold there as well as the opportunity for more students to come and do original and primary source research,” she said.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

