
December 14, 2012 by Penny Hung Leave a Comment 
Robin Morey, superintendent of the Senate office buildings, will be the university’s new vice president for facilities and planning, Chief Operating Officer Chris Augostini announced Thursday.
Morey, whose wife is a university associate vice president, will begin his term Jan. 7. His appointment follows a 13-year long stint as a senior executive with the Architect of the Capitol, which is responsible for care and maintenance of the U.S. Capitol buildings and grounds.
He currently manages day-to-day operations in the 2.5-million square foot Senate complex, and he spearheaded the development of a master plan for the Senate complex.
“The experience that [Morey] brings to Georgetown in this role will be an asset for our community as we deepen out engagement with our neighbors and with the District of Columbia,” University President John DeGioia wrote in a press release. “We are committed to planning responsibly to strengthen not only our university, but also our impact within Washington, and we are pleased that Robin is joining our community at such an important time.”
Augostini agreed, stressing that Morey has strong leadership skills and is well suited to the job.
“Robin’s proven leadership, focused on customer service serving one of America’s most recognized public spaces, will be a great benefit to Georgetown as we work to improve our operational efficiencies on campus and engage in long-term planning,” Augostini wrote in the press release. “He brings a unique combination of experience and management that will strengthen our world-class institution both on campus and beyond our gates.”
Morey expressed excitement about joining the university management team.
“I’m excited to begin engaging the campus master planning team in supporting the strategic and sustainable development of Georgetown University to meet its future needs,” Morey wrote in the press release.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

