
November 21, 2012 by Penny Hung Leave a Comment 
Benjamin Buchanan (COL ’11, GRD ’13) and Shea Houlihan (SFS ’13) were named recipients of the 2012 Marshall Scholarship on Tuesday.
The U.K. Parliament created the scholarship in 1953 to commemerate the Marshall Plan, U.S. Secretary of State George Marshall’s post-World War II recovery plan for Europe.
Marshall Scholars receive either one or two fully funded years of study at any U.K. school in any field of study. Forty such scholarships are awarded each year. Georgetown has produced 21 Marshall scholars since the program’s inception.
Buchanan will pursue a doctorate degree either in war studies at King’s College London or in information, communication and the social sciences at the University of Oxford. Houlihan will be studying survival migration at the University of Sussex.
Both winners were excited about the opportunity to continue their studies.
“During the process, I knew that there was a chance of winning, but now that it’s happened, I can’t believe it,” Buchanan said.
Buchanan stressed the influence the university has had on his academic career.
“None of this would be possible without Georgetown — it’s been a home for five years now, and it’s given me some fantastic opportunities,” Buchanan said.
Houlihan agreed, relating his future areas of study to his time at Georgetown.
“Regardless of whether or not I work in refugee and forced migration issues over the long run, I will always place myself in stimulating environments — often difficult in unforeseen ways — that foster personal growth and new ideas,” he said. “Georgetown has been one such environment, and I intend that whichever U.K. university I attend next year is another.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

