
October 14, 2012 by Jake Green Leave a Comment 
Sen. Scott Brown (R-Mass.) emphasized the need for bipartisanship and cooperation in order to solve the country’s pressing issues while addressing a crowd of over 200 students Thursday evening.
“What I’ve been trying to do is bring everybody together, Democrats and Republicans, to find those people of good will who care very deeply about putting our country first,” he said.
Brown focused his talk, sponsored by the Georgetown College Republicans, on the importance of compromise and bipartisanship. He spoke about the financial crises and other vital challenges.
“There is no Democrat bill that will pass right now and there is no Republican bill that will pass right now,” he said. “There needs to be a bipartisan, bicameral bill for the President to sign because we are in a financial emergency right now.”
Students in attendance said they were impressed with Brown’s non-partisan rhetoric and insistence that progress depends on people of all political backgrounds finding common ground.
“It is good to see that there are good Republicans willing to work with the Democrats to better the country,” Matt Carlucci (COL ’14) said.
Jaclyn Proctor (MSB ’14) said she agreed.
“With government so divided, it shows that we can have bipartisan, effective politicians,” she said.
Governing in a moderate manner is particularly crucial for a Republican in Massachusetts. Until Brown’s election in 2010, the state hadn’t elected a Republican to the senate since 1972.
“I will continue to find opportunities to work with the administration,” Brown said. “I will also find opportunities to buck the party because I don’t work for Harry Reid and Mitch McConnell. I work for you and your families.”
For Brown, it all boiled down to working together.
“I want to work in a bipartisan manner right now to solve these very real problems,” Brown said. “If we don’t do that, I am very nervous about what the future will bring.”
Special to The Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

