
October 30, 2012 by Ted Murphy Leave a Comment 
One year after its public launch, Georgetown’s capital campaign has secured $935 million and is on track to reach its $1.5 billion fundraising goal ahead of schedule.
The campaign, titled “The Campaign for Georgetown: For Generations to Come,” began collection donations in 2006 and entered its public phase Oct. 28, 2011.
According to this year’s Advancement and Campaign Performance Report, released issued after the first quarter the campaign built off momentum from the public launch and received $179.6 million in new commitments for fiscal year 2012, which runs from July 1, 2011 to June 30, 2012. Last year’s total was the campaign’s second-most successful year, putting the fundraising effort $42 million ahead of the initial goal of $137 million for fiscal year 2012.
According to Vice President for Advancement R. Bartley Moore (SFS ’87), this year’s success can be attributed to the fact that it coincided with the public launch of the campaign.
“Campaigns … will typically have a boost because people feel motivated to give,” he said.
Despite last year’s strong performance, fundraising has slowed this fiscal year. First-quarter numbers were lower than expected — the $15.7 million raised between July and September was 7 percent below the campaign’s five-year average.
Moore was not deterred by this news.
“If a campaign is going to have a below-goal year, it is very often the first year after the public launch,” he said. “You’ll sometimes have a bit of a hangover effect the following year.”
More also added that he does not believe that the first quarter’s performance necessarily indicates that all of fiscal year 2013 will see lower than expected numbers.
“History suggests that we can’t really project much for the year as a whole based on the results of the first quarter,” Moore said. “We prefer to be at or above goal, but the beginning of the year is really just a warm-up.”
The office of advancement hopes to raise $151 million in fiscal year 2013. Although this amount is lower than last year’s total contributions, it represents a 10 percent increase from last year’s goal.
To raise funds, the campaign has been holding national and international fundraising events.
Last week, the campaign sponsored regional events in San Francisco and Los Angeles. These cities represent the largest concentration of Georgetown alumni, according to Moore.
Additionally, the campaign held its second annual Latin America Alumni Leadership Summit in Bogota, Colombia, from Oct. 18 to Oct. 20. In April, another regional campaign celebration will be held in London.
According to Moore, the campaign aims to expand its donor base this fiscal year.Fiscal year 2012 marked the first time in the campaign’s history that over 30 percent of alumni donated to the university, and Moore said he hopes to surpass a 40 percent contribution ratio by 2020.
According to Moore, the campaign is also likely to cross the $1 billion threshold this fiscal year.
He indicated that it is possible that the campaign, scheduled to run for 10 years, will pass its overall $1.5 billion fundraising goal well before it ends in 2016.
“If current momentum continues, then we’ll face a choice between potentially raising the goal or concluding the campaign early,” Moore said.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 30, 2012 by Sarah Kaplan Leave a Comment 
Having escaped the brunt of Hurricane Sandy, the university and the District began to evaluate damage and resume regular operations Tuesday morning.
The Category 1 storm hit the D.C. area in full force Monday afternoon, bringing . Further north, the storm caused fires, heavy flooding and at least 16 deaths, according to The Washington Post. New York and New Jersey were hit particularly hard.
But the heaviest rain and wind had left the D.C. region by Tuesday morning, and the university lifted its shelter in place advisory around 8 a.m. The broadcast email announcing the official “all clear” warned students to be aware of debris and standing water on campus and urged them to only go outside if necessary. Georgetown will resume regular operating status Wednesday, Oct. 31.
In the meantime, university buildings including O’Donovan Dining Hall, Lauinger Library, Intercultural Center, the Leavey Center, Yates Field House and Regents Hall are beginning to reopen. LeaveyCenter eateries, including Starbucks, Subway and Students of Georgetown, Inc. locations, were also slated to open by 10 a.m.
Around D.C., a few services are also beginning to resume normal operation. WMATA announced that it will restore limited bus and rail service around 2 p.m. Tuesday and expects to return to full service Wednesday morning.
Still, damage from the hurricane lingers. The university is dealing with dozens of maintenance requests caused by flooding from the storm. Across the District, more than 1,700 households are still without power, according to the website of D.C. electronic service provider Pepco. Outages are heavily concentrated in the northwestern extreme of the city. A Tuesday press release from Pepco said that it expects to restore power to most of its customers by 8 a.m. Wednesday.
The heavy rains have also swollen the water level in the Potomac. According to The Post, a flood warning is in effect for the section of the river that flows past D.C. and water levels could rise two to four feet above normal tide. A flood warning has also been issued for Rock Creek.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

