
November 3, 2012 by Brendan Quinn Leave a Comment 
Guest list? Check. Food? Check. Libations? Definitely a check. Flashlights/Water/First Aid Kit/Battery-Operated Radio? Umm … check? As soon as classes were cancelled Sunday night, I heard a collective thud as the entire campus dropped whatever it was doing and immediately began to stock up for two days of partying. Emphasized by those eerie “food availability” emails, Leo’s became a frenzied “Hunger Games” arena, while Vittles seemed like a Soviet rationing house. I can only imagine the amount of money Dixie Liquor raked in. College students look for anything that will allow them to procrastinate on their homework and spend time with their friends, so it follows that the range of social events spans to include natural disasters. Chock it up to the youthful optimism and devil-may-care attitudes of 18 to 22 year olds. We were lucky that we didn’t lose power, water or anything serious like that — the storm could have been much worse, as evidenced by New Jersey, New York City and my hometown on Long Island. With my experience of the storm, I just had to periodically wipe up some oddly leaking window sills, although I blame Henle more than Sandy for that.
I must confess, however, that I did hold a hurricane get-together, appropriately named a “hurrikiki.” For those not familiar with the term, a kiki is “a party including good music and good friends, held for the express purpose of calming nerves, reducing anxiety and stress and generally fighting ennui. May involve locked doors, tea and salacious gossip.” (Many thanks to Urban Dictionary.) Preferring kikis to raging parties where the walls sweat, Sunday and Monday nights seemed like the perfect nights to take a break from the relentless march of midterms and relax with a hurrikiki. And a hurrikiki was just what the doctor ordered: good friends, acoustic guitar jam sessions, Catchphrase, a viewing of The Hunger Games, all complemented by an endless supply of food prepared by my son-of-a-French-chef roommate. Not to be outdone, I did make chocolate chip cookies with a smile, and we polished off the remains of my “Georgie Porgie Puddin’ Pie” (my last recipe) that I had made on Saturday.
This happens to be one of my favorite recipes that I generally make for Christmas, but given the proximity to Halloween and my more general passion for cookies, I couldn’t resist sharing it this week. Next time a storm rolls through, throw a good kiki and serve these treats; it will make the wind and rain all the more bearable.
Sandy’s Candy Cookies
Premade sugar cookie dough (the kind that comes in a roll/tube)
Either Reese’s Peanut Butter Cups or Hershey’s Kisses
A mini muffin tray, ideally]
1. Roll out the dough to the point where you can then cut it and roll it into tiny balls. One dough ball should fill approximately half of one of the mini muffin indents in the tray. Make sure your tray is greased.
2. Bake the dough as directed and then let cool in the tray for one to two minutes.
3. While the cookies are still moderately warm, push your candy of choice into it.
4. The candy will melt a bit, but don’t worry. Let the candy cookies cool for about fifteen to twenty minutes before attempting to remove the cookies from the tray.
Brendan Quinn is a junior in the College. LIFE BEYOND LEO’S appears every other Friday in the guide.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

