
October 25, 2012 by Arik Parnass Leave a Comment 
Although the Georgetown women’s soccer team (14-2-2, 8-1-1 Big East) may have been hoping for a second kick at the can against rival Villanova, it will instead take on DePaul (9-9-2, 5-6-1 Big East) in the Big East tournament’s quarterfinals Sunday at North Kehoe Field.
That’s because the Blue Demons decisively defeated the Wildcats — who had beaten the Hoyas, 1-0, in Georgetown’s regular-season finale last weekend — in a 3-0 victory in the play-in game yesterday.
While recent history favored a tilt against Villanova, Georgetown actually found more success against DePaul this season. Two weeks ago, the Hoyasdefeated the Blue Demons, 1-0, on sophomore forward Vanessa Skrumbis overtime goal.
Georgetown Head Coach Dave Nolan expects the rematch with DePaul to be just as closely contested.
“DePaul is a very difficult team to play against because they’re set up very well defensively,” Nolan said. “If you look at their last five or six games, they tied Villanova, 0-0, they lost to Notre Dame, 1-0, in overtime [and] they lost to us, 1-0, in overtime. They’re a very strong defensive team.”
The win over Villanova on Thursday also showcased their offensive intensity, with the three goals serving as the Blue Demons’ second-highest output of the season after a 4-0 win against Pittsburgh.
The Blue Demons hadn’t scored in three consecutive games — at Villanova, at Georgetown and against Notre Dame — and only broke through in the 68th minute Thursday courtesy of freshman forward Elise Wyatt, who also scored in the 77th minute for her fourth and fifth goals of the year.
While the Blue Demons seem to have finally broken their scoring drought, the Hoyas are having trouble finding the back of the net themselves, with Skrumbis’ goal being the team’s only marker in the past two games.
“I think that teams have started to figure us out a little bit, how to defend us. I think what’s happening is [sophomore midfielder] Daphne [Corboz] is starting to get far more attention — she’s starting to get man-marked a little bit — which is challenging for her,” Nolan said. “Teams have started to figure out that if they clog the middle of the field and force us to play out wide, it takes us away from what we do really well.”
One encouraging sign for the Blue and Gray is that its defense this season has been top notch, so even one goal may be enough against the Blue Demons.
“Against DePaul [last game], we struggled to break them down, but they never looked like they were going to score.” Nolan said.
The Hoyas’ defense, led by redshirt freshman goalkeeper Emma Newins, set a school record with 12 clean sheets this season. One key to the team’s success, according to Nolan, is knowing that Newins can provide an important stop.
“I’d always rather win a game 1-0 than 5-1,” Nolan said. “Emma has been a big part of that because there have been games that we’ve won, 1-0, that would look like she wasn’t involved, but she’s had to step up and make big saves at crucial moments in the game.
Newins has been remarkably consistent in net this season regardless of her team’s offensive performance. She made crucial late saves in victories against Rutgers and Notre Dame — games in which Georgetown outshot their opposition a combined 26-10 — to preserve leads as well as in draws against Santa Clara and Louisville — games in which the Blue and Gray was heavily outshot, 40-20, to avoid defeat.
“That’s the sign of a good goalkeeper: When you’re not being tested, [you] can you keep your focus and concentration and still make a big save at the right time.” Nolan said.
Newins will have to be at her best to contain the Blue Demons.
Georgetown takes on DePaul at North Kehoe Field on Sunday at 1 p.m. for a place in the Big East tournament semifinals.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 25, 2012 by Ryan Bacic Leave a Comment 
On a day marked by upsets around the league, the No. 6 Georgetown men’s soccer team (14-2-1, 5-2-0 Big East) got the job done in somewhat less attention-grabbing fashion against Seton Hall (6-10-0, 2-5-0 Big East), winning, 2-0, on Wednesday in South Orange, N.J.
Because No. 8 Notre Dame defeated No. 5 Marquette and No. 3 Connecticut lost on the road to Big East bottom-feeder Providence, there is now a tricky four-way impasse atop the Big East Blue Division. Georgetown, Connecticut, Notre Dame and Marquette are tied heading into the final day of the regular season.
In order to grab one of the three Big East Tournament byes under this year’s new format, Georgetown will need to muster a repeat performance in their rematch with Seton Hall at North Kehoe Field on Saturday.
Wednesday’s win was an essential one to stay in the division race, and thanks to second-half goals from senior midfielder Ian Christianson and freshman striker Brandon Allen, the Blue and Gray were able to take care of business.
As Head Coach Brian Wiese noted, though, the result did not come easily.
“It was a very competitive game,” Wiese said. “Seton Hall is a very talented team — it kept [the ball] and moved it against us, I think, as well as anyone we’ve played. We had a hard time kind of finding our rhythm.”
One reason Wiese felt his team had such a tough time finding that rhythm was the long layover between games; in a deviation from the usual two-game-a-week schedule, Georgetown had not had a fixture in seven days heading into its matchup with Seton Hall.
Add to that overly long rest that it was a weekday game on the road, and it might come as no surprise that the Hoyas struggled to gain a foothold in the opening 45 minutes of play. Outshot 6-3, and with a 3-2 disadvantage in corner kicks, the Blue and Gray went into the locker room looking for some kind of an offensive catalyst.
As things turned out, it would come from the exact opposite end of the pitch.
“Right after halftime, they had a good, left-footed, curling shot that was going into the upper corner, and [sophomore goalkeeper] Tomas [Gomez] made just a great save on it,” Wiese said. “That’s one of those things that, for our guys, was a little bit of a wake-up call and a little bit of a spark.”
Seeing Gomez come up with that save reinvigorated the Blue and Gray, who began to dictate the tempo in the game from that point on.
Twenty minutes into the second half, that uptick paid off. A cross from freshman forward Melvin Snoh on the left flank found Christianson, who hammered it home to break the deadlock and put his side finally on the board.
Wiese believes that Christianson’s tally, in terms of turning the tide in the contest, continued where Gomez’s stellar stop left off.
“When Ian scored his goal, it changed the game, too,” he said. “I think it really took the air out of Seton Hall. The game felt pretty comfortable [for us] from that moment on.”
Despite the two teams’ respective confidence levels at that point, however, the win remained still very much in the balance. Insurance for the Hoyas only came late in the game, when a Jimmy Nealis-Steve Neumann-Allen combination in the 89th minute ended up in the back of the net to ice the victory.
Following the final whistle, both sides had to immediately turn their attention to Saturday’s return game on the Hilltop, as Seton Hall will be fighting to secure a tournament berth while Georgetown looks to pick up its bye.
Because of the four-way tie in the Blue Division, a number of scenarios in terms of finishing order are still on the table. Another win against the Pirates will be enough to guarantee at least a top-three seed for the Blue and Gray; the other scenarios — dependent on the other games’ results — are out of their hands.
If Saturday’s action doesn’t clear things up in the title race, a tiebreaker involving Marquette — the only one of the three teams whom Georgetown defeated — would be ideal.
To get to that point, however, the Hoyas will need to surmount the tough challenge of beating a good team in back-to-back games.
“There’s not much in it — there really isn’t,” Wiese said. “We just have to be sharper [and] we have to do a little better in terms of what we were trying to do going into that game.
“We’ll make a couple of adjustments, but for the most part, you know your lineup, and you’ve got to compete. You’ve got to want it more. And then when the game opens up in the second half, can you take advantage of it?”
Since Saturday is Senior Day, the contest — slated to start at 1 p.m. at North Kehoe Field — will hold extra meaning for Wiese’s team, and the coach expressed a desire to see his team’s highly touted leaders go out on top.
“Hopefully, we can send them on their way with a Big East trophy in their hands. That would be great.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

