
March 26, 2012 by Sarah Patrick Leave a Comment 
While the university must increase the number of alumni participating in its current capital campaign to achieve long-term goals, the campaign is expected to meet this fiscal year’s benchmark, Vice President for Advancement Bartley Moore said.
As of Feb. 29, the campaign had raised $102 of the $138 million it aimed to pull in by the end of the university’s fiscal year on June 30.
“History would suggest if the remaining four months of the year perform at an average level, then we will meet our goal for this fiscal year,” Moore said.
The ultimate goal of For Generations to Come: The Campaign for Georgetown, which publicly launched in October, is to raise $1.5 billion in the next 10 years.
One of the campaign’s main initiatives is the 1789 Scholarship Imperative, which provides undergraduate financial aid and scholarships.
“Our goal by the last year of the campaign is to be annually funding 1,789 $25,000 scholarships for undergraduates funded completely through philanthropy,” Moore said.
Last year, 800 scholarships were funded by the initiative, and the university has raised enough to fund about 150 more this year.
The campaign intends to increase the number of endowed professorships and chairs and support the faculty’s teaching and research initiatives as well.
Campaign funds will also support the construction of the new Athletic Training Facility to be built adjacent to McDonough Arena. The 125,000-square-foot space will house practice courts and locker rooms for most varsity sports programs in addition to sports medicine facilities.
The estimated cost of construction stands at $55 million, a sum that Georgetown intends to fund entirely through fundraising and philanthropy, according to Moore.
To achieve these goals, the university must significantly increase the total level of participation in giving to the university. Roughly 27 percent of undergraduate alumni donate to the school, putting Georgetown 28th nationally in total undergraduate giving, according to Moore. If the university could sustain a participation level of 35 percent, it would be ranked 12th.
“That’s where we believe a university of Georgetown’s caliber, and whose alumni are so passionate, should be,” Moore said.
The Office of Advancement works to incorporate current students in its fundraising efforts, a goal furthered by the 1634 Society, a club dedicated to informing undergraduates about the importance of giving back to the university.
“The 1634 Society works to forge the next generation of alumni leaders,” Scott Chessare (SFS ’10), staff adviser to the organization, said.
The university attempts to keep alumni, the focal point of fundraising efforts, aware of major initiatives, achievements and goals for the future. It also publishes a monthly e-newsletter specifically dedicated to development, which is distributed to all current donors.
According to Moore, the most important strategy for maintaining strong alumni relationships is the Office of Advancement’s schedule of events around the globe. University President John J. DeGioiaoften travels on behalf of the university to meet with prospective donors.
“He is a very significant incentive for people who are invited to his events to come, because he’s enormously liked and respected by our alumni,” Moore said. “Apart from Jack the Bulldog, PresidentDeGioia is probably our biggest celebrity.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 26, 2012 by Hiromi Oka Leave a Comment 
The university is considering purchasing space in a 2.2-million-square-foot building that will be constructed adjacent to the Georgetown Law Center in downtown D.C.
Property Group Partners, a D.C.-based development agency, unveiled plans for the building, to be called Capitol Crossing, at a press conference Monday night. The 7-acre development will be located alongside I-395 near Capitol Hill and include retail, living and office space.
Robert Braunohler, regional vice president of PGP, said that the likelihood of Georgetown purchasing property in the development is high.
“I think there’s a good chance … [but] we haven’t reached the point of negotiations,” he said.
According to university spokeswoman Stacy Kerr, the site is one of many Georgetown is considering purchasing. Kerr would not confirm what the space would be used for if the university decides to buy part of the building.
PGP President Jeffrey Sussman said that purchasing space in the building would be a logical step for the university toward expanding classroom space at the Law Center.
According to a PGP press release, the development will be the first US Green Building Council LEED Platinum-certified development of its kind in the United States.
Current plans have the Law Center and the development integrated into a six-block area that would operate independently from the D.C. power grid, instead using renewable energy sources.
“We’re in discussions with the Law Center folks to have connections with the water system and the cogeneration plant,” Braunohler said.
Braunohler added that the project has been well-received by the city and the university.
“Georgetown has been very supportive,” he said.
Sussman said that the agency expects to complete architectural and engineering drawings in the next 12 months and is set to begin construction on the building around June 2013.
Arthur Santry, senior managing director of leasing agency Cassidy Turley, estimated that the project will be completed in the next three years.
Regardless of whether Georgetown buys into the property, Sussman said he looks forward to having the Law Center as a neighbor.
“We thought the Georgetown Law Center was an attractive neighbor because … it’s a 24-hour community,” he said.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

