
June 4, 2012 by Sarah Kaplan Leave a Comment 
Rocco DelMonaco, vice president for university safety and chief of the Department of Public Safety, informed the university that he will be stepping down from his position at Georgetown on June 30.
According to an email from Vice President for Public Affairs Erik Smulson, current Associate Director of DPS Joseph Smith will take on the role of interim chief, effective immediately. During the transition period, DPS will report directly to Smulson, while the Office of Safety & Environmental Management and the Office of Emergency Management & Operational Continuity will be under the purview of the Office of Risk Management.
The university was already in the process of seeking out a new DPS chief when DelMonaco announced his departure. The position had been consolidated with the role of Vice President for University Safety after former DPS Chief Jeffrey Van Slyke left in June 2010. According to spokeswoman Stacy Kerr, it has not been determined whether the new chief would continue to fill the dual roles vacated by DelMonaco or if the university will decide to seek out a new vice president for university safety after the DPS chief is hired.
“We are proceeding with hiring for the DPS chief position and will make decisions about the structure once that person is in place,” Kerr wrote in an email.
Smulson added that the university will honor DelMonaco’s contributions to the Georgetown community later in June. The details of this celebration have not yet been announced.
CORRECTION: A previous version of this article stated that Georgetown was seeking to fill two new positions — those of chief of DPS and vice president for university safety. The university is currently only seeking candidates for the DPS chief position.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

