
April 21, 2012 by Meghan Patzer Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Astronomical Society, housed in the Heyden Observatory, is the living legacy of the Jesuits’ mission to advance astronomy at Georgetown.
“The Astronomical Society connects the past of the school with our present because now we are in charge of preserving this building and this legacy every time we have a meeting,” club officer Nicholas Childress (COL ’14) said. “Our work to repair the observatory gives me a real sense of ownership with the school and its legacy as well as something to be passionate about that is unique to Georgetown.”
Physics faculty member Fr. James Curley, S.J., founded the observatory, a national historic landmark, in 1841, while Fr. John Hagen, S.J. was responsible for the installation of an equatorial telescope in 1888.
Because the telescope has been rendered obsolete by a crack in the dome of the scope, the Astronomical Society employs newer equipment to stargaze during weekly meetings.
“Our … meetings in the observatory include looking up and discussing astronomy news and relevant topics, along with breaking out the telescope to look at the moon and Mars if the weather is good,” Club President Matthew Oswald (COL ’14) said.
Though last year the group was largely inactive, Oswald, Childress and the club’s third officer Alexander Graham (COL ’14) have revitalized the society by creating a new programming schedule.
“At the beginning of the year, my friends and I were interested in joining, but the club was defunct. The leaders had all graduated, so we got into contact with a member, and decided to reregister and reinvigorate the club,” Oswald said.
This year’s activities have included a speaker from SpaceX, the company that recently announced the success of a new line of private rockets that could make space travel commonplace, and trips off campus.
“We also had a camping trip this semester to escape the light pollution of the city. I’m planning more programming next year too, possibly including a trip to the Naval Observatory,” Oswald said.
Since the astronomy department closed in 1972, resources directed at astronomy have waned. However, the new leadership is looking to repair some of the Observatory’s damaged equipment as part of its plan to breathe new life into the organization.
“Repair of the equipment, particularly the telescope, would be very expensive, so we are exploring fundraising outlets. Because of the high costs, though, it is a slow project,” Oswald said.
The leaders also hope to improve the organization’s visibility on campus.
“The society is currently working on ways to promote interest and involvement on campus. Sometimes it’s as easy as setting up a table and asking students, ‘Hey, have you ever wanted to go into the observatory?’” Graham said. “Once we can foster that kind of interest, it’s usually pretty easy to keep those first-time visitors coming back.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 21, 2012 by Annie Chen Leave a Comment 
Georgetown’s Bias Related Incident Reporting System, intended to document and address issues of prejudice on campus, has not updated its online record of bias incident statistics since August 2010.
The maintenance of the website is the responsibility of the university’s bias reporting team, which includes representatives from the Office of Student Affairs, the Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity and Affirmative Action and the Department of Public Safety.
The system allows members of the university community to file online incident reports and then receive information about their rights and available resources.
According to Dennis Williams, chair of the bias reporting team and director of the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access, the team continues to receive reports and provide consultations to students but has not updated its public records.
“It is inexcusable that we don’t have it updated,” Williams said. “We are working to update the numbers for the 2011 and 2012 academic year during the summer.”
The group was formed based on recommendations by the Hate and Bias Reporting Working Group, which was created by University President John J. DeGioia in the spring of 2004 to address intolerance on campus. According to Sivagami Subbaraman, director of the LGBTQ Resource Center, the bias reporting team no longer has the personnel required to keep the system functioning as it was designed.
“All of us are doing this on top of everything else we do,” she said. “We don’t have a person dedicated to keep [the system on] track. It was maintained for a long time, and then that person left the job. It’s a matter of finding somebody to do it.”
A total of 133 reports were filed between the system’s inception in fall 2004 and spring 2010, the last semester for which records are available. The university saw an average of 11.75 incidents per semester, recording a minimum of five in fall 2008 and maximum of 25 in spring 2009.
Williams was unable to pin down a concrete average for the number of recorded incidents for 2011 and 2012, but said it fell between 10 and 24. Almost all of the reports were cases of verbal, physical or online harassment. Other types of incidents include destruction of property, vandalism and sexual assault. According to Williams, the majority of those who filed bias reports have been targeted because of their sexual orientation.
Williams and student leaders added that these statistics do not accurately reflect the number of bias-related incidents that occur on campus, which may be much higher.
“We live in a society and culture that shames victims and leads people not to want to report when things like that happen,” Georgetown University Student Association Secretary of Diversity Affairs James Saucedo (MSB ’13) said.
Saucedo emphasized that it is important for statistics on bias-related incidents to be publicly available.
“We need to know at what numbers and what frequency [bias-related incidents] are happening, just like we need to know how often people are getting robbed or having laptops stolen,” he said.
According to former former treasurer of GU Pride and GUSA Senator Laura Kresse (SFS ’12), many students are likely to ignore bias-related incidents.
“I think people have a misconception of what a bias incident is. Sometimes it’s clear and cut, while a lot of other incidents are more subtle, such as slurs when you walk by,” Kresse said.
Subbaraman echoed Kresse’s sentiments.
“Students might think, well, I get called this name 10 times a week, am I going to report it 10 times?” she said. “It’s because that’s what we’re trained to do, to not make a big deal of it, to not overreact, to ignore it.”
However, Subbaraman also emphasized that the reported numbers are key to improving campus equity and safety.
“If I cannot document to higher-ups that these micro-aggressions are happening on a day to day basis, I can’t ask for more sources, personnel or more training,” Subbaraman said. “There is power in the numbers, and sometimes students don’t understand that.”
According to GUSA Vice President Vail Kohnert-Yount (SFS ’13), GUSA’s Student Advocacy Office hopes to publicize the system by compiling and distributing a victims’ rights pamphlet.
Saucedo added that further publicity efforts could include posting the incident reporting forms on more university websites and sending out incident summaries to all students.
Williams agreed that reporting should be more greatly encouraged among the student body.
“When you file a report, it’s not snitching, it’s not whining, it’s not trying to get somebody else in trouble,” Williams said. “You’re performing a community service. You’re doing this to prevent it from happening again to the next person.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

