
May 18, 2013 by Penny Hung Leave a Comment 
This year’s commencement speakers will include women’s rights activist Lisa Shannon, Lithuanian President Dalia Grybauskaite (GRD ’92), U.S. Senator William Cowan (D-Mass.) and AcademyHealthPresident and CEO Lisa Simpson, the university announced Thursday.
Shannon is slated to speak at the Georgetown College Commencement Ceremony. In 2006, Shannon founded the Run for Congo Women campaign, which raises funds for women in the Democratic Republic of Congo. By 2010, Run for Congo Women had raised over $12 million and sponsored over 1,400 Congolese women. In 2010, Shannon then founded A Thousand Sisters, which works to inspire everyday people to work against violence in the Democratic Republic of Congo and other war-affected areas. Most recently, she founded Sister Somalia in July 2011, the first rape hotline and support program in Mogadishu, Somalia.
Grybauskaite, who took office in July 2009, will speak at the graduation exercises for the School of Foreign Service. After winning her election by 68 percent of the vote, Grybauskaite became Lithuania’s first female president, and has gained international acclaim for her focus on domestic issues in the country such as poverty and Lithuania’s financial problems.
Cowan will address seniors graduating from the McDonough School of Business. Cowan was appointed by Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick to fill U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry’s vacant senate seat in January 2013, marking the first time the U.S. Senate had more than one African-American member at a time.
The School of Nursing & Health Studies Commencement Ceremony will feature Simpson. ThroughAcademyHealth, a nonprofit dedicated to advancing health services research and policy, Simpson has improved the field of health services by increasing visibility.
On the graduate level, Harvard University economics professor Eric Maskin will speak at the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences ceremony, and Brazilian Ambassador to the U.S. Mauro L. I. Vieira will speak at the MBA program ceremony. Humanitarian Services for the American Red Cross President Gerald DeFrancisco will speak at the School of Continuing Studies ceremony, while National Institute of Health & Clinical Excellence in London Chair Michael Rawlins will speak at the commencement exercises of the School of Medicine.
In addition, U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan will speak at the Georgetown Public Policy Institute Awards Ceremony, and CBS Evening News Producer Erin Lyall (GRD ’02) will address graduates of the Master of Science in Foreign Service program.
Lt. Gen. David Huntoon Jr. will speak at the Army Reserve Officers’ Training Corps Commissioning Ceremony, while Fox News commentator Greta Van Susteren (LAW ’79, LAW ’82) will speak at the commencement exercises of the Georgetown Law Center.
Maskin, Vieria, Shannon, Simpson, Grybauskaite and Cowan will also receive honorary degrees in their respective fields.
Additionally, William Thomas, former MedStar Health executive vice president for medical affairs and chief medical officer, will receive an honorary Doctor of Science, and Washington Post reporter WalterPincus (LAW ’01) will receive an honorary Doctor of Laws. Thomas and Pincus, however, will not speak during the commencement ceremonies.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 18, 2013 by Eitan Sayag Leave a Comment 
Lithuanian President Dalia Grybauskaite (GRD ’92) encouraged graduating seniors to embrace challenges at the School of Foreign Service commencement ceremony Saturday afternoon.
Grybauskaite, who was an economics fellow at the SFSfrom 1990 to 1992, was elected as head of state in 2009. Before being elected Lithuania’s first female president, she served in the Lithuanian Department of Foreign Affairs as Lithuania’s finance minister and as European Union budget commissioner.
The SFS ceremony proceeded in a different order than originally scheduled in the program, with the conferring of the degrees preceding the commencement address.
Government and SFS professor Angela Stent read the honorary degree citation for Grybauskaite. University President John J. DeGioia conferred upon the head of state the degree of Doctor of Humane Letters, honoris causa.
“The president’s achievements were the result of determination, hard work, intellect and perseverance,” Stent said. “This makes her both beacon and icon not only for the women and men who graduating today but for aspiring young people around the world.”
Grybauskaite began by addressing the graduating SFS students as colleagues and discussed how her time at Georgetown influenced her.
“For you, dear colleagues, because you are my colleagues, after 20 years it will also be a possibility to become a president somewhere, sometime,” she said. “I understand how important today is for you. For me that was 21 years ago that I was here.”
Grybauskaite left Lithuania to study at Georgetown shortly after her country achieved independence from the Soviet Union.
“While studying here I experienced real freedom,” she said. “After the program I came back home with newly issued documents and with a better vision for my country in my heart.”
After she returned home from studying at Georgetown, Lithuania was experiencing massive change.
“Avoid anything that is easy. Embrace the difficult,” Grybauskaite said. “My generation was destined to be born under occupation but blessed with an opportunity to live in the times of change. We did not simply witness change, we lived the change. We were the change, and we still are.”
Grybauskaite said that as seniors leave Georgetown to begin their careers, they will experience difficulties.
“Do not shy away from challenges, never, that will come your way in your life. They are the wave you have to ride in order not to stay behind,” she said. “Yes, it requires courage and strength but also brings satisfaction and joyful moments that you can do it. And it brings you and your country a lot of steps forward.”
To conclude her eight-minute speech, the Lithuanian president encouraged seniors to take risks.
“You need to have courage and responsibility to make a difference, no matter how hard,”Grybauskaite said. “You can correct mistakes. What you cannot correct is missed opportunities.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

