
February 12, 2013 by Christopher Zawora Leave a Comment 
In honor of Malala Yousefzai, the Pakistani schoolgirl who was shot by the Taliban for her advocacy for girls’ education, the Georgetown University South Asian Society sponsored a fundraising gala Saturday night.
The event gained particular relevance after Yousefzai was nominated for a 2013 Nobel Peace Prize for her advocacy and bravery Friday.
Pakistan’s ambassador to the United States Sherry Rehman, deputy director of the State Department’s Office of Arabian Peninsula Affairs Linda Specht and Adnan Ahmed and Hasnain Aslamfrom The Citizens Foundation spoke during the event.
The event also featured performances by GU Jawani and Sania Salman (SFS ’14) and Dzarif Wan (MSB ’15), who performed Alicia Keys’ song “Superwoman.”
Rehman recognized Yousefzai’s commitment to her cause.
“Indeed these are high stakes, and I think there has to be a clear recognition of the kind of blood and guts that people like Malala and her parents put into the battle for daily survival,” Rehman said. “There are many other Malalas out there.”
However, Rehman also acknowledged that Pakistan has not done enough to improve its education system.
According to Rehman, the Pakistani government is making strides in its efforts to promote both women’s rights and education. The Pakistani Embassy, for example, supports Generation Next, a program that creates a platform for networking between Pakistani and Pakistani American students.
Coupled with the work of organizations like The Citizens Foundation, which employs approximately 6,000 female teachers and hopes to operate 1,100 schools throughout Pakistan by 2018, these international initiatives have a significant effect, according to Rehman.
Specht connected Yousefzai’s experience and education in Pakistan to U.S. foreign policy.
“Through our collective work we have supported girls’ education in Pakistan, but there is a lot left to do and millions left to reach,” Specht said.
She also noted that when girls go to school they do not marry as quickly and have fewer children, which helps to reduce poverty in the long run.
“A country’s prosperity is fundamentally linked to the education of girls and women,” Specht said.
The speakers’ remarks were generally well-received by the students and alumni in attendance.
“Hearing the ambassador speak was really enlightening. It’s interesting to hear the government’s perspective,” Mackenzie Trumbull (COL ’16) said.
Funds from the event will be donated to The Citizens Foundation, a nonprofit focused on building schools in Pakistan.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 12, 2013 by Annie Chen Leave a Comment 
The five vice presidential candidates for the GUSA executive advocated their tickets’ respective platforms yesterday in a debate largely centered on funding reform and the student association’s relationship with the student body.
Approximately 40 students attended the debate at White Gravenor Hall, which featured one hour of sparring in advance of the presidential debate Feb. 18.
While the other candidates emphasized their experience both inside and outside the Georgetown University Student Association, Rob Silverstein (SFS ’14), who is running alongside Spencer Walsh (MSB ’14), stressed that the pair is no less qualified despite its lack of prior involvement in the student government.
“Spencer and I don’t feel [that] having GUSA background makes you qualified to better understand students’ needs on campus,” Silverstein said.
When asked to evaluate the term of current GUSA President Clara Gustafson (SFS ’13) and Vice President Vail Kohnert-Yount (SFS ’13), candidates largely agreed that the executives’ main achievement was successfully raising the evidentiary standard from “more likely than not” to “clear and convincing.”
“When GUSA does one great thing each year … most freshmen don’t know what GUSA does,” said vice presidential candidate Joe Vandegriff (COL’14), who is running with GUSA Senator ShavonniaCorbin Johnson (SFS ’14). “So we have to constantly build on that and strive for so much more than just a referendum a year.”
Maggie Cleary (COL’14), who is running with former Student Activities Commission Chair and current member of the GUSA executive cabinet Jack Appelbaum (COL ’14), praised the current leaders’ efforts to broaden GUSA’s engagement with student groups, but pointed out that the pair fell short of its goals to expand club autonomy over funding and event planning.
Andrew Logerfo (COL ’14), who is running with two-year GUSA senator Cannon Warren (SFS ’14) was asked to address how his ticket should be taken seriously as its main platform is a plan to hold a rat-hunting competition.
“It’s not a joke. It’s a serious problem. These are dangerous animals. Rats are dangerous. They carry diseases,” Logerfo said. “They present a terrible threat to our usually beautiful campus after six o’clock. … The real goal behind this is to basically shove the issue [into] the face of the administration.”
Adam Ramadan (SFS ’14), who is running with GUSA senate Speaker Nate Tisa (SFS ’14), cited producing concrete results as GUSA’s most effective way of increasing engagement.
“Actually show that GUSA is a capable body, and then people will put credibility behind GUSA — then they will get more involved,” Ramadan said.
Candidates clashed on the question of improvements to SAC’s funding system. Cleary stressed her running mate Appelbaum’s experience as former SAC chair, which she said makes her ticket the most qualified to enact comprehensive funding reform.
“SAC is still broken. And I think after his year as SAC commissioner chair, Jack came to the conclusion that it cannot be completely fixed. And the only solution is to completely redo the funding system,” Cleary said.
Ramadan suggested that individual advisory boards serve as a model for SAC as a whole.
“There is no specialization when SAC has 100-plus student groups that have almost nothing in common,” Ramadan said. “You already have an infrastructure [through advisory boards]; you already have a blueprint on how students groups are funded.”
Logerfo agreed that SAC is adequately functional but rejected the GUSA Fund, a popular alternative funding source.
“I don’t think SAC is in terrible shape. I think, more importantly, the GUSA Fund should start being condensed. Who needs the funding for last resort? That should be condensed into SAC,” Logerfosaid.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

