
April 14, 2013 by Eitan Sayag and Hiromi Oka Leave a Comment 
Dahlgren Chapel was vandalized last night, forcing the 11 a.m. and 12:30 p.m. Sunday Masses to be relocated to St. William’s Chapel in Copley Hall.
The exact nature and extent of the damage is not yet certain, nor is the identity of those who caused the vandalism. An email sent to the campus community from University President John J. DeGioia at around 2:20 p.m. stated that mostly furniture had been damaged and that religious symbols and the Blessed Sacrament were not vandalized.
However, Michael Fischer (SFS ’13), a Mass coordinator for Dahlgren, said that the mobile crucifix used for procession had been damaged, in addition to the organ’s mirror.
“Fortunately, the damage was not as severe as I was under the impression, based on the rumors that were flying about,” Fischer said.
The chapel has been cleaned and Mass will resume at 5 p.m.
Churchgoers were stunned to learn of the incident.
“I was shocked,” Sally Kiefer, a regular attendee of the 12:30 Mass, said. “I’ve been coming here since 1973, and nothing like this has ever happened.”
Others characterized the incident as very abrupt and noted that church officials had to move quickly to hold the morning Masses in St. William’s Chapel, which is home to the Protestant ministry.
“The priest didn’t have his robes,” Marge Jackman, another attendee of the 12:30 p.m. Mass, said.
“[I am] sad that somebody would do something like that to a church,” she added.
DeGioia’s email reflected similar disappointment.
“I must underscore that acts of vandalism, especially of sacred places, have no place in our campus community,” DeGioia wrote. “As a Catholic and Jesuit university, we are committed to fostering a community that is welcoming to people of all religions, races and ethnicities and that values understanding, inclusion and respect.”
Georgetown University Student Association President Nate Tisa (SFS ’14) and Vice President Adam Ramadan (SFS ’14) released a statement at around 5 p.m. condemning acts of vandalism.
“We are deeply disappointed that anyone would disrespect a sacred space cherished by so many generations of Georgetown students, faculty, and staff,” the pair wrote.
Kiefer said that churchgoers were told little about the vandalism.
“What somebody told us was that the chairs were all cut and some of the statues were turned over,” Kiefer said. “The police were very mum.”
Fr. Howard Gray, S.J., was hesitant to speculate on the motives behind the vandalism, adding that inaccurate rumors that the chalices were stolen had been circulating.
“We’re just putting pieces together. We probably won’t know until someone with authority takes some kind of inventory and tells us what they’re missing,” he said. “It bothers me that they broke the crucifix. You wonder that if it’s somebody making another statement that’s anti-religious or something. I don’t know that.”
In May 2012, the upperclassmen of the women’s club volleyball team admitted to littering the steps of the chapel with condom wrappers and cups of alcohol.
DeGioia urged anyone with information about the incident to contact the Department of Public Safety.
Hoya Staff Writer
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

