
May 1, 2013 by Madison Ashley Leave a Comment 
After another year of student-run events and club leadership, the Center for Student Programs honored outstanding student leaders and groups at the annual Saxa Awards on Wednesday afternoon.
The CSP recognized students nominated by their peers for their contributions to student organizations and groups that have enhanced student life.
CSP Director Erika Cohen Derr presented the awards.
“I can’t help but feel incredibly lucky and fortunate to do the work I do everyday [with] the students who make Georgetown the vibrant and passionate place that it is,” Cohen Derr said. “You are the ones who think critically about what our campus needs — how to bring the rest of the world to the Hilltop and the Hilltop to the rest of the world.”
For his work coordinating the Georgetown University Grilling Society 10th anniversary celebration in the fall, Chris Griffin (MSB ’13) was named outstanding leader of a Student Activities Commission organization. Former SAC Chair Jack Appelbaum (COL ’14) won the award for outstanding leader of an administrative group.
The Tocqueville Forum Student Fellows — after its first year as a SAC organization — was named best new organization and the Latin American Student Association won the award presented to an outstanding student organization. For its use of HoyaLink, the European Club won a new award for best use of the online platform.
Georgetown University Student Association senator Abby Cooner (SFS ’16), who helped establish theGUSA senate Subcommittee on Food Service earlier this year, was awarded the Georgetown Opportunities for Leadership Development Emerging Leaders Award, presented to an underclassman for promising leadership.
“I am really flattered to be nominated for this award,” Cooner said. “It was such a surprise, but it truly means a lot to me to be honored in this company of people.”
In addition to the awards given by the CSP, Kris Nessler, the new director of Georgetown University Outdoor Education, honored Base Camp Manager Kendra Layton (COL ’15) and Rock-Climbing Coordinator Zach Sawyer (COL ’15) as best outdoor educators.
“I think [Kendra and Zack] really embody the spirit of Outdoor Ed,” Nessler said. “They’ve been so important with keeping things together this past year during transition. Zack is so passionate about rock climbing and Kendra, as base camp coordinator, just really knows what going on.”
Cohen Derr said that student group activism has increased over past year.
“There’s an abundance of creativity to serve new groups [and] an abundance of activism,” she said. “From work on immigrants’ rights and the Dream Act to divesting from fossil fuels to — most recently — garnering support for our historical Heyden Observatory.”
Though the event honored students and student groups, Cohen Derr acknowledged the obstacles these groups have faced throughout this year, noting the space constraints put upon many student groups by construction on the Healey Family Student Center in New South Hall.
“Probably 60 percent of the conversations I have somehow deal with the fact that we are constrained,” Cohen Derr said. “We never have quite enough. We have more SAC funding, but often our greatest constraint is your time — you have internships, jobs. Yet, you have truly deep commitment to the roles you hold. I think it’s important to honor the constraints you live with and how you deal with them.”
The Saxa Award ceremony also included the presentation of the Bunn Awards for Student Journalism. THE HOYA won 12 of the 18 awards, including five of the six first-place honors. The Voice was awarded six awards, including the first-place award in the sports category.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 1, 2013 by Penny Hung Leave a Comment 
Former President Bill Clinton (SFS ’68) encouraged students to engage in public service in the first of a four-part lecture series in Gaston Hall on Tuesday morning.
The four lectures, to be given over the next few years, address Clinton’s vision for the future of the United States.
Clinton said that, after leaving the White House, he enjoys his current work in service and development through the William J. Clinton Foundation.
“People are always asking me, ‘Don’t you miss being president?’ I tell them the truth — I do,” Clinton said. “But I think that it’s foolish to spend one day of your life wishing to do something you can no longer do. … It’s always best to focus on what’s at hand and what you can do.”
According to Clinton, the United States currently has about 1 million non-governmental organizations, not including 355,000 religious institutions, that which also contribute to public service. Half of these institutions were founded after 1995. Clinton praised the independence of U.S. NGOs.
“This NGO movement is kind of a thorn in the side of governments,” Clinton said. “And like everyone else, they’re not always right, but they basically push the envelope of liberty and global responses.”
Clinton attributed the rapid increase of private citizens’ involvement in public service to new technologies, citing the decrease in median donation from $56 after the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami to $26 after the 2010 earthquake in Haiti. He attributed this difference to increased accessibility of donating due to technological advancement.
Clinton identified four requirements necessary to properly perform public service: interest in people and caring for purpose, policies and politics.
“Most people will get in real trouble and abuse power when they forget the purpose of power is not to impose will, but to let other people get empowered,” Clinton said.
Clinton stressed the importance of respect in development work.
“People are not just defined by their per capita income,” Clinton said. “There are incredibly dignified people who manage to compose a life out of poverty. From them, we can learn how to get their children and others out of poverty … I say that because it’s important for you if you want to do this work is to realize that everybody has some kind of story like that.”
Clinton connected the tradition of storytelling to the ability to discuss service and poverty.
“In my house … you couldn’t tell a story unless you proved you could listen to one. … I learned that you can’t speak unless you learn to listen, not in a way that people can hear,” he said.
Clinton related this idea to current U.S. politics.
“Ask yourself, ‘Did this person say that thing because they wanted it to be heard, or because they wanted to be on television?’” Clinton said. “If you want democracy to work, people have to be able to hear each other. It depends on what you say and how you say it.”
However, he warned against glamorizing poverty.
“Don’t ever romanticize poverty — it’s overrated,” Clinton said. “But don’t degenerate them. There’s dignity there.”
The speech was followed by a question-and-answer session moderated by former Georgetown University Student Association President Clara Gustafson (SFS ’13). Questions were collected from Georgetown students and students from Clinton’s own Hot Spring High School in Hot Springs, Ark.
Audience members, who gave Clinton three standing ovations, said that they enjoyed the speech.
“I liked his stories and his conversational speaking style,” Caitlin Donahue (COL ’13) said. “He did a really good job of connecting well with the audience.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

