
February 18, 2013 by Guthrie Angeles Leave a Comment 
The annual Doyle Symposium addressed the role of liberal arts education in engaging issues of diversity in Copley Formal Lounge Thursday afternoon.
The Berkley Center for Religion, Peace and World Affairs and the Center for New Designs in Learning and Scholarship cosponsored the symposium to explore the role of diversity in a Georgetown education.
The event was divided into three segments: the role of a liberal arts education in engaging difference, the use of new communication technologies in enhancing intercultural encounters and the benefits of studying abroad.
In the first segment, theology professor Fr. John O’Malley, S.J., said engaging diversity is consistent with the Jesuit tradition of liberal education. He also said that it is necessary to understand one’s peers and audience when addressing them.
“One element in this liberal arts education was to be able to speak publicly,” O’Malley said. “This meant being in touch with the audience to be able to know what they were thinking, what they were feeling, and [the need] to be in touch with the diversity of the audience.”
Dennis Williams, director of the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access, said that there are many programs outside classrooms that engage issues of diversity, including pre-orientation programs, living-learning communities, Leaders in Education about Diversity and A Different Dialogue.
“It’s telling to me that students are willing to devote this kind of attention and energy [to this program],” Williams said of A Different Dialogue, a noncredit program with the same amount of work as a typical class.
In the second segment, Lucas Welch, the founder and chief innovation officer of Soliya, spoke about the Connect Program developed by his nonprofit, which is used in several Georgetown classes. The Connect Program links students from Western and Muslim-majority societies through moderated group video conferencing. Welch talked about the role of “self-other overlap” and the way people develop understandings of different perspectives.
“‘Self-other overlap’ is essentially a term for the degree to which you have a sense of commonality with someone from another identity group,” Welch said. “Research has shown that if you can demonstrate shifts in people’s self-other overlap within their own identity group, you’re much more likely to pursue difference with a spirit of cooperation. If there’s conflict between you, you’re much more likely to approach it with a spirit of cooperation instead of confrontation.”
Shavonnia Corbin Johnson (SFS ’14) said she had a positive experience using the Connect Program in her Culture and Diplomacy class, where she video-conferenced with students from Europe and the Middle East once a week.
“The topics that we talked about ranged from hamburgers in America to President Barack Obama to the Arab Spring to why atheism is looked down upon in Muslim countries,” Corbin Johnson said.
Nicole Fleury (SFS ’14) and Audrey Wilson (SFS ’14) concluded the symposium in the third segment.Fleury studied abroad in Alexandria, Egypt and at the School of Foreign Service campus in Doha, Qatar, and Wilson studied at the Georgetown villa in Alanya, Turkey.
Fleury was in Egypt at the time of the Egyptian presidential elections.
“Classes were cancelled, so we went back to our hotel and we all stood there watching the announcement on TV,” Fleury said. “It was just interesting to also see the activity around us. The streets, which were usually crowded and very lively, [were] silent and empty. After the announcement … you would look out on the streets and it was a huge celebration. There was a parade within 20 minutes.”
Wilson said she was exposed to Turkish culture during her time abroad.
“I thought it was a very special program because it was a program designed specifically for cultural immersion,” Wilson said. “They had planned the curriculum totally around our semester, [and] we got to travel all around the western part of Turkey. Beyond the classroom, we were able to participate in a lot of programs with the communities. We did a community-based learning program, and we got to teach in local elementary schools once a week in an English class.”
Kat Kelley (NHS ’14) was curious about the programs and opportunities discussed at the symposium. She said she hopes to participate in the Soliya Connect Program next year.
“I think one of the biggest [takeaways] is that there’s a lot of really strong programs, such as the Soliya project on campus, that students don’t know about,” Kelley said. “One of the greatest benefits of these programs is forcing you to question what you think, whether you’re in a different culture and you have to question the things you’ve take for granted or whether you’re having conversations with people and you have to defend what you believe.”
Special to The Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 18, 2013 by Danny Funt Leave a Comment 
A tweet from the official Georgetown University Student Association Twitter account fueled controversy during tonight’s GUSA debate regarding the GUSA executive’s support for the Appelbaum and Cleary ticket.
After the presidential candidates responded to a question of which ticket they would support second to their own, the official GUSA account tweeted, “We’re honored to have the support of Shavonnia and Joe who say they’d put as #2 on their ballot! #GUSAssociation [sic].”
The tweet, which was deleted minutes later, was seen by some as a reflection of a gray area between individual members’ support for Jack Appelbaum (COL ’14) and Maggie Cleary (COL ’14) and the institution’s as a whole. The tweet was written by Mike Madoff (SFS ’13), who is communications director for the GUSA executive and a campaign staffer for Appelbaum and Cleary.
Madoff was tweeting from both the GUSA account and the Appelbaum and Cleary campaign account during the debate and said the tweet in question was not done intentionally. The GUSA account later tweeted, “We apologize for the earlier technical issue.”
Current GUSA President Clara Gustafson (SFS ’13) and Vice President Vail Kohnert-Yount have been vocal supporters of the Appelbaum and Cleary ticket, as has their chief of staff, Jake Sticka (SFS ’13), who is managing the ticket’s campaign.
“I think it’s unfortunate,” Sticka said of the tweet after the debate. While he noted that 13 members of the executive have come out in support of Appelbaum and Cleary, he added, “I don’t think it’s fair to say that GUSA as an institution has taken a side in this election.”
Other GUSA candidates saw it differently, including Spencer Walsh (MSB ’14), who said the tweet is reflective of the relationship between the executive and the Appelbaum ticket.
“Jack and Maggie are obviously great candidates, but the executive has been pushed to support a ticket, and I think that is inappropriate,” Walsh said, citing Sticka’s involvement in GUSA and the campaign. “If that tweet doesn’t show the connection between the two, I really don’t know what does.”
Adam Ramadan (SFS ’14), who is running for vice president alongside GUSA senate Speaker NateTisa (SFS ’14), confronted Sticka after the debate about the appropriateness of the tweet. His running mate said he shared this concern.
“As senate speaker who has access to GUSA’s Twitter, Facebook and Hoyalink accounts, I have never once used them for our campaign,” Tisa said. Although Tisa said he did not believe the tweet was intentional, he added, “I think there was a reason why Mike and Greg did not endorse a candidate last year,” a reference the previous GUSA president and vice president, respectively.
Ethan Chess (SFS ’14), chair of the GUSA election committee and moderator of the debate, explained that GUSA rules prohibit a candidate from using university resources for their campaign. He would not comment on whether a sanction would be issued if a formal complaint were raised.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 18, 2013 by Madison Ashley Leave a Comment 
After months of researching topics, writing briefs, establishing committees and determining logistics, the Georgetown International Relations Association held the 50th North American Invitational Model United Nations this weekend.
The three-day conference marks the culmination of more than 11 months of Georgetown students’ hard work.
“I never would’ve imagined the amount of work that goes into it,” Director of Media and TechnologyOmika Jikaria (SFS ’15), a former special writer for The Hoya said. “We’ve been planning since last March.”
Putting on a conference for thousands of students requires extensive preparation, organization and manpower. There is a 21-person secretariat and nearly 200 student volunteers that compromise the general staff.
“Before NAIMUN starts, we all have very distinct roles,” Jikaria said. “But during the conference, our roles really overlap.”
This year marks the 50thanniversary of the conference, which has been hosted annually by GIRA since 1963. The high school students gather in the Washington Hilton for the largest independent student-run conference of its kind in the Western Hemisphere.
“There are a lot of Model UN conferences out there, but there are a couple of things that separate NAIMUN,” Secretary-General of NAIMUN 50 Theresa Lou (SFS ’14) said, referencing Georgetown’s expertise in international affairs and location in Washington, D.C.
While GIRA is an independent 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization, the conference benefits from its relationship with Georgetown. NAIMUN is staffed entirely by Georgetown students — primarily International Relations Club members — and Georgetown professors have long given the event’s keynote address. Many of the Georgetown student staffers attended the conference in high school.
“At our fall interest meeting, I’d say over 80 percent of those in attendance raised their hands when we asked who had attended NAIMUN as a high schooler,” Executive Director Cody Cowan (SFS ’14) said.
Former delegates said staffing the conference is rewarding.
“As a delegate, I didn’t really think about how many people it took to run NAIMUN or that they were all full-time students,” Director General Luke Young (MSB ’15) said. “Being on the other side is almost more fun. When you’ve invested so many years into an activity like Model UN, you constantly look for ways to make it new.”
Many of the staffers have forgone classes this week, despite looming midterms, in order to ensure that everything is ready for the weekend.
“I’ve spent almost an entire year doing this, and I don’t think I’ve regretted a minute of it,” Cowan said. “Except maybe when the 18-wheeler pulled up to my townhouse with over 3,500 pounds of NAIMUN merchandise to unload.”
Secretariat members said NAIMUN is as relevant now as it was when it was founded 50 years ago.
“We live in an interconnected world whether we like it or not,” Lou said. “I feel like as a global citizen, we have a duty to know what is going on around us. In 20 years, we’re going to be the people who have to deal with the legality of drones, with Palestine, and incur all of the mess. Model UN might not be realistic, but because there is no actual constraint of reality, you can do anything in MUN, and that’s when the best ideas are formed.”
To celebrate its anniversary, NAIMUN is introducing new features to the conference, including the NAIMUN smartphone app, which is designed to streamline the conference and give students and moderators easy access to important information, such as the conference schedule. Students have also already begun using the new NAIMUN social network to connect with their peers both before and after the conference.
“Many students come in taking [NAIMUN] as a competition,” Jikaria said. “This is just a way for delegates to get to know each other before hand and keep in touch afterwards.”
Young agreed and said that Model UN builds important and useful skills that may not necessarily be honed in a university classroom.
“MUN is an opportunity for high schoolers to reach out of their box and become more confident speaking in a public setting,” he said. “When you have to leave the committee room and work with a group of total strangers to get a document passed by the body — it is one of the most interactive and multifaceted versions of debate you can take part in.”
Though Cowan did not participate in Model UN in high school, he appreciates the “NAIMUN love” espoused by the high school delegates.
“I lovewhen we get a tweet from a delegate saying, ‘I can’t wait!’ and they tag all the friends throughout the country they’ve met through NAIMUN that they’ve only known for four days,” he said. “NAIMUN is only going to make for better diplomats, businessmen and representatives in the Peace Corps. Learning to stand in front of a room of 300 people you’ve never met and argue something you may not even believe — it’s a whole ecosystem that I can’t even begin to comprehend.”
For many high school delegates, their experience at NAIMUN stirs interest in attending Georgetown later on.
“As a delegate my senior year, I fell in love with the conference,” Chief of Staff Tommy Larson (SFS ’13) said. “Seeing 200 good-looking, smart, talented, and engaged college students — I became completely addicted to that. I was so enamored of Georgetown — it just became my dream school and what I wanted to do.”
Larson said that staffers also influence the students about their university decisions.
“When I was in high school, it was almost like hero worship — Georgetown kids were complete gods,” he said. “Some kids really look up to us, and the majority just want to get to know us.”
Just as staffers influence high school students, students influence NAIMUN staffers.
“As you go through Georgetown, you become a little jaded, a little less idealistic,” Lou said. “This rejuvenates me to take on the next step. It’s a tiring process, but our dedication comes from this — whether we know it or not we seek some sort of inspiration from these kids.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

