
May 3, 2013 by Eitan Sayag Leave a Comment 
The Office of Student Housing and the Office of Residence Life launched a joint Student Living website Wednesday to supplement and partially replace the Housing-at-a-Glance website, which was built more than 10 years ago.
The new website is intended to offer a comprehensive overview of Georgetown’s campus life, explaining housing policies and procedures for all students and situations, with a specific focus on housing for incoming freshmen. The website consolidates information that was previously available through disparate sources, such as housing opening and closing information, directions for finding housing before or after studying abroad, housing options for transfer students and a section for off-campus and graduate student housing.
According to Director of Residence Life Stephanie Lynch, the update was part of an ongoing effort by University Information Services and the Office of Communications to revamp pages on Georgetown’s website with a consistent look and flow. At the beginning of the semester, the Georgetown University Student Association’s website was updated and transferred to a georgetown.edu URL to be more user friendly.
The Housing-at-a-Glance page was assembled between June 2001 and January 2002 and was last copyrighted more than five years ago in 2007, according to the website.
Even though all information from the Housing-at-a-Glance page was supposed to be transferred to the new Student Living website, the new website has links to Housing-at-a-Glance in some sections, including its sub-page for summer housing. The old website will still be used for personalized housing activity, including housing assignments.
“Housing Services is working on making it easier to access on the new website,” Lynch wrote in an email. “The Housing-at-a-Glance dashboard is still an important resource for students.”
According to Lynch, the Office of Residence Life has no plans to phase out the Housing-at-a-Glance website.
“It is our hope that the new website is more intuitive, and directs incoming students, current students, parents and visitors to the information they need as easily as possible,” she wrote. “Now that the new site is live, we are looking at how it functions and we will continue to make sure all of the content is easy to find and access.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

