
June 1, 2013 by Emma Hinchliffe Leave a Comment 
GUSA President Nate Tisa (SFS ’14) and Vice President Adam Ramadan (SFS ’14) attended President Barack Obama’s speech on student loan interest rates at the White House Friday morning.
Tisa and Ramadan plan to launch a Georgetown University Student Association initiative regarding student loan interest rates, which are set to double if Congress does not act by July 1.
“Without classes and not being married to campus this summer, we have the opportunity to go out and make a difference in these three months,” Tisa said.
Tisa was able to attend this event, which was held in the Rose Garden, through his internship with Campus Progress at the Center for American Progress and invited Ramadan as his guest. Before Obama’s speech, Tisa and other students in attendance briefly met Obama in the Roosevelt Room.
In his speech, Obama called on young people to take action on student loan interest rates, as he did last year when interest rates were set to double and Congress extended the current rates for one year — an extension that expires in July. While the House of Representatives has already passed a student loan bill, Obama said it adversely affects low-income students.
“This year, if it looks like your representatives have changed their minds, you’re going to have to call them up again or email them again or Tweet them again and ask them what happened, what changed?  You’re still taking out these loans. You’re still facing challenges,” Obama said.
Tisa and Ramadan both enjoyed Obama’s speech and hope to take action through their GUSAinitiative.
“Nate and I are both on financial aid, and it’s frustrating to see the doubling of interest rates,” Ramadan said. “These are the hurdles low-income students have to face to get an education, where the only thing that should matter is that once you’re accepted, you’re there.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

