
July 18, 2013 by Penny Hung Leave a Comment 
Sasaki Associates and university administrators listened to student concerns about the proposed Northeast Triangle dorm at a forum held in conjunction with the Georgetown University Student Association on Wednesday evening.
Approximately 50 students, including severalGUSA members, attended the 90-minute session.
The forum came after intense criticism from both students and alumni regarding the building’s design and location on one of the last green spaces on the north side of campus as well as objections to a lack of transparency in the decision-making process.
A Change.org petition with 765 supporters had also called for Georgetown to solicit concept sketches from two architectural firms besides Sasaki. Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson told The Hoya that the university would not approach other firms.
“My response to the petition request is I understand students’ concerns and their strong interest in this project. We are confident that Sasaski Associates are very capable, very creative, very experienced. We are not planning to solicit concept designs from any other architect,” he said.
In response to concerns about transparency, Sasaki principal Vinicius Gorgati gave a presentation outlining the process that narrowed options for the dorm’s location. Gorgati said the fact that north side of campus has the lowest population density was a factor in the decision.
“It became clear that it would be great to bring a new wave of energy for residential life and student life into the northeast quadrangle,” Gorgati said. “We’re trying to rebalance, invest more … in the north to rebalance.”
But while fewer students live on the north side of campus, the path from the Leavey Center to Red Square is still one of the most heavily trafficked areas during the day. Sapir Yarden (SFS ’15) brought up this point, adding that a hub for student life in this area would cause more traffic while ignoring other parts of campus.
Sasaki representatives also introduced the possibility of creating green space on the Medstar Georgetown University Hospital parking lot, owned jointly by MedStar and Georgetown. Sasaki did not specify how it would replace parking in this scenario.
Gorgati systematically explained why other options the university had considered were declared unfit. While many students and alumni have suggested building a new dorm on Harbin Patio, Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson stressed that this would require the relocation of several university facilities.
Another community suggestion — Reiss Science Building — was declared unsuitable due to its lack of natural light and low ceilings. The abandoned Kober-Cogan Building was rejected because MedStar still owns the property, and negotiations would take time. Olson said that the building would be a possibility for future residence halls.
Students, however, asked whether the Northeast Triangle solution was merely a path of least resistance among the other choices.
Gorgati and university administrators disagreed, emphasizing that the Northeast Triangle was chosen because of its convenient location by the university’s most commonly used student path. In addition, the upcoming Reiss renovation would also allow the university to upgrade the entire walkway from Red Square to the Leavey Center.
Gorgati also described each floor’s interior specifications. The plans include a large lobby with an integrated multipurpose room, designed with the goal of attracting non-residents into the building to create a hub for student life.
To conclude, Gorgati stressed that the current design was not final, promising to compile student responses and concerns and implement them into the design. The location, however, appeared to be final.
“We get to go from this conversation to expression of ‘What is the essence of Georgetown?’” Gorgati said. “What we have right now on the boards is the beginning. This is not the end. … It is just another step in establishing this conversation with you.”
At the end of the forum, students wrote color-coded comments on several images of example architecture and design, both interior and exterior. Overall, comments emphasized the importance of tradition and classical elements, many disparaging the lack of wood paneling and detailing in the images. Most negative comments addressed the “sleekness” or “modernity” of the concept images in contrast to the traditional architecture of Healy Hall, Copley Hall and White-Gravenor.
Some student concerns, like Kevin Sullivan’s (SFS’14) objection to the building’s flat roof, were explained through Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design certification requirements. Sasaki, however, said that such design elements were open to discussion and could potentially change.
GUSA President Nate Tisa (SFS ’14) said he was satisfied with the forum.
“I think the architects didn’t know everything the students were asking, but they admitted it. They’re not coming in and shutting down.” Tisa said.
The plans for Northeast Triangle have been approved by Advisory Neighborhood Commission2E, but the Old Georgetown Board postponed a decision until Georgetown would be prepared to present more options at OGB’s next meeting Sept. 4. OGB must approve the plans before Georgetown can begin construction.
The next Northeast Triangle open forum will be held August 28.
July 19: This post has been updated to include comment from Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson regarding a Change.org petition to solicit alternative concept sketches.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


July 18, 2013 by Penny Hung Leave a Comment 
After revisions to the Affordable Care Act in late June, Georgetown student and faculty health insurance will cover contraception through United Healthcare beginning August 15.
The Obama administration’s final ACA regulations require insurance companies to pay directly for contraceptive services for those covered by nonprofit organizations that oppose contraception on religious grounds. The ACA mandates that employee group health plans and fully insured student health plans cover preventive care and screenings for women, including Food and Drug Administration-approved contraceptive methods, sterilization procedures, and patient education and counseling, at no extra cost. Employees and students with ACA healthcare will be covered by Aetna, Kaiser, United Healthcare or CareFirst beginning in January 2014.
“These regulations give us the opportunity to reconcile our religious identity and our commitment to providing access to affordable healthcare,” University President John J. DeGioia wrote in a campus-wide email announcing the policy change Thursday.
Though students will be able to pay for contraception using Georgetown health insurance off campus, the Student Health Center will not begin prescribing medication used for contraception, as mandated by the Ethical and Religious Directives for Catholic Health Services.
While Georgetown accepted the new accommodation for religious institutions, the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops rejected it July 3, stating that the definition of eligibility was too narrow to guarantee religious freedom. USCCB objected to the implication that circumventing religious institutions through their insurance providers upheld Catholic moral values.
“We are concerned as pastors with the freedom of the Church as a whole — not just for the full range of its institutional forms, but also for the faithful in their daily lives — to carry out the mission and ministry of Jesus Christ,” USCCB President Cardinal Timothy Dolan said in a press release.
Right to Life Marketing Chair Evelyn Flashner (COL ’15) agreed that the university’s decision contradicted its Catholic identity.
“The university is violating its own principles as a Catholic institution on this issue … Georgetown is diverging from the opinion of the Catholic Church,” Flashner said. “The new accommodation does not solve all the problems, and according to the USCCB, it doesn’t present a feasible version of religious liberty.”
Flashner used an analogy from USCCB member Bishop William Lori to explain the accommodation’s shortcomings.
“There is a Jewish deli that doesn’t sell anything but kosher meat, but the government says, ‘You have to sell non-kosher meat,’” Flashner said. “Everyone freaks out, but the government says, ‘Never mind, I take it back. Instead of having you sell kosher meat, we’re going to put a little kiosk in the middle of your store and sell non-kosher meat.’”
H*yas for Choice President Laura Narefsky (COL’14), however, applauded the announcement.
“I think the College of Cardinals is in a very privileged position, in that they are not directly responsible for the health and well-being of so many people,” Narefsky said. “Georgetown has a responsibility not just as a member of the Catholic Church, but also as a research and educational institute with thousands of people who are and are not part of the Catholic Church.”
Narefsky said that the accommodation was a step in the right direction toward reproductive justice.
“Georgetown doesn’t have to finance or endorse it, but they realized that they can’t maintain these archaic and out-of-touch views on modern healthcare,” Narefsky said. “It shows progress and ability to move forward on a position that a lot of people think is a stalemate.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

