
April 28, 2013 by Lily Westergaard Leave a Comment 
New York Times reporter Charles Savage compared President Barack Obama’s foreign policy to that of George W. Bush on Thursday.
Savage, a recipient of the 2007 Pulitzer Prize for national reporting on presidential signing statements, compared the Bush and Obama administrations’ approaches to the legal theory of executive power. Despite campaign promises to the contrary, Obama has largely continued Bush administration policies in this area, Savage said.
“The Bush administration was in the [business] of creating executive power precedence. … These precedents from the Bush years … will influence how the presidency handles itself for generations,” Savage said. “[Obama] talked about how when he was elected there would be no more ignoring the law when it was convenient, … but it became apparent very quickly that there would be much greater continuity with the Bush years than anyone had expected.”
Savage said that neither party is serious about checking the power of the executive.
“Obama is not the civil libertarian that many of his supporters hoped he would be,” he said. “Each side is in favor of more power when their side has the White House.”
Savage also discussed his visit to Guantanamo Bay last week.
“If you’re a reporter, you’re surrounded by minders,” he said. “You don’t go anywhere not under observation. You have no control of your life over there.”
Savage commented on Guantanamo Bay’s ongoing protests — the largest since 2007 —and attributed it to a realization that the prison’s closing process has stalled.
“The sign was all on the wall: ‘We’re going to be here forever, until we die of old age,’” he said.
Roughly 20 students and faculty members attended the lecture.
“I think it was a really good review of the national security issues we’ve gone through in classes, especially the comparisons between Obama and Bush,” Casey Thompson (COL ’14) said.
“Power Wars: Bush, Obama and the American Presidency after 9/11,” sponsored by the government department, was the fourth annual Professor Walter I. Giles Endowed Seminar in Constitutional Law and Civil Liberties. The purpose of the lecture series is to supplement the academic experience of government students, according to Government Department Chair Michael Bailey.
“The way we extend that kind of experience is … we want to link out to the real practitioners,” Bailey said.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 28, 2013 by Matt Walters Leave a Comment 
Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction Stuart Bowen recommended alternative U.S. approaches in the Iraqi rebuilding process Thursday.
The event, “Learning from Iraq,” was sponsored by the Center for Security Studies in Mortara Center for International Studies.
“No one likes oversight, but oversight is necessary,” Bowen said.
He said the number of audits in Iraq and their efficiency has increased since he was appointed in 2004.
Bowen encouraged the United States to re-evaluate its approach to reconstruction and specifically recommended establishing a new committee to streamline efforts across multiple government agencies.
Bowen distributed copies of a final report that offered a comprehensive view of the United States’ spending on rebuilding in Iraq. The report detailed U.S. spending and included alternative methods that could have prevented up to $8 billion in fraud.
“We must reform our approach,” Bowen said. “Now, the army manual details offensive, defensive and stabilization [tactics].”
He said that the United States did not consult Iraqis enough early on to see if the money had been well spent.
Bowen said the government should create the U.S. Office for Contingency Operations to coordinate logistics for the U.S. military in warzones.
“We don’t get to pick where or how a fragile state might fall under our need,” he said. “But we do get to pick how we plan and prepare.”
Siena Simmons (COL ’16) said the lecture related to her classes.
“International relations, which I studied last semester, is more than defense and diplomacy,” she said. “Reconstruction is a major part of it, as the inspector general described today.”
Sophia Kleyman (COL ’16) also found the lecture relevant.
“Learning where money for Iraq’s reconstruction [went] interested me,” Kleyman said. “When he described his staff as a watchdog for the taxpayers money in Iraq, it gave me more faith in the system overall.”
Special to The Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

