
July 25, 2013 by Penny Hung Leave a Comment 
As rising juniors dive into the search for senior year housing this summer, GUSA has taken steps to secure students’ rights off campus.
The Georgetown Student Tenant Association, launched by the Georgetown University Student Association on Wednesday, will train advocates to help students deal with uncooperative or negligent landlords.
With support from Georgetown’s Office of Neighborhood Life, the D.C. Office of the Tenant Advocate and the Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs, GSTA advocates will review leases, refer students to legal counsel, file complaints with D.C. agencies against non-code compliant landlords, address general housing concerns and inform students of their rights as tenants. The tenant association will forward cases involving uncooperative landlords to District offices responsible for enforcement of tenants’ rights.
The GUSA push to support students living off campus comes after university and neighborhood efforts to move students on campus in compliance with the 2010 Campus Plan agreement.
“Students are being sandwiched between the increased regulations of the campus plan and landlords who have historically been negligent,” GUSA President Nate Tisa (SFS ’14) said. “The tenant association is meant to go and advocate for their needs and make sure that the quality of off-campus housing improves just as we’re working to improve on-campus living and shifting social life on campus.”
The GUSA initiative will work in conjunction with the Student Advocacy Office, extending training in tenants’ rights, renters’ code and OTA and DCRA procedures to current SAO advocates. Two students have been accepted as GSTA advocates, while five more have expressed interest. Applications for further advocate positions will likely be available in the fall.
“Our highest priority is quality control,” GSTA Director Alyssa Peterson (COL ’14) said. “In the end, I would rather have a smaller group of advocates that are extremely well trained than [have] a larger group … so students can have the best advice we can offer.”
In addition to assisting in student interactions with landlords, GSTA advocates will work to help students understand the effects of the campus plan.
“It can be confusing for students about what all this campus plan stuff actually means. … We’re working with the tenants to help reduce its impact. Students have rights; for example, you’re allowed to park on private property that you own or rent,” Tisa said, referencing the university’s recent ban on cars for undergraduates. “So if there are people that are challenging that, that’s a right you have that people can’t take away.”
Peterson said that the GSTA would serve as a barometer for the success of student tenant associations.
“[There are] so many parts of D.C. government that are really invested in this project,” she said.
Two days after its launch, GSTA had already received two case submissions.
“I didn’t expect any cases until school started, but there have been students who have already come to us saying they’ve faced some serious problems with their landlords,” Peterson said. “We’re expecting traffic to pick up when people are reviewing their leases or moving in. We hope students will take advantage of this service.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


July 25, 2013 by Emma Hinchliffe Leave a Comment 
The Senate voted to tie student loan interest rates to financial markets Wednesday, a deal that would retroactively replace the doubled 6.8 percent rate that has been in effect throughout the month of July.
Rates on loans taken out by undergraduates after July 1 this year would be 3.9 percent, while graduate student loans would have an interest rate of 5.4 percent.
The deal, which passed with a vote of 81-18, drew strong support from Republicans but was opposed by some Democrats, with 17 voting against the bill.
The new plan replaces the fixed rate subsidized federal student loan program, and many Democrats objected to rates that could leave students vulnerable to market fluctuations.
Congress set a cap of 8.25 percent on undergraduate loans and 9.5 percent on graduate loans to account for changes in the market, though the Congressional Budget Office predicted rates would not reach these limits within the next 10 years.
Scott Fleming, Georgetown’s vice president for federal relations, was optimistic about the Senate deal.
“The good news is that this agreement means that in the first few years, interest rates will stay below the 6.8 percent level,” Fleming said, adding that the upcoming reauthorization of the Higher Education Act at the end of the year will provide an opportunity to reexamine loan rates. “As we move into that process, there will be an opportunity to look into it again to see how it can most constructively be configured.”
Georgetown University Student Association President Nate Tisa (SFS ’14), who led an advocacy campaign against rising rates throughout June, agreed that this Senate agreement should not be the last step.
“It’s clearly a compromise,” Tisa said. “There is a cap, like we were pushing for, but unfortunately the raw rate increase may hurt low-income students and their families.”
The bill is similar to proposals put forth by both the White House and House Republicans earlier this year, which both supported market-based student loan interest rates.
President Obama praised the Senate deal, stressing that it met two main goals of keeping rates low next year and not burdening students to pay the budget deficit.
“I urge the House to pass this bill so that I can sign it into law right away and I hope both parties build on this progress by taking even more steps to bring down soaring costs and keep a good education — a cornerstone of what it means to be middle class — within reach for working families,” Obama said in a White House press release.
Secretary of Education Arne Duncan echoed Obama’s statement.
“We look forward to continuing to work with Congress to figure out how we can significantly bring down the overall debt that students and families have to incur to go to college. Reaching this bipartisan compromise gives me hope that it will lead to many more,” Duncan said in a press release.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

