
December 15, 2013 by TM Gibbons-Neff Leave a Comment 
The plans for the new Northeast Triangle Residence Hall have edged one step closer to approval after the Old Georgetown Board supported the height, massing and siting of the structure Thursday.
“It was very helpful that we got the approval from them that we need to move forward with the zoning process,” Associate Vice President of Community Engagement and Strategic Initiatives Lauralyn Lee told The Hoya.
The approval of the hall’s height, massing and siting are important aspects of the design approval process because they correspond directly with the character of the building and how it will interact with its intended community when finished.
On Nov. 25, the D.C. Zoning Commission denied a zoning request for the new residence hall citing a needed approval from the OGB in order to move forward with the final zoning process.
While the board supported the university in its move forward with final zoning approval, it remained wary of the current proposed aesthetics of the new residence hall.
“I think you were corralled by the students in adopting facets from other structures like Healy and Copley Halls — it needs to stand on its own as a piece of art,” Old Georgetown Board Member David Cox said. “It looks like a fortress.”
While the board was critical of the proposed hall’s look, Assistant Vice President of Planning and Project Management Regina Bleck saw its focus on the appearance of the building itself as a positive move forward.
“I think the meeting went well, we got them to focus on architecture,” Bleck told The Hoya.
“We can close out this part of the process and focus on architectural design,” Lee said.
Going forward, Bleck hopes to acquire final concept approval of the building in the coming months.
“Final concept approval includes sighting, massing height, but it also includes down to the detail of the color of window frames and how the stone and brick interact,” Bleck said. “For buildings of this magnitude it just takes more time.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

