
May 20, 2013 by Mariah Byrne, Victoria Edel, Penny Hung, Hunter Main and Steven Piccione Leave a Comment 
Although Prospect Street may seem a little quieter on Saturday nights, Georgetown over the summer is anything but empty. From basketball to bioethics, the range of events and opportunities shows that when the students go home, the university keeps going strong.
Summer Basketball League Showcases New Talent
Although the Georgetown men’s basketball team calls Verizon Center home during its official season, McDonough Gymnasium will be the focus of summer basketball through the Kenner League, the District’s summer basketball league. Kenner, officially known as the Nike Pro-City League, is one of the top summer leagues in the nation and features players from D.C.-area colleges.
Watching a Kenner League game this summer will allow viewers to see a snapshot of next year’s Georgetown team. For example, in 2012, the tournament allowed audience members to watch the incoming freshman class perform in person for the first time, including freshman guard D’VauntesSmith-Rivera. But favorites such as junior guards Markel Starks and John Caprio are not always the only notable players — last summer, U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan, who played basketball at Harvard University, suited up for a game.
The teams are also sponsored by local businesses. In 2012, Starks and junior forward Nate Lubickheadlined the Clyde’s team, while Caprio, Smith-Rivera and sophomore forward Otto Porter Jr. played for The Tombs. Team line-ups for this year’s go-round will be announced in July.
New Internship Program Promotes Sustainability
This summer marks the start of the Georgetown University Undergraduate Sustainability Internship Program, which is affiliated with the Center for Social Justice. The program, available to rising juniors and seniors, organizes pre-professional, on-campus internships for students, beginning in the summer through the academic year, and students will receive a Georgetown Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program notation on their academic transcripts.
Each intern is supervised by a faculty member and a graduate student assistant, and the internships focus on sustainability issues — such as water conservation, green infrastructure, mass transportation and solar energy — that affect urban environments. In addition to organized research projects, the program will include guest lectures and presentations, research opportunities and field trips about green infrastructure, environmental justice, food security, sustainability at higher education institutions in addition to other similar themes.
Furthermore, campus data that students collect on renewable energy, biking, green infrastructure andstormwater management will be compiled and used to further develop the university’s sustainability efforts and plans, which will be conducted through the university’s Office of Sustainability that will launch in July.
MSB Initiative Encourages Student Entrepreneurship
The Startup Hoyas Summer Launch Program, run by the Georgetown Entrepreneurship Initiative program in the McDonough School of Business, will offer important support to fledgling businesses on campus. Although the 11-week program does not provide funding for the initiatives, it offers valuable feedback, office space and exposure. All participants must be either Georgetown students or alumni, and applications are open until the end of May. Last year’s participants included the Millennial Trains Project, a 10-day conference and rail journey, and YoBucko, an online personal finance aid.
Italian Exchange Students To Study Finance, Culture
Thirty-five students from Bocconi University in Milan, Italy, will study project financing at the McDonough School of Business as part of an exchange program in July. The course, taught by Georgetown and Bocconi faculty, is composed of seminars on economic, social, political and cultural aspects of the United States. During the three weeks, the exchange students will spend their mornings attending lectures on campus and leave during the evenings to attend cultural events at the World Bank, the Italian Embassy and Bank of America.
Bocconi University also coordinates exchange programs with Northwestern University, American University and University of California Los Angeles.
Jesuit Conference Highlights Campus Diversity Concerns
The Association of Jesuit Colleges and Universities Conference on Multicultural Affairs, founded in 1981 at Georgetown, will return to the university for the first time June 12 to 14. The conference covers a broad range of issues affecting students of color on college campuses and identifies strategies to address them. This year’s speakers will include former men’s basketball Head Coach John Thompson Jr., sociology professor Michael Eric Dyson — known for teaching a course on Jay-Z — and Georgetown LGBTQ Resource Center Director and feminist activist Sivagami Subbaraman.
Hoya Staff Writer
Writer for the Hoya
Hoya Staff Writer
Hoya Staff Writer
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

