
February 14, 2013 by Katherine Foley Leave a Comment 
While Hoyas may not want to think about sexually transmitted diseases around Valentine’s Day, they’re a growing concern on college campuses nationwide — even within the front gates.
One in four individuals will acquire an STD in his or her life in Washington, D.C., according to the District’s Sexually Transmitted Infections Community Coalition. For young adults between the ages of 18 and 30 years old, chlamydia, human papillomavirus and herpes are among the most common.
“Our campus is the size of a small city.  In any group of 7,000 people, there’s bound to be a few with STDs,” Rosie Bichell (SFS ’15), a member of H*yas for Choice, said.
Carol Day, the director of Health Education Services at Georgetown, said that STDs are hard to track on a campus like Georgetown.
“I know there are some [cases of sexually transmitted diseases] … but not everyone who has one comes to Health Education Services, and not everyone who has one answers our biannual survey,” Day said.
According to Laura Kovach, director of the Women’s Center at Georgetown, two to three cases are reported every year on campus. Aside from reports used internally by Health Education Services, there are no official statistics on the actual rate of STDs at Georgetown.
Student Health Center offers various tests for students. The office webpage lists STDs as one of the reasons students come in for routine office visits.
But because of the Hilltop’s small community feel, some students assume that they are immune from the risks of unprotected sex. On top of that, the subject is hardly a topic of serious discussion on campus.
“I don’t worry at all about [sexually transmitted diseases],” Matt, a student whose name has been changed, said. “None of my friends have STDs, but I also haven’t asked.”
Christina, a student whose name has been changed, said that she was told by a health services administrator that the infection rate of certain STDs is rising on campus.
“I once went to get tested for mono at the Student Health Center, and the lady in the testing room was doing chlamydia and gonorrhea tests, and she turns to me and says: ‘We have gotten 20 of these this week. A lot of people are sleeping without condoms — watch out.’”
Many students express concern for the lack of dialogue regarding STDs.
“I think [STDs are] something a lot of students are aware of but many don’t think about. They think Georgetown is safe, but [STDs] are a lot more common than people think,” Haylie Jacobson (COL ’15), vice president of H*yas for Choice, said. The student group, which is not recognized by the university, tables in Red Square most days, providing students with free condoms.
“People don’t talk about them because they’re embarrassed, but it needs to be talked about,” Jacobson said. “There’s something to be said for taking away the negative stigma around [STDs] just by making them part of the conversation.”
Day also sees the lack of dialogue regarding STDs as a roadblock for future student health. “There’s a misconception that we can’t talk about STDs, but that’s not true — we have phone lines available, and students can text in their questions.”
“The services are there — you just have to work through the misperception that they’re not,” Day said.
As with any infection, testing and treatment can’t be ignored, Kovach said.
“Many students tell their peers first if they are dealing with a health issue, and so it’s important for friends to know about resources so they can encourage their classmate, roommate or teammate to seek help,” she said.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 14, 2013 by Zach Gordon Leave a Comment 
One may be the loneliest number, but as the song goes, two can be just as bad. Britney Spears provided a possible solution — “3.”
At Georgetown, threesomes are more prevalent than many might expect. However taboo they still might seem, threesomes are a part of sex life on campus and are diverse in form, substance and level of intrigue.
Jessica, a sophomore whose name has been changed because of the nature of the subject, shared her experiences with a menage-à-trois, and shed some light on the expectations of threesomes. When Jessica had some friends and former coworkers visit Washington, D.C., she had a threesome with a man and woman after a night of drinking. Although the other man and woman were romantically involved, Jessica recounts that she never felt uncomfortable during the experience.
“Being friends with them allowed me to feel safe and comfortable,” Jessica said.
While Jessica says her threesome was good fun, it is not something she feels like she would be interested in actively pursing again.
Although she stated that she did not really notice the male-centric nature of the experience at the time, the man had sex with both her and the other woman, and then they both performed oral sex on him. In threesomes composed of two women and one man, the man can sometimes become the focus. Instances of two men and one woman are uncommon in heterosexual groupings.
This stereotype breaks down, however, when the threesome consists of just men. John, who is now a junior, hooked up with Tom during part of last year. When Tom invited John to join him in a threesome with another guy Tom was involved with, John accepted. Although John did not know the third person, he said the initial awkwardness of the threesome did not stop it from being an overall steamy experience.
“Adding a third man added something new,” John said. “And it was the best sex I ever had.”
Although a threesome is the most common form of group sex on campus, Claire, a freshman, once found herself intertwined and naked with a few men and women in an orgy, also after a night of drinking.
Claire was not great friends with the mixed group before the experience but said this lack of familiarity reduced some of the tension and awkwardness she expected would engulf her in the beginning stages of group sex.
For Claire, an orgy with people whom she did not know as well as they knew each other ended up being a worthwhile sexual departure.
Unlike the group sex experience that Jessica details, Claire says that the focus was not on the men, but on the few women who participated. Claire’s night of sex with a group of people defies the more prevalent stereotype that threesomes and orgies will revolve around the men in mixed company.
Raul was not swept up in poly-passion after a night of drinking but carefully planned a threesome with his then-girlfriend and one of her female friends. Unfortunately for Raul, he and his girlfriend broke up before they could experience a third partner, but he had some advice to offers in hindsight.
“It’s more important for the girl to choose the other girl, especially if [she’s] a girl you care about,” he said.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

