
April 22, 2013 by Merjan Bubernack Leave a Comment 
From the beginning of their educations, students are primed to focus on subjects deemed traditional and necessary by society. Elementary school’s reading, writing and arithmetic segue into high school’s English Literature, AP American History and Calculus classes. The path continues as students finish university prerequisites and begin to declare majors. For many students, the pursuit of traditional studies, such as English or history, often seems the only route to a secure and successful career. This orthodox progression through academia, however, leaves little room for the serious development and cultivation of careers in the creative arts. But some some students look for another way.
“I saw a huge disparity in the Georgetown community between students who adhered to the ‘conventional and traditional’ path of obtaining a successful career and those students who took a different route that really represented their creative passions” Seon Oyewole (SFS ’14) wrote,
Since his arrival on the Hilltop, Oyewole has served as an avid proponent of the creative arts both on campus and throughout Washington, D.C. His interests escalated after an internship with “Funkadelic Freestyles,” a WRGW radio show at George Washington University. There, Oyewolewas able to collaborate and network with movers and shakers in the music industry. It wasn’t long before he developed the idea to display young talent through The Young and the Restless Musical Showcase.
“The whole idea came about because I felt there was enough support by students who wanted a clear-cut path [to a career in] visual, musical and other creative arts. We wanted to form a group that would support these ideas,”Oyewole said.
YTR has been a collaborative effort in support of the ambitions of young adults looking to succeed in “untraditional” professions. Since its first installment in spring 2011, the program has featured devoted, budding artists, including Georgetown’s very own Tate Tucker (COL ’14), 18-year-old rapper and producer Matt McGhee and Pac DIV, a trio native to Southern California.
Oyewole explained that when selecting acts for the show, he considers the performers’ talent and experience as well as their ages.
“Usually I try to pick the artists that I am listening to and that are in my own age group,” he said.
The musicians previously showcased have come from across the country and display diverse talents in hip-hop, rap and other genres. As Oyewole noted, all of the performers, possess an undying resilience and passion for their craft. They serve as quintessential examples of motivated young artists striving to elevate their careers in an industry that often seems impenetrable.
The third annual YTR — also called YTRIII — will be this Friday, April 19th at 9:30 p.m. in Hoya Court. Following tradition, the bill boasts three young, dedicated and blossoming acts. First off, Philadelphia native GrandeMarshall will perform original raps from his recent collaboration with Fool’s Gold Records. The second is, Phony Ppl — a band Oyewole has been following for years — which is known for their soulful sound and expansion of the urban music scene. Finally, TWO-9, a group of musicians from Atlanta, will showcase their refined hip-hop tracks.
In an effort to evolve the show and garner greater involvement from Georgetown’s artistic community, this year’s YTR festivities will be adding a live art aspect. Oyewole partnered with the Georgetown Art Aficionados to curate a live art exhibit, which will feature artists painting and creating in real time while taking inspiration from the music and general scene of the program.
Amy Liu (SFS ’15), the treasurer of GUAA, played a major role in the creation of this exhibit. She is confident in the talents that will be displayed in the exhibit on Friday and relates the collective artists’ style to street art.
“I’m hoping that they will be really diverse, that they’ll be interesting with the live aspect,” Liu said. “We’re really excited [and] hoping it will be really interactive. It’s our first time doing [something like this.]”
The three artists who were chosen to participate in the live art exhibit are Ellie DiBerardino (COL’ 13), Megan Schmidt (COL ’15) and Michelle Stearn (SFS’ 15). They will each be given a blank canvas along with paint markers provided byKrink, an art supplier based out of Brooklyn that is one of the sponsors of the event. The artists are also encouraged to bring their own supplies to add personal flair to their creations.
All of the live artists have a unique style and skills. And while many, like Schmidt — who is also a cartoonist for The Hoya — have taken formal art classes at Georgetown, artists on campus recognize that, due to stress from schoolwork in academic subjects and pressures from family and other entities to pursue “practical” majors, their personal artistic pursuits have been forced to take thebackburner.
Most artists on campus have also noticed a general lack of recognition and support for the arts at Georgetown.
“I think visual arts [have] always just been a struggle on this campus, even trying to get submissions: It’s just very, very difficult. As a school, we are so much more focused on other things,” Liu said.
Liu also conveyed that Georgetown could encourage art appreciation by providing spaces — other than Midnight MUG or Uncommon Grounds — for students to showcase their original creations.
The idea of supporting the arts, of garnering recognition and of encouraging creative art career pursuits is ultimately the founding motivation for “The Young and the Restless.”
Aside from providing a venue to show off such young and unique talent, the program seeks to recognize the extensive effort needed to pursue a career in the creative arts. Oyewole argues that, in terms of the work and effort required, little difference exists between pursuing a traditional degree and a more unorthodox creative career.
“If you want to get into the creative arts industry, you need a business plan. You need to develop a lifestyle brand. You can’t just say you want to be successful because you love it so much. It doesn’t work that way,” Oyewole said.
Establishing a career in the arts undoubtedly requires serious time, effort and maintenance. This image must be reflected in everything an artist does from creating music and paintings, to public appearances, to sustaining this image over time.
The third installment of YTR is certainly making great strides in recognizing the creative arts and related pursuits on campus.
“We’re just hoping that … we can help visual artists [by providing] some hype for their work … just [by having] this outlet for them to incorporate arts into what they do at Georgetown,” Liu says.
While Georgetown might not be the most conducive environment for launching a career specifically in the creative arts, it does provide the groundwork needed. Principles of hard work, dedication and perseverance remain constant regardless of whether once pursues a traditional or less traditional path.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

