
April 21, 2013 by Annie Chen Leave a Comment 
At last week’s GUSA senate meeting, the body unanimously passed three pieces of legislation focused on GOCard technology, university online resources and recycling.
The first bill called for the university to merge the current GOCard system with smart card technology, a step the GOCard Office had recently considered. The smart card, or radio-frequency identification technology, would read GOCards without direct contact, replacing the swipe component of theGOCard with a smart card chip.
“The most important aspects of RFID is its time-efficiency and cost-efficiency,” GUSA Senator and bill sponsor Joshua Shinbrot (COL ’16) said. “When students enter residence halls or Leo’s, swiping is time-consuming.”
Shinbrot explained that the adaption of RFID technology would also decrease costs for both students and the university.
“The expected life of current magnetic strip GOCards is two years. On average, every student’sGOCard will … need to be replaced at least once during their time at Georgetown,” he said.
After consulting with Director of the GOCard Office Roman Fahrmann, Shinbrot pointed out that the university has already begun to review necessary changes to its infrastructure to adapt to the RFID system, which would require the replacement of GOCard readers the addition of RFID smart card chips to GOCards.
Though the bill is non-binding, GUSA senators said they would continue conversations with university administrators to coordinate the timeline of the adaptation.
The second bill, introduced by GUSA Senator Nicolò Donà Dalle Rose (SFS ’15) called for simplification and centralization of links to online portals used by the university, including Google Apps, MyAccess, Hoyalink, Blackboard and Housing at a Glance.
Rose will first work with the Office of International Programs to create a centralized online resource and checklist to ease international students’ transition to Georgetown.
“This issue affects incoming international students, because they have a lot of things to do prior to arriving at Georgetown, but there are no clear instructions on how to do so,” Rose said. “In the long run, we want to encourage the university to consolidate the various online platforms used on campus. There is a need to standardize this complex system, while in the short run, we want the administration to include a clear list on the home page of all the portals we use in our daily lives.”
In the meantime, before the university makes any changes, the second part of the bill mandates thatGUSA’s website include a list of all major portals used at the university.
GUSA Subcommittee on Sustainability Chair Vetone Ivezaj (COL’13) also introduced an act to add three stackable recycling bins and trash cans to each apartment and townhouse in order to standardize the recycling process across campus.
The bill also authorizes the subcommittee to expand the current voluntary composting pilot program in Alumni Square to Henle Village, Village A and Nevils apartments. Each apartment that volunteers to compost will receive sealed composting bins with instructions and will be entered into a raffle for a $100 gift card.
The subcommittee will also add individual recycling bins to each dorm room on campus.
“The bins are also found in dorms at peer institutions across the country and would encourage students to separate their trash from recyclables in their room.  The bins can then be taken to the recycling centers on each floor to sort the recyclables,” Ivezaj said.
These steps will be funded by the GUSA executive, in partnership with Students of Georgetown, Inc., the Social Innovation Public Service Fund and University Facilities.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 21, 2013 by Eitan Sayag Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University College Democrats will honor former Chairman of the Democratic National Committee Terry McAuliffe (LAW ’84) as Alumnus of the Year on Monday.
Before entering politics, McAuliffe, the 2013 Democratic nominee for governor of Virginia, worked in the private sector as a businessman and entrepreneur. He was the co-chairman of former President Bill Clinton’s (SFS ’68) 1996 reelection campaign, served as chair of the DNC from 2001 to 2005 and ran unsuccessfully for governor of Virginia in 2009.
The GUCD executive board chose to honor McAuliffe because of the work he has done for the party and the prominence of his gubernatorial campaign.
GUCD President Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) said McAuliffe has advocated on issues important to Georgetown students and specifically pointed to his positions on the environment and women’s health.
“We try to find someone who has done a lot for the Democratic Party and who is a leader on a lot of issues that we find important,” Tezel said. “Because of Terry McAuliffe’s status as a former chairman of the Democratic Party and as well as his recent name being in the news running for governor, we thought this was a great way to engage students and get them interested in looking forward to the gubernatorial election come the fall.”
Members of College Democrats will organize trips to campaign for McAuliffe in the fall semester, before the election in November.
“In alum of the year, we look for a Georgetown alum who has served the Democratic community and we try to make it also relevant,” GUCD Events Director Audrey Denis (SFS ’15) said. “The fact that Terry McAuliffe is running for governor of Virginia made it seem appropriate for him to be our alum of the year.”
Last year, the College Democrats honored Ron Klain (COL ’83), a professor in the government department who formerly served as chief of staff to Vice Presidents Joe Biden and Al Gore.
After Tezel presents McAuliffe with the award, the candidate will address and take questions from students in attendance.
“One of the big reasons that I like the alum of the year is that we have a lot of students who are very interested in politics and who want to get involved post-Georgetown,” Tezel said. “What we can do with the alum of the year is showcase an example of a Georgetown student who went on to get very involved and become very successful in the realm of politics.”
Denis is excited to hear McAuliffe speak before she campaigns for him in the fall. Tezel said he hopes McAuliffe discusses topics relevant to education and students.
“I would also be very interested to see what he has specifically to say about us as college students and how he would [advocate] and thinks we should be advocated for when it comes to a lot of issues of importance to us,” Tezel said.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

