
June 5, 2014 by Ian Tice Leave a Comment 
Over the past three weeks, Georgetown notified 222 transfer applicants of their acceptance to the university. These 222 students were selected from an applicant pool of 1,964, indicating an admissions rate of just over 11 percent.
The university seeks to welcome 140 transfer students to campus this fall, according to Senior Associate Director of Admissions Bruce Chamberlin, a year after the university enrolled 228 transfer students in fall 2013.
According to Chamberlin, the target reflects multiple factors, including the rate of current students who transfer out and the number of students who study abroad.
“A lot of it depends on the percentage of students who study abroad. We certainly look at student attrition, which is very minimal — in other words, 98-plus percent of freshman come back as sophomores,” he said. “We look at all those variables that come into play.”
The number won’t be finalized until the university is sure on the number of students studying abroad.
“Really, the variable comes to the number of students who study abroad for the fall semester in particular,” Chamberlin said. “There’s still a little bit of fluidity in that number.”
The university must stay under the enrollment cap of 6,675 students imposed by the 2010 campus plan agreement.
The Georgetown University Student Association Transfer Council welcomed accepted transfer students June 3 via phone call. GUSA executives Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) and Omika Jikaria (SFS ’15) established the council in March.
“They reached out and called just about every admitted transfer student,” Chamberlin said. “I overheard some great conversations students were having with the transfer students.”
Jikaria pointed to the council’s role in attracting transfer candidates.
“[The council] consists of a group of transfer students who have been working tirelessly to improve the transfer experience at Georgetown. We believe that this will continue to grow as one of the many groups and offerings at Georgetown that attract such a large transfer applicant pool,” she wrote in an email. “The admitted transfer student calling was one of example of the great work this organization has been undertaking with the help of the Office of Undergraduate Admissions.”
Tezel agreed and cited other initiatives the council has planned.
“The Council has been hard at work with other initiatives as well. They have put in place a transfer mentorship program that should allow new students to more easily integrate into the Georgetown community,” he wrote in an email. “We believe that this will all lend to an improved student experience for transfer students.”
The rolling transfer admissions decisions started in the second week of May.
“We want to try to give students a final decision on their applications as soon as we can,” Chamberlin said.
Duke University, Johns Hopkins University and the University of Pennsylvania also release transfer admissions decisions in mid-May. The Universities of California, by contrast, release decisions in March and April.
Accepted transfer students have until June 15 to decide whether or not to enroll. The Office of Admissions keeps a transfer waitlist, but, according to Chamberlin, the office expects a yield rate of about 60 percent, meaning that the university will most likely not have to delve into the wait list to meet its target of 140.
Chamberlin expressed his belief in the quality of the incoming transfer class, which will include rising sophomores and juniors.
“The transfer class coming in this fall will be a fantastic one,” he said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


June 5, 2014 by Suzanne Monyak Leave a Comment 
After primary elections on Tuesday, Democrat Sandra Fluke (LAW ’12) will face Democrat Ben Allen in a run-off in the November general election for Ted Lieu’s (LAW ’94) vacated seat in the 26th District of the California State Senate.
An attorney and activist for women’s reproductive rights, Fluke, 33, attracted media attention in February 2012 when conservative talk show host Rush Limbaugh called her a “slut” for her advocacy of contraceptive coverage. She continued to fight for women’s rights, notably for equal pay between genders and increased access to contraception, in a speech at the 2012 Democratic National Convention.
Among the eight candidates, Fluke earned 19.7 percent of the vote, second to Allen, an attorney with Richardson & Patel LLP and a member of the Santa Monica-Malibu Board of Education, who earned 21.8 percent of the vote. In the California primary system, the top two vote-getters automatically advance to the general election, regardless of party affiliation. For a large portion of Tuesday night, Fluke and independent candidate Seth Stodder closely vied for the second spot, before Stodder finished third with 17.5 percent of the vote.
“Now is the time to turn my focus towards the general election. I’m looking forward to continuing to talk with voters about the issues important to us all: education affordability and access, environmental protection and water conservation, economic security and more,” Fluke said in a statement released Wednesday. “I’m proud the voters know that I will be the kind of progressive leader who isn’t afraid to stand up for what is right, and will always fight for them.”
College Democrats Chair Chandini Jha (COL ’16) voiced her support for Fluke’s campaign, noting her achievements as a young woman in politics.
“Honestly I think it’s a testament to the fact that she ran a good campaign. I think that obviously she had the highest name brand recognition nationally, and that kind of did help translate to results in California,” Jha said. “So I’m pretty excited. It’s not easy for young women to run for office so it’s really heartening to see, I think.”
Jordan Klein, a resident of Beverly Hills, which falls within the district, and a recent graduate of the University of Southern California, agreed.
“I voted for Sandra because she has demonstrated the toughness to stand up to Rush Limbaugh and others currently waging a war on women and their reproductive rights,” Klein said.
In her statement, Fluke emphasized a commitment to her supporters.
“I am immensely proud of my campaign. I want to start by thanking the grassroots supporters who stood with me,” Fluke said. “We ran a campaign that shows what kind of elected official I will be: one who is accountable to the individuals who voted me into office, not to special interests.”
A result of state redistricting, the 26th District will come into effect after the general election. Its boundaries currently correspond to that of Lieu’s 28th District, whose population currently exceeds 875,000.
Lieu, a former editor-in-chief of the Georgetown Law Journal, came second in the primary to replace United States Representative Henry Waxman (D-Los Angeles) in California’s 33rd Congressional District. Lieu will face Republican Elan Carr in the general election.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

