
March 28, 2014 by Kshithij Shrinath 7 Comments 
When Georgetown University Student Association President Trevor Tezel (COL ’15) signed the GUSA budget for fiscal year 2015 Wednesday, he officially ended the six-year run of the Collegiate Readership Program, after the GUSA senate’s Finance and Appropriations Committee suggested it be cut because of an impression that the program was underutilized by its intended demographic of undergraduates.
Tezel’s original budget proposal continued funding for the initiative, which had received support from all tickets during the GUSA executive campaign last month.
Collegiate Readership, which provides free copies of The Washington Post, The New York Times and USA Today to students on campus, received $14,000 in funding last year. The newspapers are located throughout campus, including in Sellinger Lounge, Red Square and Lauinger Library. The program was eliminated before, in 2009, but brought back in 2011.
Since signing the budget, GUSA executives have been trying to find a solution to reformat the program for the future.
Fin/App released the final budget that cut the program March 23, citing the impression that graduate students and professors were taking advantage of the newspapers early in the day, leaving few for undergraduates. Meredith Cheney (COL ’16), a GUSA senator on the committee, admitted that no extensive study was done on readership habits but focused on the importance of allocating GUSA’s $998,400 funding where it is most needed.
“We revisited it probably two or three times, but the general consensus was that we couldn’t spend $14,000 on an experiment that we didn’t know that was directly affecting undergraduates,” Cheney said. “We want our resources going to the right place.”
Tezel decided to approve the new budget allocations due, in part, to the long, complicated process of crafting the budget.
“There are a lot of difficult decisions for Fin/App across the board, and they’ve been working on this budget for a while,” Tezel said. “While we disagreed with cutting the program this year, we understand that it’s done in a much larger budgetary picture.”
The issue was passionately debated at the GUSA senate meeting. GUSA executive members hope to capitalize on this passion to evaluate steps going forward.
“We’re getting a working group together to investigate collaborative solutions for the short-term continuation for the program, and from there, to look at the long-term effectiveness of the program, and develop, if need be, possible alternatives going forward,” Tezel said.
GUSA’s Intellectual Life Chair Shweta Wahal (SFS ’16) emphasized that the working group, set to meet for the first time March 29, would focus on making sure any new incarnation of the readership program is more efficient.
“In my opinion, it’s going to be missed. [Our goal is] finding a way to do it more effectively, whether it is getting a GOCard swipe, or putting it in more optimal places,” Wahal said. “Maybe part of this revamped campaign is advertising those newspapers that already exist and finding a way to subsidize that cost.”
As the group goes forward, Wahal hopes to keep the value of Collegiate Readership in focus and reassure students that every effort will be made to salvage some aspects of the cut program.
“There’s something comforting about knowing those resources are out there and that the student government is committed to help provide those resources,” Wahal said.
The readership program’s price tag was non-negotiable at $14,000. While the GUSA senate did deliberate on the issue, they did not construct a method to make the program more effective in the two weeks between the release of the draft.
“I think the problem was, between the budget proposal and the deliberation, there really wasnt enough time to look into ways to make that $14,000 more efficient,” Wahal said.
Fin/App subsequently took the opportunity to allocate the money to other initiatives.
“[Center for Social Justice Advisory Board for Student Organizations] is receiving an increase of $12,000. … More money is also going to our own campus media, which I think is a priority over these other print news sources. [Student Activity Commission] is also getting new money,” Fin/App Chair Seamus Guerin (COL ’16) said. “These are the kinds of groups that we chose to prioritize over this [readership] initiative.”
Some students felt less positive about the changed allocation of money. Jacob Bennett (COL ’17) created a Facebook group, Hoyas for Readership, to increase awareness about the cuts to the program. As of publication, the group only has 13 members.
“$14,000 sounds like a lot of money to students, and it is a lot of money for an individual, but to an institution like Georgetown, $14,000 is not a substantial amount for newspapers,” Bennett said.
Guerin characterized this as a misunderstanding of how the allocations operate; the budget is based on the $156 student activities fee each student pays as part of tuition.
“[The budget total is] per multiple student-wide referenda, going back to, most recently, 2010, when the student activities fee was most recently restructured,” Guerin said. “So when you multiply $156 by 6,400 [the number of students who are full-time and not studying abroad for a year], you get the very mathematically sound number of $998,400 (the total GUSA budget); it’s not an arbitrary number in any sense.”
T. Chase Meacham (COL ’14) understood the reasoning behind the change, though he was sad to see the program lapse.
“I have worked with GUSA’s Fin/App Committee as a member of the Performing Arts Advisory Committee. Their job is very tough, and inevitably, some things have to go,” Meacham said. “I’m upset at the loss of the readership program, but grateful that it wasn’t me who had to make that choice.”
Students indicated that the loss of the free newspapers would be felt.
“Losing access to newspapers is a disservice because we as students don’t have the resources for our won subscriptions and have a shortage of credible news sources,” Estevan Cohn (SFS ’17), a regular newspaper reader, said.
Jack Murphy (COL ’17) concurred, citing the breadth of knowledge newspapers provide.
“I think we should have them, I think they’re important. I think more kids will read the news if we have newspapers there, I think it helps,” Murphy said. “I think there’s a good amount of students that read the newspaper and would like to have it, and if it’s not there, I think they know they ‘re missing out on some news that they’re not going to just find online.”

UGHHH says 
March 28, 2014 at 10:54 am
Well this is the stupidest thing GUSA has done in recent history.

Fully Informed Human says 
March 28, 2014 at 10:08 pm
Trevor is off to a horrible start. This was a terrible idea, and I’m so disappointed.

Good Idea says 
March 29, 2014 at 8:22 am
As a former GUSA senator (yes, not the best way to start this) I think ending this initiative is a smart move. At the end of the day, we have a limited budget and 14k towards newspapers, when students can access this information for free online, is absurd. Given how much the undergraduate student body already subsidizes non-students, such at the GUTS bus–which is a majority paid for by undergraduate fees and free to members of the community–student activities money needs to be reserved for students.

Ana Rosic says 
March 29, 2014 at 5:35 pm
Honestly I’m not surprised. Whenever I walked by these newspapers (even in the morning), they’d already be empty so I couldn’t take one. What Georgetown should do is pay for a school-wide online subscription to newspapers like the  New York Times.

Alex says 
March 29, 2014 at 10:49 pm
Better idea: why don’t we just put the paper boxes in student dorm lobbies? That way only students (not professors, not neighbors) will be able to get to them, since we’re the ones paying for them. 
And before someone says (as they did on the last article about this issue) that we should be happy to pay for professors’ newspapers, I’d like to point out that we already pay their salaries indirectly and they are more than capable of buying their own papers (or reading the articles online for free, at least for the Post and USA Today). The Student Activities Fund should be used for students only.

Chris says 
March 31, 2014 at 11:20 am
Ana Rosic is 100% correct here–the medium was not an effective way of promoting readership amongst undergraduate students–Georgetown should seek student discounts/access through these publications or figure out another way. In the meantime, $14k of savings makes good sense.

Seriously? says 
March 31, 2014 at 12:40 pm
“At the end of the day, we have a limited budget and 14k towards newspapers, when students can access this information for free online, is absurd.”
Really? Have you heard of this thing called a “Pay Wall”? More and more newspapers are using them – including the NYT. 
“Meredith Cheney (COL ’16), a GUSA senator on the committee, admitted that no extensive study was done on readership habits but focused on the importance of allocating GUSA’s $998,400 funding where it is most needed.”
So, no extensive study was done, so you really CANNOT prove that undergraduates are not the ones grabbing the papers in the morning. Show me the numbers to prove your claim and then maybe I’ll be less angry. But I bet that you can’t. (And frankly, I’ve never EVER seen a professor carrying around a newspaper with them, but I personally know multiple students who get to campus early for the express purpose of getting one of the copies of the Times.)
Worst move by GUSA in a long time. This senior is not pleased.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 28, 2014 by Laura Owsiany 3 Comments 
By early next week, thousands of high school seniors across the country will have come home from school to frighteningly small envelopes in their mailbox, containing either an acceptance or a rejection from Georgetown, with little distinguishing the two.
But many students waiting for a decision will instead listen to the results over the phone as their parents read them from home: of the top 12 schools that sent students to Georgetown last year, eight were boarding schools. Two were preparatory schools that do not offer boarding, and two were public schools.
The top five schools, Phillips Andover Academy in Andover, Mass., St. Ignatius Preparatory in San Francisco, Phillips Exeter Academy in Exeter, N.H., Choate Rosemary Hall in Wallingford, Conn., and The Lawrenceville School in Lawrenceville, N.J., submitted between 54 and 69 applications apiece. In total, the top 12 high schools accounted for just under 100 students, or approximately 6 percent, of total enrollment in the Class of 2017.
But with these high schools taking steps to increase diversity on their own campuses through scholarships and financial aid, “prep school” doesn’t necessarily mean white, affluent and Northeastern. In fact, Dean of Undergraduate Admissions Charles Deacon cites Georgetown’s top feeder schools as both a source of the kind of diversity Georgetown seeks in each freshman class and as an indicator of Georgetown’s success as a top university.
“I call some of those schools a better barometer of our U.S. News ranking than the actual news ranking because it tells you where the most high-powered students are applying to colleges and enrolling,” Deacon said.
Founded in 1778 in Western Massachusetts, Andover has served as an Ivy League pipeline for much of its existence, and the school sent 15 students to Georgetown last year — the most of any institution. Yet, with 48 percent of students on financial aid and 41.5 percent of students identifying as students of color, Andover is moving away from its stereotype as a boarding school for the elite.
“Andover is far more diverse as a population than say the 60 applicants from Kansas or the 60 applicants from Delaware,” Deacon aid. “Now that’s different today than it might have been 30 years ago when it was a much more homogenous population.”
Andover Director of College Counseling Sean Logan cited increasing diversity as a priority of the boarding school.
“I think it’s an issue that all schools are trying to deal with, how we recruit … high-achieving middle- and low-income kids when the national numbers just aren’t there. Andover does a pretty good job of that, especially in terms of the boarding school world,” Logan said.
Andover alumnus Kevin Ma (MSB ’17) said that while Georgetown and Andover have similar attitudes toward diversity, in his experience, Andover achieved a more diverse population than Georgetown.
“They have the motto [at Andover] ‘Youth From Every Corner’ and just the idea of getting people from all different cultures and nations and different parts of the States. I don’t think it’s as emphasized here at Georgetown,” Ma said.
Stefanie Palencia (COL ’15), an alumna of Lawrenceville who transferred to Georgetown from Mount Holyoke College, cited racial underrepresentation as a problem that both Georgetown and Lawrenceville have made it a priority to address.
“I think that just in terms of demographic they are very similar and there are the same problems just in terms of any social issues that might arise in any community, especially when you’re trying to reach out and spread higher education,” Palencia said.
Nandini Mullaji (SFS ’17), who attended Phillips Exeter Academy, has found in Georgetown a student body similar in composition to that of her prep school.
“I think [Georgetown] is much less diverse than Exeter, which I think might come as a shock to a lot of people,” Mullaji said. “Apart from that, you can definitely see a lot of the culture, whether it’s the way people dress, or just the way people behave, and I don’t know if it’s much of a boarding school thing, or if it’s just a New England atmosphere, but it’s definitely very similar.”
Compounding this racial diversity is a similar imperative to increase the socioeconomic diversity of the university.
According to Palencia, while socioeconomic diversity existed at Lawrenceville, scholarship students were not always seamlessly integrated with the rest of the student population.
“There was diversity. Sad to say, most of the time, I feel like people were able to identify the kids who were on financial scholarship,” Palencia.
Deacon described a similar “squeeze” on middle-income families at Georgetown, who cannot afford Georgetown’s sizeable $65,080-a-year tuition, but are ineligible to receive full financial aid.
“That’s a group of students that we’re admitting right now who are much more susceptible to the other [college] offers, the merit scholarships, let’s say, and other things, because it is a financial stress for families to pay the high cost,” Deacon said.
Outside of the sphere of prep schools, Georgetown’s top public feeder schools still tend to be located in some of the wealthiest counties in America.
Amy Liu (SFS ’15) attended Winston Churchill High School, a public school in Montgomery, Md., that regularly sends applicants to Georgetown and where the median household income, at $96,985, is almost three times the national median.
Liu described socioeconomic attitudes at Churchill as similar to Georgetown, but noted a difference in academic environment.
“With Georgetown it’s a more concentrated version of a specific cluster within Churchill that did very well in high school and was very ambitions,” Liu said.
The admissions office has taken other measures to up its diversity through a joint travel series with Harvard University, Stanford University, Duke University and the University of Pennsylvania. According to Deacon, using demographics derived from the Student Search function of the PSAT, the admissions office can expand its outreach to applicants from new high schools.
“We tend to do two things,” Deacon said. “One is we’re going to concentrate on making sure we keep in good touch with the students that traditionally send us the largest number of applicants. … We also know from Student Search where the highest concentration of minority backgrounds are located, and that might be an urban public school, and we try to include that school in our travels as well.”
The university also maintains a relationship with the 47 Jesuit-affiliated schools across the country and has taken special interest in building a strong pool of applicants from the new Cristo Rey schools, a network of Catholic preparatory schools that target underrepresented, urban youth.
According to Palencia, questions of diversity among students in both prep school and higher education remain on the table.
“I think it’s more common to participate in such discussions about [diversity], but I wouldn’t say it’s a conversation that people are comfortable with yet,” Palencia said.

guwinster says 
March 28, 2014 at 11:47 am
It sounds like Georgetown is just making up new excuses for why they should keep recruiting from the same places. Is Georgetown getting real diversity if it accepts a bunch of minorities who have spent the past four years being normed by prep schools, groomed to act and think like prep school students? A prep/boarding school may give financial aid to 40% percent of students, but when tuition costs 40-50k per year, that isn’t really saying much. The majority of kids on tuition assistance at these schools probably aren’t poor. Most of them probably don’t even fall in the bottom half of American family incomes. Likewise, a prep school may be 40% non-white, but a large number of those kids are going to be rich foreigners or upper and upper-middle income Americans. Georgetown, as well as these boarding schools, is still reaching out to the relatively privileged.

bred says 
March 28, 2014 at 2:51 pm
Just gonna point out that boarding school kids still get their mail delivered to their school…

asdfa asdfadsf says 
March 30, 2014 at 12:46 pm
Georgetown doesn’t have a “tuition” of 65k, sooo just gonna leave this here…
https://finaid.georgetown.edu/cost-of-attendance/undergraduate/
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 28, 2014 by Danny Funt Leave a Comment 
Hip-hop artists seldom shy from bravado, but moderator James Braxton Peterson, a professor of Africana studies at Lehigh University, began Thursday night’s event — featuring sociology professor Michael Eric Dyson and Nas — with deference.
“It’s an amazing opportunity in my career to be here in Gaston Hall at this university and to sit between the greatest black intellectual of our time and the greatest emcee of our time,” Peterson told a capacity crowd.
The former was Dyson, a prolific commentator who made national headlines with the introduction of the course “Sociology of Hip-Hop — Urban Theodicy of Jay-Z” in fall 2011. The latter was Nasir “Nas” Jones, the legendary hip-hop artist from Queens, N.Y., who has sustained a career over two decades as an icon of his craft.
The three discussed the state of hip-hop and Nas’ acclaimed catalog for more than an hour, but the main focus of the night was a defense of Nas, and those like him, to rightfully appear in a venue like Gaston.
Hip-hop in academia has indeed met resistance, as evidenced by a provocative 2011 column in The Hoya in response to Dyson’s new course — Steven Wu’s (COL ’12) “Jay-Z Not a 21st-Century Homer” (A3, October 31, 2011). When asked why Nas belongs in the college classroom, Dyson argued that Nas ought to be held among the greatest artists and writers in history.
“Just as we study Hemingway,” Dyson began, listing off a series of illustrious literary names, “and just as we study Homer,” he concluded, drawing raucous approval for what may have been a subtle dig at Wu.
“We’re sitting in the presence of greatness,” Dyson continued. “Recognize.”
Speaking in his signature low, raspy voice, Nas appeared moved by the occasion.
“When I first started, I thought it would be cool to speak at colleges, but that it would never happen,” Nas said. Now, he has a hip-hop fellowship in his name at Harvard University and is performing at the Kennedy Center on Saturday to promote the rerelease of his classic debut, now called “Illmatic XX,” on its 20th anniversary.
Nas recorded what many consider his magnum opus, “Illmatic” in 1994, as a teenager. Now 40, he has maintained a reputation as what Dyson calls “a rhetorical genius,” up through his most recent release in 2011, “Life Is Good,” which received universal acclaim. Nas has released 11 albums and sold more than 25 million records, all while maintaining an artistic integrity that many during the question-and-answer period praised with nostalgia. Such regret for the downward evolution of rap led Nas to declare on his 2006 album title “Hip Hop Is Dead.”
Dyson has written extensively on the significance of hip-hop artistry and culture, and in 2011, he co-edited the book “Born to Use Mics: Reading Nas’s Illmatic,” which offers academic perspectives on what is considered to be among the greatest rap albums in history. Nas told Dyson on stage that he never finished reading the book because it was overwhelming to read such complex analysis of his own life.
Hundreds lined up for the event, many of whom were turned away despite arriving hours in advance. For half an hour before the event, those in Gaston were treated to a set of Nas classics performed by the renowned DJ-turned-Harvard-educator 9th Wonder. There was a mix of young and old in attendance; the first question of the night came from a seventh grader, while another came from a man who said he raised his children on Nas.
Kat Kelley (NHS ’14), a prominent women’s rights advocate on campus, asked Nas about his recent tweet likening feminism to the mafia. He explained that in hip-hop, “the mafia” is a metaphor for a venerable squad, with icons such as 2Pac and the Notorious B.I.G. using phrases like “the mob” routinely. Their exchange highlighted the ongoing tendency of hip-hop vernacular to be lost in translation with some audiences.
Nas and Jay-Z engaged in one of hip-hop’s most notorious feuds in the early 2000s over the right to the title of “King of New York.” In Jay-Z’s diss record “Takeover,” he famously challenges Nas’ thoughtful and introspective lyricism with the line, “Your s*** is garbage / What you tryna kick, knowledge?”
When Patterson announced the conclusion of questions, dozens of audience members pleaded to be heard. (They were somewhat put at ease when Dyson announced that Nas had agreed to return to Georgetown, next time at a bigger venue on campus.)
“It’s so crazy to hear you say I have knowledge or wisdom. I know some people who would beg to differ,” Nas replied in response to one of the final questions.
When Nas concluded his response, Dyson noted what every in the crowd was probably thinking: “Man, that was some wisdom.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 28, 2014 by Mallika Sen Leave a Comment 
Nate Tisa (SFS ’14) and Adam Ramadan (SFS ’14) completed their year-long terms as Georgetown University Student Association president and vice president on March 22. The Hoya sat down with the pair to examine the events of the past year — including the One Georgetown, One Campus campaign and the introduction of “What’s A Hoya?” — and the general culture of GUSA and Georgetown. The full conversation will be updated here, shortly.
 
Reflecting on your year in office, what has your proudest accomplishment been?
Nate: I knew this one was coming, but it’s still not that easy to answer. I think, generally, coming in and having seen a couple different models for GUSA, we really wanted to make student advocacy effective in a variety of situations, sexual assault. In terms of the campus plan, we wanted to react to that in some way. We tacked on campus social policies, which include space fees and things like that. I would have to respond with two things. I think the response to the campus plan through the satellite campus campaign, One Georgetown, One Campus, I think worked really well. It created a reset for the way students and the university react on the campus plan. It really empowered the students. And then “What’s a Hoya?” on a separate end. Over the course of our term, we really started to see the way student culture can affect the student experience, sometimes even more so than university policy.
Adam: I think it was the One Georgetown, One Campus. I think the big reason for that is we were able to take a variety of student opinions, student voices, student positions and centralize them into one. And we’ve seen that, plenty of times, a united student front is what will drive change. And we were really able to give the student body a vehicle to express themselves in a manner the university administration couldn’t ignore.
 
What was the biggest challenge you faced during the year?
Nate: I think the biggest challenge, as a 20-year-old, entrusted with representing 7,000 students, is developing a leadership style, which is what you’re doing as a young adult. You’re still learning; you’re still kind of growing as a person while at the same time trying to lead a GUSA team, which is really counting on you for a lot of direction and support to build a positive culture; it can be a lot. I think at times the pressure of being responsible both to student administrators as a student representative, to your own team as their leader and then to students who elected you, it could be difficult.
Adam: I think one of the biggest challenges for me personally was balancing the trust and relationships of the students who we were elected by to represent and to act on behalf of, but also the relationships and trust that we built with administrators. There were many times when we wanted to push something we didn’t think that would be a viable, positive option for the student body and being able to convey that to the administration is a way where we wouldn’t lose sight of our broader relationship, we wouldn’t lose sight of the other projects we were working together on, we wouldn’t strain those relationships to the point where we wouldn’t be able to work together moving forward.
 
 
Could you identify something you regret or a decision that you’d make differently?
Adam: I’m not sure that I regret this, but I think if we could have done something different it would be to have better foresight in terms of the campus plan and how impending issues would have been. Ultimately I think we handled them. We learned it on a quick learning curve, and we were able to respond to some things, satellite campus once again, relatively well, but I think if we would have just understood the true magnitude and importance of this at the onset of our term, it would have put everything in perspective.
Nate: In terms of decisions, one of the big things that I wish we had handled better was the veto of the SIPS bill. I didn’t think it would be a big deal. I mean it’s the constitutional power of the president to issue vetoes. I called the speaker the night before and told him that I was going to do this and send it back because they made a mistake. He said ‘OK.’ If I thought it would have been such an attraction to student media then we could’ve just ignored it or done something different.
 
The Hoya conducted a poll that revealed that 60 percent of those surveyed had no opinion of your administration. How do you feel about this result?
Nate: I think “What’s a Hoya?” came out of that problem of engagement because it’s a 7,000-person community, but getting information across, promoting a culture of service, promoting a culture of inclusion and diversity is very difficult actually because we all tend to live segmented lives. You have different student groups that are involved in very different things. You have some people who aren’t involved in any student groups. People live very different lifestyles. Some people don’t go to Lau; some people aren’t going to Leo’s, so it’s really hard to expose the entire student body to the values that Georgetown is trying to expose us to. That’s why GUSA’s fundamental thing has always been: How do you get the message out to as many people as you can? How do you involve as many people as you can? It’s a shame if you go through the four years and don’t engage in something.
 
What do you think the biggest misperceptions of GUSA are on campus? Why do you think that students are prevented from seeing the scope of what GUSA does?
Adam: GUSA as an institution doesn’t do what it does to get recognition. GUSA as an institution does what it does for the benefit of the student body experience. And so, those conversations — the push for a satellite campus, the development of “What’s A Hoya?,” the recycling bins in all the dorms — if we wanted the recognition maybe we could have, you know, gotten a GUSA sticker and put it in front of each recycling bin. So every time you ever go and throw something out, you take it out, and that’s what you see. But that wasn’t what we were aiming to do. We’re aiming to promote sustainability. We’re aiming to promote a more conscious campus when it comes to sustainability, so I guess that would be my response.
Nate: The other thing is, GUSA’s almost never working alone. So we’re always, and we should always be, working with university departments, different initiatives that have other student groups. But certainly I guess that makes it less clear about exactly what GUSA is doing. And it shows communication, even with campus media we had a lot of different initiatives in there. Not everyone reads campus media, in fact most people probably don’t. It’s a challenge to get it out there.
 
What demographic of students is least engaged on campus and which demographic is least represented in GUSA?
Nate: It’s hard for us to say which demographic is the least engaged without stereotyping a demographic. We’ve worked with people from almost every background you can think of: all four schools, all majors, all ethnic backgrounds, club backgrounds. I think there’s a lot of stereotypes out there about what types of people engage. In the past two years, both president and vice president of GUSA have been in the SFS. I think that’s tough to pinpoint, especially because if they’re not engaged then the chances of them seeing us are lower.
Adam: I think if I had to give you an answer I would possibly say the senior class, because at that point it’s really trying to savor and enjoy the little bit of time you have left. And I’d say off-campus students you just see less. It’s incredible what a difference of going from Burleith to Walsh down 35th Street instead of going through campus through Henle makes.
Nate: In terms of GUSA, I think our administration was diverse in terms of gender [and] background. I’ll say two things about GUSA: [On] socioeconomic class, in order to do a lot of the service GUSA does for the community, you have to be able to afford to give up a lot of your time, and some students can’t do that. If you have to work extensive part-time jobs to support your education, it’s going to be really tough to dedicate as much time, and that’s a shame. I think we’ve both certainly felt it at times. I would be going to GUSA meetings all day, and I would have no money to buy a sandwich from Vital Vittles. That’s just how it was. Another, especially with the senate, is still gender. The senate is getting better in terms of makeup between men and women, but there’s still an underrepresentation of women leadership. I think that’s a problem that I think Georgetown is a whole needs to work at, because it’s not just GUSA that has the problem.
 
Nate, as Georgetown’s first gay president, did you feel that that identification had any place or responsibility upon you in your term as office?
Nate: That question gets to a lot of tensions in the LGBTQ community at Georgetown and I think nationally, even among the LGBTQ community. Something that we didn’t really talk about throughout the year was the contacts that I was getting from random people throughout the country. We got a lot of mail, some of it was positive, some of it was very negative. A lot of people are praying for my soul in churches in South Florida. I did feel pressure from some people in the community to go out and champion all their initiatives, and then some people wanted me to champion none of them because they wanted me to prove that it didn’t matter I was gay. There was a huge tension. Neither side really saw the other as legitimate, so I was at the nexus of that, and that’s a broader problem the LGBT community faces here and nationally, that division. When I first came in I felt very strongly, “I might be the first, but I can’t be the last.” I promoted the LGBT mentorship program, which is a pilot.
To be honest, I think one of the things that has mattered to me more at my time at Georgetown than my LGBT identity is my socioeconomic identity, and that didn’t get as much attention as I think it should, because if you look at the overall body of GUSA president and vice presidents over the past few decades, it’s overwhelmingly privileged in terms of money, and I don’t think Adam and I would identify as privileged in terms of money, but that didn’t get much attention because that issue is not that trendy national issue.
 
What are your personal plans for the future?
Nate: I’m going to be working in D.C., in federal consulting for the next few years. Law school is on the horizon. This job has definitely shaped the way about the way I think about my future.
Adam: Nothing set in stone for me, grad school within the next couple of years for sure. I’d like to stay here in D.C., but there’s nothing locked down yet. I’m looking at Georgetown’s Masters in Public Policy.
 
Looking back, would you do this year in GUSA again?
Adam: They all said to me in last year’s transition meeting, “This is the best job you’ll never want to do again.” I’m extremely happy I did. I think I’ve gotten so much out of it, and it’s kind of shaped me. I don’t know. I’d like to say I would, but who knows.
Nate: Not next year, but in a heartbeat. I mean I’ve loved doing this stuff for a long time. It’s going to be hard to let go. We’ve really made a difference, and as a 17 to 21 year old, those opportunities are amazing and unparalleled.
 
This interview has been condensed for space and edited for clarity.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 28, 2014 by Johnny Verhovek 2 Comments 
With election day just four days away, the District is fixed on recent polls that place embattled Mayor Vincent Gray and D.C. Councilmember Muriel Bowser (D-Ward 4) locked in dead heat to win the Democratic nomination for D.C. mayor.
But with all the attention the race has garnered among D.C. residents, campaigning and local political talk has fallen largely on deaf ears at the Hilltop.
Georgetown University Student Association President Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15), a former president of the College Democrats, said he thought students have some knowledge of the race, but encouraged them to look more closely at the candidates platforms and how they may affect them going forward.
“I think Georgetown students are somewhat aware of the D.C. mayoral election but not to the extent that they should be. We need to make sure that the individual leading our city is prepared to represent student voices, whether it be through a commitment to the creation of a mayoral youth advisory board or the expansion of student tenant rights,” Tezel said.
The face of the D.C. electorate has changed drastically since Gray was elected in to office in 2010. Since that year, more than 80,000 new Democratic voters have registered in the District, according to data from the U.S. Census Bureau and D.C. Board of Elections. Of those 80,000 newly register voters, nearly two-thirds — 51,700 to be exact — are under the age of 35. Precinct 6, which encompasses Georgetown’s campus and the Burleith-Hillendale neighborhood, has seen 748 new voter registrations since 2010.
According to College Democrats Chair Chandini Jha (COL ’16), the mayoral election and students’ stake therein have the potential to create a demonstrable effect on university policies, through negotiations such as the 2010 Campus Plan agreement.
“Georgetown students should definitely care because local policies actually have a huge impact on students’ lives. For example, the campus plan agreement that will eventually mandate 90 percent of students to live on campus was a product of local D.C policies. This profoundly affects student housing and the activities the university will do in order to attract students back on campus,” Jha said.
Incoming GUSA Undersecretary for D.C. Relations Olivia Hinerfeld (SFS ’17) echoed Jha’s concern for the potential role the new mayor could have in shaping future campus plan agreements, the next of which will take shape before 2017.
“I believe that many students are less aware of the upcoming D.C. mayoral race than they should be,” Hinerfeld said, “The changes that are coming into play as a result of the 2010 Campus Plan are having far-reaching effects on student life, such as the construction of new residence halls and the introduction of proposals that would significantly change housing requirements.”
College Republicans Vice Chair Abbey McNaughton (COL ’16) concurred that several aspects of the mayoral race, including crime rates and the state of the local economy, should be relevant to Georgetown’s population.
“I think that students will definitely be, or should be, looking at the candidate whose platform will include things that are going to better the Georgetown community. That includes safety, that includes crime rates, that includes a lot of the neighborhood issues that I think are extremely relevant to on-campus life. I feel like students should take a stake in this — Democratic, Republican — it matters,” McNaughton said.
Part of the problem of engaging students in D.C. politics is that few students are registered to vote in the District.
“It is hard to be a convincing voting bloc since most students are not registered to vote in D.C.,” Hinerfeld said “If mayoral candidates believed that they stood to gain something by engaging with university students, I believe they would be more likely to visit campus and target students in their campaign efforts.”
Hannah Howell (COL ’17) agreed.
“Because we’re a private school, I don’t feel like we’ll be directly affected. I don’t feel like I have the right to comment on D.C. because I’m not a true … I haven’t lived here, and I really don’t like go into D.C. all that much,” Howell said.
For Jha, this reflects students’ closer ties with their communities back home than with their temporary residence in D.C.
“If at all concerned with local politics, people still feel really tied to their home state and what’s going on there. I do think GU students are passionate about national issues, but often the less glamorous, more technocratic local issues get overlooked,” Jha said.
As part of the Center for Social Justice’s Education Week on Tuesday, the CSJ hosted a panel discussion on the role of education in the upcoming elections. Moderated by Maurice Jackson, an associate professor and chair of the D.C. African-American Affairs Commission, the panel featured Washington Post journalists Mark Plotkin and Mike DeBonis as well as professor Douglas Reed.
“The primary is big, and for the most part, I don’t think that candidates have taken hard stances on education,” D.C. Reads coordinator Allison Link (SFS ’14) said. “A lot of the big issues are redistricting and what to do about the middle schools, which are seen as less successful in the D.C. Public School system, and then also the issue about the growing charter movement in D.C. and how the public schools and the charter schools can best balance that relationship.”
Link said she and fellow D.C. Reads coordinators have a significant stake in election results as it affects the public schools in which they tutor.
“Because we work in the DCPS district, we’re interested in how candidates are going to proceed with a lot of the reforms going on in D.C. Public Schools,” Link said
Bowser’s campaign manager Bo Shuff highlighted the trend of area university graduates remaining in the District after graduation as one of the key reasons students should be more engaged in the upcoming election.
“What we’ve seen the last 10 years is more and more young people moving into the city regardless of where they went to school, as well as more students who went to school here staying here. To those students and graduates, who’s calling the shots matters when it comes to many issues in the District,” Shuff said
However, for students unaffiliated with campus organizations that regularly engage in local politics, the impending election has made little noise. Anne Scattergood (COL ’17) questioned whether or not it is the university’s responsibility to inform students of local politics.
“I mean I feel guilty for not keeping up with it because I mean all of us at some point in time are going to be affected by any of the policies,” Scattergood said. “I don’t know whether or not it’s like the responsibility of the university to provide that information or whether it should be like students going out and seeking that information.”
This is not the case for Sarah Lloyd (NHS ’14), who attributed her own disinterest in the election to leaving the District in a few months.
“I guess I’m too busy, but kind of don’t care also because I’m going to move away; I’m a senior so like I’m peacing out,” Lloyd said.
Mayoral candidate and Councilmember Tommy Wells (D-Ward 6) said he wants to propose a program that would help students with student loan debt in exchange for working in the D.C. government as a way to incentivize young people’s involvement in local politics.
“One of the things that I would support would be a loan forgiveness program to get university graduates to work in D.C. government because the loans that our students have are astronomical. If we had a loan forgiveness program that could attract our local graduates — that’s something that could be a major help,” Wells said.
The D.C. Democratic primary will take place April 1 and includes candidates Gray, Bowser, Councilmembers Jack Evans (D-Ward 2), Vincent Orange (D-Ward 5 ), Tommy Wells (D-Ward 6), restaurateur Andy Shallal and former State Department official Reta Jo Lewis. The closest polling location to Georgetown University is the Duke Ellington School of the Arts at 3500 R Street NW, which will be open from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. Students, and others, who are not registered to vote can register that day by demonstrating proof of residency and showing government-issued identification.
[…] Original post: In Local Politics, Student Interest Wanes — The Hoya […]
[…] Georgetown students don’t particularly care much about the election (The Hoya) […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 28, 2014 by Laura Owsiany Leave a Comment 
Georgetown officials joined flocks of art and music enthusiasts in Austin, Texas, at the South by Southwest Conference when Chief Information Officer Lisa Davis, Provost Robert Groves and Program Manager for Innovation and New Media Z. Michael Wang (MSB ’07) presented a standing-room-only seminar titled “Designing the Future University From the Inside” on March 5.
Though Georgetown has attended the conference in past years, this is the first year that the university has participated in the conference’s Education Week.
The panel began with a video on the state of higher education today and the massive changes education is undergoing with respect to affordability, packaging and delivery. Davis discussed the role of technology in the future of higher education, as universities attempt to best integrate technology into academics.
“My role was to discuss how we’re integrating the technology with all of the disruption occurring in higher education today, how we work in partnership from a technology and an academic and research perspective to build that future university,” she said.
Groves discussed the Georgetown Center for New Designs in Learning and Scholarship’s ITEL program, short for Initiative for Tech-Enhanced Learning, on the course and degree levels.
“How do you reimagine and repackage everything the university delivers in terms of degree into different content packages?” Wang said.
Wang, who moderated the panel, addressed the larger picture of engagement with the community as well as the innovations that directly involve the Georgetown community, such as the Hackathon.
The audience, compromised of K-12 and higher educators, vendors, technology education startups and government representatives, was able to participate in the panel on multiple levels through in-person dialogue as well as on social media.
“We had lots of questions and engagement from the audience. We had a lot going on Twitter, tweeting about what we were discussing, so there was a lot of excitement and activity going on during our panel,” Davis said.
Twitter users tweeted about the event under the hashtag #GUatSxSW to respond to and discuss the panel and to follow Georgetown’s progress in the future.
Some of the tweets shared links and personal commentary, lauding the interactive format of the panel.
James Britton, communications coordinator at Purdue University, tweeted, “Great format!”
Afterwards, the audience had the opportunity to divide into small discussion groups, allowing participants to delve deeper into the higher education conversation.
Wang said that the heavy feedback and energy generated from the conference is indicative of a growing interest in the future of higher education.
“Even though we’re big organizations, institutions, I think there’s a lot of excitement around the fact that universities can be innovative and be experimental as well, and that we’re not just going to be on the sidelines,” Wang said.
Looking forward, Davis said that she hopes Georgetown can a play a role in the South by Southwest conference in the future.
“We thoroughly enjoyed ourselves. We enjoyed doing the panel; we enjoyed the engagement with the folks that were there. We won’t know until the fall whether we’re invited back, and as we work through the many initiatives that are going on through the provost’s office in designing the future university, whether we come back and offer another panel or we come back from a participation standpoint,” Davis said.
“Georgetown will continue to innovate and use this experience to further the relationship between technology and education,” Davis said.
“I think what was great about the panel was it gave us an opportunity to create new partnerships with possible companies and some of the innovation and technology they’re using. So I have many follow-up meetings with about three or four of those vendors on some of the technology capabilities that we might be able to use here at Georgetown as well as peer institutions,” she said.
Wang, a Georgetown graduate, said that he felt proud to be a part of Georgetown’s first South by Southwest experience, especially as it involved participation from all different areas of the university.
“There was a lot of pride in seeing that we as a university invested in, put in the effort to, for the first time, be at South by Southwest, share what we’re doing, and sort of take that leap,” Wang said.
Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly identified Z. Michael Wang’s title as Chief Innovation Officer. He is the Program Manager for Innovation and New Media. Additionally, SxSWedu does not constitute its own week but rather a four day event in conjunction with the SxSW conference.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 28, 2014 by Madeleine Thornburn Leave a Comment 
The release of the new Georgetown University Student Association executive staff appointments, resulting in the consolidation of two positions and the introduction of others, followed the inauguration of GUSA President Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) and Vice President Omika Jikaria (SFS ’15) on Monday.
The appointment press release distributed by GUSA indicated a minor shift in positions within the GUSA staff, as the once separate positions of Washington, D.C. relations and neighborhood relations have now been consolidated under the supervision of the Secretary of Neighborhood Relations. An Undersecretary of D.C. Relations will report to the Secretary of Neighborhood Relations. Both of these positions will be overseen by Deputy Chief of Staff Michelle Mohr (COL ’15).
“I think just looking at the roles themselves, just basically talking to the neighborhood relations [people], there are a lot of things coming up in the next year, especially looking at the campus plan. … We’re really looking at tackling those issues starting now actually and working our way through them,” Mohr said.
The position of D.C. relations was established during the former administration of GUSA President Nate Tisa (SFS ’14) and Vice President Adam Ramadan (SFS ’14).
“We created our D.C. relations [position] at the beginning of our term because we wanted to better serve students who lived off campus and advocate for students at a more district-wide level. After talking with Trevor and Omika, what they’re doing makes sense,” Tisa said.
As for the effects of this change, Tisa believes the position will take on a larger role this year.
“The Neighborhood Relations Secretary, from what I understand, will have a bigger role to play in the future, which I think is a positive move, so in other words, they’re working on some of the same issues, just restructuring the way it’s done,” Tisa said.
The staff role of Secretary of Student Space is another new addition.
“The Secretary of Student Space is going to be working on a wide range of issues, including campus living options, some of the new buildings and renovations and speaking to the administration about those, as well as looking at how we better utilize study spaces and outdoor areas on campus,” Tezel said.
The position may be especially important in the coming year, as new on-campus housing and junior on-campus living requirements are discussed and possibly changed.
“We think it’s really important to have students involved in those conversations,” Jikaria said.
Notably, new additions to the cabinet include positions of Secretary of Transfer Affairs and a Secretary of Entrepreneurship.
“The Secretary of Transfer Affairs is going to provide a go-to advocacy body for transfer students to help with the housing process and NSO, assuring that they are friendly and include the voices of transfer students,” Tezel said.
Tezel added that the entrepreneurship position will exhibit the budding culture of entrepreneurship at Georgetown and its need for advocacy.
“As the university culture tries to become more innovative and people try to take on projects such as startups and innovations, it’s important to get GUSA behind these students,” Jikaria said.
While talking to students during the campaign, Tezel and Jikaria recognized the need for the representation of certain communities on campus that had not been previously acknowledged.
“By finding students [in GUSA] that were already extremely passionate about these issues, we have further involved them in GUSA in order to use GUSA as a vehicle to advocate and get attention through our administration,” Tezel said.
Despite running in the executive GUSA race earlier this year, Sam Greco (SFS ’15), Zach Singer (SFS ’15), Thomas Lloyd (SFS ’15) and Jimmy Ramirez (COL ’15) will not serve on Tezel and Jikaria’s staff.
Although Singer met with Tezel and Jikaria, a formal role for Singer in the staff was never discussed.
“Trevor and I and Omika met. We talked about it a little bit. At this point, it was, I think, in the best that I wasn’t formally involved in the [staff], just the way things worked out. It wasn’t a shock; it wasn’t a surprise; it was all talked about for a while,” Singer said.
Greco will continue to serve as speaker of the GUSA senate until his term ends at the end of September.
“[I will be] working to make sure that all of us are working hard, improving student life and improve the relationship between the senate and the executives,” Greco said.
Lloyd will be working as a leader with “What’s a Hoya?” and will be particularly active as incoming freshmen get to campus in the fall.
“My job will be to organize diversity programming and expanding the scope of ‘What’s a Hoya?’ [and] looking at ways to make the program more accessible to different student groups,” Lloyd said. “This will be my first time in any formal GUSA capacity.”
Overall, many of the positions remain similar to the former administrations.
“I know, in terms of the positions, that they largely maintained the model we built last year. … I think one of the strengths of GUSA is that every year we expand in some way the services we offer,” Tisa said. “With us, we expanded with the tenant association, the building advocacy with the arts, and, with Trevor and Omika, they’ve expanded into new areas like entrepreneurship, and that’s a very positive step.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 28, 2014 by Kshithij Shrinath Leave a Comment 
With Monday’s announcement of its Myriad Voices, a cross-cultural festival spanning more than two years, the Laboratory of Global Performance and Politics continues its goal of bringing together performance and theater with international affairs.
The dual vision of Cynthia Schneider, professor of diplomacy in the School of Foreign Service, and Derek Goldman, professor of theater and performance studies and artistic director of the Davis Performing Arts Center, saw the founding of the Lab, as it is commonly known, almost a year ago.
Schneider outlined a three-pronged approach to achieving the Lab’s goals of examining the intersection of theater and politics. The approach began by holding policy conversations about performances from abroad.
“We also are creating new work with our students here and having them engage with students and other people of their age in other parts of the world,” Schneider said.
The second step of the approach includes student work on the subjects presented, culminating with courses taught jointly by the two professors, attended by both students from the School of Foreign Service and the department of theater and performance studies.
The Lab’s inception stemmed from Schneider and Goldman’s commonalities. Both felt a need for the Lab when they hosted a conference in the summer of 2012 with the use of a Reflective Engagement in the Public Interest grant, bringing together people interested in the topics of theater and international affairs.
“We saw from that gathering that there was a tremendous interest and need,” Schneider said. “There are many, many other people interested in this intersection, and they had nowhere else to go. I do believe our program is unique, and so we attract a lot of interest from outside.”
The specific focus of the Lab positions it as a leader and resource in the field.
“It was out of these conversations that this vision for this partnership between theater and performance studies and the School of Foreign Service came, being a resource center for the field, being a convening space for our students in the curriculum and in programming, and really trying to bring the arts and policy world together in deeper dialogue,” Goldman said.
Goldman pointed to the energy at Georgetown with its commitment to politics, social justice and cura personalis as the perfect breeding ground for the initiative.
Over the past year, the Lab hosted theater groups from abroad for performances aiming to explore politics more deeply. Schneider highlighted the Freedom Theatre, a group from a refugee camp in Palestine who adapted the play “The Island,” a South African piece about apartheid, as a perfect example of the benefits of the Lab. The group performed at Georgetown in September.
“If it was just presented as a lecture, maybe nobody would have believed him. But instead what they saw was the story of two people in prison — and saw what that was like, their hopes, their fears, their dreams,” she said. “You learn through someone’s stories. … The most effective way — and this is just a neurological fact — to impact someone is through a story. So presenting this material in the context of play was such a powerful way to do it.”
Students who attended the event were awed by its intensely personal nature.
“Seeing ‘The Island’ taken out of its South African context and dropped into the Israeli-Palestinian situation was pretty powerful and pretty provocative, and that it was happening in the U.S. capital raised the intensity of the conversation taking place,” Ben Card (COL ’17) said. “Being in the same space as a performance humanizes politics in a way that rarely happens.”
In addition to the performances themselves, Schneider referenced policy discussions after the theatrical display as critical to the Lab, pointing to an example of Madeleine Albright speaking on her experience with Václav Havel, the first president of the Czech Republic, after “Anticodes,” a performance based on Havel’s poetry, in December.
Both professors noted that the end goal of the Lab is to use the performances to humanize and expand traditional understandings of politics, which often just focus on issues.
“Theater, because of its narrative dimensions, because of its live, interpersonal dimensions, has a real and human contact. It’s much harder in that context to dismiss the human dimensions of stories,” Goldman said.
Schneider combatted any skepticism of the medium of theater by highlighting the performance’s allowance for greater integration.
“I recognize that we’re at the School of Foreign Service. We’re not at the London School of Drama,” Schneider added. “I want the information that the people get through the performances then to be integrated into the knowledge they have already and will gain going forward about the particular subject.”
With positive feedback received from both Georgetown and the broader community thus far, the Laboratory will progress with Myriad Voices, a project involving a number of events aimed to increase understanding of majority-Muslim populations around the world.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 28, 2014 by Molly Simio Leave a Comment 
Chris Kluwe, a former punter for the Minnesota Vikings, discussed LGBTQ advocacy in the realm of professional sports in the Edmund A. Walsh Building on Wednesday night.
During the event, which was sponsored by the LGBTQ Resource Center and the Georgetown University Lecture Fund, Kluwe emphasized the importance of respecting each individual’s personal liberty and standing up for equality.
“If we want to live in a world where we all have the freedom to pursue what we want to pursue — to live the way we want to live — then we have to make sure that everyone else has that same freedom as well,” Kluwe said.
Kluwe gained recognition for his LGBTQ advocacy and allyship after publicly releasing a letter that he had sent to Maryland State Assemblyman Emmett Burns in 2012. The letter condemned Burns’ attempt to silence the opinions of Baltimore Ravens Linebacker Brendon Ayanbadejo, who supports same-sex marriage. Burns had written a letter asking the team to limit Ayanbadejo’s freedom of expression.
Kluwe defended Ayanbadejo’s ideals and his right to express them.
“Empathy is very much a self-centered view of the world in that you understand that if you want to be free to live your own life, then everyone else has to have that same freedom. Because, if they don’t, then the whole system doesn’t work,” Kluwe said.
Kluwe was released from the Vikings in May 2013.
Earlier this year, in an open letter entitled “I Was an NFL Player Until I was Fired by Two Cowards and a Bigot,” Kluwe alleged that he was released from the team because of his LGBTQ activism.
“It didn’t just happen to me; it’s happened to millions of people across the country. There’s still plenty of states where it’s entirely legal to be fired from your job simply because of your sexuality and that’s not something that a stable society should have,” Kluwe said.
An ongoing, independent investigation is exploring Kluwe’s claim about his release.
“It’s really impressive that he basically doesn’t even know if he’s going to have a job ever again but he’s still advocating,” Laura Whitehill (NHS ’16), who attended the event, said.
Many of the 12 students who attended the event posed questions about Michael Sam. Sam, who publicly announced his homosexuality after playing college football for four years, will be the first openly gay active NFL player if he is signed by an NFL team.
Kluwe does not believe that Sam’s sexuality will create tension among his prospective teammates.
“He’ll be fine with the players in the locker room because the majority of the players just don’t care. They’re a younger generation. They’re growing up in a society that says that this isn’t something we should be worrying about,” Kluwe said.
Instead, Kluwe expects that Sam will face more problems dealing with coaches and management, who are more likely to be influenced by stereotypes about homosexuals.
“Stereotypes are so easy for people to fall back on because you don’t have to think about it. … The stereotypes are lazy, and falling into that trap means that you’re excluding so much of what makes someone a human being that you’re doing yourself a disservice because you’ll never get to know who that person is,” Kluwe said.
Kluwe referenced the language used by some coaches and officials who have said that the presence of an openly gay player creates a distraction in the locker room.
“It’s a lot of the same things that were said when Jackie Robinson was preparing to enter Major League Baseball. ‘He’s going to tear the locker room apart. Players just won’t understand,’” Kluwe said. “It’s our job as a society to hold those people accountable … for what they’re actually saying, not just what they’re saying on the surface. Because what they’re really saying is, ‘We don’t want a gay player in our locker room.’”
Olivia Smith (COL ’14) said she attended the event because of Kluwe’s advocacy.
“I feel like [Kluwe] is very unique among football players — at least in my limited knowledge of them — so I think that’s a little disappointing because he’s one of only a few who are willing to speak out,” Smith said.“I think its that it’s exciting that there is someone like him who’s still really connected to the football world but also connected to the world of advocacy.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 28, 2014 by Molly Simio Leave a Comment 
In an effort to increase reflection and service beyond the one week of spring break, the Center for Social Justice’s Alternative Spring Break program expanded pre- and post-trip activities starting this spring.
This endeavor began with an extensive planning process that encouraged thoughtfulness and intentionality.
Stefan Rajiyah (SFS ’14), the head of the ASB Board, said that leaders were encouraged to consider the importance and relevance of each activity they planned.
“Asking ‘Why?’ is one of our core ASB practices, and it ensures leaders are intentional in every aspect of planning their trip by encouraging leaders to ask themselves how each activity planned fits into the mission statements and themes they developed previously,” Rajiyah wrote in an email.
Last summer, trip leaders created mission statements for their trips in order to determine the values around which their trips would focus. As logistical planning began last semester, leaders constructed itineraries that would allow for a holistic introduction to the issues that they would focus on during the trips.
Additionally, ASB’s application expanded this year to include a new, optional section on diversity in which applicants were prompted to explore a part of their identity.
“While we hoped the application would allow applicants to reflect on their own identities, we wanted to make sure leaders felt confident in beginning a dialogue about diversity inclusion while reading applications,” ASB Marketing Chair Kayla Corcoran (COL ’15) wrote in an email.
This year, pre-trip activities were extended to increase participant involvement throughout the year and prepare participants for the issues that they would be working during spring break.
“All of the trips in the program utilized pre-trip activities to not only get their participants excited about the trip, but also to get the conversation started about the issues [and] themes of their trip,” Rajiyah wrote.
Participants in ASB’s Habitat for Humanity trips attended a pre-trip presentation with Habitat for Humanity International and the D.C. Habitat for Humanity affiliate about the organization’s functions and missions. In past years, pre-trip activities for the Habitat for Humanity trips were limited to a potluck dinner for participants.
“I think strengthening the pre- and post-trip activities was important for this dimension of the experience,” ASB Habitat for Humanity Coordinator Whitney Pratt (COL ’14) wrote in an email. “I know that the Habitat presentation allowed our participants to know much more about the organization we were working with and also to ask really important questions.”
For participants in the Spring Break in Appalachia trip, service began before spring break. In addition to attending a presentation given by Appalachian literature professor Patricia O’Connor, participants spent an afternoon volunteering at the Capital Area Food Bank prior to the trip.
“We wanted pre-trip to encourage group bonding and offer analytical points of comparison to issues in D.C. and those in Appalachia,” Rajiyah, who led the trip, wrote.
Some leaders felt that the extended pre-trip activities had a noticeable impact on their group’s experiences during the trips.
“More intentional pre-trip activities helped establish a reflective tone early on, providing a strong base for both leaders and participants to actively engage with their respective social justice issues by asking though-provoking questions,” Corcoran, who led a trip to New Orleans, wrote.
In addition to the new pre-trip activities, the ASB Board will expand post-trip activities in order to encourage participants to continue to focus on social justice.
Within a week after returning, all individual groups engaged in reflections about their trips and their transitions back into life at Georgetown. Participants and leaders from all trips gathered for an ice cream social on Sunday night to share their experiences. Additionally, ASBeyond the Week, a series of post-trip advocacy events that began on March 27, aims to bring together the larger Georgetown community through events like movie screenings, panels, a blood drive and participation in an upcoming march for immigrant reform.
“The ASB program is following a structure for its post-trip events that we hope will give a larger narrative shape to post-trip, which is the story of your trip, the story of ASB and the story of now,” Corcoran wrote.
Ultimately, the goal of these post-trip activities is to encourage participants to stay committed to social justice.
“Post-trip provides an outlet to bring it home … and follows our model of ASB as a springboard of continued engagement with social justice,” Rajiyah wrote.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 28, 2014 by Sydney Winkler Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown baseball team will hold its first St. Baldrick’s Foundation fundraiser April 5 to raise money for cancer research. The team has pledged to shave their heads after the second of a three-game series matchup with Xavier, a home game against the first Big East opponents of the season at Shirley Povich Field.
Three local children who have been affected by cancer will join the Georgetown baseball team on the field. They will throw out the ceremonial first pitches of the game.
The team is currently anticipating 50 participants who will get their heads shaved, and more are expected as the event nears.
“The idea first came to me to bring this to Georgetown as I participated in a past St. Baldrick’s event with my summer collegiate team,” captain Steve Anderson (COL ’14), a senior first basemen, said. “I saw the tremendous impact that night had, as we raised over $15,000.”
With more children lost to cancer than any other disease in the United States, St. Baldrick’s commits 82 percent of raised funds to cure research and preventative care for patients. The foundation raises money for childhood cancer research primarily through head-shaving donation events.
“At our St. Baldrick’s signature head-shaving events, we have people that will register and volunteer to shave their heads,” St. Baldrick’s Media and Public Relations Specialist Traci Shirk told The Hoya. “Part of that is to stand in solidarity with children who lost their hair during treatment, and the other part is to raise funds for childhood cancer research.”
Volunteers sponsored by family, friends and employers shave their heads in solidarity with children who typically lose their hair during cancer treatment.
“There’s usually a lot of people out there, cheering them [participants] on,” Shirk said. “There’s also a lot of emotions, because a lot of times, when people shave and they have a personal connection to someone with cancer, when they get in that chair and they start to feel the clippers on their head and getting their head shaved, it becomes an emotional moment for them as well.”
“In the fall, when Steve [Anderson] mentioned the idea of holding a head-shaving event, there was tremendous support from the entire team,” Evan Ryan (COL ’16), an outfielder, wrote in an email. “Cancer affects everybody, whether personally, through a family member,or through a friend.”
At the time of publication, the baseball team had surpassed its goal of $31,000 and hopes to break the record among athletic teams that have ever participated in the event. Accordingly, Anderson has set a new goal for the team of $40,000.
Events have taken place in all 50 states and 28 countries. Since 2000, St. Baldrick’s Foundation volunteers have organized nearly 4,200 head-shaving events and shaved over 190,500 heads, raising over $118 million for life-saving childhood cancer research.
“This year, we are almost at $23 million raised for the year,” Shirk said. “Last year we raised over $34 million, so we are definitely on track to surpass that this year.”
According to the St. Baldrick’s website, only 4 percent of federal funding for cancer research goes to childhood cancer. Therefore, the money raised will have a significant effect in the effort to find a cure and treatment for children.
The cause is also very personal for Anderson, who lost his mother to multiple myeloma cancer at the age of eight.
“I have seen firsthand the devastating effects that cancer has on not only the individual who is battling it, but also on their family as a whole,” Anderson said. “I saw the strength my mother displayed in the face of her condition and have tried to use that in my own life.”
The Georgetown University Grilling Societyy (GUGS) has also agreed to come out to the game and provide free burgers for all those in attendance. The burgers and drinks at the event will be funded by Students of Georgetown, Inc., through their philanthropy fund.
MedStar Georgetown University Hospital is also organizing a St. Baldrick’s fundraiser March 28 in Sellinger Lounge from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 28, 2014 by Ashley Miller Leave a Comment 
After mounting its first showcase last year, Georgetown Club Boxing is channeling its past success to truly establish itself as one of the more unique club sports on campus by holding the second Annual Blue & Grey Gloves boxing showcase on March 29 at Yates Field House.
Two years ago when the event was in its infancy, the boxing team originally encountered an administrative issue prior to its first showcase.
“Georgetown wouldn’t give permission because of liabilities. So I worked all on it my freshman year and then sophomore year — last year — we made it happen,” Georgetown Club Boxing President Adan Gonzalez (COL ’15) said.
With no major injuries last year, the administration was less wary when giving permission for this year.
“It’s been a lot easier, especially because last year there were no big issues that occurred. So I think it’s just building off of last year’s success and the administration seeing that it’s not a liability … that they’ve allowed us to do it again and hopefully continue to do it,” Club Boxing Vice President Vania Silva (COL ’16) said.
The experience the club gained from last year’s event made preparation for this year occur without any major setback.
“It’s a lot stronger, so much more organized. We didn’t have trouble getting permission from the school. We had coaches from other schools asking us to come and participate,” Gonzalez said.
Last year’s event, which attracted around 300 people, additionally gave the team a better idea of the expectations, which helped with preparation.
“It was our first showcase last year. Throughout the year we weren’t exactly sure if it was actually going to happen, how it was going to turn out. Now that we have last year to look back on, we have some sort of expectation of what it’s going to look like, which actually just adds to the excitement and a little bit of the anxiety,” team member Jeff Wong (MSB ’16) said.
Through the event, the team hopes to build recognition for the club, as many students are still unaware of its existence.
“I feel that this is kind of one of the few times where people on campus really get to hear that there is a Georgetown boxing team, because that’s something, especially last year, I would tell people, ‘Oh yeah I’m on the club boxing team’ and they were like, ‘What, we have a boxing team?’” Silva said.
Although last year’s event made a small, yet noticeable, impact on the club’s recognition, the team hopes to use the annual nature of the event to further cement the group’s place on campus.
“I think last year’s showcase brought some awareness, but I still feel that there [are] a lot of people that don’t really realize that there is a boxing team,” Silva said. “So I think that though last year was a good start and something good to build off of, we still need to keep up promotion and continue on, on this yearly showcase, kind of, so that in … a couple years from now, there is no doubt that we have a boxing club.”
For the fighters, the event also serves as an exciting opportunity to showcase their skills they worked on throughout the year.
“It means a lot for our team. It’s this idea that all those miles on the bike, miles outside to the monuments, running in the snow, running in the rain, those long rounds jumping rope, shadow boxing, taking blows to the face, to the gut, all to make Georgetown understand not just that we are here, but that we are making you proud,” Gonzalez said. “You work all year perfecting your skills and then all of a sudden you can show them off at the Hilltop.”
The team will also be giving one competitor the Tom Quinn Outstanding Senior Award, named in honor of the late Yates trainer and NCAA Eastern heavyweight boxing champion Tom Quinn (CAS ’55), who died in January.
The boxing showcase, which starts at 3 p.m., will include fighters from various universities, including West Point, the University of Maryland, Virginia Military Institute, Wake Forest University, East Carolina University and Baltimore University. There will be 14 matches, with six females and eight males representing Georgetown.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 28, 2014 by Molly Simio Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown Global Microfinance Initiative, founded in December 2013, is working to expand its global reach and its on-campus presence by advising and improving microfinance initiatives that already exist as opposed to creating a standalone nonprofit.
Its focus on consulting, rather than lending, separates it from other groups on campus such as the Hilltop Microfinance Initiative.
“One of the biggest problems with nonprofit work in general is that everyone thinks they have the next big idea and everyone thinks that they have to rush into the scene and implement their own personal vision, and that leads to a lot of competing groups,” GGMI Vice President of Projects Bardia Rahmani (SFS ’16) said. “GGMI recognizes that the best way we can help is not by putting another finger in the pie but by supporting and helping the efforts that are already successful and that could be even more successful.”
GGMI is able to utilize certain resources that are not readily available to its clients in developing countries.
“We’re a student group that has access to a lot of professors and professionals in the Washington, D.C. area in these fields to help train us, and we have a lot of time and resources to do some nitty-gritty things that [microfinance institutions] with limited resources can’t really focus on,” GGMI Chief Operating Officer Molly Morales (SFS ’16) said.
Currently, the group is consulting for the Honduran Microfinance Initiative, a series of community banks in Honduras. GGMI is preparing a manual and outlining the strategies and responsibilities of the smaller banks in order to streamline its lending practices and increase communication between shareholders.
“Our manual helps them discern what kinds of microlending opportunities are best and helps them decide which projects are worthy of funding, which projects have the greatest likelihood of return and which ones are the safest,” Rahmani said.
GGMI connected with Honduran Microfinance Initiative through Global Brigades, a student-led social responsibility movement that pairs student groups with microfinance initiatives around the world.
GGMI hopes to expand its fundraising off campus after receiving grants from Students of Georgetown Inc.’s philanthropy department and the Social Innovation Public Service Fund.
In order to further its fundraising efforts, GGMI is in the process of becoming a nationally recognized nonprofit organization. This will provide an incentive for companies to donate to GGMI as the donations will be tax deductible.
Currently, GGMI’s public relations team is utilizing most of its current funding in an effort to attract additional clients. The group hopes to raise enough funds to send members abroad to learn more about its clients and to work with them in person.
“The more information we have, the more we can help. … Moving forward, our big vision is to be able to split our time between here and there,” Rahmani said.
Despite this emphasis on face-to-face interaction with its clients, GGMI will likely not travel to Honduras to work on its current project.
“The point of the field work is more to implement our project, and since this is only a manual, we don’t really need to teach it to them,” Co-Vice President for Public Relations Katy Norris (SFS ’16) said.
GGMI is organized into three divisions focusing on business development, public relations and projects, respectively. Members are currently distributed evenly among the groups, but ultimately GGMI hopes to shift their focus onto the projects sector in the near future. The group is engaging in tentative discussions with microfinance initiatives in Guatemala and Tunisia in the hopes of being able to take on two or three more projects in the fall semester.
“They’re similar projects. We plan on doing consulting and research for all of them,” Co-Vice President for Public Relations Erica Esposito (NHS ’16) said. “We don’t want to limit ourselves to one country. We want to go to different areas of the world.”
In addition to its international reach, GGMI is working to create dialogue on international development on campus.
On Monday, GGMI partnered with GU Women in Leadership to host a screening of “Girl Rising” and the Catrinka Trunk Show. Throughout the semester, the group co-sponsored other events such as a talk with professor Steven Radelet, who has worked for the U.S. Agency for International Development, and Matt Turner, the founder of the nonprofit Beyond Poverty organization.
In April, GGMI will host a panel discussion during which alumni and local professionals will speak about microfinance and development.
“The ultimate goal is to give students exposure to issues of international development, microfinance, consulting and the alleviation of poverty and the work that we can do to help institutions that don’t have as many resources as they would like,” Morales said.
 
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 28, 2014 by Sydney Winkler 3 Comments 
A panel of leading Middle East experts spoke about the current Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations in the Reiss Science Building on Wednesday. The panel included Ambassador Dennis Ross, Ghaith Al-Omari and Jeremy Ben-Ami.
The event was sponsored by J Street U Georgetown, the Georgetown University Lecture Fund, Georgetown College Democrats and the Georgetown Program for Jewish Civilization.
“[The] panel was a strong step in advancing constructive conversations at Georgetown surrounding the Israeli-Palestinian conflict,” J Street U Treasurer Elijah Jatovsky (SFS ’16), who moderated the panel, wrote in an email. “It is the nuanced insight like that provided at the panel that can bridge gaps and lead to meaningful progression.”
Executive Director of the American Task Force on Palestine Al-Omari spoke out against the costs of the conflict.
“This is not a conflict we can afford to keep dragging on,” Al-Omari said. “We have seen many lives shattered by this conflict.”
Ambassador Ross, who is currently a professor in the School of Foreign Service, played a leading role in shaping U.S. involvement in the Middle East peace process under the Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama administrations. Ross explained the personal nature of the peace process.
“In an abstract way, you contribute to something called stability, but it’s completely abstract,” Ross said. “When I began to negotiate in the Middle East, I went from dealing with issues that were abstract to issues that were highly personal.”
Ben-Ami is founder and president of J Street, a pro-peace organization that advocates a two-state solution as the means for resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Ben-Ami expressed a need for third-party involvement in Israeli-Palestinian negotiations.
“There has to be two states for two people, or else Israel loses fundamental character,” Ben-Ami said. “That simply isn’t going to happen without American involvement.”
Al-Omari echoed Ben-Ami’s commentary.
“Without a responsible third party, the two parties cannot get to it,” Al-Omari said. “They are unable to step back and do what they need to do to get out of the conflict.”
With an American-brokered peace framework soon to be presented to Israeli and Palestinian leaders, each panelist weighed in on the prospective two-state solution.
“I don’t believe if you miss this moment, it’s the end,” Ross said. “But I don’t think if you miss this moment, it’s a good thing.”
Ben-Ami and Al-Omari agreed that there is no viable alternative to a two-state solution.
“I do not see any other solution,” Al-Omari said. “One of the biggest concerns that I have is, those of us who would be in favor of a two-state solution … we will not be motivated, but the others who are against it will be very motivated.”
Although the panelists represented a varied array of backgrounds, they all agreed on the importance of a two-state solution.
“The fact that these three leading Middle East experts, despite their diverse backgrounds, found so much agreement demonstrates the wide-spread support for and recognition that the two-state solution is the key to this conflict’s resolution,” Jatovsky said.
The panelists discussed whether Secretary of State John Kerry, who is currently in Jordan brokering a peace between Israel and Palestine, could achieve a successful solution.
“Even if Kerry produces a breakthrough, I think unless a breakthrough is accompanied by immediate steps by both sides to address the sources of disbelief, a breakthrough won’t happen right now any case,” Ross said.
Al-Omari argued that Israeli and Palestinian governments are perpetuating cynicism in the region.
“Yes, there is a lot they can do and no they are not doing it,” Al-Omari said.“Part of it is saying this is a good thing and part of it is distancing themselves.”
Al-Omari predicted that a watered-down document will be a consequence of this incompetence.
“The trick of what needs to be done is how do you get the parties — the leaders themselves — to accept this, own it and to identify this success as their success in political terms and the failure as their failure,” Al-Omari said.
Ultimately, the panelists were not optimistic about the current peace negotiations.
“I think one of the great risks of this round of talks is that one of the few strands of progress can collapse,” Ben-Ami said. “The odds are that this doesn’t move forward.”
Ross explained that the regional culture and environment are important factors that need to change in order for an agreement to become more realistic.
“We do need to be doing things on the ground to change the climate so, when we buy the time, people have room to say, ‘Maybe there’s something going on in Israel,’” Ross said. “That’s the challenge we have right now.
Al-Omari disagreed with the other panelists about whether either party needs to desert its narrative in order to facilitate an agreement.
“I do not believe you should negotiate identity,” Al-Omari said. “Both sides need to show sensitivity.”
The panelists concluded on a positive note — a solution is possible regardless of whether the current talks are successful.
“[In the Middle East], what can go wrong usually goes wrong so I can’t sit up here and say, ‘I know it’s going to happen,’” Ross said.“But I can say, when all three sides don’t want a collapse, usually they find a way to manage.”
 
[…] need” for a Palestinian state, by contrast, existed for Jeremy Ben-Ami while speaking at a Georgetown University panel the day after Ettinger.  Maintenance of Israel as a Jewish and democratic […]
[…] need” for a Palestinian state, by contrast, existed for Jeremy Ben-Ami while speaking at a Georgetown University panel the day after Ettinger.  Maintenance of Israel as a Jewish and democratic state “absolutely […]
[…] need” for a Palestinian state, by contrast, existed for Jeremy Ben-Ami while speaking at a Georgetown University panel the day after Ettinger.  Maintenance of Israel as a Jewish and democratic state “absolutely […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 28, 2014 by Maddy Moore Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown Model United Nations program won Best Small Delegation at the 23rd annual World Model United Nations Conference in Brussels, Belgium, which took place between March 17 and March 21.
Georgetown’s team sent eight students and one faculty member, Georgetown Discovery Initiative Ambassador Brendan Thompson (SFS ‘12) to the conference, which is hosted annually by Harvard University. Georgetown was one of several schools from North America invited to attend.
Conference selectors considered past student effort and experience in selection of delegations, in addition to evaluation of a candidate’s ability to properly represent Georgetown and participate in the specific committee.
The Georgetown MUN team made their first WorldMUN Conference appearance at last year’s competition, in Melbourne, Australia. International Relations Club Chair Jeff Caso (SFS ’15) explained the group’s excitement to be invited back for the 2014 Conference.
“WorldMUN is a really rich cultural exchange. We had an amazing experience representing Georgetown and introducing Georgetown to people who had never heard of our school before,” Caso said.
The preparation process for WorldMUN is similar to conferences Georgetown attends in North America. Club leadership is responsible for leading training initiatives, mock simulations of committee meetings, and providing lectures on different international issues.
Harrison Baker (COL ’15), who serves on the leadership team for Georgetown MUN, found the conference informative and well-organized.
“I loved the locale and they did a very good job with social events. … They made sure to keep the conference in areas that are easily accessible and safe for schools,” Baker said.
Along with mock UN General Assembly and committee meetings, the conference also hosted several prominent speakers, with President of the European Council Herman Van Rompuy delivering the keynote. Delegates also had the opportunity to have meetings in official European
Union buildings and explore the surrounding area.
The cost of the conference was entirely covered by the team’s fundraising efforts. Several students, including Caso, reached out to donors within the Georgetown community for both financial and moral support. According to Caso, faculty members offered the strongest support.
“Yes, we all miss a week of school, but professors here are so understanding and that’s because of the Georgetown spirit. People understand that it’s for the better of the university and that’s
something I’m really grateful for,” Caso said.
The international conference attracts delegates from all over the world with over 60 countries represented. Georgetown’s team was assigned Mexico for the week and sat on committees such as the World Bank and the Special Police Committee.
“There were a lot of experienced people and they knew exactly what they were talking about. You are accountable for providing viable solutions and it is impossible not to learn something,” Jack Ludtke (MSB ’17) said.
The weeklong conference concluded with a significant win for the Georgetown delegation. The delegation was awarded Best Small Delegation. Five of the eight Georgetown delegates also received individual awards.
The Best Small Delegation award came as a surprise to everyone.
“It was quite a shock. Seeing as several of our team members won an award, we didn’t think we [our group] would get one,” Baker said.
“I think it’s a tremendous accomplishment to walk away with this award. There were schools from every continent,” team member Sam Brothers (COL ‘14) said. “It sends a huge signal about the strength of this team and the things that this team is capable of doing. … It was a real honor to lead the team over there and represent.”
Special to the Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 28, 2014 by Ogechi Nwodim Leave a Comment 
The National Institutes of Health awarded Paul Roepe, a professor of chemistry at Georgetown, a $4.75 million five-year grant to conduct research in combination therapy to combat drug-resistant strains of malaria on March 6.
Principle investigator for the grant and co-founder of the Georgetown University Medical Center’s Center for Infectious Disease, Roepe will work with fellow researcher Craig Thomas of the National Center for Advancing Translational Services, a division of the NIH that stresses the use of lab and clinical observation to enhance the development of effective medicine.
Promoting collaboration between Georgetown, the NIH and NCATS, the project will work out of Georgetown, two labs at Johns Hopkins University and two labs of the NIH.
Although cures for malaria exist, resistance to antimalarial drugs has posed a threat to antimalarial treatments since the 1970s. Roepe’s project uses a more focused form of combination therapy to discover the optimum drug combination that can be used to overcome the problem of multidrug resistance.
“Prior to this project, the drugs chosen for combination therapy for malaria had been chosen ad hoc and arbitrarily,” Roepe said.
Roepe’s team aims to find the ideal combinations from thousands of malarial drugs to not only treat malaria’s most lethal strain, plasmodium falciparum, but also to treat the other four strains of malaria. According to Craig, the advanced technology offered by NCATS, including the robotically enabled platform that allows for the analysis of over 3,000 combinations of drugs, will allow the research to be conducted in a more time-efficient manner.
“The NCATS drug screening platform allows for the rapid testing of drug combinations,” Craig said. “This effort would have taken several decades if done using traditional technologies.”
Potential NIH grantees are required to write up a proposal before entering into a rigorous 10-month review period of the applications by several different committees. Although unable to reveal precise selectivity numbers, NIH Programs Officer for Pre-Clinical Parasite Drug Development John Rogers stressed the process’ high level of selectivity.
“What I can say is, it’s very competitive,” Rogers said.
This is not the first time that Roepe has researched drug-resistant malaria at the university. In November, in collaboration with researchers at the University of Notre Dame and the University of Kentucky, respectively, Roepe published an article in the science journal PLOS ONE that revealed the results of a study linking autophagy to drug resistance in parasites.
“By coupling the outcomes of these screens with experts in the disease like Professor Roepe, we can investigate novel drugs and drug combinations in more detail. The NCATS team is delighted to take part in this multi-institutional effort working with renowned malaria experts like Professor Roepe.” Thomas said.
Roepe praised Georgetown’s science program as a continually positive resource for him in his scientific research.
“One of the reasons that I moved to Georgetown from Cornell was to be able to begin in-depth malarial research with both the biology and the chemistry lab. The laboratory here is unusual because I have a co-appointment between the Biomedical Center [in the GUMC] and chemistry lab on the main campus,” Roepe said.
Roepe attributed some of his success at Georgetown to the collaborative nature of Georgetown’s biology and chemistry labs.
“It is an uncommon phenomenon for a biology and chemistry lab to be working in tangent with one another. I believe that the success that we are having with these projects is due to the fact that Georgetown allows the sciences to be integrative, cross-campus, and interdisciplinary,” he said.
The interdisciplinary nature of the biology and chemistry labs has been markedly crucial to Roepe’s work in malaria.
“Malaria is a vast issue caused by many different factors. The only way to solve the problem is through an interdisciplinary approach. If one was able to use only one discipline, such as chemistry, then the problem of malaria would have been solved prior to this present moment,” Roepe said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 28, 2014 by Julia McCrimlisk Leave a Comment 
The McDonough School of Business held the Trans-Pacific Partnership Conference, sponsored by the McDonough Global Student Association, the Latin American Board and Georgetown University’s McDonough School of Business Undergraduate Program Office on March 20.
The conference highlighted the progress of trade negotiations within the TPP and addressed the current issues on the negotiation table and the potential benefits of the impending agreement.
Considered to be the most significant trade agreement since the signing of the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1994, the TPP is a free trade agreement between 12 countries — Australia, Brunei, Chile, Canada, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore, the United States and Vietnam — that has been ten years in the making. Originally begun in 2005 with four negotiating nations, the TPP gained a huge boost with the introduction of the United States to the group in 2011. The partnership is considered revolutionary because it plans to cover a much wider breadth of economic issues than previous trade agreements have incorporated.
The keynote speaker, Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Wendy Cutler (GRD ’83) who is well known for her work on the recent U.S.- South Korea free trade agreement, focused on the impact the agreement will have on all member countries and the future of trade in North America, Australia and Asia. While Cutler recognized that the TPP has not received extensive attention from the press in the United States, Cutler recalled having debates with taxi drivers in Japan about the TPP, noting the prominence the TPP has gained in other negotiating nations.
“I expect that the TPP will set the rules of the road for the Asia Pacific for the years ahead,” Cutler said.
Even as Cutler confidently discussed the significant impact the TPP will have on the region, the agreement has not been sealed and no fixed date has been set for finalization. The negotiations are in their final stages, but several issues remain, notably Japan’s insistence on continuing to protect its agricultural sector through subsidies. Cutler did not seem to be concerned about the lack of a deadline, and emphasized that the countries involved are not losing sight of what brought them to the table. The consensus among the 12 negotiating nations after the 19th round of talks in August 2013 in Brunei is that the TPP will soon be a quality, high-standard trade agreement.
Following Cutler’s remarks, representatives from Malaysia and Mexico discussed the benefits the TPP offers to potential member states. Hairil Yahri Yaacob, the minister counselor of economics at the Embassy of Malaysia, emphasized the vitality of the TPP for Malaysia by describing it as an opportunity for Malaysians to take advantage of the international marketplace.
Kenneth Smith Ramos (SFS ’91), the head of the Trade and NAFTA Office at the Embassy of Mexico, highlighted the importance of the TPP in Mexico’s plan to diversify its trade. Ramos described the TPP as a tremendous opportunity for assembling a global supply chain uniting all member countries that will benefit from the tariff and barrier-free trade.
The final portion of the conference featured a panel discussion of three economic and diplomatic experts: President of the Emergency Committee for American Trade Cal Cohen, Director for Asia at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Catherine Mellor and Director and Senior Vice President of International Government Affairs at CitiBank Charles R. Johnston.
Cohen provided a slightly less optimistic view than the other panelists. However, even he admitted to seeing good potential in the agreement if the negotiating countries can reach a consensus.
“The devil is in the details. … Nothing is agreed to until everything is agreed to,” Cohen said. “The potential is higher right now than many of the other agreements on the table.”
Mellor also noted the incredible potential for the agreement to set the rules of economic cooperation for decades to come.
While every expert acknowledged the obstacles still remaining before the TPP is officially signed, they also unanimously agreed that if a comprehensive, high-quality agreement is reached, all 12 countries and their consumers will reap tremendous benefits.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 28, 2014 by Nick Simon Leave a Comment 
The BMW Center for German and European Studies, in conjunction with the Department of German, held an event entitled, “Ottoman Perspectives on the First World War” on March 20. The goal of the talk was to shift the perspective of World War I from the dominant European-centered view to a more global perspective.
Mustafa Aksakal, a professor of Ottoman, Turkish and Middle Eastern history at Georgetown, delivered a lecture at the event. Aksakal’s most recent publication, “The Ottoman Empire,” appeared in the “Cambridge History of the First World War,” and he is currently at work on a new book, “The Ottoman First World War.”
Although not as widely acknowledged, the Ottoman Empire played a significant role in the war as a Central Power alongside Germany and Austria-Hungary. 2.5 million Ottomans died in the conflict, amounting to half of the total Middle Eastern casualties in the war. Aksakal claimed in his talk that although both the military and civilian losses of life were great, perhaps greater still was the loss of the Ottoman Empire’s social underpinnings.
“It is clear that the mayhem and suffering unleashed by the war incinerated the empire’s social fabric, assuring that it would take a long time, perhaps a century or more, before an integrated history could be written, a history that is not told exclusively as the story of a particular ethnic or religious group or of a particular region or battle, but one that ties together the many different threads of the war,” Aksakal said. However, compiling sources to accurately tell the Ottoman Empire’s World War I story has been a difficult task for historians.
“The limitation to the availability of primary sources has been an impediment. Access to the region’s military archives has been restricted, and as the literate segment of the Ottoman population remained in the single percentage points throughout the world, personal narratives by civilians and soldiers in letters and diaries are not sufficient to make up the gap in the record,” Aksakal said.
World War I has proven to be a defining historical event in shaping the modern Middle East.
“I would say that the war was central to several important formation processes in the region, in the shaping of Middle Eastern ethnic identity, in the reshaping of religious identities, the construction of state identity in the context of the Ottoman state’s disintegration and the artificiality of the state system that replaced it.” Aksakal said.
Attendee Peter Pfeiffer, professor in the German department, appreciated the event’s emphasis on uncovering the global aftermath of World War I.
“Recently there was a commentary in a German newspaper that made the point that the world really hasn’t come to terms with the First World War. It has more or less come to terms with the Second World War, but not really with the first. So these different perspectives I think are essential to try to think about this, and this was a perfect time for that,” Pfeiffer said.
The event was a part of the BMW Center’s “The War to end all Wars” 2014 lecture series, organized by BMW Center professors Anna von der Goltz and Peter Pfeiffer.
Von der Goltz explained that the lecture series is meant to explore World War I from literary and historical perspectives that give a more comprehensive view of the conflict.
“All [of] these events throughout the semester will look at many different angles of the war’s impact on the world,” von der Goltz said.
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 28, 2014 by Chris Balthazard Leave a Comment 
Aiyaz Husain, a historian with the Policy Studies Division of the Office of the Historian at the U.S. Department of State and author of the recently published “Mapping the End of Empire: American and British Strategic Visions in the Postwar World,” spoke about his book at Georgetown on Thursday afternoon.
The event, sponsored by the Georgetown Institute for Global History, attracted approximately 10 history students and foreign policy experts to the Intercultural Center. Husain described how he came to a revelation while poring over historical documents in the Asian and African Studies room of the British Library in London.
“I realized that these legalistic exchanges belied kind of an internal struggle to define the proper role and geographical scope of the postwar British Empire in the wider world,” Husain said. “Having already read a fair amount about America’s changing role in the wartime world, I was struck by a thunderbolt, and I suddenly knew what my dissertation had to be about.”
The author focused much of his talk on the idea of mental maps, and how it is important not to just examine the results of foreign policy in the late 1940s and 1950s, but to actually infer how American and British policymakers perceived the world at that time.
“We employ mental maps every time we use a term like ‘Middle East,’ ‘AFPak region,’ ‘South Asia’ and so on,” Husain said. “So I argue in the book that a number of key geopolitical principles bound up in national security requirements, academic research, ideas from public discourse, did come to shape such a coherent worldview in America, what I call globalism, to borrow a term employed by [late Scottish geographer] Neil Smith.”
Husain’s mental map idea came to center the rest of his talk, as he built layers of details around that basic concept.
The George Washington University history professor Dane Kennedy, who attended the event, lauded Husain’s technique of examining post World War II policy decisions from the viewpoint of the leaders at the time.
“I think it’s important, as he said, to focus not just on what policy was but, as he puts it, those mental maps of the world that policymakers had, the way in which they don’t all come to these issues with the same understanding of what they’re confronting,” Kennedy said.
Husain also discussed the concepts of American globalism and British regionalism, and how those two ideas intersected globally, in concert and in conflict, over the years directly following World War II.
“In essence, I make the case that postwar British influence receded quasi-willingly, as it came to be displaced by American power, that expanded in accordance with U.S. officials’ increasing sense of a new global role,” Husain said.
Kennedy agreed with Husain’s assessment of the postwar transition of power.
“I particularly like the way in which he juxtaposes American and British visions of the postwar world and how to deal with American increases in power and the diminution of British power, and what that means in terms of their assessments of the world.”
Mental maps and the discussion of American globalism and British regionalism served as just a sampling of many ideas Husain put forward in both his book and his talk.
“I found it really useful, and I liked how it combined the concepts of space and diplomatic history,” attendee and Georgetown middle eastern and north african history Ph.D. student Laura Goffman said. “I was interested in the whole discussion of how diplomats conceived of space through the process of mapmaking.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

