
November 23, 2014 by Kshithij Shrinath Leave a Comment 
Former D.C. Mayor and current Councilmember Marion Barry (D-Ward 8) died at the age of 78 early Sunday morning.
A stalwart in District politics, Barry served as the District’s second mayor from 1979 to 1991 and then returned to the position from 1995 to 1999. He had been released from Howard University Hospital on Saturday. At around 12:15 a.m. Sunday morning, he collapsed and was taken to United Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead as a result of cardiac arrest at 1:45 a.m.
According to NBC 4 Washington, Mayor Vincent Gray ordered flags at all D.C. buildings to be flown at half-staff to honor Barry.
“Marion was not just a colleague but was also a friend with whom I shared many fond moments about governing the city,” Gray said in a statement. “He loved the District of Columbia and so many Washingtonians loved him.”
Mayor-elect Muriel Bowser (D-Ward 4) also expressed her respect for Barry.
“Mayor Marion Barry gave a voice to those who needed it most,” Bowser said in a statement.
Barry won his first mayoral election in 1978, unseating incumbent Walter Washington. Throughout his first three terms in office, Barry attempted to boost economic development in the city and particularly open up job opportunities to young people and African-Americans. However, his efforts were undermined by the highest homicide rate in the country and a drug epidemic that took over the city in the 1980s, which affected Barry himself.
In 1990, Barry was arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation after they videotaped him using crack cocaine, and he served six months in federal prison.
Despite the scandal, Barry returned to politics after his release, winning the Ward 8 council seat in 1992 and the mayoral election in 1994, serving a final fourth term in office until 1999. As the Republican Congress worried about the city’s governance behind Barry, they established greater control over the District’s finances, frustrating Barry throughout his term.
After leaving politics for a few years, Barry returned as councilmember for Ward 8 in 2005, holding a firm lock on the seat until his death.
Before his death, Barry released an autobiography in June and appeared on “The Oprah Winfrey Show” to discuss the book and his career, with his videotaped appearance to be broadcast tonight at 9 p.m.
He is survived by his wife, Cora Masters Barry, and his son, Marion Christopher Barry.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

