
July 15, 2014 by Ian Tice Leave a Comment 
Georgetown has now concluded the admissions period for the upcoming school year, with the addition of 110 students off the waitlist to the Class of 2018.
The university offered spots to 140 of approximately 250 waitlisted students, resulting in a yield of 78 percent. In an initial round, 60 students from the waitlist were accepted in May, and the rest were notified through the June 30 deadline.
The Office of Undergraduate Admissions uses the waitlist to fill in the class once the regular decisions have been sent out. Last year, 80 students were accepted from the waitlist, with 72 deciding to enroll.
“A lot of it is looking at where we need to fill in students,” Senior Associate Director of Admissions Melissa Costanzi said. “We look at areas in particular where we need to put people in — if a particular school came in low or a particular major within a school where we have an enrollment target came in low, we would look to do it that way.”
Often, Costanzi explained, the waitlist candidates are just as strong as the students accepted in April. 1,525 of the 3,232 students accepted in December and April submitted deposits by May 1.
“The waitlist is always made up of very qualified students and, typically, it’s just that we don’t have enough room to admit all of the qualified students who apply,” she said.
The Class of 2018 now has representation from all 50 states, Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands and 43 countries. In May, the class did not have any students from South Dakota but was pursuing one off the waitlist, according to Dean of Undergraduate Admissions Charles Deacon.
Costanzi pointed to geographic diversity as an important goal for the university in the admissions process.
“It’s important to us because we feel we represent the nation and the world as a whole,” she said. “We want to be a representation of the country and of the world.”
The addition of the 110 students changes the geographic demographics of the class, with New York overtaking California as the provider of the largest number of incoming freshmen. Other states with high numbers of attending students include New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Maryland.
The incoming class of freshmen is 14 percent Asian-American, 10 percent Hispanic and 8 percent African-American. International students make up 7 percent of the class.
Students accepted from the waitlist expressed a variety of reasons for pursuing Georgetown even after being waitlisted.
Mary Marchese (COL ’18), who is from Longmeadow, Mass., was notified of her acceptance by the admissions office in early May. She was set to attend Boston College in the fall, and while satisfied with her commitment, Marchese still pursued Georgetown.
“I knew Georgetown was the place for me all along,” she said.
After her acceptance, she joined the Facebook group for the Class of 2018 and felt immediately welcomed.
“I felt immediately that I was part of a community. I didn’t really feel that I was left out of anything,” Marchese said. “The university as a whole did a nice job in welcoming me.”
Jenny Liang (COL ’18), an international student from Shanghai, China, was also accepted off the waitlist. She ascribed her continued interest in Georgetown to the school’s international appeal, pointing specifically to a Chinese section on the university website.
“That’s the only school of all the schools that I applied to that had a Chinese version of the website,” she said. “My parents can also get information about the school online. It’s very cool.
Kathryn Threatt (SFS ’18) was accepted off the waitlist in May. From Richmond, Va., she was originally slated to enroll at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
“I had a roommate and housing [at Chapel Hill], but I wasn’t happy,” she said. “I wanted to be in D.C. and Georgetown was my number one.”
For Threatt, diversity and the campus feel were a big part of her decision.
“I was ready for something more diverse — more diverse people, cultures and backgrounds,” she said. “And I really like the campus.”
Vanessa Sorentino (SFS ’18), from Brooklyn, N.Y., was accepted off the waitlist in early June and summed up the feelings of many members of the Class of 2018, off the waitlist or not.
“I’m very excited,” she said. “I’ve never been more excited for school to start.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

