
November 11, 2014 by Katherine Richardson 1 Comment 
Update: In spite of the email sent to residents of New South, GUPD Chief of Police Jay Gruber has confirmed that there will be no additional GUPD presence in New South on weekends. See the full story here.
Original Story:
After a recent rash of vandalism and theft in the community, Georgetown University Police Department officers will be present in New South Hall from 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. on weekend nights from now on to ensure student safety.
According to New South Community Director Jasmin Bush, recent illegal activity in and around the residence hall prompted this change.
“Since we are so fortunate, in the next weekend and those following, we will have GUPD officers within the building to make sure that all is well,” Bush wrote in an email to New South residents. “They will specifically be around for the weekend and hours between 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. to ensure that the policies of the building are being followed given recent acts of vandalism (within New South) and theft (mainly in and around the community).”
GUPD Chief of Police Jay Gruber confirmed this criminal activity in an email to the university communityMonday.
“Over the past week, the Metropolitan Police Department has seen an increase in robberies in neighborhoods around the university,” Gruber wrote. “The Georgetown University Police Department is working closely with the Metropolitan Police Department to both investigate these robberies and monitor this crime trend in areas around the university.”
Officers answered questions from students in New South Lobby on Tuesday evening from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Hoya Staff Writer

Jackie says 
November 12, 2014 at 11:10 pm
Why did GUPD neglect New South in the first place?  Management by crisis.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 11, 2014 by Suzanne Monyak 1 Comment 
A federal district court judge sentenced Daniel Milzman, the former Georgetown student charged with possession of a biological toxin, to one year and a day in federal prison at a hearing Monday morning.
Additionally, Milzman was ordered to complete 400 hours of community service tutoring disadvantaged children in math and physics, a mandatory mental health treatment program and 36 months supervised released following his sentence.
Milzman, who has been jailed since late March, will be credited for the time he has already served, meaning he may be released in January.
“I want you to be able to turn the page on this horrible experience,” said Judge Ketanji Jackson, who presided over the court.
Milzman, then a sophomore in the College pursuing physics and mathematics on a pre-med track, was arrested in March for making ricin, a lethal substance, in his shared dorm room on McCarthy 6 after showing a resident assistant the bag of ricin earlier that week. Milzman was found with 123 milligrams of a white substance in his possession, with 7.7 microgram per milligram concentration, later confirmed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation to be ricin.
After pleading guilty to the charge in September, Milzman entered into a binding plea agreement that would place a range on his sentence from a year and a day up to 24 months in federal incarceration. The plea also dictated that all time spent in prison up to this point would count toward his sentence.
In response to a question about the possibility of Milzman re-enrolling at Georgetown, Director of Media Relations Rachel Pugh said that Milzman is not currently enrolled and that “violations of federal laws are serious violations of the Student Code of Conduct and these disciplinary matters are handled confidentially.”
Although Milzman’s offense can carry a sentence of between 30 to 37 months imprisonment, Jackson accepted the plea deal agreed upon by the defense and the prosecution, saying that his youth and mental state — as his defense centers on his manufacturing of ricin as a way to commit suicide — called for a lesser sentence.
“Mr. Milzman’s mental and emotional health may have been grounds for departure from this process,” Jackson said.
For the past seven-and-a-half months, Milzman, who was placed under rigorous suicide watch last April, has spent 23 hours a day in an isolation cell in D.C. jail, with one hour of recreation time. He is only permitted to speak to visitors in a 45-minute Facetime session once a week.
Before Jackson announced his sentence, Milzman delivered an apology to the Georgetown community, his friends and classmates, the government and anyone affected by his actions.
“I learned my lesson after my first night in jail,” Milzman said. “I assure you, I’ll never break the law again.”
U.S. District Attorney Maia Miller, representing the prosecution, called for a sentence of 24 months, the maximum sentence as agreed upon in the plea agreement, citing Milzman’s clear display of intent to produce the toxin.
“There is no doubt that the defendant set out to make lethal ricin,” Miller said.
Danny Onorato, Milzman’s defense attorney, however, stated that a sentence of a year and a day, the minimum sentence as dictated by the plea agreement, was “unquestionably” appropriate.
“This is a kid who’s made some bad choices,” Onorato said.
He also said that Milzman’s act was a cry for help and a suicide attempt, and should not have even been prosecuted.
“Guess what, Mr. Milzman,” Onorato said, addressing his client in his presentation of the defense. “You should have ingested some of the ricin, because then you wouldn’t have been prosecuted for this case.”
In Monday’s sentencing, the prosecution and defense presented arguments and evidence that have been presented to various judges many times since Milzman’s arrest in March.
The prosecution discussed how Milzman performed internet searches on how to make ricin, bought the necessary materials at a plant store in Maryland and discarded evidence in an off-campus dumpster.
“This was deliberate and thought-out and well-planned,” Miller said. “At no point did he decide to opt out.”
Miller brought into question the defense’s claim that Milzman intended to commit suicide with the ricin. Milzman wore protective gear while making the ricin and took great lengths to distance himself from the toxin during its production.
“There are number of pieces of evidence that do not support the defense’s suicide claim,” Miller said.
Additionally, Miller said, during his conversation with the RA who initially reported him, Thomas Lloyd (COL ’15), Milzman denied that he was planning to kill himself and refused the RA’s implorations that Milzman leave the ricin with him.
“The government questions whether this can be accurately described as a call for help,” Miller said.
Miller read out to the court a selection of threatening Facebook messages that Milzman had sent to another undergraduate student, including one that said that the student would be more important to the world if he were “chemically disincorporated” and his body “parts were sold” for money.
Onorato dismissed the Facebook messages as meaningless and nothing more than college kids acting stupidly on Facebook.
Because the only evidence of Milzman’s claim that he only intended to use the ricin on himself is his own statement, Miller said that the intent was ambiguous.
“It’s not clear what the defendant intended to do,” Miller said.
Onorato said that Milzman chose ricin as a means for suicide to protect the feelings of his parents, as ricin is difficult to trace post-mortum.
“Only a kid with his level of genius could figure something like that out,” he said.
He stressed that Milzman has learned his lesson through his time in jail and that any longer of a sentence would be excessive.
“It’s cruel and unusual punishment for a 19-year-old kid,” Onorato said.
The defense has 14 days to file an appeal if they choose to do so.
Hoya Staff Writr Kshithij Shrinath contributed reporting.
Hoya Staff Writer

Jeremiah says 
November 12, 2014 at 5:15 pm
We live in a country where a rich white kid that has manufactured a deadly poison can get a lesser sentence than a poor black kid with trace amounts of crack cocaine.  Despicable
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 11, 2014 by Toby Hung 1 Comment 
University plans for the conversion of two floors of the Georgetown University Hotel and Conference Center into student housing for next year are coming together in more detail as Georgetown’s fall 2015 deadline to house more students on campus approaches.
The second and third floors of the hotel will serve as temporary housing for 120 to 140 students as Georgetown attempts to meet the requirement of the 2010 Campus Plan agreement to house 385 more students on campus by fall 2015. The rooms are planned to be converted back into hotel space at the end of the spring 2016 semester, with the Northeast Triangle Residence Hall set to open in fall 2016 — a delay from its original intended fall 2015 opening date.
With the temporary conversion will come some unique features of the dorm rooms located in the hotel. While residential advisers will still be present in the Leavey space, there will be no chaplains-in-residence. A community director will also be assigned to the hotel, but will not live in the building.
Students will use hotel key
cards, instead of traditional keys, to access their rooms.
“Because it’s only for one year, we wanted to leave the smallest amount of work to the footprint of the hotel so we can convert back to hotel space after next year,” Executive Director for Residential Services Patrick Killilee said.
Killilee said that the converted hotel rooms will be doubles and will be more spacious than current residence hall rooms.
“They’ll be similar to Village C rooms, but bigger. Hotel amenities will also be provided,” he said. “The bathrooms are hotel bathrooms, which, compared to residence hall bathrooms, are pretty nice.”
Currently, the Office of Residential Living is collaborating with the hotel staff in preparation for the renovations.
“We’re working with the hotel staff to help manage what they can expect,” Killilee said. “We don’t work with hotel guests and they don’t work with college students, but there are a lot of similarities.”
The student dorms will be kept separate from the public part of the hotel, which will remain open as usual. Guests will enter the hotel from the north side of the building, near the hospital.
“Student residents will enter from the Leavey Esplanade on the east side of Leavey. The typical access for regular rentals of the hotel is at the north side entrance,” Vice President for Planning and Facilities Management Robin Morey said.
Construction on the hotel will begin in spring 2015, when students will be able to select housing.
“At this point, we are still doing design. By January or February, we will complete all the necessary design documents for board approval,” Morey said.
Two hotel rooms on each floor will be combined into a common room space.
Other projects to prepare for the conversion include updates to the hotel’s electrical load and wireless network to accommodate students .
Killilee said that he expects that the majority of the hotel rooms will be assigned to sophomores.
“I suspect mostly sophomores will be there, because residence hall space usually goes to sophomores. Juniors and seniors have priority for apartments,” Killilee said.
Many freshmen have expressed interest in living in the converted hotel next year.
“I know that many freshmen are dying to get out of their residence halls. Living in a hotel room would be a huge improvement,” Tiffany Wu (SFS ’18) said. “Since there are only 120 rooms, though, I think the selection process will be really competitive.”
Ndeye Ndiaye (COL ’18) said that she would also like to live in a hotel room.
“I wouldn’t mind living in a hotel room, permitting that the amenities are similar to, if not better than, the current dorm situation. I would just like to know more about what would be included before I’d consider it.”

commenter says 
November 11, 2014 at 12:40 pm
What does “hotel amenities will also be provided” mean? Are the rooms cleaned daily? Do they get soap, towels, shampoo, a hair dryer, and an ironing board? Room service? Can flex dollars be used for room service?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 11, 2014 by Deirdre Collins Leave a Comment 
Maryellen Campbell (COL ’16) and Thomas Burchfield (COL ’15) worked for months on an experiment that would test whether chrysanthemums could remove harmful toxins from the air in space shuttles, only to watch the rocket that carried the experiment explode seconds after launching.
The project, which Campbell and Burchfield worked on alongside George Washington University seniors Jun Xi Ni and Shayda Shabazi, was set to go into space in the Orbital Science Antares rocket, a medium-class vehicle with a launch reliability rate of 95 percent, but the unmanned rocket exploded just seconds after it was launched in Virginia on Oct. 28 due to a failure in one of its main two engines. The rocket’s primary purpose was to deliver supplies to the International Space Station, but it did carry several scientific experiments as well, including that of the students.
The four students developed the project through the D.C. Space Grant Consortium’s K-12 STEM Educator Program and won a competition against 31 other students, allowing their experiment to be sent to the International Space Station to be conducted by astronauts according to the students’ instructions.
The students were interested in seeing whether chrysanthemums could be used to detoxify the air on space shuttles, which expose astronauts to high levels of radiation, by observing germination and reproduction patterns.
Despite this setback with the Orbital Sciences Antares rocket, the team will use leftover materials and their research to replicate the experiment to be launched in the SpaceX Shuttle at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station on Dec. 9.
Campbell and Burchfield watched the initial rocket launch from about a mile and a half away.
“I was shocked watching it explode in front of me. I have never seen anything like it,” Campbell said.
Campbell said she did not expect to see an explosion, although a presenter in a briefing the day before explained that the shuttle would be detonated if there were immediate and significant malfunctions in the shuttle after launch.
“Firstly, I was relieved to know there were no injured and I wasn’t too upset about our experiment because it is easy to replicate,” Campbell said. “I believe there was about $200 million dollars worth of research and supplies lost, and that is devastating for the scientific community.”
Georgetown biology professor Sarah Miller, the team’s faculty adviser, said that while she was shocked about the explosion of Antares shuttle, her professional training as a biologist taught her to expect and work around failure in experiments.
“I was of course quite surprised when I found out about the rocket explosion. I felt upset for the students, but at the same time, I know all too well that experimental failures of one kind or another are an incredibly common and, often, incredibly important part of the scientific process,” Miller said. “In the grand scheme of reasons for experimental failures, this is probably among the most spectacular that I’ve experienced.”
Miller said that she is proud of the student team for quickly mobilizing to recreate their project.
“I think that the students handled this setback with great maturity and optimism,” Miller said. “They, too, realized that it would be feasible for them to set up the experiment again and that the scientific process does not always proceed as expected.”
Campbell said that because there is limited space on shuttles to the ISS, her team was responsible for meeting all of the same deadlines and following the same procedures as scientists competing to send their experiments to the ISS through NASA.
“I was excited by the authenticity of the program,” Campbell said. “How many people, let alone someone my age, can say they sent an experiment to the International Space Station? These are experiences I will never forget.”
Ni was unable to go to the launch and found out about the explosion from a friend. She said she was excited that the experiment will still go to the ISS and that she appreciated the experience she gained from working on it.
“It was exciting because I wasn’t aware of the process that scientists and researchers go through to get one of their experiments approved,” Ni said. “I realized how competitive it is and taught me how to work in a group and brainstorm with little guidance.”
Shahbazi said that, despite the explosion, she learned a lot from the process and was excited to move forward with the project.
“This project allowed me to follow an idea from conception to launch, literally,” Shahbazi said. “Seeing the changes an experiment undergoes has made me appreciate research to a greater extent. I’ve learned how necessary it is to be patient when working in research, especially with a setback like the one that occurred with the rocket explosion.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 11, 2014 by Xinlan Hu Leave a Comment 
Despite a well-received pilot renovation project in Henle Village last winter break, the Office of Residential Living deferred complex-wide apartment renovations due to a lack of resources.
Residential staff had installed overhead LED lights in the living room and both bedrooms of Henle 83, the then-vacant apartment chosen for the pilot project, and updated the kitchen area with new flooring, a solid-wood cabinet and a dishwasher. However, Associate Director of Residential Services Matthew Hollingshead said there is no timeline for a complete renovation of all Henle apartments.
“That was something that we’ve talked about possibly doing in Henle in the future but there was no set plan of when that could happen. If we find the resources to do this, then we would like to do it,” Hollingshead said. The office did replace light fixtures and paint walls this summer.
Hollingshead also said that the lack of alternative residential spaces on campus poses another obstacle for a complete renovation.
“It’s also because it takes the spaces offline for the period that you are renovating them,” Hollingshead said. “We use Henle along with any other residential spaces over the summer. So we have to work with the summer programs to take the spaces offline. That’s a secondary limitation but also significant.”
According to David Lizza (COL ’15), InterHall vice president of student advocacy and a member of the Residential Living Working Group, many Henle residents have expressed their desire to see the major changes made in the pilot project adopted in their own apartments.
“The students want to see the major changes in terms of the lighting and the appliances or cabinets in the rooms because they don’t see that,” Lizza said. “The Office of Residential Living is working on that, but it’s in the back corner. They are also working on the other things such as installing the dehumidifiers and opening up the Henle community room for everyone with the Henle keys. Students don’t see the small things yet because they are experiencing them less often living in an apartment.”
Georgetown University Student Association President Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) also supported a larger Henle renovation modelled upon the popular pilot to create a better living environment for juniors. After the Northeast Triangle is complete and more dorm-style options are offered on campus, more juniors, rather than sophomores, are expected to live in Henle.
“The overwhelming response is that the newly renovated Henle
apartment reflects what students want to see in that space,” Tezel said. “I hope that when we get around to this deferred maintenance project that each dorm will have the same lighting, the same usable kitchen space and the same mold prevention tools that Henle apartment has. … We want to make that a living situation that is appealing to juniors.”
Katherine Nicosia (COL ’17), a resident of the pilot Henle 83 this fall, said that she appreciates the renovation in her apartment but expected an even lower humidity level.
“It’s really unfortunate because I like how we have the setup. So if other Henles are different, this will be a disadvantage,” Nicosia said. “To be honest, if this is the nicest one there is, it’s pretty gross. We have a snake in here because of the construction. There are mice all the time. We live in the bottom and that’s pretty gross. … People have mold problems a lot.”
The Office of Residential Living launched a similar pilot program in Village B over the summer, when the Alumni Square Townhouse RHO was converted to a new Village B apartment for four people.
“We used that as an opportunity to see what a renovation in that apartment complex might look like. That included expanding the kitchen a little bit [to include] a full-sized fridge and overhead lighting,” Hollingshead said. “We try to make it updated, a better environment for students to live in.”
Tezel acknowledged the university’s legal compliance to add 385 additional beds on campus by fall 2015, but called for a closer examination of the mold.
“To a certain extent, I empathize with the position [of the Office of Residential Living], but I do think that we need to complete examining the issue of mold,” Tezel said. “And even if we don’t have a full-scale renovation of Henle as has been suggested, at the very least, we should ensure that the new dehumidifiers in each room are effectively tackling the mold problems because the health of our students needs to be the number one priority.”
Other residence halls have also experienced high levels of mold this semester. The university has received at least six complaints from residents of Village A alone in the past month.
According to Hollingshead, any possible wholesale renovation of Henle will have to be postponed for the ongoing dorm construction due to limited time and resources, though he clarified that the construction and the renovation would not compete for funds.
“Right now, we are focusing on bringing the former Jesuit Residence and the Northeast Triangle in line next fall in 2016 as well as preparing the capacity enhancement projects for our existing spaces and the Leavey Center Hotel conversion,” Hollingshead said. “We are already focusing a lot of time and resources towards those new beds that are coming online, so any sort of wholesale renovation projects are not being considered other than theoretical conversations about what we could do with Henle and Village A.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 11, 2014 by Emma Gross Leave a Comment 
Although voters passed Initiative 71 last Tuesday to legalize recreational marijuana in D.C., because of federal law, marijuana policies on Georgetown University’s campus will remain the same.
Director of Media Relations Rachel Pugh explained that because federal law still prohibits the possession, use or production of illegal drugs, the university will continue its current no-tolerance policy.
“Georgetown University complies with both local and federal laws. Federal law prohibits possession, manufacturing, and use of marijuana. As a recipient of federal funds — including campus-based student aid funds — we comply with federal laws, such as those requiring a drug-free workplace,” Pugh wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Georgetown’s current policy prohibits the presence of marijuana on university property.
“The possession, use, manufacturing and/or distribution of illegal drugs, as defined under D.C. and federal law, are prohibited at all times on university property, in university vehicles, or in connection with any university activity or business,” the Code of Student Conduct reads. “Employees and students who violate the university’s policies will be subject to disciplinary actions by the university.”
As the university receives federal assistance for its financial aid program, Georgetown is required to comply with federal statutes to continue receiving aid.
“Students may lose financial aid if convicted of a federal drug crime,” Pugh wrote. “Given these facts, we do not have any plans to change our policies or the student code of conduct.”
Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson noted that if federal statute changed, the university would re-evaluate its stance on the issue.
“We are not making any changes to the university’s policies around marijuana at this time. If federal law changes at some point in the future, we will evaluate impacts on our policies at that time,” Olson wrote in an email.
According to Georgetown University Police Department’s 2014 annual crime report, there were 33 drug violations in 2011, 27 drug violations in 2012, and 20 drug violations in 2013. None of these violations resulted in arrest.
College campuses in Colorado and Washington, states which both legalized marijuana in 2013, have similarly left their policies unchanged in accordance with federal law. University of Colorado at Boulder, Colorado State University, and Colorado College, as well as the University Of Washington, all ban marijuana on their campuses.
Even though the official university policy has not changed, Georgetown University Student Association President Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) said that GUSA and its Student Advocacy Office would consider advocating adjusting the repercussions for drug violations as District drug law changes.
“GUSA can, and will, continue to look at sanctions resulting from drug violations in the student code of conduct. D.C.’s decision to legalize should change how we adjudicate and sanction students who violate the policy. We are actively working with the SAO and the Office of Student Conduct to address the policy,” Tezel said.
A student group at The George Washington University called Students for Sensible Drug Policy is similarly pushing to extend GWU’s drug amnesty policy in the wake of the District’s passage of Initiative 71, according to The GWU Hatchet. Like Georgetown, GWU also must adhere to federal law or risk losing government funding.
“Despite the results of Initiative 71 in the District of Columbia, GWU policy does not permit students, faculty, staff or visitors to possess or use marijuana for any purpose. GWU’s policy is consistent with and required by federal law,” GWU spokesperson Maralee Csellar told The GWU Hatchet.
If implemented, the new law will allow those over 21 years of age to possess up to two ounces of marijuana and grow up to six marijuana plants as home, as long as no more than three are fully matured. The initiative does not approve the sale of marijuana, but stores may sell paraphernalia, and up to one ounce of the substance may be offered as a gift. The initiative passed Nov. 4 with 68 percent support.
Before the law takes effect, it will be submitted to Congress for review. Although some House Republicans have publicly stated a desire to reject the law, such a maneuver would require the approval of the House, Senate and the president. Even if Congress chooses to withhold action, thus allowing the law, the D.C. Council has stated its intent to delay implementation of the law until it can work out an extensive tax-and-regulation system within the next year.
Carter Rise (COL ’17) did not foresee any changes to campus life as a result of legalization.
“I doubt campus life will really change at all. Some students certainly already used marijuana recreationally, and I doubt those who did not before will start now,” Rise said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 11, 2014 by Kshithij Shrinath 30 Comments 
The Tombs issued an apology for offensive statements made during its Trivia Night on Nov. 4 and promised changes in the future to prevent the incident from recurring.
The weekly trivia night, which occurs each Tuesday, invites patrons to form their own teams, create names and answer questions. Occasionally, the trivia host asks an open-ended bonus question, which, rather than being awarded points based on correctness, is judged based on laughs from the audience. Last Tuesday, in the bonus round, the host asked the question, “What issue would you add to a candidate’s platform?” Audience responses included the elimination of the NAACP, the Rodney King beating and responses trivializing sexual assault.
“It was that perfect trifecta of racial injustice, police brutality and rape. And what was very concerning was that the trivia host was laughing as well as pretty much most people attending trivia,” Nora West (SFS’15), who tweeted at The Tombs to bring the issue to the restaurant’s attention, said.
Nicole Chenelle (COL ’15), who attended the event, said that she was stunned by the nature of the comments.
“I was disheartened, upset and very shocked,” Chenelle said. “I thought those comments went beyond any small culturally insensitive thing that could be misinterpreted.”
Erin Riordan (COL ’15), who was not in attendance at last week’s trivia night but has gone to Tombs Trivia Night before, noted that the problem had come up in the past and was primarily prevalent in the bonus round.
“I went to Tombs trivia a lot in the spring, and every single time I went, something offensive and degrading and really violent was said,” she said. “Generally speaking, the rounds that are predetermined questions with written-down answers are not offensive in the way that the bonus round is.”
Noting that complaints had been made before, West criticized the restaurant for only acting retroactively.
“They’re willing to apologize, but they’re not willing to eliminate the Bonus Round or talk seriously about censoring what is submitted,” West said. “It seems to me they deal with this as a [public relations] issue instead of as a community issue.”
Tombs Manager Alex Jacobs was not present during trivia night but said that the restaurant was taking the complaints seriously.
“It is important that everybody come in and feel safe and comfortable at The Tombs. If somebody is trying to be funny at the expense of someone else, we’re going to try and censor those comments,” Jacobs said.
He said that the restaurant would institute changes to the trivia night and would be having discussions with the hosts to prevent similar comments from being aired.
“The DJ decided to read all the answers to the question, so we’re going to have to make sure that we’re filtering those. Also, the team names have been kind of racy in the past. We need to make sure we’re on the safe side and make sure we’re not alienating any of our guests,” Jacobs said. “We need to make sure our DJs exercise better judgment, and if they have any questions, they bring it to management so that we’re` not giving anyone a soapbox to be insensitive.”

Seriously? says 
November 11, 2014 at 4:11 am
Are we really going to censor people at a bar for fear of political incorrectness now? Have none of the complainers played Cards Against Humanity before?

Be Sensitive, But Don't Ban All Humor says 
November 11, 2014 at 2:02 pm
Agreed with Seriously, and of course the people interviewed are the political correctness police

Scaevola says 
November 11, 2014 at 3:42 pm
The students quoted here are also the same sort of students who passionately advocate for “Freedom of Speech” at Georgetown, which I find ironic.  Only speech that offends those on the left on campus should be stifled, of course.
Yes, there are inappropriate comments made at Tombs trivia.  Yes, they should probably not be made.  But to say that the Tombs is to blame for people being offended is patently ridiculous, and is reflective of the grievance culture we have here.  When in doubt, when offended, when questioned – blame someone, or shame them into silence.
The onus should be on the inappropriate individuals to clean up their act, not the Tombs to act as the feelings police.
– Vigila Hunc

Guest says 
November 11, 2014 at 4:04 pm
Is “offensive” the most overused word in society in 2014?  I’m trying to think of one that’s more used for BS reasons.  I’m offended by people being so thin skinned.

David says 
November 11, 2014 at 4:56 pm
“what was very concerning was that the trivia host was laughing as well as pretty much most people attending trivia.” So why are they apologizing for a well made joke? People shouldn’t have to give up freedom of speech for a vocal minority who gets offended at any and all instances of political incorrectness.

Fed-Up Hoya says 
November 12, 2014 at 2:08 pm
There is a difference between freedom of speech and hate speech, David. Calling for the abolishment of the NAACP as your ‘platform in an election’, joking about rape one block from a campus where 1 in 5 women will have survived this type of violence by the time that they leave the hilltop for good, and supporting police brutality, which still occurs in this country DAILY crosses from bad taste, to intentional speech made to make traditionally otherized groups feel that certain spaces are not welcome to them. As you have a right to your free speech, do I also not have the right to feel safe in the places that I choose to go? I applaud the three students from above for being brave enough to exercise their rights to free speech on a campus where some view it as a right reserved to the privileged majority. Furthermore, I hope that when you laugh at these well made jokes, you begin to consider those in a room who feel triggered by those comments, and some who feel taken back to the worst times in their life. I also think that the Tombs taking a long look at its policies deserves acknowledgement. I’m glad that they remain committed to serving all legal members of Georgetown’s community, rather than just some. 
Censorship ain’t great, but neither is living in a world where going to a bar to be with friends and have a beer means that you are subjected to the racist and misogynistic ideations of those around you.

Do Research says 
November 12, 2014 at 2:22 pm
Please do your research before using oft-cited yet widely debunked statistics regarding the prevalence of sexual assault on college campuses. Is it an issue? Absolutely. But you’re doing the movement no favors by using the preposterous one-in-five stat. 
Source: https://time.com/2934500/1-in-5%E2%80%82campus-sexual-assault-statistic/

Misquoted says 
November 12, 2014 at 4:47 pm
Just for the record, whoever contributed to this article clearly misquoted the team that supposedly called for the “abolishment of the NAACP.” The platform was actually, “the second NAACP: National Association for the Advancement of Colorblind People.” That was literally the platform and that was how it was read out by the host. However funny/not funny/ offensive that platform is, it is irresponsible to improperly quote someone just to contribute to making a point.

Guest says 
November 12, 2014 at 4:52 pm
the 1 in 5 sexual assault statistic is misleading
It cannot really be applied to Georgetown, the study was done at two major public universities and the response rates of those school were around ~45%, which may lead to selection bias
sources:
https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/no-1-in-5-women-have-not-been-raped-on-college-campuses/article/2551980
https://time.com/2934500/1-in-5%E2%80%82campus-sexual-assault-statistic/

Fed-Up Hoya says 
November 12, 2014 at 5:16 pm
https://www.cdc.gov/violenceprevention/pdf/sv-datasheet-a.pdf

another student says 
November 12, 2014 at 11:27 pm
You are literally citing a citation of this statistic. That means nothing. Please look at the above articles to understand how much the methodology of these studies limits its gravitas.

Seriously, Do Research says 
November 13, 2014 at 12:16 pm
It would behoove you to critically read what you post sometimes. The linked study is nothing but a citation of the flawed statistic mentioned above. The science behind it is staggeringly deficient.

Seriously, think about your own "research" says 
November 13, 2014 at 5:15 pm
The main complaint in the article you posted is that only half the people responded to the “1-in-5” survey.  So, at best, the survey would have shown 1-in-10 if everyone responded.
Even if you take the ridiculous alternative 1-in-40 number at face value (ignoring the biases of the American Enterprises Institute), that’s 2.5% of women.  
What’s the threshold at which it becomes funny? <5%? <10%?  I'm just curious because I want to know whether it's okay for me to laugh at your well-made sexual assault jokes.

Guest says 
November 14, 2014 at 5:11 pm
It’s not just the selection bias that occurs when 45% are taking the survey, it is also that it was at two major public universities. Therefore it is incredibly inaccurate to say “joking about rape one block from a campus where 1 in 5 women…”. because we are not one of those two major public universities.
Also, if we had to take into account everyone’s (even that 5%-10%) feelings when making jokes, there wouldn’t be too much joking going on. 
Don’t take life too seriously and relax.

A Survivor says 
November 12, 2014 at 11:11 pm
As a Sexual Assault Peer Educator at Georgetown (S.A.P.E, it’s a thing you should visit the Women’s Center more often), the statistic AT Georgetown is that 1 in 5 women will be sexually assaulted before they leave the Hilltop.

What's your source? says 
November 13, 2014 at 12:14 pm
I would love to see the study and methodology behind that claim.

cite something, anything says 
November 13, 2014 at 12:34 pm
Anecdotal evidence presented anonymously on the internet surely trumps peer-reviewed papers.

Source says 
November 15, 2014 at 1:18 pm
The source is the national college health assessment survey which is sent to two thousand Georgetown students every other year. Georgetown and hundreds of other schools across the country use it to get statistics on all sorts of issues, the number of students experiencing stalking, drinking, drugs etc. The results of the survey is an internal university document, so it is not published, but if you go to Health Education Services they have all of the information. The number is 1/5 for women and 1/33 for men.
It’s great that you’re so concerned about this issue. Georgetown should be held to the standard that one is too many, but thanks for checking in. God forbid an environment of care and concern for survivors be created. We all know that if it was 1/6 sexual assault would no longer be a problem at Georgetown.

Source? says 
November 16, 2014 at 2:34 am
“but if you go to Health Education Services they have all of the information” 
Can you provide the link please? That is not enough for me to believe you.

DeerWhitePeople says 
November 14, 2014 at 2:42 pm
Sometimes I forget: People nitpick lol. #Forestforthetreesbro

Oh Come On says 
November 12, 2014 at 2:07 am
Holy God the politically correct crowd on campus is annoying. They’re free speech crusaders until they hear something that offends them, then demand that independent establishments bend over backwards to cater to their victim complexes.
Tombs has nothing to apologize for.

PC Police says 
November 12, 2014 at 6:55 am
You have every right to be politically incorrect. But I have every right to demand an establishment I frequent do something about it – and if they don’t act, I can take my business elsewhere. Consumer activism at its finest.
The more worrying question is why everyone seems to be pushing this rights-based language about rapey and racist comments.  Even if you have the right to say stupid, uncreative things, is there really something funny about trivializing police beatings or rape? Maybe…if you’re the average rich suburban white kid who attends Tombs and you don’t have to worry about anything beyond the ability to keep charging pitchers to Daddy’s credit card.

feelings > rights says 
November 12, 2014 at 2:15 pm
Please do take your business elsewhere.
I just found out there was a “reply” feature to comments.

hoyalum says 
November 12, 2014 at 9:48 am
The Hoya reports a “brutal rape” as a “sexual assault” and now it fails to report the offensive content? Why?

DeerWhitePeople says 
November 12, 2014 at 11:57 am
Sometimes I forget: People are racist.

Scaevola says 
November 12, 2014 at 1:21 pm
@PC Police
You most definitely have the right to take your business elsewhere, and I’m sure it is the earnest hope of most of these commenters that people who cannot take a joke exercise that right with all haste.  The Tombs will not be worse for wear, I assure you.
– Vigila Hunc

feelings > rights says 
November 12, 2014 at 2:13 pm
I sincerely hope the commenter who named herself “PC Police” does actually take her business elsewhere, along with all others who feel similarly. I do not want my Tuesday-night hangout to become yet another platform for self-important college ideologues to impose their feelings-based morality on me.

TombsBetch says 
November 12, 2014 at 3:12 pm
Well… at least I can go to Tombs now and joke about misogynistic homophobic racist white people.

Scaevola says 
November 12, 2014 at 5:49 pm
I’m sure we’ll all be laughing at your comedic genius.

Anon says 
November 13, 2014 at 12:00 am
I ask this sincerely of people against the jokes at the Tombs: what are your thoughts on comedians like Louis CK or Dave Chappelle or various rap artists whose comedy or songs are about race and objectifying women (and in my assessment, more offensive than the Tombs jokes mentioned in the article)?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 11, 2014 by Natalie LaRue Leave a Comment 
Recently elected mayor, D.C. Councilmember Muriel Bowser (D-Ward 4) will take office in a city with a highly stratified — along both racial and socioeconomic lines — public school system that has not seen a redrawing of boundaries in over 40 years.
Education became a focus point of the campaign season after each candidate proposed reforms of the system. During the mayoral campaign, Bowser drew criticism from her main opponent, Councilmember David Catania (I-At Large), the chairman of the D.C. Council’s Education Committee, for being particularly “uninformed” on educational issues.
Bowser, however, has promised to keep education high on her list of concerns.
“I promised that the values of my campaign would reflect your values,” she said in her victory speech at Howard University on Tuesday. “We believe in education reforms that guarantee every child a fair shot.”
In her campaign platform, Bowser outlined her plans to broaden science, technology, math and engineering education, expand early childhood education and open four new middle schools in her first term. She also proposed to revitalize the D.C. Public Schools system by 2020 by making school budgets more transparent and growing SchoolStat, a system of data-driven instruction.
“It is now an ideal time to focus in a more deliberate way on providing high-quality middle school options for students and parents across the District,” read Bowser’s campaign platform.
D.C. Schools Project Coordinator Grace May (COL ’16) criticized Bowser’s platform for lacking any substantial education reform and only making education a focus as a default.
“Education will be at the heart of any campaign in this city, so if education is considered a central tenant of Bowser’s platform then it is by default, not because she made any significant or bold reform proposal,” May said.
Georgetown University Law Center Professor Richard Roe, who specializes in education policy and supervised the creation of the successful charter school Thurgood Marshall Academy, noted Bowser’s lack of specific policies.
“Few people would disagree with the basic goals she sets out,” Roe said. “However, there are no specifics as to how she thinks these goals should be accomplished in conceptual or mission-descriptive terms. Whether they can be delivered is impossible to tell because there is no comprehensive theory of learning or vision set out.”
Outgoing D.C. Mayor Vincent Gray approved redistricting of DCPS boundaries for the 2015-2016 school year back in August, a move that would change the designated school for thousands of students. At a news conference on Wednesday, Bowser, who has consistently opposed the boundary move, said that there was nothing in the redistricting plan “that can’t be undone or tweaked” after she takes office, according to The Washington Post.
“[The plan] lacks the necessary budgetary and leadership commitments to bring about a truly fair neighborhood school assignment policy,” Bowser said in a statement in August.
Additionally, Bowser promised during her campaign to “increase collaboration” between charter schools and neighborhood public schools, by providing a neighborhood preference for students applying to charter schools.
Adam Barton (COL ‘16), also a D.C. Schools coordinator, shared his qualms about the practical implementation of her plans, pointing particularly to this proposal for collaboration between neighborhood schools and charter schools, which he found worrisome and in need of further funding to meet the District’s needs.
“The biggest game-changer for District students will likely come from Bowser’s call for neighborhood preference in the charter school selection process, given that nearly half of all D.C. students are now educated in charters,” he wrote. “This move in support of the neighborhood schools movement could serve to dramatically alter the demographic makeup of many District schools — both charter and traditional public — necessitating a shift in various school support capacities (ESL services, for example) to meet new demand.”
A major part of Bowser’s campaign was “Deal for All,” in which she wanted to replicate the success of the Alice Deal Middle School, located in the Northwest region of D.C. However, Barton worried that this was too idealistic, since the student body population at the Alice Deal Middle School is not representative of D.C.’s overall student population. Only four percent of students at the Alice Deal Middle School are English language learners and 10 percent are special education students, according to DCPS.
“What Bowser seems to either forget or ignore is that [the Alice Deal Middle School] is located in one of the wealthiest areas in the District, and educates a student body that deviates significantly from the District average,” Barton wrote. “Deal falls well below D.C. public school averages in terms of English language learners, special education students and free and reduced price lunch recipients. I worry about modelling reform efforts on a school that simply does not represent the diversity contained within DCPS,” Roe said.
However, Roe applauded the mayor-elect for supporting D.C. Chancellor of Education Kaya Henderson (SFS ’92, GRD ’07), who was appointed by Gray.
“Bowser supports Chancellor Henderson, who is in my judgment providing effective leadership,” Roe said. “Educational reform and meaningful change is a long term process.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 11, 2014 by Mallika Sen Leave a Comment 
The School of Foreign Service and Carnegie Endowment for Peace brought Jon Stewart, his directorial debut “Rosewater” and its subject, journalist Maziar Bahari, to Gaston Hall on Sunday afternoon.
“Rosewater,” based on Bahari’s memoir “Then They Came for Me,” tells the story of his internment in Iran’s Evin Prison in the chaotic aftermath of the country’s 2009 elections. Bahari, a Tehran native living in London, was on assignment for Newsweek magazine when he was arrested and kept in solitary confinement for 118 days, subjected to interrogation and torture meted out by an official with a fondness for rosewater cologne.
“I chose this story because I thought it was beautiful and compelling and universal,” Stewart said at the event.
The film opens Nov. 14, but the Masters of Science in the School of Foreign Service program and Carnegie Endowment were able to mount a pre-screening for the university community, in partnership with IranWire and Open Road. Stewart and Bahari were in town for a screening and talk at the Newseum Sunday evening.
“Organizations often come to us as a part of a program, and we are happy to offer tickets to them as a part of the partnership that makes it possible to present interesting programs for our Georgetown community,” Georgetown Communications Officer Maggie Moore said.
Students began lining up at 4 a.m., although doors did not open until 12 p.m. According to Moore, over half the seats in Gaston Hall were allocated to students, who were funneled to the balcony, while the first level was reserved for guests of the MSFS program and Carnegie Endowment.
The screening commenced shortly after 1 p.m. and concluded to thunderous applause. Stewart and Bahari’s ascent to the stage was met with a standing ovation. The pair spoke with Karim Sadjadpour, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment, Georgetown adjunct and Bahari’s longtime friend.
“I encourage all of you, if you’re thinking of getting into film, to get your own television show first, and then see if you can get someone important arrested and then move from there,” the “Daily Show” host said, after greeting the audience with a reference to the ever-popular comparison of Healy Hall and Hogwarts.
“And actually, for the sequel, I’m going to North Korea,” Bahari quipped.
Sadjadpour led a discussion replete with levity that touched upon the titular character’s obsession with Western culture, sex and Jews, social media’s literal revolutionary effect and human and civil rights abuse.
“Many regimes have enemies and in authoritarian regimes and regimes all over the world, enemies are very convenient ways to not be accountable for your behavior or the conditions of your people,” Stewart said. “You may say Jews and sex are convenient obsessions for people in these authoritarian regimes in the way that we use Muslims sometimes in this country as a convenient way to avoid dealing with certain things. Each society has its own ways of playing to its worst base elements and controlling the governance of the people through these types of obsessions.”
Bahari spoke on his post-release dilemma and attempting to publicize the Iranian regime’s abuses while preventing his story from being used as fodder for the anti-Iranian hawk campaign.
“When we started to talk to Jon about the story, this was one of the priorities — to humanize. And also to show a different side of Iran that people don’t see,” Bahari said. “The first part of the film shows the new generation of Iranians, people who are open-minded — and these are not rich kids from north Iran. These are poor kids who are very religious and from traditional families but because of the Internet and satellite television they are getting to experience the rest of the world.”
Although Bahari was portrayed by Mexican actor Gael Garcia Bernal, two of Iran’s most acclaimed actresses, Golshifteh Farahani and Shohreh Aghdashloo, feature prominently in the film.
“Originally, when Maziar and I were talking about it, we were very much the purists. It must be done in Farsi. We must only use Iranians who had been in prison,” Stewart said. “Then Maziar asked, ‘Do you actually want people to see it?’”
The director said that the film is meant to expand even beyond the gripping narrative, and spotlight the worldwide abuse and intimidation of journalists.
“In some respects, I had to own my own inauthenticity as a director. My ear is not attuned to the nuances. If you are Iranian, this will, almost by definition, be simplistic or reductive of your culture,” Stewart said. “But, for the purposes of this and to give it a universal aspect so that you can’t just dismiss it as the singular atrocities of one regime, these are the types of things that are being committed to journalists and against citizens all around the world, and in the United States, we too use the levers of power to suppress information and keep people in solitary confinement.”
A question-and-answer session followed the conversation. Most queried about policy or the production process.
A student of Iranian descent asked Bahari if he would renounce his Iranian identity after his experience.
“Oh, no. Iran is enriched with tradition, it’s my country, I was born there and I have family there and friends there and I love parts of the culture … but it’s a very interesting country,” he said. “I’m Iranian, whether I like it or not. I want to be an Iranian.”
Stewart was asked if he feared that the film’s release could derail nuclear talks.
“Will this be something that they can use of convenience? I don’t know. In the same way they’d tell me, ‘You killed Crossfire.’ No I didn’t. That was a s—-y show,” Stewart said, to raucous cheers. “You cannot control what idiots will weaponize and to censor yourself for their ignorance would be a mistake.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 11, 2014 by Tom Garzillo Leave a Comment 
Fordham University students demanded reform of university policies regarding contraceptives, free speech and sexual health in a petition signed by over 1,100 students and submitted to university president Fr. Joseph McShane, S.J. on Nov. 3.
Located in the Bronx borough of New York City, the Jesuit university prohibits the distribution of contraceptives to its students, just as Georgetown does. Unlike Georgetown, Fordham does not even permit unaffiliated student groups, like H*yas for Choice, to distribute condoms on campus.
Spearheaded by Students for Sex & Gender Equality and Safety, the petition demanded that condoms be accessible in the university health center, or that the university allow student groups to distribute condoms on campus; that the budget allocate resources for pregnant women and childcare; that Fordham institute a policy of gender-neutral housing, in which every individual student can elect which gender he or she wants to live with; and that the university change its parietal policies, which ban members of the opposite sex from being in a dorm room together after 3:30 a.m., which the group called “paternalistic, infantilizing and heteronormative.”
Other demands of the group include access to free and confidential birth control and testing for sexually transmitted diseases, gynecology services at the health center, sex-positive programming for freshmen and the creation of free speech zones in which students can demonstrate on any issue of their choosing without permission from the university administration.
“All we’re asking for is that the university change its policies to reflect what students really want for their health,” SAGES representative Rachel Field, a senior at Fordham, said.
Prior to the petition, members of the group had been anonymously distributing condoms to Fordham students through “condom drops” at school dances and other events. After taping the petition to McShane’s office door, SAGES shed its anonymity and publically demonstrated on Fordham’s campus.
Senior Vice President of Student Affairs at Fordham Jeffrey Gray said that although the university welcomes open dialogue, the Catholic Church’s position prevents the school from embracing contraceptives.
“We are nonetheless committed to the teachings of the Church, and as a part of our mission we model those teachings for our students, including those on contraception. In this we seek to strike a balance between individual conscience — our students are free to possess and use any form of birth control they choose — and endorsing behaviors that run counter to Church teachings,” Gray said in a statement to The Hoya. “For that reason, Fordham neither distributes nor permits distribution of contraceptives.”
Gray clarified that the only exception to this policy is the prescription of birth control pills for medical reasons unrelated to contraception.
SAGES met with Dean of Students Christopher Rodgers after the release of the petition, but the conversation only clarified the university’s existing policy and did not discuss any steps to change it. Despite this, Field said the meeting was a sign of progress.
“They definitely seem to be taking us very seriously,” she said. “After we turned in the petition, they really wanted to get a meeting together.”
Field said that the student body largely supported the movement.
“There’s very little student opposition,” Field said. “Even groups that you would think would be oppositional, like pro-life groups, have not been. They’ve been supportive of us individually.”
According to the Boston Globe, other Catholic universities that ban the distribution of condoms on campus include Boston College, University of Notre Dame, University of Dayton, Providence College, Catholic University of America, College of the Holy Cross and Stonehill College. Students at these universities that defy this rule are subject to disciplinary action.
Georgetown does not officially distribute contraception through the Student Health Center nor does it officially recognize H*yas for Choice, though it permits the organization to freely distribute condoms on campus.
H*yas for Choice President Abby Grace (SFS ’16) criticized Fordham’s policies as dangerous.
“I feel that these policies might actually constitute a public health risk,” Grace said. “For Fordham to prohibit the distribution of contraception is incredibly irresponsible, especially given the rate at which college students engage in sexual intercourse.”
Although he said he did not believe Fordham was obligated to provide contraception, he supports SAGES’ protest.
“I think SAGES is completely justified in protesting the administrative ban on distributing contraception,” Hoyas United for Free Speech founder and HFC member Vincent DeLaurentis (SFS ’17) wrote in an email. “SAGES isn’t hurting anybody and is respectfully expressing its views, Fordham should respond in kind.”
Despite opposition from Fordham, Grace had high hopes for SAGES to follow in the footsteps of H*yas for Choice.
“Ultimately, I think that as long as SAGES continues to engage in targeted and meaningful direct action, they will be successful,” Grace said. “I think that H*yas for Choice’s case should make it very clear to Fordham administrators that it is possible to have an unrecognized, unaffiliated group distributing contraception on a Catholic campus.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 11, 2014 by Emma Rizk 1 Comment 
Professor Avraham Sela, a senior research fellow at the Harry S. Truman Institute and the A. Ephraim and Shirley Diamond Professor of International Relations at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, gave a lecture about Arab citizens of Israel on Monday. The event, sponsored by the Program for Jewish Civilization and the government department, is the 10th in a lecture series held by the PJC this year.
Sela began his presentation by referencing the events of this past weekend, in which the Israeli police shot and killed a young unarmed Arab man, resulting in riots that spread throughout the country. Sela clarified who he meant when he spoke of the Israeli Arab citizens for the purposes of his presentation.
“They are actually those who remained at the end of the 1948 war from the Palestinian Arab population who originally lived within the territory that later became the state of Israel,” Sela said.
At the end of 1948 there were only 156,000 Arabs in Israel, and today that number has grown to 1.4 million, about eighteen to twenty percent of the Israeli population. About eighty percent of Arabs in Israel are Muslim, ten percent are Christian and the rest are various small denominations.
The biggest problem that Arab citizens of Israel face is the ongoing discrimination many spheres of life, according to Sela
“We are talking about a small minority that has been underrepresented in Israel’s institutions, in Israel’s economy,” Sela said. “ A minority whose lives have been constantly and continually encroached upon not only by ongoing coincidences but according to the Israeli law. Israeli NGO and Arab NGO civil rights groups found that at least fifty Israeli laws directly or indirectly discriminate against Arabs, not necessarily because they are Arabs, but because they are non-Jews.”
Sela said that during the 1950s, the Israeli state failed to treat Arab citizens equally.
“The Israeli state and society, during this period, has treated the Israeli Arabs more like a security risk than as equal citizens of the state of Israel,” Sela said. “We can see it in a number of cases that happened from 1956 on, of how Israeli military forces or the police used light ammunition in response to demonstrations or riots.”
Sela referenced the Day of the Land in 1976 when a confrontation between Israeli forces and Israeli Arabs, who demonstrated against the confiscation of land, resulted in 6 deaths.
“The Day of the Land became a milestone in Israeli Arab history that is commemorated every year as a symbol of the steadfastness of the Israeli Arabs towards the Israeli attempts to Judaize the country as a whole,” Sela said.
Sela said that the Israeli Parliament has recently harmed the Arab population with new and unassuming legislation.
“The last five years in particular were heavily loaded or saturated with legislation initiatives of the Israeli Parliament, the Knesset, that from the outside may seem quite innocent but in fact they are almost all targeting the Israeli Arabs in order to further marginalize them, in order to push them out from the Israeli representative institutions” Sela said.
According to Sela, Arabs in the government system find it difficult to succeed in creating legislation and sharing ideas.
“The Arabs in Israel are not the representatives and they don’t have the capability of changing laws or even submitting significant bills to the Knesset, because they are not really taken as part of the social and political texture,” Sela said.
According to Sela, the responsibility of repairing tensions lies on the shoulder of Jewish-Israeli citizens.
“It’s the Jewish majority that makes the laws, it’s the Jewish majority that represents the state more than anybody else,” Sela said. “The Arabs in most cases are respondents to policies. And Israeli governments have not done much in order to alleviate the situation of continued discrimination.”
 

bill orights says 
November 11, 2014 at 6:31 am
Ah, there we go.
It was just a matter of time before Georgetown began ramping up their anti-Israel propaganda again…as a mouthpiece for the al-Thanis.
Here’s an article for everyone to enjoy:
https://www.rightsidenews.com/2014102135002/editorial/us-opinion-and-editorial/georgetown-the-unapologetic-beneficiary-of-a-terror-regime.html
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 11, 2014 by Xinlan Hu Leave a Comment 
The operations of the Washington, D.C. Capital Bikeshare program will continue uninterrupted, after Alta Bicycle Share, its Portland, Ore.-based parent company, has officially been purchased by Bikeshare Holdings LLC.
Capital Bikeshare, owned by participating municipal jurisdictions and operated by Alta Bicycle Share, offers over 300 stations and 2,500 bikes for rental in the District.
“Because Alta Bicycle Share are contractors and they operate the Bikeshare Program on our behalf and on behalf of all the other municipalities that are part of Capital Bikeshare, the purchase of that company shouldn’t affect our operation in any way,” District Department of Transportation Bicycle Program Specialist Darren Buck said.
Following the purchase, Alta Bicycle Share announced a major expansion in the bike fleet for New York City’s Citi Bike program from 6,000 to 12,000 bicycles, but no expansion for Capital Bikeshare was mentioned.
“Unlike New York, with a system owned and operated by Bicycle Share, basically Alta Bicycle Share just operates the program according to the terms and conditions of the contract,” Buck said. “They still work under the same contract.”
In D.C., the DDOT retains control over pricing, locating and marketing as the owner of Capital Bikeshare, leaving only system maintenance and customer service to Alta Bicycle Share, minimizing the impact of the sale.
Buck noted that the larger corporate capacity created by the purchase has the potential to enhance services provided by Alta Bicycle Share.
“If anything, having new ownership is bringing a lot of good corporate capacity,” Buck said. “It has the potential to enhance the service.”
Alta Bicycle Share Director of Communications and External Affairs Dani Simons agreed, pointing to an expansion of financial and human resources for the company.
“We’re firmly committed to improving customer experience and technology across all of the systems we operate,” Simons wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We are also committed to investing in both financial and human resources at the corporate level to be able to provide better services to all of our field operations.”
Jacob Sorrells (SFS ’16), who used to ride his bike to work his sophomore year, pointed to problems in basic infrastructure for bicycles in the District.
“The city could definitely add more biker-only lanes,” Sorrells wrote in an email. “The roads can be quite hectic at times. A sturdy helmet and a keen pair of eyes are certainly musts.”
Buck said that he welcomed suggestions on future improvements Capital Bikeshare could make to meet the need of the university student population.
“We do try locate the stations that are convenient to university students and at $75 a year, it’s a great value alternative to storing a bike in a small dorm room for sure,” Buck said. “We are eager to hear certainly how we can make the program more useful for members. So the Georgetown University population are welcome to join Capital Bikeshare. If there is any enhancement that we can give, we are always happy to hear them.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 11, 2014 by Matthew Larson Leave a Comment 
Aramark will replace existing seating on the upper level of O’Donovan Hall with farmhouse-style tables and chairs by the start of the spring semester, allowing for an additional 70 chairs on the top floor.
“We took a look at current dining trends in food service operations on the national and local level and saw the rustic vintage look increasing in popularity,” Marketing Manager for Aramark at Georgetown Adam Solloway, wrote in an email to The Hoya, “Leo’s is meant to be a home away from home for our students and these styles provide a feeling of comfort and warmth.”
The round, large tables on the upper floor will all be replaced by smaller, square tables with a rustic style and walnut finish. Aramark will also add five communal high-top tables with a similar farmhouse style near the window, overlooking the Potomac River. Solloway declined to provide information about the cost of the new tables.
Solloway said that the purpose of these additions is to provide for a better eating experience for students.
“We’ve heard feedback over the years in regard to the large round tables not being student friendly and sometimes awkward if you’re not in a large group,” Solloway wrote. Many of the tables are at the point that they need to be replaced. … These new square tables give students the flexibility to add them together for various group sizes.”
Solloway said that at this time, Aramark does not have plans to update the tables and chairs on the lower level.
Nishita Dsouza (NHS ’15) said that she believes the new seating will provide Leo’s with a better ambience.
“I think that will definitely enlarge the space that Leo’s can accommodate and make it feel more homey to the students,” Dsouza said. “I think it might be an investment. I feel like it will be sustainable for the long run, especially for lots of the tables that are not structurally sound.”
Mikey Bannon (SFS ’18) agreed, and said that the current tables make socializing with a small group difficult.
“It’s probably a good idea,” Bannon said. “The big tables can definitely be way too big to have a conversation.”
Andrew Elam (SFS ’16), who first heard of the new seating after seeing the poster in the lobby, said that he did not know if the farmhouse tables were what Leo’s needed and that he felt the funds could be allocated differently.
“It seems like they’re moving the home line and changing the tables. I don’t know if there does need to be a big change,” Elam said. “I think it could be used toward some other purpose that could be better,”
Kajol Shrestha (NHS ’17) also said that she did not think that new tables are necessary.
“I think the tables now are fine. … I think [the seating’s] fine,” Shrestha said. Both thought that the money could be put to something better, such as food quality.
Breanna Bradley (COL ’18) agreed with Aramark’s concept of making the tables smaller.
“It makes it less awkward … if you’re eating by yourself,” Bradley said. However, she did not understand why more money was put into giving the tables a rustic feel. “Do [they] really need to be spending money to change the style of them?”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 11, 2014 by Lucy Pash Leave a Comment 
The university recently announced two new communications master’s degree programs in the School of Continuing Studies on Oct. 29. The Executive Masters of Professional Studies in Global Strategic Communications and the Masters of Professional Studies in Integrated Marketing Communications will become available for students in fall 2015.
Denise Keyes, senior associate dean of the Division of Professional Communication and Public Relations and Corporate Communications Program, explained that the programs are based on the success of similar programs in helping students who are working toward executive positions.
“We are building on the success of our public relations and corporate communications PR program that we have had for the past eight years at Georgetown. It has been very successful and Integrated Marketing Communications has been one of its focus areas,” she said. “We’ve also had a broad range of people interested in the program, so we did see a real opportunity to do something more deeply into the area of global and more designed for executives and their leadership roles. While there are a few programs in that area and there are certainly quite a lot of programs in the communications field, we don’t believe there is one that’s designed quite like ours will approach it.”
The Global Strategic Communications Program class will be capped at 20 to 25 students, but Keyes said the Integrated Marketing Communications program is much larger.
“Our goal is to have all of the offerings that you might see in a school of communications, but none of them that you may have between journalism and PR, or communications and PR. We really get the opportunity to be innovative in this area because what we’re seeing is a real blur between communications disciplines,” Keyes said.
Keyes, who worked to estimate the demand for the two programs, added that she was optimistic about the future of the program.
“In a matter of the announcement, which was made two weeks ago, we have quite a few people signed up for the open house. We have good prospects for both programs,” Keyes said.
Founded in 1956 and currently serving 5,000 students, the School of Continuing Studies serves students at all levels of education from high school students to doctoral and professional students.
“Mainly what we do is a lot of traditional programs. We have an undergraduate program for non-traditional students. We have 12 master’s professional studies programs, which are professionally focused programs for students that are working within the industry,” SCS Communications Representative Andrew Glass said.
Keyes added that students of SCS programs are able to get into direct contact with industry practitioners.
“Our programs are very tied to the industry. For example, although I taught before at the university level, I’m a professional from the industry and many of the people that run our master’s and professional studies programs are industry practitioners,” she said.
Kelsey Donohue (GRD ’16) expressed her excitement about the new programs.
“As someone who is passionate about international relations and communications, I am thrilled to see Georgetown expand with the GSC and IMC programs,” she wrote in an email.
Employers today, from startups to government agencies, are looking for employees who can work across the spectrum of the industry. I think both GSC and IMC will help us students put our best foot forward for our careers.
Tiara Bastfield (GRD ’13) attested to the helpfulness of the program and lauded the SCS for adapting to the changing atmosphere.
“The skills I gained during my time in the Public Relations and Corporate Communications program were invaluable to my career,” she wrote in an email. “As our industry evolves, it is important to think about all of those things with a global context. These new programs are a logical next step as it formalizes the global impact we’ve always had.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 11, 2014 by Giovanna Azevedo Leave a Comment 
Elissa Newport, professor of neurology and Director of the Georgetown University/MedStar National Rehabilitation Network Center for Brain Plasticity and Recovery, has been announced as one of the winners of the prestigious Franklin Institute Award for her research focusing on the acquisition of language, especially in children. Newport will be joined by the nine other winners at a special ceremony in Philadelphia on Apr. 23.
Other scientists to win the award have included Thomas Edison, Marie Curie, Nikola Tesla, Stephen Hawking, Jacques Cousteau, Jane Goodall and Bill Gates, and 113 Franklin Institute laureates have earned 115 Nobel Prizes.
“These are some of the greatest minds and most influential pioneers of our time who come to Philadelphia to receive this honor and inspire us all,” The Franklin Institute President and CEO Larry Dubinski said in a press release.
The Franklin Institute is one of the oldest centers for science education and development in the United States, and its award program dates back to 1824.
Newport will receive the Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science for her work on human language, particularly focusing on developing children in typical and atypical environments and recovering language skills after brain damage.
Her “Less is More Hypothesis,” one of her more widely known contributions, posited that children have a higher capacity to learn languages because they have fewer cognitive resources available to them. Adults have more difficulty because they attempt to understand language using more complex analysis, and they cannot find broad patterns as easily.
Newport said she was ecstatic upon hearing the news.
“I was incredibly thrilled and surprised. It is a huge honor to have my work recognized by the Franklin Institute, [which] has already awarded some of the most distinguished scientists of all times,” Newport said.
Newport has been part of the Georgetown faculty since July of 2012. Newport is also a member of the National Academy of Arts and Sciences and a fellow in the American Academy of Arts & Sciences. In addition to studying the acquisition of language in children, Newport’s research attempts to apply these findings to adults and recovery after brain damage.
“My research focuses on developmental plasticity. The theory is that children at a developmental age find it easier to learn a language than adults because they have less cognitive resources available to them,” Newport said. “My second line of research focuses on language recovery after brain damage. The idea is to use our findings in our research with children in order to enhance recovery from strokes or brain damage in adults.”
Howard J. Federoff, executive vice president for health sciences at Georgetown University Medical Center and executive dean of its School of Medicine, praised Newport’s accomplishment and her research contributions to the university and the medical center.
“Dr. Newport is dedicated to understanding neuroplasticity — evident in her expansive research into human language acquisition for which she is being honored. We are fortunate to have her as Director of the Center for Brain Plasticity and Recovery, as she is now focused on neuroplasticity research that can impact the recovery from brain damage including stroke and traumatic brain injury,” Federoff said in a statement emailed to The Hoya.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 11, 2014 by Charlotte Allen Leave a Comment 
Talila Lewis, founder of Helping Educate to Advance the Rights of the Deaf, spoke about the mass incarceration of disabled individuals at the fourth installment of the Lecture and Performance Series on Disability Monday.
The event featured a presentation on the discrimination and hardship faced by disabled people in prison, but it also focused on the many issues raised by mass incarceration, the privatization of prisons and criminalization of society in relation to race, immigration detention, and undue process of law and wrongful conviction. It included a screening of the Al-Jazeera documentary “Deaf in Prison.”
Around 40 Georgetown students, some of whom are activists in the field of disability rights, attended the event, as well as members of the outside community. Additionally, the event included two sign-language interpreters who translated the entire lecture for deaf members of the audience.
Disability rights activist Lydia Brown (COL ’15) organized the event and said that Lewis’s work has filled a necessary gap in the need for improved prisoner rights.
“Talila is the only person in the nation who has worked on multiple deaf wrongful conviction cases and advocated for hundreds of disabled and deaf prisoners,” Brown said. “[She created HEARD because] there was a gap in services and advocacy specifically for prisoner rights and especially for deaf and hard-of-hearing prisoners who face extreme amounts of abuse, discrimination, and other access issues.”
Lewis spoke about the overall defectiveness of America’s incarceration system, which fails to ameliorate widespread issues within prisons.
“Mass incarceration is a system whereby we, instead of addressing group causes of concern and problems within society such as illiteracy, poverty, lack and improper allocation of resources in particular communities, and school discipline issues, subject them to criminalization,” Lewis said.
According to Lewis, people with disabilities are often excluded from discussions about prison systems.
“People who are in prison are, by and large, people of color,” Lewis said. “What we don’t have a discussion on when we talk about mass incarceration is the disproportionate number of people with disabilities in the justice system.”
Lewis emphasized the importance of looking at disability and mass incarceration with an unbiased perspective and encouraged all members of the audience to take steps to get involved.
“It is up to us, people who are free, to advocate on their behalf,” Lewis said. “It’s really invaluable to start having discussions about disability in every realm and walk of life.”
Thomas Massad (COL’17) attended the event, which he found out about through Facebook.
“I thought that it seemed like an interesting topic to cover,” Massad said. “It wasn’t something that I was specifically interested in, but I also know that Lydia does really interesting work and I just wanted to come out and support her.”
Massad said he appreciated that the discussion addressed a variety of topics under the umbrella of the mass incarceration.
“It was focused on a specific topic, but it by no means was limited to that topic and it really branched out into other areas beyond disabilities such as race and LGBTQ identity and addressed their intersectionality,” Massad said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 11, 2014 by Jack Bennett Leave a Comment 
Marc Silberman, a German professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, spoke about his study of East Germany in the 1960s on Thursday in an event entitled “Too Near, Too Far: Watching the GRD Disappear!” as part of the BMW Center for German and European Studies series marking the 25th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall.
Silberman began studying German in the fourth grade and later went on to study at Freie Universität in West Berlin in 1967. He discussed his life in Germany, including notable events such as the as the Prague Spring, the Mai ’68 protests, and anti-Vietnam protests.
“As an American student in West Berlin I had border crossing privileges to the other half of the city that West Berliners and West Germans could exercise only by jumping through a lot of hoops,” Silberman said.
Silberman returned to the Freie Universität for graduate school in the early 1970s and began studying East German literature in West Berlin. He said one of the challenges of studying literature from the German Democratic Republic was that most scholars at the time saw it as Soviet propaganda. At the time, interest in East German literature began to rise. Silberman attributed the newfound focus on East German literature to the beginning of the New Left in West German society.
While Silberman was teaching German at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, protests and marches broke out in East Germany. Silberman returned to Berlin in December 1989 to witness the history unfold. In March 1990, he returned to Berlin once again, this time to watch the election that led to its reunification.
“I first heard of the opening of the wall on the evening news, on that Thursday, Nov.9,” Silberman said. “I couldn’t believe it. How could this happen without me being there?”
According to Silberman, Germany has changed significantly since the fall of the Berlin Wall due to a new, younger population.
“25 years after the fall of the wall we are beginning to witness a generational shift,” Silberman said. “Today’s youth and young adults have few of their own memories of the GDR.”
This change prompts the need to alter scholarship in regards to Germany, according to Silberman.
“GDR studies must overcome what I call its regionally, or geopolitically, defined focus, and examine broader connections to German and European modernism, technology, socialisms and contemporary politics,” Silberman said. “It no longer suffices to focus our attentions exclusively on the GDR state and East German identity with its Cold War rubric.”
Attendee Alix Lawson (GRD ’16), a student in the Masters of Arts in German and European studies Program, said that Silberman’s first-hand accounts of life in Germany made the event interesting.
“I thought that this was a nice opportunity for us to hear a personal anecdote of what actually happened around 1989 and the effects that it had on the future in contrast to books and other removed narratives on the topic,” Lawson said.
Max Levites (GRD ’16), also in the MAGES program, said that he appreciated the in-depth cultural history that Silberman provided.
“It was also a really interesting cultural study as opposed to historical or political,” Levites said. “I wasn’t really exposed to GDR literature or culture [before this].”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 11, 2014 by Natalie LaRue Leave a Comment 
The D.C. Office of the Chief Financial Officer revealed that the level of income inequality in Washington, D.C., is higher than that of every state in the country and 66 other countries according to a report released on Oct. 29.
The report, entitled “The District of Columbia Economic and Revenue Trends,” issued by the CFO at the end of every month, investigated income inequality in the District in October, using individual income tax data from 2001 to 2012. The study also looked at neighborhood inequality, tax revenue, property values, economic forecasts and general economic growth.
“The District’s economy has outperformed other parts of the country and led to economic prosperity for many of those at the top of the income distribution,” the study said. “However, the prosperity is not evenly shared, as the district’s bottom quintile is far more modest compared to other cities.”
The CFO measured income inequality with the Gini coefficient, which assigns countries or regions a number between 0 and 100 from most equal to most unequal. The Gini index for the District was 61.4. Since 2001, the troughs in the Gini coefficient have occurred in 2002 and 2009, corresponding with the last two national recessions.
According to a March 2014 study by the Fiscal Policy Institute, the average income for the District’s top 5 percent of households is the highest out of large U.S. cities at over half a million dollars. Meanwhile, the average income of the bottom fifth of households is $9,900.
Government professor Eric Langenbacher criticized the CFO study, as it compares D.C., a city, to both states and nations without accounting for the potential differences that this highlights.
“As interesting as this article is, it compares apples and oranges,” Langenbacher said. “Rising inequality in these [cities] is a symptom of very positive developments, resulting in strong local budgetary positions.”
Langenbacher pointed instead to a study conducted by the Brookings Institution entitled “Income Inequality in America’s 50 Largest Cities,” which compared the levels of income inequality in cities from 2007 to 2012.
“According to [the] Brookings study, Atlanta, San Francisco, Miami and Boston are all more unequal,” Langenbacher said. “D.C. is essentially tied with New York City.”
Economics professor Garance Genicot noted that, despite its faults, the study by the CFO is more telling of the nation as a whole than just of D.C.
“Given the large difference in inequality between the U.S. and all other developed countries, it should be clear that there is a lot that can be done nationwide [in the U.S.], in particular in terms of [a] safety net,” Genicot said.
This study raises questions on how D.C. and other regions with high levels of income inequality will deal with this issue, particularly in light of Tuesday’s election of D.C. Councilmember Muriel Bowser (D-Ward 4) and her platform’s focus on addressing affordable housing issues.
“Income equality is a real problem in the region, nation and world, but one with no easy, short-term fix,” Langenbacher said. “D.C., like other jurisdictions, is trying to address the problem. Increased minimum wages, plans to increase the stock of affordable housing and on-going, comprehensive educational reforms are steps in the right direction.”
Genicot agreed, pointing to changes like the minimum wage increase as essential to fixing the problem of inequality in the District.
“The District could do much more to address its high level of inequality and high rate of poverty,” Genicot said. “The scheduled increases in the minimum wage in the summers of 2015 and 2016 should help. Also, the high rates of violence and incarceration among the poor in D.C. make it likely that some judicial reforms could help.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 11, 2014 by Deirdre Collins Leave a Comment 
The Washington, D.C., Department of Health is working to designate MedStar Georgetown University Hospital as an international center of excellence as part of a program to help promote the District as a premier medical destination and attract foreigners to undergo medical procedures, participate in research and train with D.C.’s medical providers.
The program, in development for the past year, will announce specific projects later in the month that will begin in January 2015. The Children’s National Health System was also chosen for this designation.
Medical tourism is defined by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as “travelling to another country for medical care,” and 750,000 residents of the United States travel abroad every year to undergo medical treatments.
D.C. DOH Director Joxel Garcia expressed interest in attracting international travelers to D.C. for medical care through packages that include medical procedures in addition to tourist attractions.
“What we are doing is very unique,” Garcia said. “We are going to create tourism packages to promote medical procedures. For example, a package can include the medical treatment or procedure as well as a visit to Congress or the White House.”
Garcia expects the program to be effective in attracting visitors to D.C., aiming for 7,000 visitors through the program in the first year and 10,000 in the second.
To ensure the program would play to the unique strengths of the hospitals in the District, Garcia conducted extensive conversations with D.C. medical institutions while building the program.
“The program will promote consortia between all of the hospitals in the District, working together to promote excellence in health care here in the District at the international level. Each institution will be able to offer expertise in the areas they choose,” Garcia said. “This program will amplify what each of those health care providers already do.”
With three airports in the D.C. area allowing for easy accessibility to the region, Garcia added that integrating D.C.’s strengths would bring more tourism to the district.
“We already have one of the strongest health care systems in America. We have great hotels, great hospitality and great transportation systems,” he said. “We are offering a framework that allows many great parts of D.C. to work together. I think that this will be a very good offering that will be very easy to sell.”
The medical tourism program will contribute to a White House initiative aiming to increase the number of visitors to the United States each year to 100 million by 2021 in order to create tens of thousands of new jobs in tourism in the United States and boost the national economy. Two million people visited the District last year from abroad.
“Encouraging more visitors to come to the United States to stay in our hotels, eat in our restaurants, shop in our stores and explore this great country, will deliver a much needed economic boost while strengthening U.S. relations around the world,” Stephen Cloobeck, Chairman of Brand USA, a tourism promotion organization partnered with the White House on the initiative, said in a press release.
Garcia said that the influx of international patients into D.C. hospitals would not diminish the medical care of D.C. residents, explaining that for medical research institutions like Georgetown University in particular, the benefits of international exchange could bolster the medical care offered by the District.
“Having Georgetown, Johns Hopkins and [The George Washington University] here gives us a powerful platform to attract research,” he said. “Having more treatment, research and academia would make this a great opportunity for the District and make Georgetown University much stronger, although it is already very renowned.”
The Medstar Georgetown University Hospital will showcase its specialties in organ transplants and oncology as an international center of excellence in the medical tourism program. Nicole Duncan, assistant vice president of advocacy and international services at the Medstar Georgetown University Hospital, said that the hospital is committed to treating both international and domestic patients.
“Typically the process with our international patients is very planned. We know when they are flying here so we can have appointments scheduled for them. This in no way infringes on patients in the emergency room or in the clinic,” Duncan said.
While the hospital has seen a large number of severe cases in international patients from Middle Eastern countries, Japan, China and South America, Duncan noted that partnering with the DOH and other hospitals might allow the hospital to also attract international patients with more acute cases.
“Because we provide care to treat very complex diseases and illnesses, partnering with the District could be extremely helpful,” she said. “[Through] Dr. Garcia’s vision to expand the program beyond international patients who need immediate care to some of the less acute services, we would probably see an increase in the number of international patients.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

