
February 22, 2014 by Matt Gregory Leave a Comment 
ALEXANDER BROWN/THE HOYALeft to right: Jimmy Ramirez (COL ’15), Dan Silkman (COL ’15), Omika Jikaria (SFS ’15), Sam Greco (SFS ’15)Candidates in the Georgetown University Student Association executive race answered questions from the media and members of the student body during the vice presidential debate Saturday.
Held in an Intercultural Center classroom, the debate allowed vice presidential hopefuls Jimmy Ramirez (COL ’15), Dan Silkman (COL ’15), Omika Jikaria (SFS ’15) and Sam Greco (SFS ’15) to describe their platforms and stances on issues such as student engagement, diversity initiatives, sexual assault policy and collaboration with the university administration. The debate was moderated by GUSA Election Commissioner Audrey Atencio (SFS ’14).
A question from multiple audience members prompted the candidates to reveal their cross-endorsements. Each candidate chose another ticket to support as his or her number two choice for executive office. Jikaria expressed support for Weiss and Greco’s ticket, and Greco, in turn, offered support for Jikaria and Tezel. Ramirez, however, chose to cross-endorse Singer and Silkman, and Silkman did the same for Lloyd and Ramirez.
The four candidates began by presenting brief opening statements, outlining the central points to their ticket platforms. Ramirez, emphasizing a theme upon which he would touch throughout the debate, noted his desired for GUSA to empower and help individuals and organizations achieve their goals.
“Our ticket is about, above all, this philosophy of giving student leaders, who care about specific issues and student groups, those resources and access to free speech to actually talk about these issues,” Ramirez, who is Thomas Lloyd’s (SFS ’15) running mate, said. “The specific goal is to establish a specific type of student government, one that acts as a conduit, not one that has all the power.”
Silkman emphasized the necessity of incorporating different perspectives into a GUSA administration to ensure the accurate representation of the needs of the entire student body.
“We recognize that there is no one story that is able to capture the unique and special things that make this place our home,” Silkman said. “So we’ve been reaching out to really craft a campaign platform that reflects the unique stories of these Georgetown students to make this place better.” He also emphasized the “balanced” nature of his ticket arising from his running mate Zach Singer’s (SFS ’15) experience as a three-year GUSA senator and as chief of staff combined with Silkman’s own outsider perspective.
Jikaria similarly described the benefit of combining her experiences with those of a GUSA insider, Deputy Chief of Staff Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15), as well as the necessity of GUSA advocating on the behalf of all students, as a priority over programming.
“GUSA really is an advocacy body, and it should be the top priority of GUSA to represent all student interests and to be able to channel this to the administration,” Jikaria said. “Our mission is to connect students to Georgetown, we really want to make this campus one that is collaborative and connected.”
Greco, who is running with Ben Weiss (COL ’15), framed his campaign through the premise of enabling student leaders to achieve goals, a process he believes has been hindered in the past by the administration and GUSA itself.
“Ben and I are running to create a GUSA that works for you, and we have the expertise and ideas to make that happen,” Greco said. “It’s time to cut superfluous bureaucracy that only makes it harder for students to achieve results.”
Candidates then submitted to questions from campus media — GUTV, The Georgetown Voice and The Hoya — as well as from students, who could submit questions via paper or Twitter.
The first question asked which aspects of the candidates’ respective platforms made their message unique. Ramirez noted the use of the housing boost incentive, currently utilized in the “What’s a Hoya?” program, to increase student engagement in educational events sponsored by different student groups. Silkman expressed ambitions of breaking down social barriers, such as financial obstacles preventing students from preregistering or seeking leadership roles. Jikaria emphasized the timelines she and Tezel plan to attach to all of their proposals, which would ensure that any programs or initiatives would be held to a strict timetable. Lastly, Greco described his philosophy that GUSA should primarily serve to help students achieve their individual ambitions for the university.
The candidates were asked to name their number one priority were they to be elected to the office of vice president.
Silkman described promoting collaboration and mutual interest between GUSA and the student body as his main objective. 
“The collaborative piece of our platform is one of the most important aspects of our platform and something we wouldn’t want to compromise,” Silkman said. “If there’s any way to find out what students care about, from the bottom up, and then create programs, committees, initiatives to address those concerns, that’s definitely something we want to do.”
In contrast, Jikaria cited the promotion of student rights through promotion of the Student Advocacy Office and revisions to the Code of Student Conduct as her paramount issue, while Greco named enabling student success through funding reform and removing bureaucratic obstacles as his top priority. Ramirez emphasized giving students access to resources, including sexual assault support and initiatives designed to promote diversity and cultural appreciation.
The candidates were also called upon to address the issue of referendums; in particular, they were asked whether they would have used the same tactics GUSA employed in fall 2013 when a referendum was used to back advocacy against a satellite campus that was proposed by the university administration. While Silkman, Jikaria and Ramirez said they would have followed the example of the current administration, who deployed the” One Georgetown, One Campus” effort, Greco said that he would have taken a different, less combative approach.
“There was no reason to start a war,” Greco said.
Atencio ended the debate without the stipulated candidate closing statements, after the event reached its 75-minute limit.  
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 22, 2014 by Matt Gregory Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University Student Association President Nate Tisa (SFS ’14) and Vice President Adam Ramadan (SFS ’14) have decided to not officially endorse any of the candidate teams vying for executive office in the 2014 GUSA executive election. In a co-authored viewpoint published in The Hoya (“Why We Won’t Endorse A Candidate for GUSA,” A3, Feb. 21, 2014), the pair cited a desire not to sway public opinion as their rationale behind the decision to withhold support from any one ticket.
According to the viewpoint, the decision to back one team could potentially interfere with members of the student body trying to objectively determine who will best serve as campus leaders.
“Rather than instruct students on our personal opinion, we believe it is up to voters to decide which candidate’s priorities best match their own,” the executives wrote. “Each of the four tickets appearing on the ballot next Thursday has experience, vision and a proven dedication to service.”
Further, Tisa emphasized that regardless of the election’s outcome, all students will need to work together in order to achieve goals beneficial for the entire campus population.
“After the dust settles, it won’t be up to one candidate pair to make Georgetown a better place,” Tisa and Ramadan wrote. “It will be up to all of them — and, most importantly, it will be up to all of us as an engaged student body. The success of the future administration will depend not only on how they implement their platform, but also on how they work with their current competitors and future colleagues to advocate for students.”
Regardless of which candidate team wins the Feb. 27 election, they mentioned three areas they believed any future administration should prioritize: student advocacy and activism illustrated by the successful “One Georgetown, One Campus” initiative, the “What’s a Hoya?” program seeking to educate students about university values and opportunities and a continued emphasis on the prevention of sexual assault through new campus policies and continued discussion.
While the pair only publicly revealed their decision to not endorse Friday, some candidates, including presidential hopeful Thomas Lloyd (SFS ’15), had been aware of their mindset on this issue and agreed with this policy.
“We have known for some time that the current executive would not endorse anyone in the current race,” Lloyd said. “Even without any endorsement, we are confident that given our platform, along with our experience as student leaders, Nate and Adam would be happy with our ticket.”
During last year’s election, then-President Clara Gustafson (SFS ’13) and Vice President Vail Kohnert-Yount (SFS ’13) chose to endorse Jack Appelbaum (COL ’14) and his running mate Maggie Cleary (COL ’14). According to Lloyd, Tisa did not completely approve of Gustafson’s decision to endorse a candidate, and his experience may have played a role in his choice not to endorse any pair in this year’s contest. Gustafson could not be reached for comment.
“When I worked for Nate on his last campaign, and worked with him during the year, it was made clear that Nate didn’t agree with Clara and Vail’s decision to endorse a ticket,” Lloyd said.
Fellow presidential candidate Ben Weiss (COL ’15), who worked with Tisa in the GUSA senate for two years, similarly approved of the decision to not endorse a ticket.
“I respect Nate’s decision not to endorse any candidate for executive office this election. He has close relationships with many people in the race, myself included, and I appreciate the fact that he recognizes that he has ties to multiple tickets and is staying out of the race,” Weiss said. “There was a lot of hoopla last year surrounding Clara and Vail’s decision to choose a ticket to support. My guess is that Nate didn’t want to replicate that this year. This completely leaves it up to the student body of Georgetown, which is how it should be.”
Candidate pair Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) and Omika Jikaria (SFS ’15) also expressed respect for the endorsement decision.
“We respect the right of the GUSA executive to endorse or not to endorse as they see fit,” Tezel and Jikaria wrote in a joint campaign statement. Tezel currently serves as Tisa’s deputy chief of staff.
Vice presidential candidate Dan Silkman (COL ’15) chose not to comment on the motivations but offered support for whatever path the current executive chose to take.
“We have a lot of respect for Nate and Adam, and so whatever they choose to do is OK by us,” Silkman said.
Silkman’s running mate, presidential candidate Zach Singer (SFS ’15), serves as the executive’s chief of staff, and there were rumors that Tisa and Ramadan were considering Singer as their choice for an endorsement. However, Tisa maintains that personal relationships had no impact on his decisions regarding campus politics.
“Over the course of our term, we have worked with virtually all the candidates in this race,” Tisa told The Hoya. “Several of the candidates are personal friends, but we made it clear when they first got involved that we would not make an endorsement.”
In a written statement, Singer accepted Tisa and Ramadan’s decision.
“Dan and I respect all that Nate and Adam have done over the past year, and in the same vein we respect their decision not to endorse a ticket,” he wrote.
Ultimately, Tisa emphasized his goal of seeking to promote the interests of the entire university and student body, as well as to ensure that whoever ultimately wins the election is in the best possible position to succeed.
“We believe it hurts the institution when GUSA’s leadership focuses all its energy on developing one ticket rather than all those interested in serving,” Tisa said. “The success of the future administration will depend not only on how they implement their platform, but also on how they work with their current competitors and future colleagues to advocate for students.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

