
September 23, 2014 by Katherine Richardson 20 Comments 
Members of H*yas for Choice were temporarily removed from a previously approved tabling location on 37th Street, just outside of the university’s front gates, by a Georgetown University Police Department officer five minutes after setting up a table on the sidewalk Monday afternoon.
The group decided to table in silent protest of an event occurring in Gaston Hall, in which the university bestowed an honorary degree to Donald Cardinal Wuerl, the Archbishop of Washington. Group members said they oppose Wuerl’s positions on LGBTQ rights and women’s health.
H*yas for Choice, in reaction to the event on campus, decided to table outside of the university gates on a public sidewalk so that event-goers would see them on their way to Gaston Hall. The group was removed during prime foot traffic, about 15 minutes before the ceremony’s start at 5 p.m.
As an unrecognized student group, H*yas for Choice is limited to designated free speech zones when tabling.
H*yas for Choice was allowed to table on 37th Street last year, and were in fact told to table in this exact spot after they were removed from Healy Circle during last year’s Cardinal O’Connor Conference on Life. After 18 minutes in front of Healy Hall, GUPD relocated the group to this same spot just outside the campus gates.
An hour after the removal Monday, the same officer informed the group they could return to their original location on the sidewalk. It is unclear why the group was temporarily barred from tabling on the sidewalk. The university directed requests for comment to GUPD Chief of Police Jay Gruber, who was not available for comment as of press time.
The university’s current speech and expression policy, revised in May, designates spaces such as Red Square, Regents Lawn, the lobby of the Leavey Center and the Healey Family Student Center as free speech zones. A statement from Assistant Dean for Student Engagement Erika Cohen Derr at the start of the semester said that these specific designations allow campus to remain open for expression, but also safe.
“The ‘public square’ designation accommodates the physical materials and structures and also the spontaneous interest in expressing a viewpoint. Georgetown is a dense campus with many thousands of people occupying just over 100 acres,” Cohen Derr wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The designation of public squares also takes into account the need for egress and passage so that people can traverse campus safely, particularly as we enter a phase of heavy construction.”
H*yas for Choice President Abby Grace (SFS ’16) said H*yas for Choice members chose this off-campus location to ensure that their free speech was protected.
“We recognize that this is your property, so we’re going to stand on a public sidewalk that, to our knowledge, they do not own, and table there,” Grace said. “By that point, once you leave Georgetown property, the First Amendment applies.”
H*yas for Choice Vice President Vincent DeLaurentis (SFS ‘17)said that a GUPD officer approached the table and asked the group of five students to relocate within five minutes of setting up a table.
“I definitely asked for some more information and justification from him, and after radioing a superior, he told us that it’s a public sidewalk and he was going to have to ask us to leave,” DeLaurentis said.
The officer offered multiple options for relocation, including Red Square, Copley Lawn or the exterior of Lauinger Library. According to DeLaurentis, these spots took the group completely out of the eyesight of those attending the event in Gaston.
“I told him that although we understand that the university free speech policy protects those areas, it’s kind of an ineffective place for us to sit because we’re not going to be able to be seen by anyone and make our point,” DeLaurentis said. “By asking us to move there, Georgetown is paying lip service to free speech without actually protecting real substantive speech.”
According to Grace, this relocation demonstrates the on-and-off compliance with the university’s free speech and expression policy that GUPD has given H*yas for Choice over the past year.
“I think we’ve provided plenty of examples over the past year of them selectively choosing to apply policies that don’t really exist, because they’re not following them, to us,” Grace said. “The thing that’s really angering me right now is that we intentionally went to this spot because last semester when we were tabling in Healy Circle, they asked us to move there. I am dumbfounded why they would ask us to move somewhere in January and then suddenly in September, make it a spot that we’re not allowed to sit anymore.”
With the help of the GUPD officer, the students moved their table to Copley Lawn, where they tabled for an hour, obstructed by a large black gate. After that time passed, the same officer approached the table for a second time, and told the students that they could return to the public sidewalk.
“It was very clear that, first of all, he didn’t understand the free speech policy and was just kind of beholden to this mysterious superior who’s delivering orders through a walkie-talkie,” DeLaurentis said.
DeLaurentis asked to speak to the officer’s superior, who explained that H*yas for Choice could table on the sidewalk, provided they allowed three feet of space in front of the table to allow pedestrians to pass safely. When the group was relocated an hour earlier, the officer did not measure the space or explain this three-foot rule.
“I’m really questioning where they got the authority to move someone from a public sidewalk,” Grace said. “I think that that is just showing a blatant lack of training when it comes to what students’ rights are on and off campus, what should be happening and how the university selectively chooses to support some speech and systematically oppress other speech.”
H*yas for Choice’s protest follows Wuerl’s recent history with the university. The archbishop criticized the university for inviting then-Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius to speak at the Georgetown Public Policy Institute’s graduation in 2012. Sebelius supported the Affordable Care Act’s contraception mandate, which required employers to provide their employees with coverage for contraception.
“While we understand that Cardinal Wuerl is a major figure in Washington’s Catholic life, he also has some really controversial opinions, especially in regard to LGBTQ people and women’s health,” DeLaurentis said. “We were out there to demonstrate that while Georgetown may be giving him an honorary degree, the fact that they’re giving them this degree kind of flies in the face of a lot of Georgetown students, both who identify as LGBTQ and who care about women’s health.”
Grace said that bestowing such a degree to Wuerl goes against Georgetown’s pluralist mission.
“Georgetown can claim to be pluralist and can claim to do all these things, but please back it up,” Grace said. “Please don’t bestow a degree completely willingly upon someone who takes positions that we feel to be rather controversial and offensive.”
Hoya Staff Writer

AMDG says 
September 23, 2014 at 11:08 am
Thank you DPS for moving these classless abortionists out of sight. The Cardinal shouldn’t have to see their nonsense.

Azazel says 
September 23, 2014 at 12:59 pm
On the contrary, sir, I think these are some of the most classy abortionists in this discussion. I think in this discussion on the temporal complexities of the endowment of life into the human person, it is important for the members of the Magisterium to understand that there is a growing number of Catholic youth who disagree with the official teaching. If the Church is to do what the Church desires to do, that is change the hearts and minds of these youth, I think it is important for the Cardinal not only to see them, but to engage them in a pastoral and reasonable way. With all of the media coverage the new Holy Father’s tone over these issues has set, I’m surprised that you, who I’m assuming is Catholic (pardon my assumption) would take a position directly in opposition to the teaching of the Bishop of Rome and support the quashing of discourse and labeling those with whom you disagree as “classless”. That, my good friend, would seem to me to be very un-Catholic.

Furious Alum says 
September 23, 2014 at 11:53 am
The University should really be ashamed. These students were actively trying to comply with the rules they had been given the last time their rights were violated, and now you harass them just because you don’t like what they have to say? Is this really how you foster growth and community? It sounds more like a way to build intolerance and hate.

@troll says 
September 23, 2014 at 12:03 pm
^ don’t feed the troll

Dr. Greg says 
September 23, 2014 at 12:31 pm
Shame on the Georgetown University Police State!

Liberal Progressive Catholic says 
September 23, 2014 at 12:38 pm
First off, did you ever think that the degree was bestowed partially to mend relationships so that moving forward, perhaps the archbishop/cardinal will not jump so quickly to assume that we are “going against our roots” by inviting speakers like Sebelius? If people have a personal connection, they are usually less likely to jump to conclusions and fight than people who feel like they have nothing in common.
Second, giving a degree to the archbishop/cardinal does not go against any pluralist attitudes, since pluralism gets at the idea that all (reasonable) views must enter into dialogue. I was at the ceremony, and Cardinal Wuerl said nothing hateful against LGBT individuals or women’s rights. His speech was actually quite well-written and positive. 
I’m not saying I agree with everything he’s ever done. But at the same time, give him – and the university – a break. Frankly, you were not just tabling – you were protesting. Generally speaking, all protests against speakers I’ve seen in the past 4 years were required to occur on Copley Lawn. Not Healy Circle, not directly outside the gates, but Copley Lawn. If you were trying to flaunt the rules/status quo by claiming to “table” even though you openly admit that your goal was to protest, you shouldn’t be mad that they moved you. Next time, either stick to tabling or choose to actively protest. And also, try to understand that the school needs to protect its speakers on a security level. This man, whether you like him or not, is a Cardinal. Just as I’m pretty sure you wouldn’t be allowed close to the gates if the Prince of Wales came, you weren’t allowed this time either. In that sense, the time restrictions made sense. Not everything is about the school being out to get you. (Not that you’ve never had valid points — I think you have had many and I have supported you. This was just not one of them.)

Clara says 
September 23, 2014 at 12:59 pm
HFC has my deepest respect. These students behave impeccably under difficult circumstances.

John Smith says 
September 23, 2014 at 1:40 pm
This statement is completely contradictory: “Georgetown can claim to be pluralist and can claim to do all these things, but please back it up,” Grace said. “Please don’t bestow a degree completely willingly upon someone who takes positions that we feel to be rather controversial and offensive.” 
So apparently Georgetown can only give honorary degrees to people that H*yas for Choice agrees with?

JS says 
September 23, 2014 at 1:48 pm
From what I can discern, HFC was definitely wronged here. I distinctly recall a large group of (non-Georgetown affiliated) TFP protestors outside of Kathleen Sebelius stationed at the very same corner. 
That said, Abby Grace’s statement at the end of this article is patently ridiculous. Pluralism is not about only being exposed to viewpoints you agree with — it is about accepting that there is something valuable to be gained in interacting with those who hold “controversial and offensive” positions.

@JS says 
September 23, 2014 at 4:10 pm
Perhaps some context would help
https://www.thehoya.com/georgetowns-picky-version-of-pluralism/

IA says 
September 23, 2014 at 3:31 pm
While I understand frustration at being told to leave a public space, I think HFC members do need to recognize that they attend a Catholic university where pluralism will include viewpoints of the Catholic Church. There is a history of students from all different groups (not just the HFC) being asked to move locations when public figures come to campus, especially if any security is involved. These are often technical decisions made to comply with safety regulations, not just political decisions to try to “silence” one group.
Additionally, while it would be great if the HFC did update their standings on certain issues, I think they should also remember that they do not provide any resources for queer women on campus. Not only do they not carry dental dams or latex gloves, but they also lack the information to assist any students with questions, leaving out a large segment of the LGBTQ population.

@IA says 
September 23, 2014 at 3:50 pm
I don’t know if this is all true, but I think I’ve heard that HFC has been talking about how to better serve LGBTQ students. I’ve also heard they’re working on some kind of sex ed literature for distribution (which may or may not be hetero-normative, time will tell). I’m also pretty sure all of the condoms they get are donations from other organizations, so they probably have little if any say on what they get in terms of safe-sex supplies.
& FYI, I know it’s not the real thing, but a HFC condom can be turned into a dental dam in a pinch.

AT says 
September 23, 2014 at 4:02 pm
I’m not sure that GUPD has jurisdiction over the space outside the front gates. What would have happened if the students refused to leave? 
On another note, can the University please check with Ms. Grace before it bestows honorary degrees? We wouldn’t want  to compromise Georgetown’s pluralist identity by honoring someone like Cardinal Wuerl.

MS says 
September 23, 2014 at 4:53 pm
I don’t believe that Ms. Grace intended to insinuate that the University should confer with her and her organization. Rather, I believe she wishes Georgetown Administration to fully consider the backgrounds and views of those being honored while also reminding themselves of the pluralism the University claims to promote. Furthermore, any attack on Ms. Grace is quite frankly uncalled for.  The HFC was unjustly escorted from a public space while non-violently protesting. Ms. Grace is not a ‘classless’ figure, rather she is  a strong, independent woman who wishes to improve student life on campus in every possible way. Stop being catty, and focus on the actual issues on hand.

Alum says 
September 23, 2014 at 9:11 pm
I can’t believe Erika Cohen-Derr cited “construction” and “safety” as the university’s excuse for hassling a group whose viwes they don’t agree with. What a bunch of bunk.

Alex says 
September 23, 2014 at 9:47 pm
This whole saga is ridiculous. I’m staunchly pro-life, but HFC has a right to table and/or protest (whatever you choose to call this, it really doesn’t matter) even if the university doesn’t like what they have to say. It was already outrageous that the police removed HFC from Healy Circle after 18 minutes back in the spring, but now the police are telling HFC that they can’t be where the police said was okay last time? For a university whose goal is to educate future world leaders and politicians, Georgetown has a disturbing level of restriction on free speech. Freedom of speech only exists if it protects speech that authority figures find uncomfortable or even offensive. By this standard, we do not have freedom of speech at Georgetown.

Alumni Jon says 
September 24, 2014 at 11:18 am
Agree with “John Smith” on this one. A pluralistic university is one which entertains arguments from all sides of an ideological dispute, not one which seeks affirmation from its student body. Students are at a university to learn, not to govern who the university chooses to honor, and the university – which is Catholic, whether students care to admit that or not – is completely within its rights to extend an honorary degree to a very accomplished leader in the Catholic faith. 
I was very appreciative of Georgetown’s tolerance of free speech when I was a student, and I still think it is a vital component to the university’s approach to education, but students should be careful not mistake their opinion with the correct opinion.

Disappointed Alum says 
September 24, 2014 at 11:50 pm
This seems like a seriously biased article. It makes no attempts to attend to the the points of view of people outside of H*yas for Choice. Poor journalism.

Mike Periu says 
September 25, 2014 at 11:06 am
As an alumni of Georgetown I think its important that the University stay true to its Catholic identity. This means not being neutral on matters of faith and morals.It means not supporting moral relativism. There is a Catholic position on these issues which the University should endorse. The University should be open to debate and discussion regarding positions that are contrary to the faith but only in as much as it will serve an evangelization purpose. 
The vast majority of universities in the country are not Catholic. Why come to a Catholic university and expect them to accept non-catholic positions on key issues as equally valid. I wouldn’t go to “Secular State School” and demand my rights to Eucharistic Adoration. People need to use common sense. 
There is no point to putting that HFC table out there other than to be annoying. Do you really think the Cardinal doesn’t know about birth control or the percentage of Catholics that use it? I mean this isn’t groundbreaking stuff here. The only purpose is to agitate. 
Perhaps the school has been too permissive and in giving an inch they now are being asked to give a mile. Better to be true and honest even if it means lower enrollment.

Jennifer says 
December 12, 2015 at 12:01 am
So they go to a Jesuit school and are surprised to find out that a Cardinal might be coming to their school? If you choose to attend a Catholic School you shouldn’t be surprised when you’re asked to respect the schools religious traditions. You should be more surprised (and grateful) that someone who supports the ACA was invited.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 23, 2014 by Kshithij Shrinath Leave a Comment 
In anticipation of a meeting of world leaders at the United Nations Climate Summit on Tuesday, over 400,000 people — double the expected attendance — participated in the People’s Climate March in New York City on Sunday, including over 40 Georgetown students.
The march, organized by 350.org, began around 11:30 a.m. and wound its way throughout downtown Manhattan, traversing 40 blocks. At 12:58 p.m., the attendees held a moment of silence that lasted until 1 p.m. for frontline communities already affected by climate change. They continued the march through Times Square before concluding the event at Penn Station.
An estimated 2,000 similar events were held in 150 countries, including larger demonstrations in London and Paris.
Georgetown students, including members of Georgetown University Fossil Free, organized to attend the march in conjunction with the Sierra Club, American University and The George Washington University. While approximately 70 students bought $20 tickets for chartered buses to and from the event, attendee Caroline James (COL ’16), a member of GU Fossil Free and the Georgetown University Student Association secretary of sustainability, estimated that 40 students actually made the trip to New York.
“We got a lot of people to come, more than we’ve ever gotten people to come for an external climate event,” James said. “There are some people that I know are supportive of the environmental cause but just aren’t involved on campus because they’re involved in other stuff, so I was really happy to see them because it takes major initiative and a bit of sacrifice to get yourself up to New York.”
The march preceded the U.N. Climate Summit led by Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon that will be held today in New York, which will convene world leaders, including President Barack Obama, to discuss the issue of climate change and possible policy situations. GUSA Undersecretary of Sustainability Mandy Lee (SFS ’17), also marched, believing that the proximity to the event could spark real action.
“This has been the largest climate march in history, and it’s all in order to send a message that negotiations need to have a real impact in the future since climate conferences have been so ineffective so far,” Lee said. “Personally, I’d like to see commitments about climate change that have real deadlines.”
James also said she hoped the march would bring accountability to leaders at climate summits.
“Just having our bodies there demanding loudly that this is something that cannot wait any longer brings probably a sense of urgency to this issue for them, and they know that we’re watching,” she said.
In addition to political figures Ban and New York City mayor Bill de Blasio and celebrities like Leonardo DiCaprio and Joseph Gordon-Levitt, the march brought together a multitude of organizations, including student groups, religious organizations, scientists, teachers and others.
“There were so many groups there. I’m interested in divestment as a member of GU Fossil Free, but I’m also interested in the fracking industry, and there were people fighting coal and oil, people interested in food justice,” Chloe Lazarus (COL ’16) said. “It was such an array of messages since everything is related to climate change and climate justice.”
Ari Goldstein (COL ’18), another attendee, said that he hoped the march would spark the environmental movement in a manner similar to major activist pushes of the 20th century.
“GU Fossil Free hosted a movie screening last week that was a movie called ‘Disruption,’ and it talked about the need for mobilization of people in any social movement. It talked about the civil rights movement and the feminist movement, and it struck me that that’s what’s necessary for the environmental movement,” he said.
Attendees of the march, many of whom were members of GU Fossil Free, hoped that the attention placed on the march would pressure the administration to divest from fossil fuel companies, the central mission of the organization.
With the significant involvement of Georgetown students at the march, Lee also wanted to ensure that the university would remain a leader in the environmental movement.
“I hope to make Georgetown feel as though it’s a leader in, at least, thought in this area, if not in action,” she said. “I’d like to see students think about environmental issues on a daily basis when they’re making little daily decisions, just changing little behaviors.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 23, 2014 by Ashley Miller 1 Comment 
Students, faculty, journalists and performers gathered at the Gonda Theatre on Friday to hear from a group of Syrian refugees via Skype from Amman, Jordan, who had originally planned to perform at Georgetown, but were denied visas by the State Department.
The event, “Voices Unheard — The Syria: Trojan Women Summit” was held by the university’s Laboratory for Global Performance and Politics to connect the local community with the refugees at the center of the “Syria: The Trojan Women” performance originally planned and discuss the issues surrounding their denied efforts to visit the United States.
Instead of the performance of “Syria: The Trojan Women,” an interpretation of Euripides’ “The Trojan Women” incorporating the performers’ own experiences as refugees, the event included a live-stream video chat with the women, behind-the scenes footage from a documentary chronicling the production in the Middle East, and a panel with producers and regional experts.
The women have performed the play in Jordan, which was followed in the documentary “Queens of Syria.” The performance at Georgetown would have been their first performance outside the Middle East.
This “Syria: The Trojan Women” program, based in Amman, provides therapeutic drama workshops for Syrian refugees suffering from depression, post-traumatic stress disorder and anxiety, as well as financial assistance for these urban refugees, a significant number of whom had careers in Syria.
Charlotte Eagar, the play’s co-producer, said that the performance and subsequent documentary helped give a voice to these women, who often go unnoticed in the media.
“The perspective of ordinary Syrian women affected by this conflict and the refugee crisis is so often markedly absent from media coverage,” Eagar said during the summit.“They said they had finally been given the chance to tell their stories to the world. Because when you are a refugee, something terrible has happened. Every single refugee has suffered a dramatic event in their life that would make a Hollywood movie but nobody is listening, nobody wants to hear.”
The theater was completely full Friday evening, with some students sitting on the stage.
These stories, panelists said, give a voice to the crisis.
“It’s those personal narratives that are so significant in really shaping that whole story,” Al-Juburi, a panelist, said. “With any major atrocity, you really need those Anne Franks that are on the ground, those voices that really show what’s happening and help to sort of define the humanity of it all.”
The women themselves, during video chat panel moderated by Syrian journalist and radio personality Honey Al-Sayed, said they saw the performance as a chance to shape how they are perceived. Al-Sayed translated the responses of the women, who spoke in Arabic — with the exception of one who spoke last and in English to a rousing ovation from the packed theater.
“It gave us hope that perhaps we can change the way people perceive us and perceive Syria and especially change for women because women’s voices are so marginalized especially during conflict,” a cast member said.
The women in the video chat said that they were disappointed and saddened that they could not get visas to travel to America to perform. The U.S. Bureau of Consular Affairs in Amman denied the women visas under section 214.B of the Immigrant and Nationality Act, which is failure to demonstrate non-immigrant intent. Switzerland, however, has granted the women visas.
“They were somebody back home and today they feel they are nobody and this incident made them feel that even more,” Al-Sayed said, based on a cast member’s response.
“Syria: The Trojan Women” will be turned into a motion picture set in an unnamed Middle East conflict, featuring an international cast and crew. Eagar hopes that the original performers will serve as the chorus, while other refugees will play the extras.
Some members of the panel discussed the idea that addressing the refugee crisis in Syria could diminish the influence of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. Senior Program Officer at the United States Institute of Peace Hind Kabawat told the story of a child named Mustapha who lived in a refugee camp without schooling.
“I couldn’t find Mustapha. Mustapha has been recruited by ISIS because he has nothing to do,” Kabawat said. “How to solve the ISIS problem is also to solve the humanitarian problem in Syria.”
According to some panelists, the refugee crisis is breeding instability in the region.
“Not only is it causing a great deal of human suffering, but it is laying the groundwork for political insecurity and deterioration and that’s very worrying,” said Faysal Itani, a resident fellow at the Rafik Hariri Center for the Middle East and the Atlantic Council.
Kevin Kroyer (COL ’16) attended the event, and said he appreciated how it humanized the crisis.
“It was interesting to get a more human perspective and actually get to interact with the people that were directly affected by it, which I think is a pretty unique experience,” Kroyer said.
Kroyer also said that he found the parallel between the play and the women’s lives interesting.
“I think that’s the cool part of the play, like they were talking about, it was very applicable to the time it was written to the invasion and Milos and the destruction of that city and the fact that it has continued to be this relatable to people over 2,000 years later,” Kroyer said.
The event was the first event of the Lab’s two-year Myriad Voices Festival, which aims to bring together artists, scholars and policymakers to examine the Middle East and North Africa. The Lab is a joint initiative of the Theater and Performance Studies Program and the School of Foreign Service.
Hoya Staff Writer

Arafat says 
September 24, 2014 at 9:18 am
If Muslims are not torturing and killing women in Darfur, Somalia, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Egypt, Syria, Iran, Yemen, Bangladesh, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, Iraq, Qatar or in the heart of Islam – Saudi Arabia then tell me where Muslims are not doing this?
When will people call out Islam for its true colors?  Are we so concerned with being PC that this will not be possible until every women in the Islamic world is brutalized?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 23, 2014 by Maddy Moore Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University presented Archbishop of Washington, D.C., Donald Cardinal Wuerl with an honorary degree on Monday evening. The ceremony took place in Gaston Hall with Georgetown administrators, staff, faculty and a small number of students in attendance.
The event began with a processional of university leaders and a performance by the Georgetown University Concert Choir. Secretary of the University Edward M. Quinn (SFS ’73) then read from the University Charter, which turns 200 next March.
The official honorary degree was presented to Wuerl by board of directors Chair Paul Tagliabue (CAS ’62).
“Georgetown University today honors Donald Cardinal Wuerl for his extraordinary example of faith and service,” Tagliabue said. “Georgetown University with respect and admiration proclaims Donald Cardinal Wuerl Doctor of Humane Letters, honoris causa.”
The degree was conferred by University President John J. DeGioia, who spoke about Wuerl’s dedication to the Catholic faith and service throughout his life.
“We come together today in Gaston Hall to recognize the contributions of an extraordinary leader, teacher  and man of faith,” DeGioia said. “It’s fitting that we gather here in the oldest Catholic and Jesuit university in the United States to honor the faith and service of Cardinal Wuerl.”
After Wuerl accepted the honorary degree, he gave a speech about the importance of God and teaching in the Catholic community.
“We were made in the image and likeness of God. … There is a God-given plan for every single human being,” Wuerl said. “Each one of us has the potential to make this the manifestation of God’s community and doesn’t this university exist as this church does to say to the next generation that you can make a difference.”
The ceremony concluded with the singing of the Georgetown Alma Mater and the offering of  a benediction from Reverend Robert M. Hussey, S.J.
Honorary degrees are bestowed upon commencement speakers each year. Additionally, any of Georgetown’s graduate or undergraduate schools, or the president of the university, can nominate individuals for an honorary degree. Nominees must have achieved eminence within their careers or scholarship and and must have a relationship with the university or be involved with work that is closely related to the university’s mission.
The university bestowed an honorary degree upon Wuerl’s predecessor, Theodore Cardinal McCarrick, in 2004.
Rosa Cuppari (SFS ‘17) attended the event and said that she was surprised by the small number of students who attended the event.
“I was … surprised more students weren’t in attendance. I expected the audience to be predominantly older, but I had anticipated a larger student turnout,” Cuppari said.
Cuppari said that she thought that the speakers of the event placed an emphasis on Georgetown’s Catholic identity.
“As for representing our Catholic identity, I thought the ceremony did an excellent job. President DeGioia looked absolutely thrilled to be presenting Cardinal Wuerl with his honorary degree, and the standing ovations for his Eminence showed how well received he was at Georgetown,” Cuppari said.“This was definitely a great opportunity for Georgetown to reconnect to its Catholic identity and, as a Catholic, I was happy to see Georgetown reaffirm its Jesuit and Catholic heritage.”
Special to the Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 23, 2014 by Molly Simio Leave a Comment 
Georgina Paget, a London-based producer, is producing the documentary “Queens of Syria” and the feature film “The Trojan Women,” which evolved from the original play. She read Classics at Oxford, as did her co-producers Charlotte Eagar and William Stirling.
How did you get involved with “Syria: Trojan Women?”
It’s a funny story, actually. I was at a film pitching competition … the year before last and I entered with a completely different project and Charlotte [Eagar] and William [Stirling], who are now my co-producers, entered with this project, and I just thought it sounded like the most amazing idea that I had ever heard.
I had seen that they already had a producer, since they were the writers, but I went up to them afterward and said, “That sounds really interesting and let me know if there’s anything that I can do to be involved or help.” We kind of stayed connected. Well, I basically stalked them and that’s kind of how it started. I just really loved the idea.
I just thought the idea of them using this play for a drama therapy project with a group of refugee women just seemed so perfect, and such a great way to raise awareness on a larger scale of the Syrian refugee crisis, which as much as you feel that it’s in the news a fair amount, it gets relegated to the back pages a lot of the time. And especially working with women as well I thought was a real plus, and actually hearing their stories, because I think the media coverage of the Syrian conflict has been very male and very militaristic, and sometimes for obvious reasons. It’s difficult to report from inside of Syria, but there’s not so much from the women, which is half the population.
How was the Greek play adapted to incorporate the stories of these refugees?
It’s an intricate play, but there are sections of the play where the chorus talk about what their life was like before Troy [lost to] the Greeks. One of the ways that they wove in stories was that some of our cast talk about their previous lives. There were some monologues that were projected onto the screen at the back of the theater, and two women at a time read monologues from the play and talked about characters that they particularly identified with and kind of picked a line from the play and talked about what that meant to them and how that resonated.
A huge part of drama therapy is essentially being in a safe place between the character you’re playing and you, to be able to kind of reference your own experiences … is really helpful, I’m told. We did this other exercise where some of the cast wrote letters to someone who is no longer with them. Somebody wrote a letter to her house, which is kind of cool, to tell her house back in Syria how much she missed it. There were letters to friends, family members who had fled to other parts of the region, like Turkey or Lebanon, or in some cases to people who had died or who they didn’t know where they are, which is quite amazing.
That was kind of interwoven with actual scenes from the play, so it was all one, really playing on the idea of memory witnessing storytelling. Some of the really interesting parts of the play itself … talk about how war is no more, but our story will live on through the ages, which again is kind of a neat parallel.
You used the term “drama therapy.” To what extent is the purpose of this production to inform and entertain the audience, and to what extent is it really for the women who are acting in it?
It’s not one or the other, it’s very much both. Primarily, when we began the project, we didn’t know if the end performance was going to be good or not. It could have been this sort of half-decent school play, you never know. But that wasn’t the focus.
We shot a documentary in hopes that that would be a way of sharing this with a wider audience, even if the play itself was not anything of great artistic value. But in fact, our directors are absolutely wonderful, and the cast were really fantastic and gave a lot of themselves and did a lot of really moving performances. Ultimately, our first concerns were for the women. It was very much that they were in control. They only shared what they wanted to share. The primary purpose was for them, as a drama therapeutic exercise.
How did you interact with a larger community of Syrian refugees and how did that affect the development of the play?
There was certainly a trickle-down effect to that we had to run a daycare center for all of the kids that came with their moms who weren’t in school. A lot of them were very young. The psychologist who was working with the women … also worked with the kids. A lot of them had real behavioral problems and deep traumas as well.
In terms of actually interacting with the community, I suppose the eventual performances were part of that. That wasn’t just the Syrian refugee community … but also Jordanians, people who live alongside Syrian refugees. It’s a very interesting country that people are from all over the region and very few call themselves Jordanians. I didn’t meet someone who called himself a Jordanian for about a week and a half when I first went there.
It was quite hard-hitting for a lot of Jordanians to listen to these experiences of people are living right with them. Ultimately, it is very hard to emphathize with someone if you don’t understand.
The [women] really, really want to show what’s going on, because they feel like they’re being ignored, whether that’s kind of on purpose or by accident. I just remember thinking, how awful it would be and all these things happened to me and essentially no one cared and no one was listening.
The production will be coming to the West this fall in Switzerland. Do you anticipate that it will be received differently in the West than it has been in the Middle East?
I guess it will be received differently by every different audience who watch[es] it, but I think what will be a common thread, and certainly you could feel it in the theater in Amman, was just quite how moving it was to watch these women play characters who weren’t them, but also play themselves and to actually share things that were so deeply personal. The impact is really hard to describe.
I watched the play, and I don’t speak really any Arabic. I had the program notes and I knew the play and I knew what they were saying roughly, but I watched that without subtitles and no translation, and I just found it incredibly moving and very powerful. I think what comes across is the emotion and the feelings of loss and displacement and frustrations around that.
It will be interesting to see how it’s received in the West. I think in the Middle East, perhaps people are a lot more aware on one level, if you see me, not exactly the exact stories of what’s going on, but I don’t think it will be such a shock or a surprise as it might be for certain audiences in the West, depending on how informed they are. I guess you only read as much news as printed, so it will depend on where they live and what is available as to how much they know about what’s going on.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 23, 2014 by Kshithij Shrinath Leave a Comment 
Two law students will attend proceedings at the U.S. Naval Center in Guantanamo Bay in October, after the U.S. Department of Defense approved the Georgetown University Law Center as an official observer of the military commissions operations, or military tribunals authorized by presidential order, in late August.
Kayleigh Golish (LAW ’15) will observe the trial of Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri, a Saudi Arabian citizen accused of orchestrating the bombing of the USS Cole in 2000 as well as for leading al-Qaida operations in the Persian Gulf before he was captured in November 2002 by the CIA.
B. Shaw Drake (LAW ’15) will have the opportunity to observe the trial of the 9/11 case, which includes charges against Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, a member of al-Qaida who allegedly confessed under torture to U.S. agents his involvement in 20 years of terrorist activity.
Guantanamo Bay has been a hotbed of contention since the Bush administration for its use of torture and extrajudicial punishment on prisoners held at the naval base. On his first day in office, President Barack Obama signed an executive order to close the base, but without an agreed-upon location to transfer the prisoners, Guantanamo Bay remains open.
To quell allegations of a lack of due process administered to defendants, the U.S. Department of Defense first granted observer status to five non-governmental organizations in 2003, and 18 additional NGOs have been approved since 2011.
Observers sit behind soundproof glass, waiting for audio that is delayed by 40 seconds. The judge can press a button at any time to stop the audio feed if classified information is released during the trial. Khalid Sheik Mohammed’s trial in January 2013 sparked rumors when the feed was mysteriously cut for several minutes during the trial without any action by the judge. The CIA declined to comment to The Washington Post.
Because of this system, Drake said he did not see this decision to allow observers at the proceedings to really be a move toward government transparency.
“To hear what’s happening at the trials — I think that gives a quicker ability for NGOs to engage, but I’m not sure that it increases the government’s transparency. I’m sure they would point to it as a means of increasing it, and maybe it does in some ways I’m not aware of,” he said. “It’s not that we’re sitting in the back of the exact same room as the trial and hearing every single thing that happens.”
As the students prepare for their visit in October, in addition to filling out security paperwork, they will also engage with experts in the field to understand the context behind their trials.
“There’s well over a thousand documents for my case alone. I wish I could read them all, but that’s just not feasible. … That’s a lot of where the experts that we’ve been asked to talk to come in,” Golish said. “It’s helping us figure out what issues we should potentially focus so that we don’t feel like we’re drowning in information.”
While Golish and Shaw will be the first Georgetown Law students to attend, the observer status enables the law center to continue sending students in years to come. The law students were selected through an application, and the observer positions were only available to second-year and third-year law students, as well as Master of Law students.
The initiative was a collaboration between Georgetown Law’s Human Rights Institute and the Center on National Security and the Law.
“Georgetown is uniquely positioned as the leading national security law school to give students the chance to observe military commissions at Guantanamo,” Laura Donohue, director of the Georgetown Center on National Security and the Law, said in a press release.
Golish, who works on the Journal for National Security Law and Policy run by the GULC’S Center on National Security and Law, saw the program as a chance to expand her interest in national security law.
“It’s a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, especially for someone not that familiar with military justice but [who] has an interest in national security issues. Being an observer allows me to get an inside look at a process that I don’t have that much familiarity with,” she said.
Drake, who previously worked at the Bellevue/NYU Program for Survivors of Torture, said that his interest in the program arose from his interactions with clients at the program, as well as his focus on international human rights issues at law school.
“I think being there in person and seeing that process in action and seeing the issues that come up gives students at Georgetown the ability to engage those issues on a different level,” Drake said.
Golish pointed out that the university could have sent a professor, but chose to provide students with this unique non-credit opportunity.
“Especially if you’re interested in issues like national security and criminal justice and human rights, you’re going to be sitting in the room right next to people who do that for a living, who are top in their field,” she said. “It shows that the school really cares about giving their students the best opportunities that they can.”




Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 23, 2014 by Chris Balthazard Leave a Comment 
The Berkley Center for Religion, Peace and World Affairs has partnered with the University of Notre Dame’s Center for Civil and Human Rights to create a new project, “Under Caesar’s Sword,” which will examine the growing issue of Christian persecution around the world.
The joint venture of the two Catholic schools has already received a $1.1 million grant from the Templeton Religion Trust and will send 14 of the world’s leading Christian scholars from universities across the United States to study in over 30 countries and present their findings at a conference in Rome in December 2015. Some of the countries include China, Indonesia, Nigeria, Egypt and India.
Notre Dame professor Dan Philpott proposed the idea after working closely with Berkley Center professors Timothy Shah and Thomas Farr on the Religious Freedom Project at Georgetown, and took the lead on writing the grant proposal.
“It is an effort to stand in solidarity with the persecuted Christians of the world,” Philpott said in a CCHR press release. “To advocate for the rights of Christians is not to claim that their human rights are more important than anyone else’s. Religious freedom is a fundamental human right to which everyone on the planet is entitled. Today, however, Christians constitute the lion’s share of those in the lion’s den.”
“Under Caesar’s Sword” aims to closely examine Christian persecution, how Christians respond to it and increase public awareness of the growing problem.
“We are providing the best possible scholarly analysis we can of what is going on. And this is an issue which is of enormous intellectual interest,” Shah said. “Christians are the world’s largest religious group.And a number of secular responsible analysts have pointed out that the group that’s facing the most harassment because of their religion is Christianity … and yet there’s very little scholarly study of this.And particularly very little study of what Christians are doing to respond to the discrimination and harassment and persecution that they’re facing.”
In addition to funding the research and sending the experts to over 100 Christian communities spanning the globe as long as a month, the grant will cover two additional measures geared toward increasing awareness.
“We have it as one of our official goals that our scholarship really have an influence on the world’s awareness of these problems,” Shah said.“Our second goal is public awareness. We want to increase the knowledge of relevant actors and parties of what’s going on … and we really want a big megaphone through which to announce our findings.”
In addition to the international conference, the project plans to fund another means for garnering the attention of the public.
“We’ll be spending a certain amount of money supporting the filming of a documentary which will be available, ultimately, online. We’ve hired a documentary film producer to travel to at least two or three countries where there is serious repression of Christian communities,” Shah said.
This project builds upon Berkley Center research fellow Rebecca Shah’s research, presented at the “Christianity and Freedom” conference in Rome in December 2013, which focused on the effect the conversion to Christianity had on the social and economic standings of Indian women.
Georgetown University Vice President for Mission and Ministry Fr. Kevin O’Brien, S.J., (CAS ’88) denounced the recent violence against Christians and explained that what students and faculty at Georgetown do is important in fighting religious persecution everywhere.
“The recent violence in Iraq against Christian minorities is only the latest in a series of attacks against Christian churches and people,” O’Brien said. “The targeting of any people because of their religion — whether Christian or not — is an affront against our common humanity as children of God. … What we do at Georgetown is part of the solution — teaching people how to talk across religious differences and learning how to join together for peace and solidarity against the forces of violence and division.”
Philpott came up with the name, “Under Caesar’s Sword,” and Shah expects it to be an accurate representation of the situation in many countries.
“The name is inspired by the reality, the very grim reality, that huge numbers of Christians face very real violence, repression and persecution at the hands of governments, i.e. Caesar, around the world,” Shah said. “Of course, the project recognizes that in many cases, it’s not official governments that are doing the persecution. In a number of cases it’s groups, non-state actors, terrorist organizations, extremist groups or grassroots uncivil members of society that are perpetrating the persecution. But in many cases, of course, it’s the government, hence the title, ‘Caesar’s Sword.’”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 23, 2014 by Suzanne Monyak 1 Comment 
The D.C. Council will vote Tuesday on emergency legislation that would allow citizens of the District to carry concealed weapons in public.
Announced Wednesday, the proposal came in response to the U.S. District Court ruling in Palmer v. District of Columbia, which deemed the gun regulations prohibiting D.C. citizens from carrying firearms outside of their homes unconstitutional.
Mayor Vincent Gray, Council Chairman Phil Mendelson and D.C. Councilmember Tommy Wells (D-Ward 6), all Democrats, proposed a piece of joint legislation, called the “License to Carry a Pistol Emergency Amendment Act of 2014,” that would place limitations on firearms possession and transportation while still according with the court ruling.
“The emergency legislation the Council will take up Tuesday reflects the District’s response to the Palmer ruling,” Mendelson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I continue to believe that the court ruling is overly broad and fails to consider the unique security concerns the District faces, but am hopeful that the District’s efforts to overturn or limit that ruling will be successful.” 
The amendment proposes to restrict or limit the carrying of firearms in sensitive locations such as government buildings, public transportation units, places where alcohol is sold and served, schools and universities, stadium and arenas and situations that demand higher protection for officials or visiting dignitaries.
Additionally, the license to carry a firearm will only be extended to citizens who have a justifiable reason to fear for their safety and well-being — or have another legitimate reason to own a pistol — and who are deemed suitable to be carrying a firearm. Any individual who wants to apply for a concealed carry license must finish a thorough gun safety and handling training course.
“We are ready to move forward with a concealed carry licensing system for law-abiding and qualifying residents and nonresidents that complies with the court ruling while maximizing our focus on preserving public safety,” Mendelson wrote.
Gray also praised the licensing process that will allow eligible firearms owners to carry a firearm if necessary.
“In a process in which the chairman and I have been personally involved, our joint team has worked diligently to set up a licensing process that will provide a means for those responsible and suitable firearms owners who can show they have a legitimate need for it to obtain a permit to carry a weapon in public in a concealed manner,” Gray said in a press release. “At the same time, this legislation will ensure that the carrying of firearms remains prohibited or limited at sensitive locations and occasions in the District.”
If passed, the emergency bill will join Maryland, New Jersey and New York, states that share similar licensing regulations.
Doxie McCoy, a spokesperson for Mayor Vincent Gray, said the mayor’s office believes that bill will have a strong chance of being passed.
“We are confident the bill will pass since it was a collaborative effort between the mayor and the Council,” McCoy wrote in an email.
Georgetown University College Democrats Vice Chair Betsy Johnson (COL ’16) pointed at the higher rates of gun violence in D.C. to support the bill. She hopes the Palmer decision will be appealed and D.C.’s former regulations will be ruled constitutional, but in her opinion, the proposed amendment is a sound alternative.
“Hopefully, it will be declared constitutional, but in light of the fact that it has been declared unconstitutional, I think it’s a very reasonable measure, and hopefully it won’t be weakened,” Johnson said. “Forcing people to have to take gun training before they’re able to carry a weapon is very reasonable, there’s a lot of very reasonable restrictions in the bill.”
Mitchell Tu (SFS ’17), president of the Georgetown Young Americans for Liberty, supported the Palmer decision, but felt that the proposed emergency bill featured too many limitations.
“In terms of the legislation, we obviously are in favor of constitutional concealed carry of firearms. It’s something that’s stipulated in the Second Amendment of this country. However, when it comes to what the council is proposing, what they’re proposing is adding extra regulations,” Tu said.
Johnson emphasized that the presence of such important politicians and figures in the District make it apt for stricter gun laws.
“It’s definitely a huge issue for the state, especially [because] there’s a bunch of federal government buildings here. It makes sense that security would be tighter here. It’s an urban area, it’s not a rural district,” Johnson said.
Hoya Staff Writer

J. King says 
September 23, 2014 at 9:54 am
The DC Government is hindering the citizens’ rights again.  If you look at the Commonwealth of Virginia, one can carry a firearm open without a permit and concealed with a permit.  There is no requirement to fulfill bogus requirements to demonstrate a need for a permit.  Also, the approval for said permit will be by whom and what standards.  When are the liberals going to understand that the right to keep and Bear Rms (have about one’s person) is not a privilege, but a right that was so important to our founding fathers the amendment was second on the list?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 23, 2014 by Hannah Post Leave a Comment 
Washington, D.C. residents will vote on a new initiative Nov. 4 that would legalize marijuana in the District, prompting the formation of opposition group Two Is Enough D.C., which aims to urge voters to reject the referendum. Proposed by the D.C. Cannabis Campaign, Initiative 71 has earned over 57,000 signatures.
Founded by Will Jones III, TIE D.C. advocates for restricting the legal drugs to alcohol and tobacco, under their namesake slogan, “Two is enough.” Jones said that he founded TIE D.C. to oppose what he believes would be a harmful addition to society.
“I am looking at it from the impact it is going to have on society at large,” Jones said.
He pointed at the pre-existing problems in society posed by alcohol and tobacco usage as evidence against legalization of a third drug.
“The test to see what is going to happen is when we look at two legalized drugs already, alcohol and tobacco, and the use of these is out of control for many areas,” he said.
According to the most recent data from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, D.C. residents over the age of 14 consumed 3.89 gallons of alcohol per capita in 2012, ranking second only to New Hampshire, where residents consumed an average of 4.65 gallons of alcohol per person.
According to Jones, D.C. ranks in the top 5 areas in the nation for marijuana use, a ranking he estimates would increase after legalization.
TIE D.C.’s campaign emerges following a NBC4/Washington Post/Marist poll conducted on Sept. 18, which revealed that 65 percent of likely voters support Initiative 71.
The District of Columbia decriminalized marijuana July 17 with possession and private usage of less than one ounce of the substance now considered a civil offense punishable with a $25 fine.
The Georgetown University College Democrats, who support the referendum, expect legalization to pass.
“D.C. residents were passionate enough about the issue to collect the signatures needed to put the measure on the ballot in a relatively short period of time,” GUCD Vice Chair Betsy Johnson (COL ’16) said. “These factors, along with the fact that the District has a relatively progressive electorate, would indicate that the measure will pass in November, for better or for worse.”
The Georgetown University College Republicans declined to comment, citing a diversity of opinions within the organization.
Additionally, marijuana arrests in the District have shown a high degree of racial disparity. According to a report by the Washington Lawyers’ Committee, African-Americans accounted for 91 percent of drug arrests in D.C. from 2009 to 2011, despite the fact that there is no racial disparity in D.C. marijuana use. According to a report issued by the American Civil Liberties Union in 2010, 14 percent of African-Americans and 12 percent of whites admitted to using marijuana in the past year.
As it builds its campaign, TIE has acknowledged this disproportionate racial bias in the criminal justice system, but legalization will not fix the problem, Jones said.
“I definitely think that the way issues with the drug have been handled so far have been discriminatory, and there have been a hugely disproportionate amount of arrests on African-American youths and I have a problem with that,” he said. “I think that the problem is much deeper than marijuana. I think that it is discrimination and marijuana is just a distraction from that.”
Johnson disagreed, pointing to drug enforcement as a critical civil rights issue.
“Most Democrats would agree that the enforcement of drugs laws in the District has become a huge civil rights concern. Eight out of 10 of those arrested for possession in the District are black, while usage does not differ by race,” she said.
Washington state and Colorado, which approved similar referenda last November, implemented legalization earlier this year. Jones said that, as in those states, the legalization of the drug in D.C. would create a new industry.
“Marijuana is a new industry. The bottom line is money, and the major funding in favor of the legalization is from Colorado,” Jones said.
Supporters for legalization of marijuana in D.C. include the D.C. Cannabis Campaign as well as Adam Eidinger, the co-owner of Capital Hemp.
Johnson pointed out that legalizing marijuana would allow the District to collect taxes on the substance, increasing its revenues.
“It would increase tax revenues to the District, and allow MPD to focus on crimes more dangerous than marijuana possession,” said Johnson.
In July, officials from Georgetown University commented that since the university complies with federal law, which prohibits marijuana usage and possession, in addition to local law, marijuana usage would still be banned under the Code of Student Conduct.
Special to the Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 23, 2014 by Suzanne Monyak 1 Comment 
Three students were arrested at Rhino Bar and Pumphouse for misrepresentation of age to enter an Alcohol Beverage Commission establishment shortly after midnight Sunday.
According to the Metropolitan Police Department’s incident report, the three students — two females, 18 and 20, and one male, 18 — were arrested by MPD Detectives Scott Emmons and David Carter when they presented fake identification to the door staff outside the bar.
The two detectives were stationed at the door with the bouncers to assist in identifying fake IDs, as part of an MPD program called Cops in Shops.
Rhino manager George Kennedy said that the incident was not unusual.
“It happens all the time. [The D.C. Alcoholic Beverage Regulation Administration] comes by, and someone presents a fake ID at the door, and they don’t get in, they arrest them,” Kennedy said.
According to Kennedy, ABRA sends MPD officers to establishments randomly.
“This happens all the time, all over the city,” he said. “Standard operating procedure for ABRA for 70 years.”
This is not Rhino’s first encounter with underage students attempting to enter. Over the summer, ABRA suspended the bar’s liquor license for five days, from July 8 to July 12, and fined Rhino $3,000 after the bar allegedly served alcohol to an underage student in February 2013.
Carter was the MPD officer stationed at the door with the door staff during the February incident as well.
Hoya Staff Writer

Alum says 
September 25, 2014 at 8:23 am
“This is not Rhino’s first encounter with underage students attempting to enter.”
No kidding.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 23, 2014 by Katherine Richardson Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association senate campaigns began last week with over 51 active student candidates vying to represent nine districts on campus, including off-campus and at-large positions.
Freshmen represent a majority of the candidates, with 12 running for Freshman North, which includes Darnall and Harbin halls, and 12 for Freshman South, which represents Village C West and New South. GUSA Election Commissioner Pavan Rajgopal (SFS ’15) said that the students running are eager to make changes on campus.
“I think the majority of students running really do care about the issues affecting the university,” Rajgopal said. “This definitely isn’t just a popularity contest, and I think that those candidates who really get their names out there, meet a lot of votes and have strong, substantive ideas are the ones that are going to end up winning, especially in some of the more competitive districts.”
Last year, 77 candidates ran for a total of 28 seats in the GUSA senate.
According to Rajgopal, candidates have adhered to campaign rules, with some small exceptions, such as students hanging posters with the wrong tape or in undesignated locations.
“The campaign has been going really well,” Rajgopal said. “We haven’t seen many rule violations, and where there have been rule violations, people have corrected their behavior really quickly, so it’s been a clean campaign with strong interests and I hope that will carry through during the actual voting on Thursday.”
Rajgopal said that freshmen run in the largest numbers because of both their desire to get involved and their previous high school student government experience. Even if these students lose the election, there are many other ways they can become part of GUSA.
“One problem we had in previous years was people running and not being able to get involved,” Rajgopal said. “Now there’s the Freshmen Executive Council on the executive side of GUSA and there are so many more ways for freshmen to get involved, which makes the campaign season a lot easier to deal with and a lot less disappointing for those candidates who don’t end up coming out on top.”
There are at least three candidates vying for senator positions in each of the upperclassman districts. LXR is the only exception, with just one candidate, Sam Kleinman (COL ’16), running in the election.
Brendan Keenan (COL ’18) is running for Freshman South and plans to work to connect students and the Office of Planning and Facilities Management.
“One of the main problems we have here in VCW and in New South is that we do have faucets in [the rooms of] New South,” Keenan said. “When they start leaking, if you put in a request for maintenance, usually we won’t hear back from maintenance for over two, three weeks. The problem just gets worse.”
Keenan said he is hopeful that he can help make large changes in the interest of the students.
“My hopes would be to actually try and impact the community and not just be in student government for the sake of being in student government, actually to get stuff done and making accomplishments so that way we can make the Georgetown experience better for our class, for the other classes and for the classes that get to come,” Keenan said.
Indra Acharya (COL ’18), who is running at-large, plans to draw from his experience as a student advocate in a refugee camp in Nepal, where he grew up after his family was exiled from Bhutan.
“I strongly believe that for any change to happen, it should come from the students,” Acharya said. “I started advocating for the rights of students from when I was in refugee camp school. I was working in the same field, advocating for the kids rights and the rights of the students in the school.”
Eric Henshall (COL ’16) is running for the senate seat for Nevils Hall and Alumni Square and hopes to help protect free speech, develop a program for students to receive academic credit for internships and reform student club funding.
“The basic philosophy of my platform is making sure that students and administrators are engaging in meaningful dialogue, and the administration hears our voices and does what’s best for students,” Henshall said.
Voting will take place Thursday and new senators will be sworn in on Sunday. The senators will elect their leadership Oct. 5.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

