
October 28, 2014 by Andrew Wallender 1 Comment 
Eight members of GU Fossil Free presented a formal proposal calling for the university to divest from fossil fuel companies during a meeting of the university’s Committee on Investments and Social Responsibility on Monday afternoon, while about 35 students and staff members rallied outside of McShain Lounge in support of the divestment plan.
The committee said that it will most likely vote on the proposal at the end of the academic year, according to GU Fossil Free member Caroline James (COL ’16).
“The chair of the committee today told us in the presentation that we are probably not going to see a vote until the end of the school year, which is disappointing. But we are hoping that that’s not definite and that there can be some wiggle room to make that happen beforehand,” James said.
The proposal includes thorough research as to why the university should divest from fossil fuels. GU Fossil Free has worked on the proposal for over a year.
The group presented a proposal to University President John J. DeGioia in January 2013. After feedback from administrators, GU Fossil Free changed its plan to include staged divestment, instead of asking the university to abandon all investments in fossil fuel companies.
The Georgetown University Student Association has publicly supported the proposal since November 2013.
The Committee on Investments and Social Responsibility has never worked through a proposal like the one presented by GU Fossil Free, James said. If the committee votes in support of the proposal, it will be sent to the university’s board of directors for final approval. If the proposal is accepted, Georgetown would become be the first Jesuit university with an endowment over $1 billion to divest from fossil fuels.
“As with any proposal submitted by members of the university community on issues related to socially responsible investing, CISR will deliberate to give it full and careful consideration,” Director of Media Relations Rachel Pugh wrote in an email.
GU Fossil Free member Max Menard (SFS ’16) said that he hopes that CISR considers the correlation between divestment and Georgetown’s Catholic values.
“As the Committee on Investments and Social Responsibility, I hope they realize that climate change caused by burning fossil fuels hurts most the global poor and future generations: the people with the smallest voice and who Pope Francis advocates most for,” Menard wrote in an email.
Those in attendance convened at 1:45 p.m. for over 45 minutes before and during the committee meeting, shouting, “We are unstoppable; another world is possible” and “We’re young, we’re strong, we’re supporting all day long.” The protesters even took to Twitter to create a hashtag: #CISRsayYes.
“Divestment can’t come soon enough. #CISRsayYes,” Lexi Dever (COL ’16), who attended the rally, tweeted.
The rally included undergraduate and graduate students as well as students from the Georgetown University Law Center campus.
“I think that various administrative groups on campus can get the feeling that we’re just a very small group of students who don’t represent the larger Georgetown community in terms of what we’re asking for,” James said. “And I do think it was very effective in being a physical presence while the committee members were walking in and thinking, ‘There is actually some pressure here.’”
Hoya Kids Learning Center staff member Nina Sherburne, a member of GU Fossil Free, said she participated in the rally to support a more sustainable future for the children she cares for.
“I take care of 2- and 3-year-olds all day long and I feel guilty trying to prepare them for a future while the institution that I work for continues to funnel money into fossil fuel companies that are destroying our planet,” Sherburne said. “So I want to work for a university that not only takes care of its children while they are here but prepares them for a future that they can live in.”
Sherburne said she was happy to be a part of a growing movement that has already been approved at 14 U.S. colleges, including Stanford University, Hampshire College and San Francisco State University.
“This movement is global, it’s massive, and it’s spreading like wildfire,” Sherburne said during the rally. “It is unstoppable, which is why we are here today.”
Laura Lannan (COL ’17), who attended the rally, said that she was happy to see representation from several groups at the protest.
“While I was at the rally, I saw students from GUSA, from College Democrats, H*yas for Choice, the law school and even some philosophy students for divestment,” Lannan wrote in an email. “I was really glad to see all of the different voices that came out in support of the movement.”
Dever said that she protested on behalf of divestment from fossil fuels in order to help to ensure a better future for the university.
“We as a university often claim to be leaders, but to be leaders, we need to lead in more ways than acceptance rate and numbers of presidential alumni,” Dever wrote in an email. “I firmly believe that our future, not just at Georgetown, lies in divestment from fossil fuels, and Georgetown has a unique opportunity to help lead us into this new, better world.”

Keep Investing says 
October 29, 2014 at 10:17 am
This is embarrassing. Nobody in GU Fossil Free understands secondary markets. When we “invest” in the stocks of fossil fuel companies, we’re not actually giving them money. Divesting will not damage the stock prices of multi-billion dollar companies and even if it does, Exxon will not stop drilling because it’s stock price goes down if universities start dumping because of “divestment.” In fact, if Exxon and BP see stock prices falling, they’ll drill more to try and prop them back up. GU Divest does not understand that tackling environmental issues from the investing side is counterintuitive. GU Divest might say this is a symbolic measure, that we don’t support these companies, but at a point where divesting would not change fossil fuel realities, they should refocus their efforts. Focusing on changing demand fundamentals of consuming goods that use fossil fuels rather than shy away investors might be more fruitful for their efforts.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 28, 2014 by Molly Simio Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University Student Association President Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) and Vice President Omika Jikaria (SFS ’15) have made efforts at reform and advocacy across a wide span of issues throughout the first half of their term, but have often found their efforts impeded by Georgetown’s administration.
The duo, who gave themselves a B-plus for their term thus far, have prioritized free speech, sexual assault advocacy and Code of Student Conduct reform and plan to continue to work on these issues throughout the second half of their time in office.
Tezel pointed to GUSA’s advocacy work on sexual assault policy and awareness as his administration’s greatest accomplishment thus far.
This fall, the university created an additional position for a sexual assault specialist in Health Education Services, filled by former LGBTQ Resource Center Special Projects Coordinator Bridget Sherry, and hired a trained investigator to handle sexual assault cases. Other changes have been implemented in the university’s sexual assault policy, including allowing closed circuit video testimony for survivors — to prevent them from having to come face-to-face with their assailants — ensuring that a survivor’s past sexual history is not used in a hearing and shrinking the size of the hearing board from five members to three.
GUSA proposed policy changes to the administration based on suggestions from the White House’s Task Force to Protect Students from Sexual Assault.
“The clear message from the White House and from the [Office of Civil Rights] was that we universities need to act,” Tezel said. “We were able to come in and say [to administrators], ‘These are things that advocates have been pointing to for a long time … and these are tangible steps that could be made.’”
Tezel and Jikaria were both facilitators in discussions about sexual assault that were held during New Student Orientation this year. This was the first time that NSO featured such discussions, which focused on the definition of affirmative consent and strategies for bystander intervention.
Haley Maness (NHS ’15), a sexual assault peer educator and a board member of Take Back the Night, said she has been impressed by Tezel and Jikaria’s active work in sexual assault advocacy.
“The one thing that I really admire about Trevor and Omika is that they’re taking it very seriously, not only to make it a big item on their platform, but also to make it something that they’re working toward,” Maness said. “They themselves are really involved in it. They are going to a lot of events and they are participating in a lot of these discussions. It’s really wonderful to see that support not only in terms of reform, but also in terms of physical, visible support.”
Tezel and Jikaria have advocated for several reforms to the Code of Student Conduct and are working on getting others approved.
In response to GUSA’s efforts, the Office of Student Conduct approved a policy that will allow first-time alcohol and noise violations that occur during freshman year to be removed from a student’s disciplinary record, provided that the student has no additional conduct violations.
Later this semester, the Disciplinary Review Committee will consider policies to limit the amount of time that students can be charged through the Office of Student Conduct and policies to equalize alcohol paraphernalia penalties on and off campus, both of which were goals for the fall semester that they outlined during their campaign.
Tezel and Jikaria have also identified expanding free speech rights for students as a major issue for their administration — one that has gained importance throughout the semester, as the university’s speech policy has had consequences to students and groups outside of GUSA. At the start of their term, Tezel and Jikaria collaborated with former GUSA President Nate Tisa (SFS ’14) to finalize an updated Speech and Expression Policy, which was released at the end of the spring semester.
Since then, Tezel and Jikaria have worked to create a map of where students are allowed to table, which they recently released to student groups.
The free speech policy was put in the spotlight this semester when the Georgetown University Police Department mistakenly removed H*yas for Choice from its spot outside of the university’s front gates, where it was protesting the university’s bestowal of an honorary degree upon Donald Cardinal Wuerl.
Hoyas United for Free Speech, an independent coalition of students, has spearheaded the response to the incident by creating a petition addressed to the university and calling for additional free speech reform.
“We’ve been in contact with a lot of the members of that coalition that are advocating on those issues,” Tezel said. “Each point that they touch on … has different areas that we need to approach.”
H*yas for Choice President Abby Grace (SFS ’16) said that she feels that GUSA’s free speech reforms have been well-intentioned but have faced setbacks because of the administration.
Additionally, Grace expressed frustration that the opinion from the last Speech and Expression Committee meeting, which was held Sept. 26, has not been released.
“I recognize that this might not be a failing of GUSA itself because this committee is technically convened by Student Affairs. However, seeing that this committee hearing was held over a month ago, I find it rather unreasonable that no official decision has been released yet,” Grace wrote in an email. “That said, individual members of GUSA are always more than willing to speak with me about H*yas for Choice’s concerns.”
Tisa, who spearheaded efforts for the updated free speech policy, said that he thinks that many of the associated issues extend beyond GUSA’s reach.
“The problems with free speech at Georgetown are cultural, and we can make the words on paper be whatever we want it to be, but until the administrators and DPS officers and everyone else enforcing the policy embraces the spirit behind it, it doesn’t matter,” Tisa said. “Georgetown is struggling to decide what it is with relation to Catholic identity, with relation to free speech.”
Jikaria said that by this point in her term, she had planned to work more on reform of Georgetown’s access to benefits policy for student groups, allowing for easier access to services such as room reservation, inclusion in the Student Activities Fair and funding from student activity fees.
“A really big part of our platform revolved around access to benefits as a part of free speech reform,” Jikaria said. “We’re actively working on that, hoping to have a solution by the end of the semester.”
In a disability survey circulated during the GUSA executive race by disability rights activist Lydia Brown (COL ’15), Tezel and Jikaria indicated that they would work toward the creation of a Disability Cultural Center — a goal that has not seen any progress.
“We recognize that there is a finite amount of resources, but I don’t think that should hamper us in really getting to that goal,” Tezel said.
Brown, who serves as GUSA’s undersecretary for disability affairs, said that she feels that a lack of consistency on the university’s part has hindered progress with disability issues.
“The administration has been remarkably inconsistent and frequently nonchalant about physical access issues resulting from the numerous construction projects this semester,” Brown wrote in an email. “On the upside, Trevor and Omika have been incredibly supportive of my work.”
Tezel and Jikaria have created a Disability Justice Working Group that is tasked with advancing on such goals as getting funds for a full-time interpreter for university events. The group has met once so far this semester.
Tezel and Jikaria also created the Multicultural Council this semester, bringing together cultural student groups with the ultimate goal of creating a cultural funding board, so that groups will not have to rely on funds from the Center for Social Justice or Student Activities Commission.
The council has been met with opposition from some members of the Students of Color Alliance, which Tezel attributed to a lapse in communication.
“What we did wrong on our part is that we didn’t communicate well when we sat down with a lot of groups about how the funding structure is currently set up,” Tezel said. “I think there was a conception out there that our changes would bring cultural groups under GUSA … when in reality the funding is very much divorced from GUSA’s day-to-day operations.”
Tezel and Jikaria have made gains in increasing communication between students and university administrators by adding more students to the Main Campus Executive Faculty Committee, a group made up of representatives from all four undergraduate schools that creates academic policy, and the Capital Projects Committee, which advises the university on capital projects, and establishing open office hours with Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson and University President John J. DeGioia.
Nevertheless, the first half of their term has been punctuated by a series of unpopular polices proposed, and sometimes enacted, by the administration.
“We came in with a very comprehensive platform and ideas, but what’s most surprising is that there were a lot off unanticipated issues that come up with the administration, like proposals that you can’t really plan for ahead of time,” Jikaria said. “It’s really important to act appropriately and be ready to address anything that comes up.”
In April, the university announced a third-year on-campus housing requirement, which will take effect next fall as the Class of 2017 enters their junior year.
According to Tezel, GUSA attempted to delay the policy so that it would not affect the Class of 2017, but was ultimately unsuccessful.
“We worked with them and tried to negotiation a deferred implementation of this policy, even though we understood, to a certain extent, that with fall 2015 being the deadline for 385 new beds on campus, there was a reason that the policy was coming when it did,” Tezel said.“In fact, the third-year housing requirement was probably decided at the end of the campus plan negotiations in 2012.”
After university administrators made it clear that they would not alter the policy’s implementation schedule, GUSA adjusted its goals to try and make the new policy more appealing for students.
Tezel and Jikaria worked to ensure that the plan would take into account the status of transfer students and students who study abroad, so that the third-year requirement does not become, in effect, a four-year requirement for students who do not spend their entire undergraduate career on Georgetown’s main campus.
“At that point it became, how do we leverage GUSA acquiescence with something that will happen whether or not we want it to, in order to get some more items out of it,” Tezel said.
Earlier this month, the university proposed mandating a third-year meal plan for students, sparking widespread student opposition.
While the university rescinded its proposal, Tezel and Jikaria do not take credit for the withdrawal.
“A lot of it was really student driven,” Jikaria said. “We were maybe the first ones who heard about the consideration of this policy, but I think it really was a great example of how opposed students were.”
Moving forward, Jikaria said that she thinks that the 2017 Campus Plan, which will be drafted from July 2015 to July 2016, is the biggest issue for Georgetown students.
“We see the effects of the last campus plan right here, right now, very tangibly with all of the construction that’s going on,” Jikaria said. “It’s going to be really important for students to understand their role and understand the ramifications of a negative campus plan negotiation outcome.”
Tezel said that he hopes that students will be motivated to collaborate on the next campus plan due to their frustration with the results of the 2010 Campus Plan agreement, which has been the impetus behind many of Georgetown’s recent changes to student life.
“We’re going through growing pains as a university, and I don’t think that is lost on anyone. A big challenge for us is trying to communicate to students what’s happening with all the new construction and trying to help contextualize all of it,” Tezel said.“We want students to be walking by the construction … and understand why it is there. That will be the way that we are able to have students engage in the next round of campus plan negotiations.”
Tezel and Jikaria also said that they will continue to work on reforming the Code of Student Conduct, advocating for changes to the Speech and Expression Policy and increasing transparency between students and the administration.
“We’re doing everything humanly possible to advocate for students on a lot of these issues,” Tezel said. “We’re going to keep working so that at the end of our term we can walk away and look at our full list of accomplishments with the full 12 months being up and say, ‘We’re really proud of what we’ve been able to do here.’”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 28, 2014 by Lucy Prout 9 Comments 
The Greek system has produced graduates including the first female astronaut, 85 percent of Fortune 500 Executives and 18 Greek U.S. presidents since 1877, according to The Atlantic. At the same time, Greek life has also been the center of nationwide scandals: the death of a Clemson University student rushing Pi Kappa Phi on a pledge run, a Cornell University Sigma Alpha Epsilon pledge dying during a trivia game and Dartmouth University pledges swimming in kiddy pools of human feces and vomit.
Georgetown University has stood strong against the recognition of Greek life since the 1950s, maintaining that these organizations are incompatible with the Catholic ideals that serve as the basis for the university. But during this generation of Georgetown students’ time on campus, Greek life has seen a resurgence on the Hilltop, challenging the notion of Georgetown as a non-Greek school.
Georgetown tour guides, students and college analysis websites repeatedly assure prospective parents and students that Georgetown University does not recognize Greek life and that the presence of Greek life on campus is minimal, but the rise in popularity of social fraternities and sororities on the Hilltop over the past few years has begun to threaten the university’s Greek-free ideals.
The resurgence of fraternities and sororities on campus began with SAE, a well-known national fraternity, during the 2011-2012 academic year. Georgetown’s chapter of the fraternity, started by Christian Keenum (MSB ’15), a freshman at the time, was colonized on Feb. 11, 2012, with the help of the George Mason University SAE chapter, and officially became a chapter on April 28, 2013.
The fraternity has steadily gained popularity in its nearly four years on campus.
“It [SAE] immediately enhanced my connection with the school because I felt like I had something I could relate to and bond with immediately — without being an athlete, without being an extreme academic. We really try not to be the stereotypical fraternity. I think despite us being categorized as that lifestyle, I think we have some great things going for us that are really outside the cookie-cutter frat guy.” Michael Hart (COL ’15), head of education at SAE, said.
Kappa Kappa Gamma was the first National Panhellenic Conference (NPC) organization for sororities to establish membership at Georgetown University in 2013, after 42 women demonstrated interest and approached NPC and the nationwide Kappa organization.
“Kappa Kappa Gamma’s strong national reputation plus their academic and social support network, philanthropy and connections through friendships are the main reasons we looked into being affiliated with a national organization,” original member Carrie Cosgrove (NHS ’16) said in a press release on the KKG organization official website.
Kappa Alpha Theta, another social sorority, established a chapter at Georgetown in spring 2014, joining already existing social sororities and fraternities, including Zeta Psi, Alpha Epsilon Pi, Sigma Phi Epsilon, SAE and KKG.
Morgan Shear (COL ’18) said that she saw the absence of Greek life as a draw when she was applying to Georgetown.
“It was definitely a positive factor when I applied to GU. I liked how the social life here didn’t have the pressures that come with the Greek scene and that you could hang out with people who genuinely share your interests rather than just members of your sorority,” Shear said.
Historically, Greek life never found a home among the Jesuits or the Hoyas. By 1958, the university had severed its connection to and eliminated its recognition of all Greek life, claiming the Greek system’s tenets contradicted Catholic and Jesuit values. Dr. John Parr, dean of the School of Foreign Service at the time, issued a statement in fall of 1958 dictating that all fraternities affiliated with the SFS relinquish their houses. Any fraternity who refused would no longer be recognized by the SFS. Of the four existing foreign service fraternities, three successfully transitioned into independent student groups: Delta Phi Epsilon, Alpha Phi Omega, and Delta Sigma Pi. Delta Sigma Pi was replaced by Alpha Kappa Psi in 2006.
The current Division of Student Affairs’ policy continues to honor Georgetown’s 200-year commitment to the Jesuit ideals of inclusiveness and non-discrimination, stating that the university will not provide university benefits to student groups whose principles do not line up with Georgetown’s values, including fraternities and sororities, defined in the policy as “single-sex groups with ritualized, demeaning or secret membership practices, and specifically those organizations affiliated with the national Intrafraternity Council, Pan Hellenic Association, and Pan Hellenic Council.”
However, this has not stopped limited forms of Greek life from carving out a niche on campus over the past 50 years, and more generic forms of Greek life from emerging in the past five.
Before the emergence of social fraternities in recent years, most Greek organizations on campus were associated with a professional theme or a common purpose, such as Alpha Phi Omega, a service fraternity, Delta Epsilon Phi, a foreign service fraternity, and AKPsi, the business fraternity.
In May 1956, over 20 students took part in a petitioning process, led by John Buckley, to become a university-recognized a program of service. The Georgetown Petitioning Group became the 265th chapter of Alpha Phi Omega after a process of fundraisers and was granted special permission to be recognized by Georgetown University. The regent of the School of Foreign Service, Father Frank L. Fadner, S.J., was initiated as an honorary brother.
Georgetown’s Division of Student Affairs continues to recognize this group as it focuses solely on community service and is all inclusive of those who complete 30 hours of community service, according to the fraternity’s president, Thomas Pigott (COL ’15).
“At APO there is no selection process, and I think this is one of the great strengths of APO, because it results in a broad diversity of people, not just in races, but diversity of personalities, which makes us a stronger organization,” Pigott said.
Katie Duncalf (COL ’17) joined the unrecognized Georgetown chapter of AKPsi Fraternity, a coed professional business fraternity, during her freshman year.
“When I joined AKPsi, I became so close with a lot of different people. It was interesting to see this organization pull so many friend groups together and unite. My pledge class is so close — and we didn’t know each other at all before pledging,” Duncalf said. “It just goes to show that there are so many people around campus that you have no idea exist and then you’ll meet them in some sort of outlet and become the best of friends.”
While most Georgetown students have not objected to the status quo, in which Greek organizations play a role in student life outside of the university’s official purview, there exists a disconnect between students and Jesuits about the role Greek life should play on campus.
Fr. Christopher Steck, S.J., rejected the social dynamic he believes Greek life to encourage, believing social fraternities have no place on Georgetown’s campus.
“The emphasis that social Greeks place on fostering a sub-group identity requires that they define who is in and who is out, and they make that distinction based not on some aspect of the student — for example, the student’s commitment to a professional ideal, their ability in some intellectual practice, their talent in athletics or the performing arts — but on the person himself or herself. That exclusionary dynamic goes against Georgetown’s values,” Steck wrote in an email.
Fr. James Walsh, S.J., noted the competitive attitude Georgetown students already bring to campus, and worried about spillover into the social scene. He also highlighted the outdated aspect of discriminating by gender.
“It’s wannabe. It’s like the old school tree house — no girls allowed,” Walsh said.
Not all Catholic universities share the Hilltop’s stance on Catholicism and Greek life. In fact, Catholic universities such as Creighton University, Seton Hall University, St. John’s University, DePaul University and St. Joseph’s University boast recognized Greek systems, and universities around the country have developed unique ways of handling the looming specter of Greek life around college campuses.
Though the Catholic University of Notre Dame, like Georgetown, boasts a zero-tolerance policy for Greek life, the university has used a replacement tactic, developing a housing system to keep its social scene vibrant.
“ND replaces the lack of Greek life with its unique housing system. With all single-sex dorms that consist of very close communities, hold events and parties, and have students live in them or at least be affiliated with the same dorm even when/if they move off campus, it is as if ND has created a Greek life culture throughout the entire school,” Notre Dame freshman Stefan Page said.
Villanova University, an Augustinian Catholic university, has taken the opposite approach to Greek life, allowing for 25 different fraternities and sororities. According to the College Board, 18 percent of male students and 37 percent of female students are involved in Greek life at Villanova.
“It has been a positive thing on campus for students at our institution,” Villanova Administrative Assistant for the Office of Fraternity and Social Life Marian Moran said.
Villanova freshman Hannah Raymond agreed.
“Greek life here is pretty cool. … There are only nine sororities on campus, which are filled with really sweet girls that genuinely care about you. We rush second semester here so that people can settle down before having to decide whether they want to rush,” Raymond said.
No plans exist to recognize Greek life at Georgetown in the near future, and both students within and outside fraternities appear content with the current arrangement.
Duncalf said she liked the minor role Greek life plays on campus, preventing social opportunities from being dominated by the fraternities and sororities. Instead, organizations like Students of Georgetown, Inc., are able to play a greater role in campus social life.
“I think if they were recognized on campus, the presence of Greek life would be more present, and I don’t know if that’s a good thing or bad thing. I like how things are now. If people don’t want to be involved you don’t have to be,” Duncalf said. “If you look at other schools, if you aren’t a part of Greek life then you don’t have a social life, and I feel like it’s nice to have the flexibility and availability here to pick and choose which aspects of social life you want to be a part of here at school.”
For the fraternities and sororities themselves, Pigott, the president of APO, questioned whether recognition would backfire, since official university recognition brings increased supervision.
“There are certain limitations that some groups wouldn’t necessarily fit with,” he said. “So, it’s probably better that certain fraternities and sororities are not recognized by Georgetown because then they’d have to adhere themselves to certain limitations and Georgetown would be more involved in monitoring their activities. They would have to change their nature.”
Member of SAE Eric DeShields (MSB ’18) said he believes Georgetown’s Greek life is on the rise, adding that university recognition seemed inevitable.
“I think eventually the university will have to recognize Greek life because it is growing exponentially, and is something that is a huge part of the culture across the United States,” DeShields said. “Currently, Greek life is definitely not as big of a presence as organizations like The Corp, but we’re definitely growing, so I think in the next couple of years it will be exponentially more present.”
Despite the rise of Greek life on campus, Steck said that he expected that Georgetown will maintain its Jesuit ideals — and its view of those ideals as incompatible with a Greek system.
“If they ever decide to approve social Greeks, I hope I’m long gone. I think it would be a loss to part of our identity, something that makes Georgetown distinctive,” he wrote. “Once at a basketball game, I saw a sea of students proudly wearing their WAG T-shirts.  In their midst, however, were four guys wearing their fraternities letters.  I think that scene is symbolic of an ethos counter to Georgetown’s own: the T-shirts of one group declaring ‘We Are Georgetown,’ the other ‘We Are Greek,’” Steck said.

Anon says 
October 28, 2014 at 8:02 am
Greek “like”?

Alum says 
October 28, 2014 at 10:10 am
This article is ridiculous in its premise. Marquette, Creighton, Loyola Chicago all have recognized and established greek systems that are not considered to conflict with Jesuit values by the leaders of those schools. There are plenty of secular schools that don’t recognize greek life for a variety of (valid) reasons.  However, to blame “Jesuit values” as a reason for not permitting greek life is a cop out by the University and this paper. For what it is worth, a past-president of SigEp has recently joined the Jesuits. 
Also: “The resurgence of fraternities and sororities on campus began with SAE, a well-known national fraternity, during the 2011-2012 academic year.”  Huh? SigEp was founded 10 years ago and was chartered in 2007. Zeta Psi was chartered a few years later, both well before SAE. AEPI predates all of them.

Carlos Danger says 
October 28, 2014 at 1:37 pm
Father Steck makes a well-reasoned argument that Greek life at Georgetown promotes exclusionary principles and in this sense runs counter to what makes Georgetown special.  However this may be, the fact remains that there is a strong demand on campus among young men and women to organize with each other outside the confines of an academic or sports club.  I am a member of Greek life at Georgetown because I want to have a strong, broad social network, yet I was not particularly attracted to other groups on campus.  
But perhaps the most important aspect of Greek life that Father Steck and others should heed is the sense of indebtedness that it instills in its members towards their alma matter and fellow brothers and sisters in the system.  The nascent fraternities on campus (SAE & Sig Ep) may not have strong professional networks now, but ten years down the line there will be a huge professional benefit to joining these organizations because of the connections to alumnus you will make through them.  A fraternity keeps its members interconnected and maintains their graduates links to Georgetown more so than any other type of organization–an SAE alumnus will be much more willing to give a hoya a reference on his application than a Hoya Blue alumnus.

Anonymous says 
October 28, 2014 at 4:19 pm
“Fr. James Walsh, S.J., noted the competitive attitude Georgetown students already bring to campus, and worried about spillover into the social scene. He also highlighted the outdated aspect of discriminating by gender.
“It’s wannabe. It’s like the old school tree house — no girls allowed,” Walsh said.”
Whereas the Catholic priesthood is…

Wigton says 
September 24, 2016 at 1:39 pm
Bingo!

Anonymous says 
October 29, 2014 at 12:06 am
What about multicultural Greeks?! They’ve been here a while!

Dizzy says 
October 29, 2014 at 11:00 am
“A fraternity keeps its members interconnected and maintains their graduates links to Georgetown more so than any other type of organization–an SAE alumnus will be much more willing to give a hoya a reference on his application than a Hoya Blue alumnus.”
Not necessarily.  I’m still very close to many of my fellow Hoya Blue alums.
Regardless, I think the toxicity of the Greek scene on so many other campuses – to the point where Dartmouth’s student newspaper recently called for their abolition – does a pretty good job of ensuring that Greek life at Georgetown will remain limited.  It is exclusionary – by gender, race, and especially by class.  It tends to systematize and perpetuate many college pathologies – binge drinking (the truly dangerous kind, not the “I want to play beer pong for 4 hours” kind), drug use (again, the truly dangerous kind, not the “I want to spoke a J and play FIFA all day” kind), deeply problematic conceptions of sexual entitlement and consent, perpetuation of privilege, nepotism, etc.  And then throw in rampant hazing, 20-year olds on power trips over 18-year olds, etc.  
The lack of a Greek scene is, to me, one of the best aspects of Georgetown.

Zete Alum says 
October 30, 2014 at 1:01 pm
This article should have been better researched, written, and edited. I’m unimpressed. I expect better from a top university’s leading newspaper. “The resurgence of fraternities and sororities on campus began with SAE, a well-known national fraternity, during the 2011-2012 academic year” is blatantly false in many, many ways, but lets open with a few key points:
– the order of establishment of purely social, unrecognized greek organizations on campus started with SigEp, who’s *website* literally says, “Established in 2005 and nationally chartered in 2007”, Zeta Psi, established in 2007 and chartered in 2009, (also website) and Adelphi, a non-national sorority founded in 2008.
-Your article contradicts itself by saying first that SAE started the movement, and then that fraternities had been at Georgetown for some time.
This is all to say NOTHING of the entire suite of originally African American greek org.s you (I hope) mistakenly left out. Funny, that means you didn’t even do enough research to read an article from your own paper from 2011. https://www.thehoya.com/the-hilltops-black-greek-life/
The reality is that Georgetown has fraternities, for the most part has always had fraternities since their inception, and that most of the Greek organizations and their members, while always hoping for a little more recognition by the university, are happy with the status quo. Some schools have no fraternities, and some schools are dominated by them. Then you have schools like Georgetown, who simply allow them to evolve naturally. I loved that at my school I could be involved in a variety of organizations, one of them being a fraternity.  And Dizzy is right: I keep up with my friends from my sports team as much as Hoya Blue and my Zeta Psi brothers. 
One of the most wonderful things about Georgetown is that it is an environment in which anything that benefits even a small group of students can thrive. Fraternities, even before their individual contributions to the community, give unity, structure, and tenacity to people who feel lost as a first year dropped into a sea of 6000 people who all appear to some to already have a group of friends. This is not dissimilar from organizations like sports teams, theater, or *ahem* the Hoya, but unlike those organizations people aren’t judged based on their merit within the organization, which can be nice for a change. Most of the Greek organizations you have mentioned, I having actually spoken to officers of all of these organizations, are not much more exclusive beyond the criteria of (A) be friendly, be yourself, and try to contribute, and (B) actually want to be in the organization. if you do that, you are almost guaranteed entry, and its very nice to have organizations on campus that give students a sense of belonging simply for being the biggest, least shrouded versions of themselves. 
I wish Georgetown recognized us. I wish all organizations got houses in the lottery. I wish we had a Counsel that was actually allocated money by the university through SAC. But honestly, for semesterly dues equal to a week or two’s worth of bar outings and liquor runs to Dixie, I had a better time than many people not in fraternities at Georgetown, and people *in* fraternities at Frat-dominated schools like Texas, Wisconsin, and Dartmouth.
[…] This, of course, paints a startling picture of campus life—one that most colleges and fraternities would no doubt reject categorically—and especially the (sometimes mysterious) goings-on inside fraternity houses. But maybe Eric Trump knows something we don’t? Last year, a fraternity at the University of Houston was rumored to have been suspended for waterboarding its pledges with alcohol. In 2012, the New York Times reported that a number of fraternity pledges were subjected to waterboarding (and other, similar practices) at Binghamton University. Then again, what would Eric Trump know about it? He went to Georgetown, where Greek life has been limited until recently. […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 28, 2014 by Charlotte Allen Leave a Comment 
Own It, a student-founded organization dedicated to promoting women’s leadership and empowerment, has expanded its second-annual Own It Summit to Boston College, Washington University in St. Louis and Howard University, which will offer Own It-sponsored summits in 2015.
Georgetown University Women in Leadership hosted the inaugural Own It summit last April with over 400 attendees and 30 nationally recognized speakers. Own It has separated from GUWIL and is now sponsored by the Office of Communications and Public Affairs, but still works closely with the club.
Brosnan and Ciesemier said they hope to see Georgetown as a hub for women’s leadership and programming.
“We want the summit to be recognized as this national [event] that Georgetown is putting on,” Ciesemier said. “Georgetown is supporting the events progressing across the country and [university officials] like that its seen as something that’s starting at Georgetown and kind of trickling across the country.”
“One of the reasons we started Own It was that we witnessed this issue where a bunch of high-powered women leaders are talking to themselves,” Own It co-founder Kendall Ciesemier (COL ’15) said. “We wanted to help bridge the gap between college- age women and the women that they hope to become and emulate the careers of.”
According to Own It co-founder Helen Brosnan (SFS ’16), the summit attracted attention from students and administrators at universities throughout the country. Own It is now working with the three other universities to provide a template and advice for their nascent summits.
“The summit that happens at Georgetown is the home base, and the other summits are splinters off of that in the different regions,” Brosnan said. “They will end up being smaller versions probably this year, but they are branches of Own It and we like to call Georgetown the home base.”
According to Brosnan, the group will continue to expand by communicating with local high schools, reaching out to other colleges and universities and connecting with alumni.
Members of the Own It team will travel to San Francisco in November to network at a Georgetown alumni event in order to engage a broader demographic.
“One of the reasons that we are really passionate about expanding and that we have built this summit team around expanding, is that we really want to do events that connect different types of people,” Brosnan said.  “Our primary purpose is engaging young women in these big convening events and reaching the largest audience possible.”
Own It Chief of Staff Maya Davenport (SFS ’16) said that although the summit is expanding, it will remain focused on developing an established program at Georgetown.
“The summit is expanding by extending our model as a platform for other schools, but even more importantly, the Georgetown Own It summit is working to make sure that within the Georgetown community the summit is creating an inclusive space in which every person can learn and develop,” Davenport wrote in an email to The Hoya.
This year’s Georgetown summit will occur on March 21. Alana Snyder (COL ’16), president and co-founder of GUWIL, has helped plan both summits and said that the event serves as an inspiration for young women and men.
“Basically, the goal in having a summit like this is to provide students with the inspiration to accomplish incredible things by using the speakers as platforms for motivation,” Snyder wrote in an email to The Hoya.“This means that undergraduates are exposed to dreams that some of them never even knew they had. …We hope that the women of this generation can take what they learn and change the world.”
Davenport agreed, and said she hopes the next summit will further incentivize women to become leaders.
“Our main goal for the summit is to inspire,” Davenport wrote. “The goal of the summit is to inspire young women and ignite a fire that drives them to pursue and achieve whatever dreams and goals they have.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 28, 2014 by Katherine Richardson Leave a Comment 
The university community honored the life of School of Foreign Service Dean Emerita Carol Lancaster (SFS ’64) with a memorial service in Gaston Hall on Sunday. Lancaster, who died Oct. 22, was remembered for her wit, remarkable intelligence and endless dedication.
Vice President for Mission and Ministry Fr. Kevin O’Brien, S.J., began the memorial with a prayer service. O’Brien spoke about Lancaster’s impactful actions, both in government and on Georgetown’s campus.
“Her development could never be separated from the human,” O’Brien said. “It was not simply an academic exercise, but a human endeavor. Her generation, her coming of age imbued in her a sense that she could change the world, making God’s dream for this world a reality.”
According to O’Brien, Lancaster instilled a sense of duty in her students to make changes like she had.
“Carol told her students that ideas matter,” O’Brien said. “That all we do here is meant to make a difference out there, beyond the gates, in the city which she so loved, in a world which she knew very well. As Dean, she embodied the Jesuit commitment to educating for justice.”
University President John J. DeGioia also spoke, and agreed that Lancaster educated her students and colleagues to take action toward social justice.
“Her life was characterized by the slow and arduous effort of integration and encounter,” DeGioia said. “The arc of Carol’s life demonstrates this commitment to people-building: in Bolivia, in her writing, in government service and in her work here at Georgetown.”
DeGioia said that Lancaster’s work both in public service and on campus will inform scholars and policymakers for years to come.
“Carol lived a life, an extraordinary life, with such actions,” DeGioia said. “Actions that generated new processes—new processes and people-building. Actions that bore fruit throughout her life, and will continue to bear fruit in significant historical events.”
One of Lancaster’s notable actions was the creation of the Institute for Women, Peace and Security, led by Executive Director Ambassador Melanne Verveer (FLL ’66, GRD ’69). Verveer, who spoke at the service, said that Lancaster dedicated herself to the creation and development of the center, becoming a pioneer in women’s issues academia.
“[Lancaster] established a first of its kind institute to become a premier center for research on these issues, to provide significant opportunity for students to become engaged and to utilize Georgetown’s global platform to put a spotlight on today’s pressing challenges and opportunities,” Verveer said. “Yes, Carol was a visionary. She had a dream that Georgetown would become a leader on these issues, and she knew she had strong support from President DeGioia.”
According to Verveer, Lancaster’s dedication to the institute turned it into a life-changing program for both students and women all over the world.
“She leaves a giant footprint for good,” Verveer said. “In expanding the university’s leadership, in deepening research and scholarship in these areas, in inspiring a cadre of students to become engaged and in transforming the lives of women who were on the front lines of change around the world.”
Various administrators including SFS Interim Dean James Reardon-Anderson, who served as Lancaster’s senior associate dean, and Georgetown College Dean Chester Gillis, a close friend, also spoke about their relationships with Lancaster. The Georgetown University Chamber Choir sang hymns punctuating the event, opening with “Amazing Grace.” Lancaster was an avid harpist, and her teachers, a Celtic harp and guitar duo, played some of her favorite compositions, including “Simple Gifts.”
Before Fr. John Langan, S.J., delivered the closing prayer, the service featured a video of compiled clips of Lancaster at speaking events, showcasing her trademark humor, and closed with an address from her son, Douglas Farrar (SFS ’05, GRD ’12).
“We want to remember her for her humor, her intelligence, her caring devotion and her wit,” Farrar said. “Time will heal us, but you can help. … Share the memories you treasure most about Carol with each other and with us. By remembering the best of her, we can all keep her spirit alive even though our hearts ache from her loss.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 28, 2014 by Kshithij Shrinath Leave a Comment 
Ben Bradlee, the Washington Post editor who guided the paper through the Pentagon Papers and Watergate, was a Washington D.C. legend. But the longtime Georgetown resident also left a distinct legacy on the Hilltop, where he taught a journalism course and received an honorary degree.
Bradlee took over the Post in 1965 and presided over the newsroom until 1991. Under his leadership, the Post earned 18 Pulitzer Prizes, solidifying its national prominence. During his time as editor, Bradlee challenged the Nixon administration’s right to the Pentagon Papers and supervised Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein’s investigation into the Watergate cover-up in 1971. He died of natural causes at the age of 93 on Oct. 21.
After leaving the Post, Bradlee spent time at the university located near his N Street home. He taught a journalism course in the spring of 1997 and received an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters from the university in 2006.
“[Bradlee] has helped to strengthen the teaching of journalism at Georgetown College, in part through his own teaching, and has readily shared with our students his professional perspective, his sense of ethics and his inspirational devotion to that elusive but cherished journalistic objective: the truth,” University President John J. DeGioia said at the time.
His wife, Sally Quinn, has also been connected to Georgetown through the Post’s former blog on religion, On Faith.
Bradlee’s relationship with Georgetown began as research for a book called “How to Read a Newspaper.” After publishing his autobiography, “A Good Life: Newspapering and Other Adventures” in 1995, Bradlee planned to follow up with the second work. To prepare, he taught a class with Barbara Feinman Todd, now Georgetown’s director of undergraduate journalism, who served as his researcher for “A Good Life.”
“I suggested to him that if he came and co-taught a class with me at Georgetown, maybe it would help him flesh out the book,” Feinman Todd said.
The course was also titled “How to Read a Newspaper.” It met once a week and trained students to become sophisticated readers of the news, understanding when and how sources lie, with a particular interest in anonymous sources. Pulling from his experience as an editor, Bradlee attempted to give students his insider’s perspective on reading and writing for a newspaper.
“He had a certain swagger and confidence about him that made it clear that you felt like you were sitting in front of someone who has made history,” said Suzanne Smalley (COL ’98), a student in the class and current senior director of content and strategy for AtlanticLIVE at The Atlantic. “He had incredible war stories to tell and a very rich memory for critical history in this country that he lived through and covered for the Post.”
Although Bradlee never ended up writing his second book, his enthusiasm for the class and passion for journalism was boundless. He read and co-graded every assignment with Feinman Todd.
“He loved teaching the class. It was a good sounding board for his book idea, and he loved the interaction with the students,” Feinman Todd said. “He loved life so much. Every day he got up, and he was so happy to be doing what he was doing. I can’t imagine him having had a different life. He was born to be a newspaper editor, and it was a joy to be in the room with somebody who was so alive and so comfortable in his own skin.”
The small course, with fewer than 20 students selected through an application process, featured several guest speakers, including Washington Post publisher Katharine Graham, ESPN Vice President John Walsh and Woodward.
“It was clear whenever these incredible icons came into the classroom, they all had tremendous respect for Professor Bradlee,” Smalley said. “It wasn’t the most structured class I took at Georgetown, but it was one of the more interesting ones.”
Bradlee also connected with journalists and others now at Georgetown outside of his later-in-life work on the Hilltop.
Journalism professor Athelia Knight worked as a reporter for the Post under Bradlee from 1974 to 1991, where she covered topics including education, social issues, criminal justice, and sports, and credited him with constantly motivating her to improve.
“He took a chance on me because I was a young, rookie reporter who was basically thrown in with all the other Metro reporters, and I survived,” Knight said. “He was tough as nails. I liked that because he pushed me. He pushed me to become a better reporter.”
Knight and Feinman Todd still recalled Bradlee’s professional advice years later.
“Go back, go back, go back. We were trying to get to the truth, and when you’re interviewing someone, the first time, they don’t tell you everything. The second time, the third time,” Knight said. “It’s really checking your facts and getting it right. And if you don’t have it, you don’t have it.”
“‘Never send a letter when you’re angry.’ I think about that almost every time I hit the send button on something that’s difficult,” Feinman Todd added. “He always warned … people can lie to you. So be open to people, but you always need as many sources as you can get. So be careful, don’t be cynical, I would say,” Feinman Todd said.
Despite his stature and even after his time teaching at Georgetown, Bradlee took the time to further the development of young journalists. From 2001 to 2008, Knight ran The Washington Post’s Young Journalist Development Program for high school students interested in journalism, and Bradlee occasionally stopped by to speak to the students.
“I got Bradlee to speak to the students more than once, and he was very generous with his time. He was willing to take pictures with the kids; he was willing to just talk to them about his career,” Knight said. “He never really stopped being excited about the news.”
Feinman Todd agreed that Bradlee always made the time to connect with students.
“He made himself available to the students, and he was there for them, not only for the class but for real-world, real journalism advice,” she said.
Bradlee’s funeral will take place at Washington National Cathedral on Wednesday at 11 a.m.
Hoya Staff Writer Suzanne Monyak contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 28, 2014 by Andrew Wallender Leave a Comment 
The National Football League Players Association named Georgetown Law Professor Deborah Epstein, as well as former White House Counsel Kathryn Ruemmler (LAW ’96), to its newly created Commission on Violence Prevention.
The 11-person commission was announced earlier this month by the players’ union in light of various violent incidents involving NFL players, including the child abuse case of Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson and the domestic violence cases of Arizona Cardinals running back Jonathan Dwyer and, most notably, Baltimore Ravens running back Ray Rice. After facing criticism for suspending Rice for only two games for striking his then-fiancee, now wife, Janay Palmer in an elevator, the NFL later elevated Rice’s punishment to an indefinite suspension from the league.
“The commission was established because we wanted to take a more critical look at some of the acts of violence that occur in the NFL, and that’s by everyone: players, owners, front office, really anybody that is connected to the game,” Teri Patterson, NFLPA deputy managing director, said. “And particularly in light of recent domestic violence instances, we wanted to make sure that we were taking a correct approach in prevention and intervention.”
Georgetown is already connected to the NFL through the chair of its board of directors, Paul Tagliabue, who served as the league’s commissioner from 1989 to 2006.
Epstein, a member of the law center faculty for over 20 years, is the director of Georgetown Law’s Domestic Violence Clinic and is a member of the D.C. Mayor’s Commission on Violence Against Women.
Boston College professor Lisa Goodman, a longtime friend and colleague of Epstein who co-wrote a book on domestic violence, titled “Listening to Battered Women: A Survivor-Centered Approach to Advocacy, Mental Health, and Justice,” with her, said Epstein has a unique approach that will make her an asset to the NFLPA.
“I think that she really has a great, strategic, big-picture understanding of the field and where it needs to go,” Goodman said. “She really knows how to put big ideas into actionable strategies and pieces. So, I think that she will be unlikely to be okay with window dressing.”
Ruemmler, who was speculated as a potential candidate to replace Attorney General Eric Holder before removing herself from contention, served as President Barack Obama’s White House Counsel from June 2011 to June 2014.
“I am very proud that Professor Deborah Epstein and alumna Kathryn Ruemmler (LAW ’96) were selected to serve on this commission,” Law Center Dean William M. Treanor said in a statement to The Hoya. “Domestic violence is a serious issue and the appointment of these two members of the Georgetown Law community is reflective of the Law Center’s dedication to public service and commitment to justice.”
Although the NFL has pushed for reform prior to February’s Super Bowl, Patterson called the players association’s timeline of actions to prevent domestic violence “very aggressive.” The commission will continue to work with the NFL, however, to make recommendations and to review their plans for reform.
“The tangible goal of the commission will be in the form of recommendations to the NFL in terms of their training, education protocols, discipline process, etcetera. Because they’re the ones with the platform to sort of roll out any presentation or training or anything like that,” Patterson said.
The Commission on Violence Prevention has already begun to meet and take tangible action. Various media outlets have reported that the players union has offered the NFL a critique of its proposed training for players in the league. According to NBC Sports, critics have taken issue with the players union for treating all players as “perpetrators,” not defining who would offer training, and not focusing enough on behaviors that could lead to violence. Patterson declined to comment on specifics of the commission’s activities.
Goodman has high hopes for the future work of the commission.
“I think it’s been a long time coming,” Goodman said. “I think that we need efforts like this at every level to work with athletes and to work with men in general. But this is a group who has the power not only to change the discourse for NFL players but to change the discourse for athletes and for men if they take it seriously enough and if they push far enough.”
Epstein declined to comment, and Ruemmler could not be reached for comment.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 28, 2014 by Katherine Richardson Leave a Comment 
Georgetown students will carry mattresses and pillows to classes Wednesday as part of the Carry That Weight National Day of Action, a country-wide solidarity movement with survivors of sexual assault and domestic violence. The event, sponsored by Take Back the Night, Sexual Assault Peer Educators and the Georgetown University Student Association, was inspired by a performance art piece by Columbia University senior Emma Sulkowicz.
Sulkowicz, a survivor of sexual assault, carries her dorm mattress with her each day on campus to protest the university’s failure to punish her rapist. Haley Maness (NHS ’15), a board member of TBTN and member of SAPE, said that Sulkowicz’s performance art holds a much deeper significance.
“Emma Sulkowicz at Columbia carries a mattress around with her because she really wants to emphasize the fact that her rape happened in her dorm and she also wants to emphasize the fact that she lives with it,” Maness said. “Living with her perpetrator on campus is very heavy, and it’s a burden that she takes on her shoulders.”
Although Sulkowicz carries a mattress and encourages those participating in the event to do the same, Maness said that the planning committee incorporated pillows into the day to demonstrate the idea that sexual assault can occur in familiar places.
“Emma has actually spoken out against [pillows]. She said that pillows were ‘light and fluffy’ and don’t represent that actual weight of what she’s feeling,” Maness said. “The pillows are Georgetown’s interpretation. We want to make it clear that we’re not trying to go against Emma’s wishes, and we really respect her and we understand why she is against pillows. In terms of the climate and the culture at Georgetown, we feel that what pillows represent is still really important to recognize.”
Per Sulkowicz’s request, students will also wear red tape ‘X’s on their clothing to represent the figurative red tape that survivors must go through to get justice. Many of those involved with the planning of Carry That Weight will table in Red Square during the Georgetown University Farmers’ Market on Wednesday, and will participate in group-carry exercises with mattresses.
Kyra Hanlon (SFS ’16), a member of the Georgetown University College Democrats who is helping plan the event, said she believes the event will foster a culture of caring and support for survivors.
“It’s really important for it to be a public event so that we can continue to engage the student body on this issue and to create that culture and a norm that people care about this issue on campus and that people are able to have a dialogue about it,” Hanlon said.“Also to make sure in a very public way that the administration knows that students really care about this issue.”
Hanlon said she got involved in order to ensure that survivors feel respected and supported.
“For me, a major goal is to show unity and to show that Georgetown is united behind survivors and that we stand in solidarity with survivors,” Hanlon said. “The ultimate goal is for survivors to feel supported on campus.”
GUSA Vice President Omika Jikaria (SFS ’15) said that she hopes the event will make issues of sexual assault more visible.
“It’s important for GUSA to support it because it’s a very visual-heavy event, and it hopefully will bring a lot more awareness to this issue,” Jikaria said. “Emma was carrying her mattress around Columbia for the past month or so; that’s definitely garnering a lot of attention. We think that this is a great opportunity to stand in solidarity with her.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 28, 2014 by Emma Rizk Leave a Comment 
Associate Vice President for Risk Management Joseph Yohe and Assistant Vice President for Student Health James Welsh announced an updated visitor policy in order to protect the campus community from the Ebola virus in a university-wide email last week.
“The overall approach to the Ebola outbreak in West Africa and to the cases that have developed here in the [United States] (two in persons visiting or returning from the three affected countries, two in health care workers caring for one of those patients) has been evolving over the past few weeks and is led by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control,” Welsh wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We closely follow their guidance and establish policies to be in compliance with those.”
The policy states that all visitors travelling from a country subject to a Level 3 Travel Warning, as defined by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, must meet with and be cleared by Yohe before entering campus. Previously, in August, the university halted university-sponsored travel to Liberia, Guinea and Sierra Leone, all of which have a Level 3 Travel Warning, and discouraged personal travel in those areas. According to Yohe, the university has followed the unfolding of the Ebola crisis and worked to form an appropriate response.
“The visitor policy was a natural progression of our overall response efforts as it relates to the Ebola outbreak,” Yohe said. “We really started dealing with this issue back in the summer when we first began to evaluate risk to our students and our programs abroad. Sometime in August we took a step of actually putting travel restrictions in place for the three main countries in West Africa: Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea. … It’s a step in a series of events to try protect the university community.”
Yohe said that the university will continue to heed the advice of the CDC as it changes over time.
“At this point it is an evolving situation; we just learned about new cases today,” Yohe said. “The CDC is changing its protocol as it learns more about the disease so I would say it’s a very fluid situation and the university is trying to follow the best guidance that’s being provided by the CDC, as well as from the D.C. Department of Health.”
The policy was the result of collaboration between many different groups on campus, including senior administrators and public health professionals. The discussions also involved administrators in the Communications Office and the Office of Global Education.
According to Yohe, precautions must be taken due to the nature of the disease, although the spread to campus is currently unlikely.
“If there is one thing I’ve learned there is nothing certain about trying to understand this disease so it’s really not clear at this point,” Yohe said. “We can only take precautions and assume the worst and I think that’s how the university is approaching this. We want to be prepared so if in fact a case does happen to show up in the district that we are prepared.”
This is not the first time the university has faced challenges involving the spread of infectious diseases, and Welsh said the previous experiences helped inform his current decision making process.
“Our approach is informed by prior planning and experience with various infectious disease outbreaks (SARS, H1N1), and is done in close consultation with a number of important campus partners,” Welsh wrote.
Jake Robinson (SFS ’16) said that the precautions seem unnecessary, but that it is reasonable to ensure that students are protected.
“Even though it might be a little bit too much for a college campus I think it’s still technically the right move by the school. … Ebola is a highly infectious disease and it’s pretty contentious right now,” Robinson said. “I think it’s necessary to take these types of precautions and I think another factor is that Georgetown is a very internationally oriented school so if there was one school that I could think where visitors from West Africa would be coming it would be Georgetown.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 28, 2014 by Ashley Miller Leave a Comment 
Panelists drew comparisons between Marxism and anarchism and explored the implications of anarchism’s decentralized and egalitarian structure on political action and the idea of revolution as part of a discussion sponsored by the Program for Justice and Peace Studies in Healy Hall on Friday afternoon.
Clemson University professor Todd May, one of the two panelists, examined the exploitation of labor under Marxism, resulting in fundamental problems in class relationships within capitalist society.
“Now what that means is that, if you want to change society, what you need to do is change the capitalist relationships of exploitation,” May said.
May said that this notion of exploitation corresponds to the concept of domination in anarchist thought.
“The concept of exploitation as Marx has it, I think would correspond in anarchism to a very different concept— and that is the concept of domination.But the concept of domination is not structured like the concept of exploitation in this sense,” May said.“Exploitation happens in a particular area…domination can happen in many different ways.”
He added that Marxism and anarchism also differ in that one cannot trace all societal problems to one area of anarchism, known as an Archimedean point, or a hypothetical point at which the observer can regard all topics completely and objectively.
“For Archimedes, there was some point [he] thought that if you could get this right point you could leverage the world. So it is a single place where you can leverage the world. There is no Archimedean point in anarchism,” May said.
He explained that the existence of an Archimedean point impacts how a revolution unfolds.
“If there is an Archimedean point, one key point at which the problems occur, what that means is that it would be good to have experts in that key point, the people who know what it is that is the problem can analyze it and then can point the way toward a solution,” May said.
The problem of anarchism, he continued, is multifaceted and lacking clear experts to be leaders.
This existence of experts and leaders can lead to a power issue post-revolution, which is not present in anarchism where change comes from below.
“One of the critiques of Marxism that Mikhail Bakunin, a 19th century Russian anarchist and founder of collectivist activism,made, and it turned out to be a great prediction, he said ‘You know what is going to happen, you’re going to have your revolution and at the end of your revolution you are going to have a new set of people in power and those new set of people are not really going to want to give up the power once they got it. So you simply are going to rearrange who is in power, but you are not going to rearrange the structure of power and domination,’” May said.
JUPS Program Director Randall Amster, the other panelist, said that some of the misunderstandings of anarchism stemfrom its decentralized approach, with a lack of hierarchy and coordination.
“So a lot of times people can do things in the name of anarchism that might not be widely embraced. There may be acts attributed to anarchism that it’s not necessarily clear who’s coordinating it,” Amster said.
Without the structures of domination that are currently part of our society, anarchists hope to create an order that is much more cooperative, panelists said.
“And so if we as a group decide that this is the thing to do and that we should be bound by certain norms and should have certain jobs and certainly if you violate them then we will criticize them and hold you to it. That’s very different from saying that ‘I’m going to be the police’ or ‘I’m going to be the Central Committee and I’m going to be the enforcer.’ The idea is that we all hold each other collectively to these principles,” JUPS Program founder and philosophy professor Mark Lance, the moderator of the event, said.
Jennifer Tubbs (SFS ’15), who attended the event, acknowledged that the anarchist concept of multifaceted domination seems to have more basis than the Marxist idea of one fundamental form of exploitation.
“I mean to me, this makes more sense, you know what I mean, the sort of radical egalitarian because there are multiple dimensions of domination and oppression,” Tubbs said.
 
 
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

