
October 19, 2015 by Christian Paz Leave a Comment 
Ambassador of the European Union to the United States David O’Sullivan discussed transatlantic trade relations and global challenges to trade negotiations at an event in the Rafik B. Hariri Building on Oct. 7.
The event marks the latest installment in the annual Global Embassy Series organized by the McDonough Global Student Association with the help of MSB Senior Associate Dean Norean Sharpe and MSB Senior Assistant Dean Monija Amani. Previous iterations have featured ambassadors from Mexico and Spain.
O’Sullivan served as the Chief Operating Officer of the European External Action Service and Head of Cabinet and Secretary-General of the European Commission prior to his appointment as ambassador to United States. His primary duties now focus on negotiating trade agreements between the EU and emerging markets around the world.
“Trade is an absolutely fascinating subject,” O’Sullivan said. “I studied economics, and I’m truly skeptical about whether economics can be considered a science. … But there is one law of economics that I absolutely believe in, and that is the law of comparative advantage.”
According to O’Sullivan, the EU recognizes the importance of free trade, despite its potential detriments.
“Trade truly has been at the heart of economic and social progress,” O’Sullivan said. “While I think that we have to acknowledge there is a downside to trade … any attempt to stifle trade is ultimately counterproductive.”
The ambassador spoke about his experiences in trying to expand the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and the World Trade Organization through agreements between the EU and nations in Southeast Asia and the Middle East, which created tighter economic ties between the regions.
He also discussed coordination problems facing the WTO as the number of its member states increases.
“The World Trade Organization now has 163 members and, to be frank, it has become increasingly difficult to get those 163 members to find a right balance between the give and take of trade negotiations,” O’Sullivan said.
According to O’Sullivan, negotiations are particularly difficult to carry out with emerging economies.
“They felt that in some way the rules of the game were stacked against them by the West, the United States and Europe,” O’Sullivan said.
O’Sullivan concluded the lecture by praising the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the effects of the North American Free Trade Agreement.
In a question-and-answer session, audience members asked O’Sullivan to share his thoughts on the recent Volkswagen emissions scandal and the impact of a referendum in the United Kingdom on leaving the EU.
Salome Kakulia (COL ’19), an attendee of the lecture, said she resonated with the discussion on emerging markets.
“The thing that was really interesting for me was that since I’m from Georgia, I wondered about the impact trade should have on developing countries,” Kakulia said.
Sharpe said that she found O’Sullivan’s comments on trade in the EU and the global economy to be particularly insightful.
“I thought that the ambassador gave a terrific overview of the history of the EU, the importance of the EU and how critical these trade agreements are for a healthy global economy,” Sharpe said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 19, 2015 by Cheryl Liu Leave a Comment 
As part of McDonough School of Business professor David A. Walker’s “Global Financial Markets and Institutions” course, former president and CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas Richard W. Fisher held a question-and-answer session on Oct. 8 with students, in which he discussed various issues ranging from his past experiences to his insights on current events.
Fisher gave a short introduction of the Fed, detailing the structure of the 12-bank system and how it is governed. He said that in addition to its dual mandate to regulate inflation and price stability, the Fed also controls interest rates.
“[Its given purpose is to] keep inflation or deflation at bay and maintain price stability and maximum employment. [The third mandate is to] maintain moderate intermediate-term interest rates,” Fisher said.
However, Fisher said that the Fed is not currently upholding this third mandate, as interest rates are still relatively low.
Fisher also explained the inner workings of the Fed. In particular, he described the three rounds of discussion that mark every Federal Open Market Committee meeting, in which all the committee members are given an opportunity to voice their opinions.
“What’s interesting about the Fed is that when you dissent, nobody holds it against you. It’s hard … when you know that you’re making decisions that will impact the world … and you pray and you think about it and you analyze it,” Fisher said.
Fisher said that before releasing an official statement from the meeting, the entire table will agree on the language of the statement.
“The chair of the Fed must be an extraordinary leader [to accomplish this task,]” Fisher said.
Many students asked Fisher to share his experiences during the 2008 recession. Fisher described the tenseness of those days as “meeting by meeting.”
The recession was the first time in his experience at the Fed that arguments got heated, as people became increasingly anxious about the economy.
“There wasn’t a lot of humor in those days,” Fisher said.
Fisher also spoke about the high levels of anxiety he experienced.
“None of us slept one night for 18 months. … You either had an emergency conference call or you worried about whether you gave the right advice. It was like standing at the edge of a cliff and not knowing whether the wind would push you over,” Fisher said.
Having served as Deputy U.S. Trade Representative during the implementation of the North American Free Trade Agreement, Fisher also offered his opinion on current issues, such as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which President Barack Obama recently signed.
“The only person who led with his chin in trade agreements was President [Bill] Clinton, [but] hats off to President Obama … for doing what’s right and negotiating a trade agreement,” Fisher said.
Walker said that he admired Fisher’s openness in discussing the Fed’s operations.
“[Fisher was] willing to talk about what really goes on in terms of how they [the Fed] come to their conclusion and how they cooperate and the fact that they’re very flexible about disagreeing with each other,” Walker said. “Also, from my point of view, he brought in a lot of things that we talked about in the course.”
Eric Webber (MSB ’16), a student in Walker’s class, also felt that Fisher offered unique insight into the financial landscape of the United States.
“I thought he offered valuable opinions because he had actually been in the field, so it was interesting to hear from an inside perspective about current events,” Webber said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

