
November 17, 2015 by Toby Hung and Ashwin Puri 5 Comments 
University President John J. DeGioia and the board of directors approved the Working Group on Slavery, Memory and Reconciliation’s recommendation to rename Mulledy Hall and McSherry Hall on Saturday, one day after student activists began their sit-in outside the Office of the President.
The group changed the names of both Mulledy Hall and McSherry Hall to the interim names of Freedom Hall and Remembrance Hall, respectively.
The retention of the name of Mulledy Hall sparked controversy earlier this semester, calling attention to the actions of Fr. Thomas Mulledy, S.J., who authorized the sale of 272 slaves to a Louisiana plantation in 1838 while serving as the Maryland provincial of Jesuits; Mulledy would later serve as university president. McSherry Hall is named after then-University President Fr. William McSherry, S.J., who served as Mulledy’s lawyer during the sale.
“We are grateful to the Working Group on Slavery, Memory and Reconciliation; to students, including the Black Leadership Forum and other student groups on campus; and to other members of our community for their thoughtful engagement in these important, and sometimes challenging conversations,” DeGioia wrote in a statement to The Hoya.
According to a letter attached to a university-wide email sent at 5 p.m. on Saturday, DeGioia met with several student activists Friday morning outside his office, then received a recommendation from the working group to change the names of the two halls. The university’s board of directors approved the recommendation electronically on the same day.
“As a university, we are a place where conversations are convened and dialogue is encouraged, even on topics that may be difficult,” DeGioia wrote in a university-wide email. “This is what we will continue to do at Georgetown. We are supportive of our students and proud of the depth of their engagement in these urgent conversations.”
Student activists began staged a sit-in outside the president’s office from 9 a.m. to midnight Friday. The activists intended to continue staging daily sit-ins until the administration met their demands, but they temporarily halted the sit-ins Monday in light of the name change. The group has not announced further plans, but encouraged activists to “not lose momentum” on the Facebook event page of the demonstration.
Latazia Carter (COL ’17), who attended the sit-in, emphasized that student activists were acting in response to a lack of recognition and responsiveness by the Georgetown administration.
“I don’t want this to seem like a new movement, because it’s not,” Carter said. “But we’ve had to take this action because the university fails to hear us and recognize our thoughts on the matter.”
BLF member Crystal Walker (SFS ’16), who is a member of the working group, said that she is pleased by DeGioia’s decision to approve the name change.
“I am content with the provisional names of the two buildings and look forward to the final name change, as it will directly commemorate the lives of the 272 enslaved people who were sold,” Walker wrote in an email to The Hoya.
This activism comes in response to recent allegations of racial injustice on college campuses worldwide.
These accusations resulted in the resignation of University of Missouri President Tim Wolfe after he was criticized for failing to address issues of racial intolerance and outrage at Yale University over comments on offensive Halloween costumes and racial insensitivity by university faculty. As a show of solidarity, around 250 students, faculty and community members attended a demonstration hosted by black student activists in Red Square on Thursday.
At the event, members of the BLF announced demands, including revising university tours to include information on the history of campus sites, placing plaques on the known unmarked graves of slaves, establishing an annual program focused on education, creating an endowment for recruiting black professors equivalent to the net present value of the profit from the 1838 sale and mandatory training for professors on diversity and identity issues.
In September, DeGioia charged a working group of 16 students, faculty and alumni to address the history and ramifications of Jesuit slaveholding at Georgetown. The group is chaired by history professor Rev. David Collins, S.J.
After the board approved the working group’s recommendation, Collins said he would have rather kept to the original schedule for the name change instead of responding quickly to last week’s demonstrations. “I wish we could have kept to our timeline … to vote on a resolution after we had had a university-wide conversation,” Collins wrote in an email to The Hoya. “There are multiple stakeholders in our university. As my email inbox shows, a lot of them wish that we had had time to involve them in a larger conversation.”
However, Collins said he recognized the importance of incorporating the views of the entire Georgetown community and accoutning for the risk of community members feeling uninformed when contemplating the name change.
“We made the decision very clearly that the situation … is a signal to us that it’s important for us to pass this resolution today and to risk all the complications that this is going to cause with other segments of the community that aren’t as familiar with why this is so important,” Collins said. “The BLF and the student groups made a compelling case … that we need to pass the resolution now rather than several months from now.”
The Georgetown department of philosophy also published a letter in support of the Black Leadership Forum’s protests Friday, urging the halls’ name changes, the memorialization of the graves of slaves on campus and an annual educational program on Georgetown’s slaveholding past.
In its recommendation to DeGioia, the working group said it found its values to be consistent with those of black student activists.
“We are very encouraged by and welcome the suggestions of the Black Leadership Forum and other students,” the group wrote. “Their words are shaped by a thoughtfulness, a passion and a spirit of constructive engagement that we appreciate deeply and hope will sustain us through the course of this important and painful conversation about our history and its legacy.”
The group said they proposed the names “Freedom Hall” and “Remembrance Hall” to memorialize the experiences of slaves who helped to build the two buildings in the early 19th century.
In the letter, the group also announced three events to continue dialogue on campus, including a symposium on the history of slaveholding at Georgetown on April 16, a holiday recognized by the District of Columbia as Emancipation Day.
The group will also host two conversation circles next Wednesday and Thursday and a teach-in Dec. 1. Both will take place in the Healey Family Student Center. The teach-in will involve an academic discussion not limited to a certain viewpoint or frame of topic on the issue of Georgetown’s slaveholding past.
According to Office of the President Chief of Staff Joe Ferrara, the working group plans to engage in dialogue with the Georgetown community to find permanent names for Freedom and Remembrance Halls.
“The Working Group will continue to engage our community in dialogue. Through this process of dialogue, the intended timeline is to identify recommended permanent names sometime during the spring semester,” Ferrara wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Collins emphasized the importance of getting as close to a unanimous consensus as possible from different stakeholders in the community, such as alumni and faculty, when suggesting permanent names for the halls.
“Some stakeholders are harder to get onboard than others,” Collins said. “We want everybody to be onboard. You never get unanimity. The working group is prepared to deal with the lack of unanimity.”
Collins said that while some community members have contacted the group in disagreement with the name change, he has not received any racially charged rhetoric.
“I have gotten no email that’s racist,” Collins said. “I have gotten a lot of emails between accusing us of working too hastily [and] for not listening to all the folks who are out there.”
The movement to change the names of both halls sparked the creation of a working group at the College of the Holy Cross, where Mulledy served as its first university president starting in 1843 after leaving Georgetown and where a residence hall is named in his honor. In a letter to the university community, College of the Holy Cross University President Rev. Philip L. Boroughs, S.J., outlined the need to examine Holy Cross in a similar way as Georgetown.
“Since the fall, I have been following the progress of Georgetown’s working group, and have been in conversations with some of our alumni, faculty, and staff about these same issues,” Boroughs wrote. “While our historical situation differs somewhat from that of Georgetown, I believe we too must investigate what this issue means for us today.”
According to Connor Maytnier (COL ’17), who serves on the working group, the temporary renaming to Freedom and Remembrance Halls is the first step in a long process to address the history of slaveholding at Georgetown.
“While the renaming of the buildings is by no means an insignificant step, it is just one piece of a more in-depth process,” Maytnier wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I hope that we can continue to engage with folks across our community and promote dialogue on a number of fronts … such as how to best acknowledge Georgetown’s history with slavery, and steps that can be taken to memorialize and reconcile that history.”
Collins said student input in the naming process is essential to formulating representative permanent names for Freedom and Remembrance Halls.
“The creativity of coming up with a new name — that’s your responsibility. … How about if groups were to get together and engage in some kind of [project] … and out of that were to emerge a word, a name, a concept on how to name the building?” Collins said. “Georgetown students are some of the smartest students in America, and some of the most creative. … What ideas are you going to come up with?’”
Hoya Staff Writers Aly Pachter and Ian Scoville contributed reporting.   
Correction: A previous version of this article wrongly identified a picture of Ryan Hall as Freedom Hall (previously Mulledy Hall). The image has now been updated to a correct photo of Freedom Hall.
 

Wrong picture says 
November 17, 2015 at 8:13 pm
Online and in the print edition you published a picture of Ryan Hall not “Freedom Hall”/formerly Mulledy Hall. Shame you can’t even get the basic fact of the article correct.

Bishop John Carroll says 
November 18, 2015 at 1:21 pm
Take down my statue!!

Student (of color) at Georgetown says 
November 18, 2015 at 7:12 pm
Wait till these coddled Sociology majors find out Washington D.C was named after a slave owner too. Will they stage a sit-in at the capitol lawn? Racial discrimination and slavery are an unfortunate reality in this country–there’s absolutely no denying that. But to raise such a fuss about the NAMES of two buildings is absurd. Especially at a place like Georgetown, where–frankly–race is not an issue. How about we focus our efforts in protesting the rising costs of a Georgetown education? Or push for greater awareness and support of rape survivors (or did we forget about Willa already?) And lest we forget that Georgetown opened its doors to us, gave us a stellar financial aid package and all of the support we could possibly need to thrive here. We minorities are in no position to “demand” anything from a university that has given us so much already.

Patrick Fergus C'93 says 
November 19, 2015 at 2:09 pm
Terrific idea – in fact I have a few more name changes.  I also suggest the University burn any archives that mention their names. 
Riggs – financed the Mexican-American War
Edmund Walsh – proponent of McCarthyism
Carroll – supported slavery
Copley, White, Gravenor – early missionaries contributing to early conquest of the Indians
Lauinger Library- represents American imperialism and aggression in Vietnam
Georgetown – named after George II – personified Catholic and Irish bigotry
Washington, slave owner
DC – named after Columbus
Of course, we should no longer be known as a Catholic school since Catholic priests have molested children and the Jesuits have some terrible chapters in their history as well. Oh, you better remove gray as an official color – although chosen to represent peace after the Civil War, it is a symbol of the Confederacy and must go.  Maybe the school in Qatar is not such a great idea.  Slavery in the 21st century does not reflect GU’s values.   
Freedom Hall
Freedom University
37 & O
Freedom City, District of Freedom
[…] University itself has been no stranger to the recent debate, where students successfully campaigning to rename Mulledy Hall and McSherry Hall, on the main campus, to Freedom Hall and Remembrance Hall, […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 17, 2015 by Suzanne Monyak 1 Comment 
PARIS — I chose the right restaurant Friday night. My boyfriend had flown up for the week to visit me in Strasbourg, France, where I am studying abroad for the semester, and we had just arrived in Paris that day to spend our last weekend together. The day began with an overnight bus, followed by a much-needed café au crème at a Parisian cafe and a full day of tourism. Exhausted from a night of travel, we decided to eat at a restaurant near our hotel in Montmartre rather than explore the city at night. We stepped back into the hotel’s Wi-Fi zone after dinner around 10 p.m., and our phones started to blow up with notifications.
First came the CNN update: a shooting at a restaurant near the Stade de France, just a few kilometers from where we had just eaten and only one arrondissement north. And then the panicked email popped up from my Strasbourg coordinator, Susan Witkowski, to my study abroad group with the subject line “Suzanne Monyak,” searching for my contact information. I reassured Georgetown and my family that we were safe, and then spent the night with my eyes glued to my Twitter feed. With every refresh, the death toll rose.
As of Monday evening, the six attacks across Paris, attributed to the Islamic State group — notably the shooting at the Petit Cambodge restaurant near the Stade de France and the attack on Bataclan theater during a concert — left more than 350 injured and 129 dead, including an American college senior at California State University-Long Beach, Nohemi Gonzalez. President Francois Hollande declared a state of emergency in the country, and with that, Paris shut down for the weekend. Transportation was blocked; all museums, schools and government buildings closed. The Eiffel Tower was dark Saturday night.
After spending Saturday hiding in the hotel at my mom’s insistence, my boyfriend and I finally ventured out on Sunday. Soldiers wearing red berets and carrying huge military rifles marched through the streets, and police cars lined all tourist sites. With every siren that wailed past, we could feel the pedestrians around us tense and exchange worried looks.
Much to the relief of my mother, I left Paris on Monday morning and returned home to Strasbourg, leaving behind the tangible air of fear and sadness that marked the city this weekend. For the eight Georgetown students at Sciences Po Paris, five of whom were in the city during the attack, Friday night’s events will now mark the beginning of a new mood for the place they have called home for three months.
“Honestly, it’s been really scary being here. Having something like this happen in your city — and Paris has really become our city this semester — is terrifying,” Cassidy Sachs (COL ’17), a student at Sciences Po Paris who was at a restaurant in Notre-Dame at the time of the attacks, said.
Since the attacks, the city has been on the edge. On Sunday night, mass panic ensued at Place de la République when a firecracker was mistaken for a gun shot, media sources reported. According to Sachs, a few buildings at the university were evacuated Monday after a scare with a suspicious package.
Muriel Van De Bilt (SFS ’17), another Sciences Po Paris student, was also at a restaurant at the time of the attacks when she got a call from the Sciences Po Paris coordinator, Emilie Wynne, advising the students to leave soon and return to their host families.
“I ended up going home and sitting down in the couch with my host mom until 2 a.m. following the news, and trying to respond to everyone, thanking them for their concern and mostly trying to understand what was happening,” Van De Bilt said.
Her host mom would later find out that one of her work colleagues had died at the Bataclan. Her host dad sat trapped in his office, located just two blocks from the Bataclan, until 3 a.m. that night.
“And because it was so close to his everyday life — one of the cafes where some of the shootings happen is where he used to go have coffee every morning — just adds a more ‘real life side’ to the situation,” Van De Bilt said.
After finally reaching his host brother, who had gone out for the night, Leo Zucker (SFS ’17) similarly spent the night watching the news with his host family and frantically calling friends and family.
“No words could do our horror justice as we waited for the next body count to pop up,” Zucker said.
Sachs praised Georgetown’s response to the crisis, especially compared to the minimal communication from Sciences Po Paris.
“Our counselor here, Emilie Wynne, has been amazing, hunting us all down to make sure we’re safe, offering anything we could possibly need,” Sachs said.
Van De Bilt also extolled the strength of program support.
“[Wynne] was super fast in calling us and has been in constant contact ever since,” Van De Bilt said.
On Friday night, I received several emails from my coordinator in Strasbourg, as well as an email from Wynne on Saturday. Witkowski had also called my host family Friday night in an attempt to locate me. Office of Global Education Assistant Director Jason Sanderson sent out an email Sunday confirming that all Georgetown students studying in France were safe.
Paola Peraza (SFS ’17), who is studying abroad in Lyon, France, said she also heard from her coordinator that night, and Georgetown contacted her host family Saturday morning. She said no one from Georgetown’s Lyon program was in Paris at the time.
According to a statement from Craig Rinker, director of global education at Georgetown’s Office of Global Education, the OGE does not make emergency response protocols publicly available. He did say, however, that the study-abroad coordinators’ first response was to locate and confirm the safety all of students in the event of an emergency.
“Upon learning of the evolving situation in Paris on Friday night, the OGE solicited updates on the welfare of the students from our program partners and local program coordinators throughout France,” Rinker said in a statement to The Hoya through Georgetown communications. “The first priority is always to account for all participants who might be in immediate harm’s way.”
He added that Georgetown is not recalling student travellers at this time.
The world has offered its solidarity with Paris this weekend. Obama delivered a statement Friday, offering his condolences to Paris.
“This is an attack not just on Paris; it’s an attack not just on the people of France, but this is an attack on all of humanity and the universal values that we share,” Obama said.
Leaders from across the world concurred.
“The road of violence and hatred does not resolve humanity’s problems. And using the name of God to justify this road is blasphemy,” Pope Francis said in St. Peter’s Square on Sunday. Iranian President Hassan Rouhani also condemned the attacks as a “crime against humanity” Saturday after canceling a prescheduled European visit.
Secretary of State John Kerry also traveled to Paris on Monday to show his support.
“In #Paris to offer condolences for the horrific loss of life & to convey solidarity of American people with our oldest ally. #USavecvous,” Kerry tweeted Monday.
Buildings in Paris and across the world are lit up in the French tricolore at night, and schools throughout France held a moment of silence Monday to commemorate the victims of the attack. From what I saw from my walk through Paris on Sunday, the city is, for lack of a better word, rallying. Memorials are scattered across the city, and people had begun to resume their daily lives.
“Life is cautiously transitioning back to normal here. What the new normal will entail remains to be seen. Now is an interesting time to be alive in France,” Zucker said.
On our last night, Sunday, we walked past the Eiffel Tower, dark the night before, and saw it had been lit up blue, white and red. Paris is in mourning, but she still shows her strength.
 
 
Hoya Staff Writer
[…] In Paris, Scenes Of Loss, Resilience […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 17, 2015 by Molly Cooke Leave a Comment 
Around 250 students and community members gathered in remembrance of the victims of last week’s terror attacks in Paris, Beirut and Baghdad at an interfaith prayer vigil held Sunday and a solidarity event yesterday.
The prayer vigil, organized by the Office of Campus Ministry, took place in Dahlgren Quadrangle and featured representatives from various faith communities, including the Catholic, Protestant, Jewish, Muslim and Buddhist ministries. Around 200 people attended the vigil.
After a moment of silence and the lighting of candles, Hannah Gerdes (SFS ’16), a member of the Intervarsity Christian Fellowship who spoke at the event, called on the community to remember the Jesuit values of service and understanding in the face of the attacks.
“As we light these candles, we quietly recall that all are called upon to be people of peace not war, people of life not death, of
building up and not tearing down,” Gerdes said. “We are called to be women and men for others, to be people of love, justice and peace.”
The Georgetown University Gospel Choir also performed the gospel standard “Hallelujah, Salvation and Glory.”
Last night’s event, hosted by the Georgetown University French Cultural Association, also saw the observance of a moment of silence and the singing of “La Marseillaise,” the French national anthem, by around 50 students at Healy Circle.
Students chalked messages of support for Paris and other regions of the world affected by terrorism on the pavement.
On Friday, mass shootings and suicide bombings claimed 129 lives in Paris, while a bombing at a funeral in Baghdad killed 18 people. One day before, a bombing killed more than 40 people and injured more than 239 in Beirut. All three attacks were linked to the Islamic State group.
At the vigil, attendee Anna Arena (COL ’17) said the performance was particularly striking in light of the attack on the Bataclan, the theater where the majority of the victims of the Paris attack were killed.
“This was an attack on a concert hall; it was an attack against music,” Arena said. “Seeing how sacred that is … to see that transcendent beauty through the violence was very moving. We’re all connected through music. I thought that was incredible.”
At the event, Protestant Chaplaincy Director Rev. Bryant Oskvig said while much of the media’s coverage has centered on the Paris attacks, students should acknowledge the widespread effects of violence and terrorism.
“The media focuses on Paris because it feels counterintuitive to our own experiences and things we expect in a place like France or the United States,” Oskvig said. “I think there’s a lot of human misery that gets overlooked because it seems so far away and in places where we can’t imagine ourselves going to.”
Vigil attendee Nina Young (SFS ’19) said she felt the event addressed the international community as a whole.
“We didn’t only address the shootings in Paris,” Young said. “I’m certainly not someone who keeps up with the media, but through campus I’ve heard a lot about [other attacks].”
Arena recalled that speakers mentioned Lebanon before Paris during the prayers for special intentions at the Mass she attended in Dahlgren Chapel on Sunday.
“That’s always been something that struck me about the Jesuit ideology,” Arena said. “There’s a very conscious moving of things that aren’t traditionally put first and placing them first.”
At last night’s event, Emeric Maria, an exchange student from France, said that the attacks had a personal impact on him.
“It’s important for us to all be here and show our support,” Maria said. “We have a lot of friends and family in Paris. It could’ve been me, just going to a restaurant, going to a concert.”
Martial Guerin, another exchange student, urged the community to remember victims of terrorism beyond France.
“There were attacks in Paris, but we have to know that it happens everywhere in the world, every day,” Guerin said.
After the vigil, Vice President for Mission and Ministry Fr. Kevin O’Brien, S.J., stressed the importance of upholding values across faith traditions in light of tragic events.
“At a Catholic and Jesuit university, committed to inter-religious collaboration, we naturally come together in times of tragedy, sadness and anxiety,” O’Brien wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We seek comfort in our faith in the company of one another.”
O’Brien said events like the prayer vigil help students look past stereotypes.
“We don’t allow caricatures of one tradition or another to define our own experience of the tradition,” O’Brien wrote. “When I hear a prayer for peace done out of a Hindu or a Muslim tradition, it expands my horizons and … counteracts that visceral image that we’re seeing portrayed in the popular media over and over again.”
Muslim Chaplaincy Director Imam Yahya Hendi cited the vigil as an example of the strength of the Georgetown community.
“We are a community fully united for justice and peace,” Hendi wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We do come together to say that we are united for peace and justice for all. Tonight’s program was a great sign that we are one family despite our amazing diversity.”
 
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 17, 2015 by Molly Cooke 4 Comments 
Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia (CAS ’57) argued that judges should refrain from making moral decisions during a guest lecture at the Georgetown University Law Center on Monday.
In the Hart Auditorium in GULC’s McDonough Hall, 360 first-year law students attended and participated in a following question-and-answer session.
“It’s not up to me to decide what is justice and what is law,” Scalia said. “I can’t tell you how often I reach results that I don’t like. You show me a judge that likes the result he reaches all the time and I’ll show you a bad judge by my estimation, because I’m not supposed to make the laws; I’m supposed to apply the laws that the people have adopted directly or through their representatives.”
Law Center Dean William Treanor recalled that last year when Justice John Paul Stevens spoke at the law center, he identified Scalia as the Supreme Court’s funniest judge, but Treanor noted he is also highly regarded for his scholarship on constitutional law.
“Justice Scalia has profoundly shaped our nation’s jurisprudence as a member of the [Supreme] Court of course, but as a brilliant scholar, an executive branch official and also a member of the Court of Appeals,” Treanor said. “He’s a giant in the history of the law, and it’s a privilege for all of us to hear him.”
Professor Randy Barnett introduced Scalia and moderated the question-and-answer session. In his introduction, Barnett said that Scalia is the most famous sitting Supreme Court justice.
“Justice Scalia is the most discussed justice on the Supreme Court,” Barnett said. “And that’s true not just in your law class but in law classes across the country, and the reason for that is simple. The opinions he writes are clear, principled and above all, they are interesting.”
Scalia began his lecture noting that he and former Chief Justice Edward Douglass White are the only Georgetown graduates to ever sit on the Supreme Court before he addressed his feelings on modern law education.
“It has always been in the despair of us originalists that you suckle at the common law,” Scalia said. “Most of your first year is devoted to learning the common law of contracts and property, of torts. When you open your eyes to law, your image of the law is the common-law judge who figures out the right answer to a problem.”
Scalia explained that he opposes that image because of its political implications.
“It is true that the great judge was the judge that could figure out things,” Scalia said. “But what has intervened between then and now is something called popular democracy, and what that requires; you cannot have a democracy of any extent without a language, a language that’s agreed upon so that the people who write the laws are using the same signals as the people who apply the laws. The job of the modern judge is not to invent the law anymore, not if you believe in democracy anyway.”
Scalia also commented on his commencement speech at William and Mary University, where he joked about extending law school to last four years.
“There is so much more law to be learned today than there was when I graduated from law school, whole areas of law that didn’t exist,” Scalia said. “If you want to be a lawyer, you have to be learned in the law.”
In the second half of the question-and-answer session, Scalia addressed questions about his participation within the Supreme Court, revealing that his law clerks actually have more influence on him than his fellow justices because they often come to conference with their minds made up.
“I thrash out the cases with my law clerks much more than with my colleagues. They’re smart as can be; they’re not jaded as I am. It’s a very good process,” Scalia said. “They write the first drafts of my opinion, but I tell them how it comes out. And I don’t think they have undue influence on me. They’re the principal sounding board that I have. They often disagree with me; I disagree with them, which is more important.”
Scalia also discussed his infamous proclivity to dissent.
“I don’t mind the majority opinions,” Scalia said. “I write the dissents for you guys. Seriously, what’s the use of a dissent in the Supreme Court? You know on the Court of Appeals it has some practical use, you warn off other circuits. … In the Supreme Court, what’s the use? You’ve had your chance. You’ve lost. Why don’t you go quietly? ‘I dissent.’ When I write my dissents, I try to make them not only clear, but interesting.”
Scalia said he geared his dissents toward study in law classes because of his hope for the next generation of lawyers.
“I’ve given up on the current generation — they’re gone, forget about them. But the kids in law school, I think there’s still a chance,” Scalia said. “That’s who I write my dissents for.”
 

David Teager says 
November 17, 2015 at 11:02 am
From “The Hoya’s official comments policy:” “The Hoya deems a comment to be inappropriate if it…degrades others on the basis of gender, race, class, ethnicity, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, disability or other classification.” And yet this man degraded the entire homosexual population in his discussion, saying they deserved protection under the law in the same way that pederasts do (that is, no protection not granted by majority rule).
I really can’t believe the fawning reception this man was given. “Most discussed justice,” perhaps, but only because he is the most disgusting, who does not understand justice.

TIMOTHY MILLER says 
August 9, 2020 at 10:19 pm
Right, I always enjoy recalling my one and only time meeting Justice Scalia and although our views are often closely aligned. His views and rulings are at times nothing more than Locknerizing from the bench. We I meet him it was informal with a small group of us and I knew nothing of the law but was honored none the less.. A young intelligent women shook the Justice to his core when she challenged texturalist/Originalist modes of interpretation by first asking then demanding ” Dear Justice Scalia we have listened now for 15 minutes on how to interpret the Constitution, but there is no such power of Judicial review in the text of the Constitution, as a texteralist where do you conjure up such authority? The greatest power the Courts have and yet its nowhere within the text, so if not from there could it be the great and honorable Cheif Justice John Marshall pulled it from his arse? With all do respect. Justice Scalia could not answer this question consistent with his rulings and has expanded government power from language that does not exist and from intent that at best was talked about in the federalist papers but was specifically and expressly confined to discussion only in #78.

Gilbert Williams says 
November 19, 2015 at 7:30 am
As a resident of Wisconsin and interested citizen of the US. I see an event as this a platform for an annual review of a sitting Justice. The Q&A session should be a telling process for the continuing ability of the nations Supreme Court Justices. 
From the article, it sounds like Georgetown is training lawyers who do not ask well thought questions and do not challenge the legal authority to fully explain their positions. 
I live in a state where our assurance of a fair process of government is being taken. Gov. Walker in Wisconsin signed new legislation eliminating the Government Accountability Board on the same day the Scalia spoke and there was no connection, reference or challenge to this from your student body. 
May I ask some rhetorical questions and be answered in a thoughtful manner, as that is what your training should cover.
1. If a State government passes legislation that allows legislators to accept dark money from out of state, is it an offense to rights of the Citizens of that state? 
2. Do the people (not corporations) have a Constitutional right to free and fair elections? Is this right supported by the 10th amendment? And who determines what is a free and fair election?
3. How would the above questions be addressed by an originalist interpretation of the Constitution?
4. Why did the student body pass on asking difficult question of the supreme court justice? Is there a predetermined or protocol? 
I expect some professional answers, if I have stepped outside a boundary, please let me know.
Gilbert Williams
US Citizen
[…] of the modern judge is not to invent the law anymore, not if you believe in democracy anyway.” The Hoya has coverage of Scalia’s […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 17, 2015 by Aly Pachter 1 Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association senate passed a resolution 27-1 to stand in solidarity with victims of collegiate racism Sunday in light of recent events highlighting racial injustice on college campuses such as the University of Missouri.
The resolution, which was shared by GUSA yesterday in a student-wide email, expressed support for students of color who encounter institutional injustice on their college campuses and vowed to recognize the validity of student demonstrators’ demands and challenge university administrators to ensure the safety of students in all universities.
Speaker of the Senate Enushe Khan (MSB ’17), who introduced the resolution with At-Large Senator Jasmin Ouseph (SFS ’19), said it is important for GUSA to take a position on pressing current issues.
“This is essentially saying that as a campus here, as an undergraduate body here, we’re taking a stance on this,” Khan said. “If anything, we hope that this furthers dialogue on our campus in terms of our own history of racism and racial profiling.”
Last week, racial tensions at Mizzou, Yale and other universities resulted in ongoing protests, strikes and the resignations of university administrators.
Student activists at Georgetown also organized a demonstration in solidarity with victims of collegiate racism in Red Square last Thursday.
Village A Senator Ben Costanza (COL ’18), who voted against the resolution, said he took issue with the message behind the resolution and that he would support a resolution of solidarity if the protesters at other campuses changed their methods.
“There’s obviously a problem with racism in this country. There’s implicit racism and there’s direct racism, and that problem is obviously also evident on college campuses. However, what these students at Mizzou and Yale are doing is not helping that problem,” Costanza said. “What these students are doing is infringing on the rights of others, namely the right to free speech and the rights of the freedom of the press.”
Off-Campus Senator Owen Coffin (COL ’16) agreed that certain student protests promote division.
“I personally don’t think the conversation at Yale has been to the level of articulation of which we know those students are capable,” Coffin said. “We know that their concerns are valid and it is very emotional, and that’s probably what makes some of these debates so divisive is because there’s a lot of passion and there’s a lot of pain in them.”
Other senators scrutinized the language of the resolution before approving it.
Coffin took issue with the wording of the original resolution, specifically the fact that it mentioned schools such as the University of Missouri and Yale University. He said that he did not think it was appropriate for outside groups to have the power to make decisions about the language of senate resolutions.
“I understand that the language is very important and that some of the most effective and probably knowledgeable student leaders were of use in drafting it,” Coffin said. “But this is a GUSA senate piece of legislature, and you cannot let outside groups write our legislation for us merely because of outside pressure.”
Ouseph disagreed with Coffin, saying that GUSA senators wrote the resolution but valued the input and concerns of the students in that process.
“It wasn’t like other people were writing for us. We wrote it. We just wanted to make sure that what we were addressing is actually important to the people it primarily concerns,” Ouseph said. “GUSA is meant to represent the undergraduate body as a whole, and that includes students that may not necessarily be represented here.”
Alumni Square and Nevils Senator Roopa Mulpuri (SFS ’18) argued that retaining the names of specific colleges increased the weight of the resolution. She also mentioned that by issuing a resolution, GUSA would be acknowledging instances of injustice at Georgetown.
“I think part of the problem is not acknowledging the validity of specific instances of systematic injustice,” Mulpuri said. “I think part of the issue is acknowledging that it is happening at specific places. As for the resolution as a whole … we’re acknowledging that it is probably also happening at Georgetown.”
Khan said the resolution reflects the thoughts of the majority of the student body.
“Essentially, this is how a great part of our student body feels — that it is important to take a stance and to stand in solidarity with fellow students across the country,” Khan said. “This is just a matter of our student body saying that we stand in solidarity with college students elsewhere as well.”
 

Anonymous says 
November 20, 2015 at 4:34 am
Any information on what the resolution actually says or does or are we supposed to just applaud it without question because of it’s title?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 17, 2015 by Emma Rizk Leave a Comment 
Around 165 community members participated in Hoyas for Immigrant Rights and UndocuHoyas’ photo campaign in support of the community of undocumented individuals at Georgetown and across the country in Red Square on Thursday.
HIR and UndocuHoyas partnered with United We Dream, the largest immigrant-youth-led organization in the U.S., to organize the photo campaign, which launched in conjunction with annual National Educators Coming Out Day.
HIR Co-Chair Alexis Larios (COL ’18) said it was important for the community to show support for the undocumented student population. According to the group, there are around 20 undocumented students at Georgetown.
“We keep talking about immigration as this idea that nobody really understand the complexities of and sometimes it’s easy to just look at it from a policy stance,” Larios said. “This event really highlights the importance of changing the narrative of immigration.”
An organization administered by the Center of Social Justice, HIR is dedicated to fostering dialogue on immigrant rights. A group of students founded UndocuHoyas in fall 2014 to provide support for undocumented college students.
The event also received support from a variety of campus groups including the College Dean’s Office, the CSJ, the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access, the Georgetown Scholarship Program and the Kalmanovitz Initiative for Labor and the Working Poor.
While Larios lauded the Georgetown community for responding positively to the photo campaign, she also said there is a lack of awareness about undocumented students at Georgetown.
“These people are in the shadows and the added burdens of being undocumented keeps them there,” Larios said. “We want to show that these people exist, they’re facing struggles and it is our duty to show them that this is a safe space for them and that we support them.”
Hwangchan Yu (COL ’18), an undocumented student at Georgetown and a member of UndocuHoyas, said there are many challenges undocumented students face that the community does not realize, from applying for financial aid to seeking employment to navigating legal documents.
“We were basically part-time students and part-time advocates,” Yu said. “An undocumented student should not be seen differently than any other students. This should be something that a person of authority should have knowledge of, but we couldn’t find that at Georgetown. But this year we made big changes and we found a lot of support.”
Director of the Women’s Center Laura Kovach participated in the photo campaign. Kovach has expressed support for undocumented immigrants in her role at the Women’s Center, which she hopes is a visible resource for undocumented students.
“There is so much concern for some of our undocumented students of ‘Who can I trust?’” Kovach said. “It’s been really critical for a lot of us to stand up and say, ‘We know you are here and we want you to come see us if you need us.’”
In light of the success of the photo campaign, which was shared on Facebook, Yu and Larios said that their organizations will continue to advocate for the rights of undocumented students on campus.
They also said they are grateful for the support of Georgetown educators and students in the campaign, but there is a lot of work left to improve the situations of undocumented students in the community.
“It’s a humanitarian issue,” Larios said. “We are dealing with human beings who are in this country for several reasons and it is unreasonable to expect that we are going to just ignore such a large part of our population … that perpetuates marginalization.”
Kovach said that there are more ways to bridge an understanding between undocumented students and the rest of the community, including providing more support for UndocuHoyas and HIR.
“At a minimum, [this campaign] raises awareness that we have students who are undocumented but may not feel safe talking about it,” Kovach said. “This allows our undocumented students to find safe resources and to be visible themselves and to share their stories.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 17, 2015 by Emily Tu Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Police Department is implementing increased campus safety measures in response to the series of attacks around the world in the past week, including Paris and Beirut, as well as threats made against Washington, D.C. in an unverified video from the Islamic State group.
GUPD Chief of Police Jay Gruber notified the university community of the new measures in an email on Nov. 16.
“The university is putting extra security measures in place to maintain campus safety,” Gruber wrote. “We are in close contact with the FBI and the Metropolitan Police Department to ensure we are doing all that we can to provide a safe and secure campus.”
The GUPD maintains a close relationship with the FBI and the MPD that involves sharing information relevant to campus safety, including any leads on potential threats.
Gruber explained the expected changes as a “high-visibility protocol,” which will be in place for an undetermined length of time.
“You will notice increased visibility of police officers on and around our campus. We also count on our community to keep us safe,” Gruber wrote.
Gruber particularly emphasized the need for community members to contact the GUPD should they notice any suspicious activity.
“We really count on the public to provide us with information on things that seem out of place, or people or situations that seem suspicious. Students and community members should never be afraid to contact us,” Gruber said. “If it’s something that’s normal, and there’s a reason why the person’s doing it, then that’s great. We have no problem with that activity taking place. But if it is something of concern, we want to know about, investigate it.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 17, 2015 by William Zhu Leave a Comment 
United Nations Free and Equal Campaign Director Charles Radcliffe called for increasing activism amidst a climate of shifting attitudes toward LGBT rights in an increasingly polarized world at a forum in McShain Lounge on Thursday.
The United Nations Association of Georgetown, GU Pride and the LGBTQ Resource Center hosted the event, titled “LGBTI Rights are Human Rights.”
The Free and Equal campaign formed under the Human Rights Office in 2013 to push for more LGBT rights around the world. The group has since campaigned for these issues to be at the forefront of the U.N.’s agenda.
UNA-Georgetown Undersecretary General of Membership Zackary Abu-Akeel (SFS ’18) said the forum will give the UNA a unique opportunity to increase awareness on campus of the UN’s global efforts to promote LGBTQ rights.
“We hope to raise awareness on campus of the initiatives that the U.N. leads that support individuals identifying as LGBTQ+ around the globe in the fight for freedom and equality,” Abu-Akeel said.
Radcliffe began the forum by playing a video that outlined the various struggles of the LGBT community around the world. He then emphasized that LGBT individuals are deprived of basic human rights, saying that the UN wishes for equality.
“There is nothing new about the right to life or the right to security of person. There is nothing special about the right to education,” Radcliffe said. “There is nothing new or special about the right to be free from discrimination, to be free from arbitrary arrest or detention or torture.”
Radcliffe also said there has been a large shift in global attitudes toward LGBT rights. In particular, LGBT rights went from seldom discussed to a large global campaign with wide support in little time.
“There was literally no debate at all about human rights violations against the LGBT community and that has changed very quickly in the space of a few years,” Radcliffe said.
Several countries have made large strides in LGBT rights, such as passing marriage equality and anti-discrimination laws. Radcliffe sees LGBT equality as achieving the most progress among human rights campaigns. However, Radcliffe noted there has been significant resistance against LGBT rights.
“There is no area that I am aware of where we have seen so many positive steps taken in so many countries in such a short period of time. … It is also true, I think, that there is no issue that we’ve seen so much resistance and so much well-organized and well-funded opposition,” Radcliffe said.
Radcliffe said the issue of resistance to LGBT rights, such as countries criminalizing homosexuality outright and limiting the activities of LGBT rights groups, is a rising phenomenon threatening the LGBT community worldwide.
“One of the challenges we have in this campaign is how to find a way to talk about this that has resonance in so many different cultural contexts,” Radcliffe said.
In the forum’s question-and-answer session, a student asked Radcliffe about the successes of the LGBT rights movement.
“It is hard to say why it’s gathered pace in the last few years, but it is absolutely a determining factor, maybe the most important factor, is people coming out. … When people become known, their stories become known,” Radcliffe said. “When the community is humanized, people’s attitudes change much more quickly.”
At the end of the event, Radcliffe said the best way for everyday people to assist in the LGBT rights movement is to support LGBT individuals in their own communities and join the global campaign.
“The things that you can do that are most effective are in your own communities, in your own families. Embrace your LGBTQ friends and let them know you’re there.” Radcliffe said. “If you want to get interested in what’s happening globally, find out, join the campaign, share the materials. It’s by sharing this, by being part of this movement, we will in the end push for change.”
Grace Laria (SFS ’19) said many of the opinions discussed aligned with her own, especially the U.N.’s goal of working at the local level to implement change.
“A lot of things [Radcliffe] said really resonated with me … the idea of working through local communities, rather than the U.N. imposing regulations,” Laria said.
Samuel Boyne (SFS ’18) also said the event effectively raised awareness of LGBT issues.
“I think it was a really important campaign, and the speech was definitely touching a lot of topics that are good for all of us to know,” Boyne said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 17, 2015 by Sarah Griffin Leave a Comment 
Seven student groups collaborated to host the university’s first student-led Latin American conference to address the region’s political future last Friday.
The event, entitled “Latin America at a Crossroads,” featured three panel discussions in the Healey Family Student Center with leaders, policy makers and academics from the region. More than 160 students attended the panels, which included discussions on issues in Latin American governments, the private sector and globalization.
The event was a collaboration between student groups including the Latin American Student Association, the Georgetown University Graduate Association of Mexican Students and the Latin American Policy Association. The Global Futures Initiative and the Graduate Student Organization also provided financial support, while the Center for Latin American Studies and the Latin American Board helped with planning.
In his opening remarks, Vice President for Global Engagement Thomas Banchoff praised Georgetown’s involvement with and commitment to Latin America.
“We’re a magnet for talented students from the region,” Banchoff said. “Students … see Georgetown with our academic strengths, with our location here in Washington, with the networking opportunities, as the place to deepen their expertise and understanding of Latin America and the world.”
At the opening remarks, Francisco Palmieri, the deputy assistant secretary for the Caribbean and Central America in the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs at the U.S. Department of State, discussed contemporary challenges facing the region, as well as the current administration’s foreign policy in Latin America.
Palmieri pointed toward the normalization of the United States’ relationship with Cuba as an important turning point in the two regions’ diplomatic relations.
“The shift in Cuba policy has removed an impediment to even higher levels of engagement throughout the region,” Palmieri said. “Our most fundamental commitment as a region must remain democracy and human rights. We are reinvigorated by the opportunities we see ahead of us.”
Other notable speakers and panelists at the conference included Ambassador of Peru to the United States Luis Miguel Castilla, Barbara Kotschwar, senior investment policy specialist at the World Bank’s Trade and Competitiveness Global Practice, and Mayor Jorge Muñoz of Miraflores, Peru.
Conference Chair of the Latin American Policy Association Inès de Marcos (GRD ’16) said the level of attendance, quality of speakers and attention from the press surpassed her expectations.
“I would love to see this work we pioneered continued in the following years,” de Marcos wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Latin American students are an important part of the Georgetown community and I think it is a great idea that all of them work together to continue to promote the discussion, debate and analysis of policies and political issues relevant for the Latin America region.”
President of the Latin American Graduate Organization Zoe Dauth (GRD ’16) said the response to the conference has been largely positive.
“We have received excellent feedback from students, faculty and external guests,” Dauth wrote in an email to The Hoya. “They were impressed by the depth of discussion, professionalism of the student groups, caliber of speakers and collaborative efforts from so many different parts of the university.”
Though this is the first year that the conference has been held, speakers and organizers expressed optimism that it will continue to grow in subsequent years.
“I do expect that this will be a conference in years to come that will continue to attract enormous interest and participation, not just across the U.S. but by leaders throughout the region,” Palmieri said.
Dauth echoed this sentiment, and said that the conference highlighted the best of what Georgetown has to offer to the region.
“We hope that this will become an annual event and help shape public opinion and debate on Latin America,” Dauth wrote. “It was a triumph for student entrepreneurialism, creativity and leadership.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 17, 2015 by Charlotte Allen Leave a Comment 
D.C. Lawyers for Youth honored Georgetown University Law Center professors Kristin N. Henning and Wallace Mlyniec for their work as directors of the Juvenile Justice Clinic on Nov. 4.
The JJC, which has educated nearly 700 students, formed in 1973 as one of the first legal clinics of its kind, providing both legal representation for youth charged with delinquency in D.C. as well as clinical education and learning opportunities for law students that defend them in court.
Henning and Mlyniec received honors at DCLY’s Fall Ball for Youth Justice, where the organization also announced the creation of the Henning-Mlyniec Award for Youth Justice, which will be awarded annually starting in 2016 to advocates and attorneys who have advanced youth justice through their careers.
GULC and JJC alumni founded the DCLY in 2007. The organization seeks to reform the District’s juvenile justice system through advocacy for youth development and legal representation. Mlyniec served as JJC director since the clinic’s inception until Henning took over in June 2015.
Mlyniec said he was surprised he received the award.
“When I grew up, you grew up to work hard and never expect any kind of award,” Mlyniec said. “To get an award for going to work every day and especially to a job you love as well, to have this organization name an award after Kris and me, is somewhat overwhelming.”
He additionally highlighted the JJC’s mission and the practical learning opportunities it provides to law students. Students receive degree credit for participating in the program, and the clinic provides training for non-student lawyers in the field of juvenile justice.
“The court appoints us to represent kids accused of crimes, and then we assign students to be the principal lawyers,” explained Mlyniec, “The students then actually go out and investigate the cases, negotiate settlements and try cases in the D.C. Superior Court.”
Mlyniec also spoke about his respect for JJC students and the dedication they commit to legal work in service of others.
“They are some of my heroes. They work hard and try harder than any other law students and graduate with a moral obligation to do pro bono work and support the work that we do here,” Mlyniec said. “They are the ones who really deserve the award.”
Henning echoed Mlyniec’s sentiments, highlighting the rewards of teaching at the JJC.
“A teacher’s greatest joy is less in the teaching as it is in the learning,” Henning said. “One of the greatest joys is learning from our students, and a number of the folks acting in the DCLY are our former students. … For me, the work captures both my commitment to social justice and my intellectual interest.”
Henning also emphasized the need for social justice work and encouraged undergraduate student involvement in organizations like After School Kids that work with adjudicated D.C. youth.
“Our country and the state of our country and its success has to be measured not by how well the wealthy are doing, but by how we treat the ones who are most vulnerable and the ones who are the most at risk,” Henning said. “Children in the juvenile court system are some of these people.
R. Daniel Okonkwo (LAW ’05) is the executive director of DCLY and participated in the JJC program when he was a GULC student.
“Professor Henning and Mlyniec were instrumental in the founding of D.C. Lawyers for Youth,” Okonkwo wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We wanted to impact change at the policy level so young people like those we represented in the clinic would have better life outcomes as a result of our work on juvenile justice reform in the District.”
According to Okonkwo, one of the most valuable things taught at the JJC is that working in this field gives lawyers the ability to improve the lives of others.
“DCLY’s work is important because at the core of DCLY’s work on behalf of young people is the belief that sometimes kids make mistakes,” Okonkwo wrote. “We believe that none of our city’s children or their entire lives should be defined by that mistake. A system that still holds kids accountable but will also help them to bounce back more resilient and more equipped to handle life can avoid making those same types of mistakes again.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

