
May 15, 2015 by Karl Pielmeier Leave a Comment 
For many students in the Georgetown University Class of 2015, the year’s upcoming commencement ceremonies will reflect an incredible life steppingstone, serving as the culmination of their undergraduate experiences. For College Senior Associate Dean Anne Sullivan, however, the upcoming commencements will mark a different milestone: her retirement, coming after a dedicated 43-year career in the Georgetown College Office of the Dean that has left a tremendous impact on the university and its students.
Previously, Sullivan served as assistant to the dean, assistant dean and associate dean before assuming her current role as senior associate dean, advising students majoring in government and theology, as well as women’s and gender studies, whose major and minor programs she helped create and design.
Additionally, Sullivan has taught several English classes and “Introduction to Women’s Studies,” both on Georgetown’s main campus and at Villa Le Balze in Florence, and has tutored with the Georgetown Community Scholars program.
“She’s made a remarkable contribution to Georgetown, and it’s one of longevity,” College Dean Chester Gillis said. “She’s not merely an administrator — she’s an intellectual, and one thing that will leave when Anne Sullivan leaves is a lot of wisdom.”
A Decade-Spanning Career
Sullivan, who received a Bachelor of Arts from Radcliffe College and an master’s in teaching from Harvard University, originally intended to become a high school English teacher. She arrived at Georgetown in 1971 after briefly serving in the Teacher Corps, a Great Society development program that aimed to improve teaching in low-income school districts.
Her first position at Georgetown was as a recorder, with responsibilities including sorting through academic transcripts and course catalogs to ensure that College seniors met the university’s graduation requirements.
The handwritten systems of Sullivan’s recording days have since been phased out by newer, more efficient record systems — transformations that she has largely overseen during her time in the dean’s office. For years, Sullivan has focused her administrative work on improving, updating and maintaining the university’s student record systems, including Georgetown’s MyDegree audit tool.
She credits her coworkers for filling her years with vibrancy.
“I have always enjoyed my colleagues and the humor they bring to the office environment. The way you get through a lot of dull work is that you laugh and have fun with it, and then you get it done,” Sullivan said.
A Legacy of Living for Others
Sullivan’s legacy, however, stems from her years of mentorship. Her colleagues and those she has mentored said her service has been defined by dedication to her students.
“I’ve always loved working with students,” Sullivan said. “They’ve delighted me. They’ve driven me crazy. And they’re always different, one from another.”
One of those students is Kimberly Blair (COL ’15), who said that Sullivan was there to guide her when a family health condition put a strain on her Georgetown studies.
“My mom and I both have endometriosis [a painful condition characterized by abnormal tissue growth],” Blair said. “It’s been stressful on my academics, because I worry about my mom. I always work a lot in case I need to take a random flight back to her if she’s really sick.”
When Blair did not have enough money to fly home when her mother needed surgery, Sullivan helped produce the funds necessary for the flight. Later, when Blair needed surgery herself, Sullivan was there again, providing comfort while ensuring that she would still graduate on time.
“Out of everyone I have met at Georgetown, Dean Sullivan has been the one who has helped me the most,” Blair said.
It is a sentiment shared by Bryan Mendiola (COL ’15), another student who said his life was touched by Sullivan’s dedication. When he arrived as a freshman in 2011, Mendiola originally planned on becoming a doctor. A year later, he met Sullivan, after realizing a career in medicine was not his passion.
“Here I was, a biology major one class away from meeting my pre-med requirements and head of the Georgetown Pre-Medical Society, and I didn’t want to be a doctor anymore,” Mendiola said. “And I walked into the dean’s office one day and I told the receptionist I just needed to talk to anyone, because I had no idea what I was doing.”
He ended up speaking with Sullivan, who grew to become a trusted adviser during his time at Georgetown. Mendiola will now graduate this year and receive his degree in political economy — something he largely credits to Sullivan.
Helping students like Mendiola and Blair is what Sullivan regards as the most fulfilling aspect of her career at Georgetown. She found a calling in helping what she said were “ambitious students who just need some guidance to find their footing.”
Gillis said Sullivan was an effective mentor who provided useful guidance for students.
“Anne gives you what you need when you need it. On one hand, she might say to a student, ‘You poor thing, I want to help you,’ and in their next meeting she may say, ‘Get over yourself,’” Gillis said.
“She was like a caring mom and a strict mom,” Blair said. “With her, there was always a plan of action. First she’d be the caring mom and give me her words of compassion, and then she’d be the strict mom and get down to business and say, ‘Now what can we do? How can we make this thing happen?’”
Sullivan’s first plans for retirement include traveling to Luca, Italy, where she and her husband will spend three months this fall.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 15, 2015 by Shannon Hou 4 Comments 
The university’s undergraduate admissions yield for the Class of 2019 stands at 47.6 percent, an approximate 1.6 percent increase from last year’s rate, as of May 1.
Before moving to the wait list, the Office of Undergraduate Admissions received 1,525 acceptances of admissions offers, the exact same number as last year at this point. Students have since been moved off the wait list. The target enrollment per class is 1,580, given the stipulations of the 2010 Campus Plan agreement.
The slight increase in yield may also be attributed to the marginal decrease in acceptances this application cycle, from 3,235 for the Class of 2018 to 3,205 for the Class of 2019.
Dean of Undergraduate Admissions Charles Deacon emphasized the relative consistency in recent years’ yields.
“It’s pretty predictable, so when you get to numbers of the size we have, unless we behave differently, or the world behaves differently, it’s going to be pretty predictable, and it’s coming out that way,” Deacon said.
Early action yield boosted the overall rate, with around 56 percent — approximately 570 students — accepting early action offers. Students admitted during the regular decision round accepted at a rate of roughly 44 percent.
Minority student yields across the board were slightly lower than the total yield.
The yield for black students, who will make up nine percent of the entire class, was around 37 percent. The yield for Asian-American and Hispanic students, who will make up 14 percent and 12 percent of the total class, respectively, was around 35 percent and 40 percent, respectively.
The yield for international students, who will compose 8 to 9 percent of the freshman class, was around 35 percent. According to Deacon, the fact that the university does not guarantee full financial aid for international students may contribute to the lower rate.
He added that yields also vary by geographic location, attributing this trend partly to legacies and recruited athletes, who tend to come from closer regions.
“In general, the states that yield the highest are the ones that are in the more typical areas in the Northeast: New York, New Jersey, Maryland,” Deacon said.
Of the 1,200 to 1,300 students who attend a Georgetown Admissions Ambassador Program weekend event, around 75 percent will choose to attend Georgetown. Deacon said he believes that much of the student-to-student contact from GAAP weekends helps students choose Georgetown.
“There’s a lot of things that I think are done pretty much student to student,” he said. “We obviously are encouraging that, and helping to facilitate it or whatever we can do.”
Deacon also said he believes that the GAAP Facebook page, alumni reception events and Georgetown Scholarship Program special communications help admitted students with their decision.
Tanner Davis (SFS ’17), GAAP director of national prospective student outreach, said increasing yield is a goal of the program, which involves hundreds of volunteers and months of preparation.
“I’m glad to hear that the weekends have such a high yield because it means that we are doing something right,” Davis said. “Nevertheless, we are constantly working to improve the experience for both the students and parents in order to achieve even higher yields in the future.”
Spots for the Class of 2019 in the McDonough School of Business and the School of Nursing and Health Studies have been completely filled, with a 55 percent yield for each school. Wait list offers will be awarded to select applicants to the School of Foreign Service and Georgetown College, which yielded 45 percent and 41 percent of offers, respectively.
In the College, science classes and incoming science major spots have all been filled. A record-high of 25 students in the Class of 2019 have also indicated that they intend on becoming physics majors. Because of the high number of intended science majors, Deacon said the College wait list is expected to see movement only for students with undeclared majors.
The admissions office first offers around 2,000 people wait list spots, and roughly 1,200, or 55 percent of those applicants, will accept. By the end of April, around 1,000 students will opt to stay on the wait list.
By May 15, the admissions office will have offered around 100 students on the wait list a spot for the fall semester. Deacon estimated that around 80 will accept the offer.
Additionally, 100 to 150 students will also be given the opportunity to stay on an extended wait list through June 30, of which Deacon estimated around half will accept. The final spaces in the Class of 2019 will be filled from this pool of students.
Deacon said that unlike many other universities, an enrollment cap set by the 2010 Campus Plan  agreement tightly constricts the Georgetown undergraduate admissions office to a set number.
“With the enrollment cap outside the gates being a big issue, we can’t take the chance of being over so we always try to be conservative and the wait list is the way we fill [the class] up to the top,” Deacon said.
He also estimated that around 60 to 65 of the students who originally committed on May 1 will not end up joining the Class of 2019 in the fall. He said roughly 25 of these students are expected to defer admission, while approximately 40 will likely withdraw after receiving wait list offers from other schools or in the face of financial difficulties or illnesses.
According to Deacon, there are 10 schools that Georgetown will most likely lose a student to if he or she receives a competing offer, including the eight Ivy League schools, Stanford, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Duke.
He added that Georgetown tends to lose admitted students to schools with more competitive financial aid packages. Around 45 percent of students at Georgetown receive financial aid, and although around 25 to 30 percent receive aid with reduced loan packages, admitted students will still tend to pick schools with grant-based packages rather than Georgetown’s loan-based ones.
Due to Georgetown’s gentleman’s agreement with its peer schools in the Consortium on Financing Higher Education, the Office of Undergraduate Admissions will stop all wait list action by June 30. To fill the remainder of the class, the Office of Undergraduate Admissions often uses the transfer wait list to help round out the final numbers for the undergraduate enrollment.
Just under 2,100 students applied for transfer to the university, and 190 applicants received offers. The Office of Undergraduate Admissions aims to matriculate around 150 transfer students, and works closely with the registrar to determine how many seats are still available for classes in the fall.
The transfer wait list lasts until August, with some students receiving acceptances the first day of registration during the fall semester. Starting last year, the Office of Undergraduate Admissions created an extended wait list that selects a few students for admission.
“[For] about the last 25 transfer students on the wait list, we said, ‘If you’re willing to stay on the wait list and would be willing to accept enrollment on the first day of registration, we will give you a place if there’s space, and if there’s not, we will guarantee you admission in January,’” Deacon said.
Other students on the transfer wait list are accepted for the spring semester. Last year, around 12 students accepted this enrollment plan, and four students were able to enroll in the fall. The remaining eight students enrolled in January.
Deacon said he does not plan to use this system with freshmen.
“[Transfers] are a little more willing to take it to that edge,” Deacon said. “That’s the ultimate precision with enrollment.”

Ivy says 
May 16, 2015 at 5:58 pm
Last time I checked there were 8 Ivy league schools. Oops I guess you don’t count Cornell, don’t blame you lol

George Ashur says 
May 11, 2016 at 9:09 am
Should every reference to the Class of 2019 in this article instead read 2020?

Sue says 
May 11, 2016 at 5:11 pm
Isn’t this whole article referring to the Class or 2020??

Sue says 
May 11, 2016 at 5:12 pm
Oh, I just realized that this article is a year old.  Not sure why it was put in the newsletter that just came out today 5-11-2016!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 15, 2015 by Jess Kelham-Hohler and Daniel Smith Leave a Comment 
The university announced the speakers for the 2015 commencement ceremonies, including United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, journalist Charlie Rose, former Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao and global mental health expert Vikram Patel, on May 4.
The ceremonies began Thursday with the McCourt School of Public Policy hosting Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.).
Saturday’s undergraduate commencement ceremonies will begin on Healy Lawn with Ban at 9 a.m. for the School of Foreign Service, followed by Rose for Georgetown College at 12 p.m., Patel for the School of Nursing and Health Studies at 3 p.m. and Chao for the McDonough School of Business at 6 p.m. Each speaker will receive an honorary doctorate.
Ban has been secretary-general since 2007. Ban also spoke at Harvard University’s 2004 commencement while serving as South Korea’s minister of foreign affairs and trade, as well as at the University of Denver’s graduate school commencement in 2013. The U.N. Office of the Spokesperson for the Secretary-General did not respond to requests for comment on the content of Ban’s speech.
Rose, a talk show host and journalist, has hosted his eponymous interview show on PBS since 1993 and has co-anchored “CBS This Morning” since 2012. Rose could not be reached for comment through his program.
College Dean Chester Gillis said that each speaker is welcome to discuss any topic he or she chooses.
“I think that Charlie Rose will speak to the graduates about the privilege and experience of a college, and specifically a Georgetown education, encourage them about their futures and congratulate them,” Gillis wrote in an email. “That said, with all College graduation speakers, the speech is his or hers to create and deliver. I do not specify content.”
Patel, a professor of international mental health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Health and a psychiatrist based in Goa, India, said he will use his vast experience working on global mental health to inform his speech for the NHS graduation.
“Global mental health is really a different way of thinking about mental health care and what mental illness means to ordinary communities,” Patel said. “The field is primarily concerned with notions of equity and fairness in terms of improved opportunities for people with mental illness in all parts of the world, but also in terms of the distribution of resources that are available for mental health care.”
Patel explained that, with this in mind, his talk would be based on two central themes.
“The first theme is about how people with the power of knowledge that comes from higher education should democratize that knowledge by sharing it with other people in the community and to have the humility to learn from other people in the community,” Patel said.
“The second important message is about acting locally, but always thinking globally, to keep your mind open to innovations and approaches to address problems that affect our world.”
The NHS Dean’s Office originally approached Patel to speak at last year’s ceremony, but he was unavailable, and American Association for the Advancement of Science CEO Alan Leshner addressed the graduating class instead.
Patel admitted he was surprised that Georgetown approached him.
“It’s a tremendous honor for me, as an Indian academic,” Patel said. “I know that it’s not common for foreigners to be invited to give this address, and I think it’s a great honor especially given that it’s one of the most world-class universities in the world, especially in the area of health.”
Chao made history in 2001 as the first Asian-American woman to be appointed to a U.S. president’s cabinet, serving as the 24th Secretary of Labor under President George W. Bush until 2009. She is also the wife of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.).
Before entering the political world, Chao held high-ranking positions at Bank of America and Citicorp.
In addition to speaking at this year’s commencement, Chao has attended numerous events at the university in the past, including when she received the Georgetown Business Leader of the Year award in 2001.
Chao praised the university’s commitment to service.
“Georgetown is a wonderful university,” Chao wrote in an email. “The Georgetown tradition of emphasizing leaders dedicated to serving others is an ideal I’ve always believed in and have dedicated most of my career to embody.”
She detailed how her speech will focus on the role of business leaders in the free enterprise system.
“Business leaders should be positive role models, and help shape the image of the free enterprise system by becoming leaders who are ethical and worthy of the public trust who bring hope, employment opportunities and a better life to everyone, their families and communities,” Chao wrote.
MSB Dean David Thomas described meeting Chao shortly after she was appointed as Secretary of Labor and praised her selection to speak at this year’s commencement.
“We shared an interest in the importance of diversity in leadership positions,” Thomas wrote in an email. “She is an inspirational person, and I was happy to nominate her as our speaker this year to the university’s leadership.”
The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences will host R. Timothy Ziemer, retired Rear Admiral of the United States Navy and U.S. Global Malaria Coordinator. Ziemer will speak Friday, May 15 at 9 a.m. on Healy Lawn.
The speaker for the McDonough School of Business MBA commencement will be President and CEO of the American Red Cross Gail McGovern. She will deliver her address Friday, May 15 at 12:30 p.m. on Healy Lawn.
Friday’s final ceremony will feature the commencement for the School of Continuing Studies. Retired Admiral Thad Allen, executive vice president of Booz Allen Hamilton, will make his remarks on Healy Lawn at 3:30 p.m.
The ceremony for Georgetown University Medical Center will feature remarks from  President and CEO of Trinity Health Richard Gilfillan on Sunday, May 17 at 11 a.m. at the National Theatre.
Stephen Bright, president and senior counsel of the Southern Center for Human Rights, will speak at the Georgetown University Law Center commencement on Healy Lawn Sunday, May 17 at 2 p.m.
Claudia Paz y Paz Bailey, former attorney general of Guatemala and current distinguished scholar in residence at the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security and GULC, will receive an honorary doctorate as well.
Special to The Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 15, 2015 by Brian Carden and Lena Duffield Leave a Comment 
Six students will be honored as valedictorians and Dean’s Medal recipients this weekend for achieving the highest GPAs in their respective schools, with a tie between three students in the College of Arts and Sciences.
Aletha Smith (COL ’15), Elise Widerlite (COL ’15) and Paul Bucala (COL ’15) were jointly named the valedictorians of the College, all with perfect 4.0 GPAs. Smith was selected to speak at the College’s Tropaia ceremony after she and Widerlite submitted sample speeches. Evan Fierstein (MSB ’15) was named valedictorian of the McDonough School of Business with a 3.99 GPA and will speak at the MSB Tropaia ceremony today.
Mina Pollmann (SFS ’15) also maintained a perfect 4.0, while Blake Meza (NHS ’15) had the highest GPA in the School of Nursing and Health Studies, a 3.967. Both will be awarded their school’s Dean’s Medal, as the School of Foreign Service and the NHS do not appoint valedictorians.
Smith majored in German and English and played the piccolo in the pep band. She spent the spring semester of her sophomore year studying in Germany and studied at SFS-Qatar during the fall semester of her junior year.
Smith did not set out to become valedictorian, and she said that her academic success was a result of curiosity and a strong work ethic.
“Each class was never really about getting the A ¬— it was about learning as much as I could from the class and putting as much of myself into it [as possible],” Smith said. “There’s a lot more to college than just your GPA.”
In her speech at the Tropaia ceremony today, she will focus on how Georgetown’s Jesuit values set it apart from other universities.
“It was a surprise to me that the Jesuit education would become so important,” Smith said. “The core requirements ended up being really interesting and … sparked my general passion for different things and changed the path that I thought Georgetown was going to take me on.”
After graduation, Smith will likely move to Seattle to look for paralegal work. She aspires one day to work in international law.
Widerlite, originally from Bethesda, Md., majored in English with minors in journalism and psychology and studied in Copenhagen for a semester. A former staff writer for The Hoya, she also is a dancer with the Georgetown University Dance Company, the creative director for Spoon University, a peer advisor for the College and gave summer tours for the Office of Admissions.
“It’s not just about the grades. There’s so much more to Georgetown, so I’m glad I was involved in as many things as possible,” Widerlite said.
Although she was accepted to the Georgetown University Law Center through its early assurance program, Widerlite deferred her offer and instead will work at NBCUniversal’s page program in New York City for a year.
“I worked at ABC News last summer, and I’m more interested in learning about the entertainment side, so that’s why I’m really excited about the page program because you get to learn about all different facets of the industry,” Widerlite said.
Bucula, a government major, worked as a research assistant for the government department, interned for various think tanks in the D.C. area and was involved with D.C. Reads. For a nine-month period, he studied abroad in Tajikistan, where he studied Farsi.
Bucula, like his co-valedictorians in the College, credits his success to a strong work ethic.
“I just worked hard my first semester and got all As and thought, ‘Oh, that’s not that bad,’” Bucula said. “So if you work hard, you get all As.”
He does not yet have plans for after graduation.
Pollmann, originally from Vancouver, Wash., majored in international politics with a concentration in foreign policy. She was involved with Truth and Human Rights in North Korea before spending her junior year at Oxford University. In her senior year, she was involved in the Vietnamese Student Association while simultaneously writing two theses about Japan’s foreign relations.
Despite her devotion to her research, particularly for the Institute for the Study of Diplomacy, Pollmann has always held academics as her priority.
“I was always going to put schoolwork first,” Pollmann said. “Decisions about internships, jobs, club commitments, all of that would come after I knew that I could do the best that I could do in the courses that I chose to make a commitment to.”
After graduation, she will work as a producer at TV Tokyo, a Japanese television network in Foggy Bottom, though she aspires to eventually return to academia.
Meza majored in human science and completed the pre-med track. He studied abroad over a summer in Argentina, performing bedside visits with local patients and lab research with NHS professor Dr. Pablo Irusta. After graduation, Meza will attend the University of Pennsylvania’s Perelman School of Medicine, where he will pursue a combined M.D./Master of Public Health degree.
“Ideally, I can see myself using the masters in public health to do some type of clinical research. For my senior internship this year I did some sports injury prevention research looking at surgery in Major League Baseball pitchers. … I think with the masters in public health, I really want to focus on something that will make an impact on the population,” Meza said.
Fierstein majored in accounting and finance in the MSB. Outside of class, he is involved with Georgetown Collegiate Investors and Sigma Phi Epsilon.
After graduation, Fierstein will begin a full-time position as an analyst at Perella Weinberg Partners, where he had internships the summers after his sophomore and junior years.
“Once I worked there, I liked the culture, and I liked the fact that I could see that I would be getting a lot of responsibility from day one,” Fierstein said.
Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Smith studied in Germany during her junior year, when in fact, she spent the spring semester of her sophomore year in Germany.
Hoya Staff Writer 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 15, 2015 by City News Editor Leave a Comment 
On her first day of classes at Georgetown in 2012, one of Celeste Chisholm’s (COL ’15) professors called her “Jonathan.”
Chisholm corrected the professor, explaining that she prefers to be called Celeste. She assumed that after the exchange, her situation was obvious and her classmates understood that she is a transgender woman.
She was surprised when she spoke with a friend who had overheard a conversation later that day between two students who were laughing about a woman being named Jonathan.
“These kids at Georgetown were so oblivious that I could tell them to their faces that my name was Jonathan, and they still wouldn’t get the idea that I was transgender,” Chisholm said. “That’s how the culture was when I came to Georgetown.”
Chisholm went on to become the first trans* representative, now called the secretary for transgender and gender-nonconforming advocacy, on GU Pride’s board in September 2013 and established herself as an advocate for transgender students’ rights and protections at the university. In this role, she worked to increase awareness among students and administrators of the issues that transgender students face.
Chisholm, who will graduate tomorrow, said that she has seen the lack of awareness among students that she observed three years ago begin to recede throughout her undergraduate career.
“I’ve noticed that there’s a common understanding. There’s a common knowledge of [transgender issues] that is obviously still burgeoning and not mature, but that’s progress,” Chisholm said.
Lexi Dever (COL ’16), a transgender woman who has previously served as GU Pride’s trans* representative and the Georgetown University Student Association undersecretary of LGBTQ affairs, agreed that there has been increased awareness of transgender issues among students.
“This year, pretty much all of the GUSA [executive candidates] came up to me to make sure they had trans protections written into their platforms, which is something that I don’t think has been done in the past because it wasn’t on anyone’s radar,” Dever said.
Policy changes have also come about at an administrative level, with transgender students now being able to change their names on their GOCards and live with students of their same gender.
However, both Chisholm and Dever said that while many students have been receptive to transgender advocacy, change has been slower on the administration’s end.
In a September 2013 interview with the Georgetown Voice, Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson asserted that the university would not support gender-neutral living arrangements, citing the Catholic Church’s teachings about gender and sexuality.
“There is an emerging view that gender identity is sort of something you play with. I think that is quite a different view than the Catholic view of identity and of human sexuality,” Olson told the Voice.
Olson wrote in an email to The Hoya this week that administrators have become more aware of transgender issues on campus because of the advocacy of students and LGBTQ Resource Center Director Shiva Subbaraman.
“I believe we are more aware of and responsive to the needs of our trans students now than we were five years ago,” Olson wrote.
Chisholm, who was among first openly transgender students at Georgetown, attributes some of the administration’s hesitancy to change its policies to the fact that there is only a small number of vocal, openly transgender students on campus.
When she experienced problems with her GOCard after changing her name on the university’s records this year, she realized that the university may not have been willing to update its electronic system to benefit one student.
“It costs a good amount of money to revamp the logistical, technical systems, and they don’t want to do that for a single person,” Chisholm said. “I’m not the only transgender person on campus; I am the representative. By definition, transgender people are one of the most hidden groups of people.”
Many transgender people are hesitant to come out because of the risks associated with it. Transgender women are among the most at-risk people in the LGBTQ community to be the target of hate crimes.
According to GLAAD, formerly known as the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation, 53 percent of victims in the 25 documented cases of anti-LGBTQ homicide in the U.S. in 2012 were transgender women.
“Speaking up at all is an invitation for major problems. It’s really been difficult to say that I want to take that risk and let people know who I am,” Dever said.
During the 2014-2015 academic year, the university made two landmark policy changes for transgender students.
Chisholm learned last summer that she would be able to live in university housing with other women. After transferring to Georgetown her sophomore year, she lived in a single in the corner of the basement of Copley Hall. During her junior year, she lived in a single on the men’s side of a coed floor.
Chisholm decided not tell her three female roommates in Alumni Square that she was transgender for the first five months that they lived together.
“That was such a fear that the Georgetown administration had, that they would let a transgender person live with cisgender people, and the cisgender people not only would know immediately, but they would … be so disturbed by the fact that they were living with a transgender person, that they would complain,” Chisholm said.
“So to subvert that logic completely, I figured that what would be best would be to see how long it took.”
Dever, who has lived in singles throughout her Georgetown career, was also given the opportunity to live with women in the coming academic year, but chose to live off campus.
Additionally, transgender students are now able to have their chosen names, rather than their legal names, reflected in university records, including GOCards, class rosters and Blackboard.
“This move was based on a desire to meet students’ need to be known and addressed by the name they prefer,” Olson wrote.
Both policies have been points of student advocacy for the past few years.
Chisholm said that she would like to see gender-neutral housing at Georgetown in order to better accommodate transgender students – especially those who do not fit into the gender binary.
“You still have to present as a man or present as a woman, 24 hours a day, seven days a week,” Chisholm said. “Some people at Georgetown are gender neutral. Some people at Georgetown can’t find the confidence or the resources or the conveniences to present as their desired gender every day.”
Dever said that she hopes to change club sports teams’ policies so that transgender students have an easier time joining the appropriate teams.
Subbaraman added that the university is working for a more uniform signage for gender-neutral, single-stall bathrooms.
“You will see the signs the new buildings. We will work to retroactively do them across campus,” Subbaraman wrote in an email to The Hoya.
While the university may be less inclined to take action on transgender issues in the absence of a larger community of openly transgender students, Chisholm stressed that it is difficult for transgender students to feel comfortable coming out without policies that will accommodate them already n place.
“[The Georgetown community] doesn’t realize that the administrative changes have to come before people are going to start coming out of the woodwork,” Chisholm said. “People will be more inclined to feel comfortable and confident coming out as transgender if they’re not having to out themselves all the time.”
Correction: A previous version of this article incorrectly stated that Chisholm was the first openly transgender student at Georgetown. This article has also been updated to reflect that GU Pride board position formerly called the trans* representative is now the secretary for transgender and gender-nonconforming advocacy.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 15, 2015 by Ryan Wolfe Leave a Comment 
The Class of 2015 kicked off graduation ceremonies after Senior Week at the senior convocation ceremony in McDonough Arena Thursday.
William G. Goodwin (COL ’07) director of external affairs at One Chance Illinois, delivered the convocation address, and Citlalli Alvarez Almendariz (COL ’15) and Alexander O’Neill (COL ’15) offered senior reflections.
“One day, you and those whose lives you’ve touched will remember a life well lived, a life that made a difference, a magnanimous life whose purpose moved beyond you, a life worthy of the learning you’ve been blessed to receive,” Goodwin said.
Another highlight of the convocation ceremony was the presentation of the senior class gift. This year’s class raised a total of $146,475.61, combining the help of 1,276 donating seniors and an additional gift of $75,000 from the Board of Regents.
Over 75 percent of the Class of 2015 contributed to the gift, exceeding the Class of 2014’s participation rate of 73 percent and allowing the class to unlock a higher gift from the Board of Regents, which has donated $1,000 to the class fund for every percentage point of seniors who donate since 2013.
Last year, the Class of 2014 broke both the previous record for the number of seniors donating to the class gift and the donation total for the class gift, with 1,249 members of the Class of 2014 raising $155,640.40 with the help of a $73,000 gift from the Board of Regents.
The last class to donate a physical item or space to the university was the Class of 2008. The university moved to a cash donation system in 2009, which allows students to fund both scholarships and individual academic departments or student groups of their choice.
Senior Class Fundraising Committee Co-Chair Casey Reinhart (MSB ’15) said she hopes this year’s gift will leave a legacy on scholarship funding.
“Every student who is admitted to Georgetown should be given the opportunity to have the same Georgetown experience as me, regardless of their financial situation. Last year the Class Fund received enough donations to fund six scholarships through the 1789 Scholarship Imperative and we would like to fund even more this year,” Reinhart said.
Fundraising committee co-chair VP Dao (SFS ’15) said this year’s senior class continued to use creative methods to reach out to seniors and to encourage them to donate. Methods included engaging students on social media platforms, utilizing peer-to-peer contact and emphasizing outreach to groups who have historically been less involved in alumni activities, such as foreign students and minorities.
“We try to emphasize that seniors can designate their individual gifts to specific groups, organizations or departments on campus. Having started a small club on campus, I understand that even $20 make a difference for new student groups, and we encourage our classmates to help make that difference where they can,” Dao said. “In the end, we want to emphasize that we’re not just giving money to Georgetown, we’re enabling Georgetown students, faculty and communities to do things, to enrich the Georgetown experience.”
Undergraduate Tropaia ceremonies will be in Gaston Hall on Friday, during which awards will be given to students, staff and faculty for various accomplishments. Valedictorians from Georgetown College and the McDonough School of Business will offer remarks at their respective ceremonies.
The School of Nursing and Health Studies and the School of Foreign Service do not have valedictorians, but students with the highest GPAs are named as dean’s medal recipients.
In the week leading up to formal commencement exercises, graduating seniors took part in Senior Week, gathering as a class for several planned activities.
Festivities began with a barbecue on the Leavey Esplanade and included several other events such as a Casino Night in the Healey Family Student Center, a keg party in O’Donovan Hall, freshman floor reunions, the President’s Picnic at Smokey Glen Farm in Gaithersburg, Md. and “Georgetown Day 2.0” on the Copley Lawn. The week will conclude Friday night with the annual Senior Ball at Union Station.
Senior Class Committee Events Chair Helen Li (MSB ’15) and her team have been planning for Senior Week since the end of Senior Disorientation 2.0 in January. Senior Class Committee Chair Bridget Mullen (COL ’15) said this year’s goal was to increase participation rates.
Senior Week is open to all graduating seniors, and in line with the committee’s goal of high participation, this year saw a record number of online pre-registrants, with more than 1,350 students signing up for the events, according to Mullen.
While students may see Senior Week as one last chance to let loose before entering the world as college graduates, Mullen emphasized how it serves as a time for contemplation and a chance to look back on the past four years before transitioning to a new stage in life.
“Ultimately, Senior Week is a time for us to unite as a class, reflect on our time at Georgetown, and prepare for what lies beyond the front gates,” Mullen said.
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 15, 2015 by Ashwin Puri Leave a Comment 
The 2015 Hillary Rodham Clinton Awards for Advancing Women in Peace and Security were presented by former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, the founding chair of the Georgetown Institute of Women, Peace and Security, in Riggs Library on April 22.
The second annual awards were presented to former United Nations Special Envoy for Afghanistan Staffan de Mistura and Miriam Coronel-Ferrer, chief negotiator for the Philippine government in the Mindanao Peace Talks. The awards served to provide recognition to “individuals devoted to the cause of women, peace and security in the world,” according to an online briefing of the event.
The 2015 award showcases the leadership and initiative both awardees have shown in supporting the involvement of women in peace and security.
“Peace and security are only possible when women have a seat at the table,” Clinton said.
Coronel-Ferrer, a professor of political science at the University of the Philippines, has a long history of activism and conflict resolution, earning a Nobel Peace Prize nomination in 2005 for her work in investigating human rights violations in Cambodia and Nepal.
Additionally, she was appointed chairperson of the Government of the Philippines’ peace panel to the Moro Islamic Liberation Front in 2012 as part of an effort to resolve the continuing conflict for control of the southern Philippines’ Mindanao islands between the Philippine government and primarily Muslim rebel groups. Coronel-Ferrer later became the first female chief negotiator to successfully sign a final peace accord with a rebel group in 2014.
With her work in the Philippines including “gathering the perspectives of different civil society groups, ethnic groups and women’s organizations in order to ensure a long-lasting and sustainable peace for the republic,” Coronel-Ferrer received the award for serving as the first woman in the world to helm peace negotiations for her country.
De Mistura, an Italian-Swedish diplomat, currently serves as the U.N. and Arab League Envoy to Syria, a position he was appointed to by U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in July 2014. Previously serving as the special representative of the U.N. secretary-general in Iraq and Afghanistan and the chief of the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, De Mistura was selected for the award “for his steadfast commitment to women’s participation in all aspects of Afghan life.”
Dedicating his award to the women of Syria, de Mistura emphasized the importance of women from all backgrounds’ involvement in peace and security.
“Anywhere that we can, we should have women involved in peace,” de Mistura said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

