
January 8, 2015 by Kshithij Shrinath 1 Comment 
Georgetown University Police Department, in coordination with Metropolitan Police Department, arrested a suspect Tuesday for three burglaries committed in Henle Village.
Two of the burglaries occurred Monday, followed by another incident on Tuesday. All three incidents featured residences with unlocked doors, allowing Antoine Gibson, a 36-year-old male not affiliated with the university, to enter freely and steal multiple laptops. Gibson was arrested Tuesday after he entered an apartment and encountered a student resident. The student contacted GUPD, who established a perimeter and detained Gibson at the corner of 33rd and O streets.
“Obviously, he found a good opportunity here with opened doors at Henle: He came back three times. He got greedy and got caught the third time, but he knew they weren’t locking their doors,” Chief of Police Jay Gruber said.
Gibson also encountered a student in one of the apartments Monday, prompting the university to issue a Public Safety Alert with his description. While he was arrested for the Tuesday burglary, Gibson will be indicted for the other two incidents as well.
Gruber noted the unlocked doors as enabling crime, urging students to take care with their possessions.
“A simple locking the door would prevent 90 percent of our burglaries. We have very few burglaries where somebody actually kicks something in or breaks a window or something like that. It’s all because of unlocked and unsecured doors,” he said.
Pointing to the recent capture of a bike thief using Lauinger Library cameras and the arrest of a voyeur in the women’s bathroom at Epicurean and Company, Gruber said that GUPD’s response when notified of crime has recently been effective but explained that students must call the department immediately after noticing crimes.
“As soon as students recognize that something is suspicious, that something seems out of place or out of the ordinary, they need to call us immediately. The faster we get notified, the better chance we have of making an arrest,” Gruber said.
Correction: A previous version of this article misidentified the suspect arrested. The article has been updated to reflect the suspect’s confirmed identity.

Ihopeheseethis says 
March 22, 2015 at 3:58 pm
Unfortunately this is my sisters ex husband he has history of this and will never change. I suggest continue locking up all personal. He’s out of jail from this incident and is on the run now from MpD and I’m sure in MD too. He will continue to cause mischief and wreck havoc on people’s life. He even does this to his family. He has a serious drug problem with pcp and will soon end up in hell where WE aLL want him. So sad for my nieces his 2 young girls who life he ruined by stupidity.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

