
November 25, 2015 by Syed Humza Moinuddin 1 Comment 
Vice President for Mission and Ministry Fr. Kevin O’Brien, S.J. penned a letter in support of Georgetown’s Muslim community Thursday, emphasizing the university’s commitment to its Muslim students in light of recent terror attacks in Paris, Beirut and Baghdad.
The letter, as of press time, has been shared 169 times through the Georgetown University Muslim Life Facebook page. O’Brien acknowledged that many individuals within the United States and around the world have openly voiced hostility to Muslims and Islam following the attacks. O’Brien affirmed that anti-Muslim sentiment and Islamaphobia have no place in the world, and that Georgetown — as a Jesuit university — is open and tolerant to all religions..
“In these anxious times, rhetoric gets heated, public opinion makers can make crass and rash generalizations, impugning and mischaracterizing Islam,” O’Brien wrote. “As a Catholic and Jesuit University … we are a community who cherishes people of all backgrounds and beliefs.”
In an interview with The Hoya following the letter’s release, O’Brien said that his inspiration for the letter came from watching media coverage and hearing public comments following the attacks. O’Brien said he wanted to make it clear that the Campus Ministry stands with its Muslim community.
“Certainly after the attacks, given some of the political reaction in in the U.S. from some people running for president, I was very concerned about crass generalizations about Muslims,” O’Brien said. “I know our Muslim students are very sensitive to such generalizations. I wanted to extend to them our care.”
O’Brien said Georgetown’s role as a facilitator for interfaith and religious dialogue is paramount in combating negative stigma and hostility.
“The interreligious understanding we foster offers a solid foundation for all of us to work towards a lasting peace,” O’Brien said. “Our friendship across religious differences … steeped in deep understanding of the issues [is] the most powerful witnesses against bigotry and intolerance.”
Since the letter’s release, many in and out of Georgetown’s Muslim community have praised Campus Ministry’s stance of supporting students of all creeds and beliefs.
Yusuf Mallick (SFS ’19) appreciated the letter’s emphasis on interfaith dialogue and the impact it plays in addressing stigmas.
“As a young Muslim man, hearing these words from the ministry itself is comforting and most welcome,” Mallick said. “I not only appreciated O’Brien’s words, but I also feel it’s important for our community to continue to learn from one another, Muslims and non-Muslims alike. That’s how we fix these problems.”
Other students from Georgetown’s Muslim community also lauded the letter, saying it stands as a welcome change from a wave of hate some members have witnessed in recent public discourse.
Muslim Student Alliance member Saad Bashir (COL ’19) said it is still difficult to browse the web and watch the news without encountering hatred towards Muslims and Islam.
“In the past couple of weeks, it’s been difficult to see social media blow up with Islamophobia ranging from hateful comments by acquaintances on Facebook to [Donald Trump’s] plan of ID’ing Muslims,” Bashir said.
Bashir said O’Brien’s letter gives him more confidence and faith in the Georgetown community at large.
“The letter … has been very comforting and uplifting, knowing that my university has the courage and moral sensibility to allow us to feel a part of the Hoya community,” Bashir said. “When your parents call you multiple times to say it’s dangerous to leave the dorm, I’m glad to know that they are wrong and that I can count on my fellow Hoyas to support me in our time of need.”
O’Brien said as a university filled with diverse thoughts and beliefs, it is the Georgetown community’s duty to interact with one another through constructive dialogue and discourse.
“Political discourse can hurt people when certain people are targeted because of the religion they profess,” O’Brien said. “We need a discourse that is different. And my letter attempted to provide a discourse grounded in the best of our tradition here.”

Arafat says 
December 1, 2015 at 12:00 pm
What has happened to our leadership?  
While Muslims are wiping out the few remaining bastions of Christianity in the Middle East, southern Asia , Turkey and northern Africa we find another Christian leader standing up for those who would kill him if he lived in another country.
And stating this is NOT hyperbole.  It is the truth.
While the last of the Assyrians, Chaldeans, Coptics and Armenians are being wiped out our PC Christian leaders hide their collective heads in the Arabian sand.  Defies belief, so to speak.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 25, 2015 by Syed Humza Moinuddin Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown Working Group on Slavery, Memory and Reconciliation released a pamphlet addressing the history of the university’s relationship with slavery and its plans to foster dialogue with the student body Tuesday. The pamphlet provides greater details surrounding Jesuit slaveholding at Georgetown as well as specifics concerning the sale of 272 slaves by former University Presidents Fr. Thomas Mulledy, S.J. and Fr. William McSherry, S.J. in 1838.
The working group was tasked in September by University President John J. DeGioia to address Georgetown’s slaveholding past. The pamphlet comes in response to university activism regarding the formerly named Mulledy and McSherry Halls after student activists staged sit-ins outside of DeGioia’s office and held campus-wide demonstrations. Following the protests, DeGioia accepted the working group’s recommendation to change the names of Mulledy and McSherry Halls to the interim names of Freedom Hall and Remembrance Hall, respectively.
According to the group’s findings outlined in the document, Jesuits at the time were divided over the sale itself and officials in Rome favored freeing the slaves. However, Mulledy and allies argued such action would not be fiscally possible, prompting the Church to put conditions on the sale. While Church officials advocated for slave families to remain intact and for the money from the sale to not be used for university operating expenses, both conditions were never met.
As a response to the sale, the pamphlet says that multiple Georgetown Jesuits may have aided slaves in their escape as the sale and transfer were processed. The working group says the fallout surrounding the sale forced Mulledy to resign as head of the Jesuit Order in the United States, though he would go on to found the College of the Holy Cross and serve again as president of Georgetown.
The working group estimates the sale generated $115,000 in 1838. While the group believes Mulledy and McSherry never received the full amount, $17,000 — $500,000 in today’s dollars — was used to pay Georgetown’s building debt, a direct violation of the Church’s suggestion.
While the pamphlet focuses on the specifics of the particular sale, it also exposes other ways the university interacted with the institution of slavery. The working group documents that Georgetown College authorized previous sales of slaves, utilized rental slaves from other agencies in the region and allowed for student-held slaves.
The working group is still attempting to compile the names and numbers of those sold and the location of potential slave burial plots on campus. As the working group continues to explore these issues, a teach-in will be conducted in Gaston Hall on Dec. 1. The goal of the event is to foster dialogue of remembrance among the Georgetown community as well as to garner additional input on the future agenda of the working group. Students are also able to suggest future names for both Freedom Hall and Remembrance Hall through the working group’s website.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

