
March 20, 2015 by Tom Garzillo Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association Campus Plan Subcommittee and the current and incoming GUSA administration released a website and online petition calling for greater representation of student priorities in the upcoming deliberations of the 2018 Campus Plan on Wednesday night.
The petition, entitled “Let’s Not Get Screwed Again,” is comprised of three demands. First, that the university does not require a greater number of students to live in on-campus housing than was mandated by the 2010 Campus Plan. Second, that the university prioritize renovations and maintenance of existing buildings over the construction of new ones. The third and final point calls for greater student representation on the Georgetown Community Partnership Steering Committee. As of press time, the petition had amassed 500 signatures.
A conceptual draft of the 2018 Campus Plan will be drawn up this summer, and the final draft will be submitted to the university’s board of directors in summer 2017. The Campus Plan will be implemented Jan. 1, 2018 and will decide almost every major planning and construction decision for the next 20 years at Georgetown.
The GUSA Campus Plan Subcommittee within the GUSA Senate, created in September, created the petition and is the first group of its kind at Georgetown dedicated to the campus plan. GUSA Campus Plan Subcommittee Co-Chairs Ari Goldstein (SFS ’18) and Reno Varghese (SFS ’16) and Student Life Committee Chair Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) worked alongside GUSA executive leadership to create both the petition and a comprehensive website detailing the campus plan and its effects on students.
“You can see how it affects issues you care about and some history about the last campus plan,” Goldstein said. “We want to mobilize students around this in a really effective and public manner. We don’t want the next campus plan to have the same hostility we had in the last one.”
Goldstein said that the subcommittee is working closely with GUSA President and Vice President-elects Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Connor Rohan (COL ’16).
“In an unprecedented way, it’s a really good partnership between the GUSA senate and the GUSA executive,” Goldstein said. “It’s something the senate has been working on all year and you have this new executive who really cares about this coming into office. [Luther and Rohan are] helping to lead the campaign.”
Luther and Rohan both said they are working to make campus plan negotiations a central part of their administration.
“This petition is important primarily because students need to be significantly more involved and better represented in the campus planning and master planning process,” Rohan wrote in an email to The Hoya. “It is crucial that students show the Georgetown Community Partnership that they care about the future of Georgetown and will not be excluded from the planning process again. Now is the time to speak up.”
Rohan said that the Luther administration will engage students in this issue through social media and informational town hall meetings.
He added that ensuring that students have the right to live where they want, especially off campus, is a priority for Luther and Rohan. Presently, approximately 85 percent of all undergraduates live on campus, but Rohan said that the administration is looking to increase this figure to 90 percent. Rohan wrote that students “overwhelmingly oppose” this goal.
“The 2018 Campus Plan affects nearly every facet of student life and impacts every student,” Rohan wrote. “A consortium of student groups advocating for common goals will not only strengthen our community, but it will also enable us to more effectively pursue our objectives.”
On April 11, GUSA President Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) will make a presentation of student priorities, along with the petition, at a Georgetown Community Partnership Steering Committee meeting.
Created in the 2010 Campus Plan, the GCP is the formal body tasked with drafting the 2018 Campus Plan. The GCP Steering Committee is co-chaired by Council for District 2E Chair Ron Lewis and Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Chris Augostini.
The Steering Committee is the most important part of the GCP in terms of the campus plan and brings community leaders together to create a future plan for Georgetown and the community.
Tezel is the only student representative on the Steering Committee and will be replaced by Luther in May.
In addition to the Steering Committee, the GCP is comprised of six working groups. The most important of these in the campus planning process is the Master Planning Working Group, of which Tezel is the only student representative.
Tezel said that he expects the petition will help student views be better represented than they were in the 2010 Campus Plan. The 2010 Campus Plan has been criticized for ignoring student opinion, resulting in a third-year on-campus housing requirement, student parking ban and delayed renovations.
“The last plan was very closed-door, and students didn’t really have a direct role in the process until much later in the negotiating process,” Tezel said. “I do think that showing broad student support is going to have an impact … showing where students are at, and that there is a unified student voice around certain key principles, is going to really help us move the needle.”
Tezel urged students to get involved with the 2018 Campus Plan beyond the petition.
“It’s a really good chance to, one, have an active role in the policy making practice at Georgetown, but, two, to be able to put a name to the face with administrators and neighbors to understand who the players are on these major issues,” Tezel said.
Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson echoed this hope for collaboration.
“We are pleased to see strong student interest in the campus plan process,” Olson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We welcome student engagement and have sought it out through our planning forum, student involvement on the GCP working groups, and many individual and small group student discussions with administrators.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 20, 2015 by Suzanne Monyak 5 Comments 
Amid recent challenges to affirmative action in Texas, California and Michigan, the common practice of legacy preference, which advantages the children of alumni during the university admissions process, has also been called into question, prompting debate over its benefits and potential concerns.
Georgetown’s admissions office does consider legacy preference: In the Class of 2018, the acceptance rate for legacy students was 36 percent, compared to the overall acceptance rate of 16.6 percent. Legacies compose 7.6 percent of the Class of 2018.
Dean of Undergraduate Admissions Charles Deacon said that the legacy preference policy does not give a significant weight to the applicant, estimating that about 80 to 90 percent of legacy students were accepted without consideration of legacy status.
“The quality of credentials [of legacy students] is very close to the average,” Deacon said.
According to Deacon, Georgetown’s legacy preference policy originated in its current form in the 1970s as a means of continuing family tradition, but has since evolved to encourage alumni giving as well as to bring a positive environment to the Georgetown community.
Of the 3,381 students accepted in the Class of 2018, 317 students, or 9 percent of acceptances, were legacies. While the overall yield rate was 47 percent, 200 of the accepted legacies enrolled in the Class of 2018, a yield rate of 63 percent — 16 points higher.
Verbal SAT test scores of legacy students ranged from 680 to 740, on average about 10 points less than non-legacy students, whose SAT scores ranged from 690 to 760.
The percentage of legacies admitted has been relatively constant over the years. Students with alumni parents composed 6 to 7 percent of accepted students in 2004 for the class of 2008. For that class, the acceptance rate for legacies was 40 to 42 percent, compared to the general acceptance rate of 23 percent. The rate had fallen to around 30 percent by 2010 for the Class of 2014, while the general acceptance rate remained steady at 20 percent.
Deacon attributed this consistency to Georgetown’s decision not to recruit based on legacy preference.
“It’s been pretty consistent, and I think largely that’s because we don’t do anything special to encourage alumni kids to apply,” Deacon said.
During the admissions process, legacy students are evaluated with all of the other applicants at first, without consideration given to their legacy status. After those decisions have been made, admissions officers take a “second look” at legacy students who were not accepted, allowing the admissions office to give these students a “tip.”
“If you were very close to the edge and the family’s given to the annual fund every year or something, that might be enough of a tip to get you in. If you’re a little farther from the edge, but the family has built Regents Hall, that might tip a little farther,” Deacon said.
Deacon stressed that the degree of the parent’s previous involvement in the Georgetown community plays a heavy role in determining whether this “tip” is given.
“Legacy consideration is provided favorably to those who have a long established track record of support for Georgetown since they graduated as opposed to those who have the potential to be generous,” Deacon wrote in an email.
Compared to many of its peer institutions, Georgetown boasts a lower percentage of legacies in its student population.
At the University of Notre Dame, which openly recruits its legacies, legacy students made up 24 percent of the Class of 2016, according to an article in The Observer, the university’s student newspaper, in April 2012.
Similarly, legacies made up 12 to 13 percent of the undergraduate population at Harvard University, according to a May 2011 article in the Harvard Crimson. Harvard’s legacy admission rate of 30 percent was over quadruple the regular decision admission rate at the time.
The Cornell Daily Sun reported in 2013 that legacies made up 15 to 16 percent of Cornell University’s undergraduate population.
Though legacy preference is common practice among private universities, Richard Kahlenberg, author of the book “Affirmative Action for the Rich: Legacy Preferences in College Admissions,” said that, according to his researchers, legacy preference does not tend to produce any net gain in alumni donations. Although there is a spike in alumni giving while the alumnus’ children are in high school, Kahlenberg claimed this increase is balanced by the alumni who stop donating completely in the event that their child is rejected.
“If there’s no promise of a legacy preference, then the giving is likely to remain constant over time. And when there’s a promise of a legacy preference and the child is rejected, it’s almost a double insult to the parents because not only is the university saying your child’s not good enough, they’re saying your child with a legacy preference is not good enough, and so you see a lot of alumni stop giving altogether,” Kahlenberg said.
In an op-ed in The New York Times in May 2013 titled “Affirmative Action for the Rich,” Kahlenberg voiced his opposition to the policy, decrying it as inherently “un-American” and particularly privileging affluent families.
“In other walks of life, we would consider it absurd to add points to a candidate’s application based on lineage, and legacies in higher education may soon come to an end as well,” Kahlenberg wrote in the op-ed.
He said that legacy preference becomes especially problematic in cases where affirmative action policies have been challenged, such as in Texas and California.
“If we are supposed to be basing decisions on merit and not on skin color, how on earth can one justify counting — or asking the question — not how well did a particular student do, but did your parents go to this college? It seems irrelevant to any question of merit,” Kahlenberg said.
Dennis Joyce (MSB ’18), whose parents both attended Georgetown, acknowledged the stigma that legacy students face as having had an easier lot in the admissions process.
“For me I feel kind of an onus because I do know the stigma,” Joyce said. “So I feel like a little bit of a burden to do well.”
Grace Foley (COL ’17), also a double legacy, refuted this stigma.
“I worked my butt off to get here and become a part of this community and my family’s Georgetown legacy, and I never for one second banked on the fact that legacy alone could get me in,” Foley wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Despite this contention surrounding legacy preference within the admissions office, Deacon emphasized the role that legacies play in strengthening the sense of spirit and unity in the Georgetown community.
“I think they bring an enthusiasm for the school, a knowledge of the school, when they get here. They create a positive environment at the outset ceremony, and for people who didn’t go here, they help them learn more about Georgetown as they become friends, meet their families,” Deacon said.
Emma Barnitt (MSB ’17), whose parents met at Georgetown and began dating at their five-year reunion, said that Georgetown spirit always played a large role in her household growing up.
“I grew up with Georgetown my whole life. My mom was the beverage buyer and party manager at [Vital] Vittles and my dad was captain of the football team. I just grew up with so many stories and so many instances where Georgetown was name-dropped, and my whole life Georgetown was my dream,” Barnitt said.
Kevin DePaulo (COL ’17), whose parents also met while at Georgetown, shared similar stories of growing up.
“It was definitely the college in my house growing up, like watching the basketball games growing up, the whole family was Georgetown fans, putting Georgetown stuff on the walls, Georgetown apparel,” DePaulo said.
Barnitt joked that she hopes to continue her family’s legacy at Georgetown with her own children someday.
“My kids are going to go here,” Barnitt said.
Hoya Staff Writer

The Dude says 
March 20, 2015 at 1:44 pm
An SAT 10 points less than non-legacies seems very minor.  That said, as non-legacy myself, I wouldn’t want to have to compete with someone getting special treatment based on their parent getting here, though I understand whey the university does it, and will take advantage of it if I ever have children.
It’s a false comparison though to relate it to race-based affirmative action.  Why don’t we release the average grades and test scores broken out by race/ethnicity and see what the differences are . . . no doubt the much more than the 10 points less that legacies have.  That’s important because someone having 10 points less on the SAT is about missing one question, two at most, which is statistically meaningless, whereas hundreds of points lower signifies something quite different and negatively impacts student academic life, not to mention signalling the student is less likely to go out and do great things post-graduation.

okay says 
March 22, 2015 at 2:46 am
Because one’s score on the SAT Junior year of high school signals a student is less likely to go out and do great things.

asdf says 
March 23, 2015 at 2:08 pm
Actually yes, yes it does. There are strong correlations between SAT scores and college success as well as future income.

SFS 16 says 
March 20, 2015 at 11:07 pm
“Verbal SAT test scores of legacy students ranged from 680 to 740, on average about 10 points less than non-legacy students, whose SAT scores ranged from 690 to 760.”
Is this the middle 50% or the actual range? I find that hard to believe, since there are plenty of students who scored in the high 700s (and many get 800s) on each section. I remember when it came up in a discussion once among a few friends of mine, three of us had gotten above 2300 combined, so I’d be surprised if no one topped 760 Verbal (which I assume is Critical Reading, since there hasn’t been a Verbal section since 2005) in the entire Class of 2018.

Dizzy says 
March 24, 2015 at 10:03 am
It’s the middle 50%.  You kinda have to fill in the gaps yourself when reading most articles in The Hoya.  Not enough fact-checkers/editors willing to work for free…
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 20, 2015 by Deirdre Collins Leave a Comment 
President Barack Obama signed the Student Aid Bill of Rights on March 10, proposing 19 executive actions to provide student loan borrowers with additional rights and resources to receive and pay off student aid.
The four articles of the bill of rights pledge to give every student the rights to quality and affordable education, a reasonable and affordable payment plan, a new customer service system and reliable information on the nation’s colleges and universities. More than 40 million Americans currently have some level of student loan debt.
“I believe that America is not a place where higher education is a privilege that is reserved for the few,” Obama said at a speech at the Georgia Institute of Technology. “America needs to be a place where higher education has to be available for every single person who’s willing to strive for it, who’s willing to work for it.”
The proposed actions include simplifying the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, increasing the maximum Pell Grant award by almost $1,000 and implementing Obama’s Pay as You Earn plan, which creates an income-based repayment program to allow students to cap federal aid payments at 10 percent of their income.
While the bill could expand opportunities for student borrowers, the effectiveness of the bill will depend on whether the president’s request for funding is granted in the budget process, which will start this week on Capitol Hill.
Both the House and Senate Budget Committees have indicated that they want to limit domestic spending and reduce revenues while increasing defense spending. Georgetown University Associate Vice President for Federal Relations Scott Fleming (SFS ’72) noted that this would dampen the potential for Obama’s program.
Despite this cause for concern, Fleming said the government could come to some agreement concerning student aid resources and make changes in entitlement programs, increase revenues or raise caps on domestic and defense spending.
According to Fleming, providing student loan borrowers with additional resources would help Georgetown students, many of whom receive both institutional and federal aid. However, he expressed concern regarding the proposed college rating system, which aims to provide students with reliable statistics on graduation rates, incomes of graduates, average tuitions and fees paid at the nation’s colleges and universities.
“I find that very worrisome that they are using averages a lot because … there are a good number of Georgetown students from low-income families who basically, combining federal aid and institutional aid, go to Georgetown for very little,” Fleming said. “If you are a kid from a low-income family, and you are looking at averages, you would think there was no way in the world you could go here.”
Fleming was also worried by a proposal in the president’s budget to replace the current Public Service Loan Forgiveness program, a program which forgives student loan payments for people who have been in public service for 10 years, with the all-encompassing Pay As You Earn program. Fleming said the change would give students less incentive to find jobs in non-profit organizations and public service.
“It’s important to an institution like Georgetown because of the large numbers of graduates of Georgetown who go into public service,” Fleming said. “If they cap loan forgiveness, like the president proposes, that removes the incentive for people to take public service jobs.”
Nora Gordon, an associate professor specializing in the economics of education at Georgetown’s McCourt School of Public Policy, was also skeptical whether resources offered by the bill of rights would help Georgetown students in particular but praised proposed improvements to the FAFSA.
“I think that students that go to elite institutions have much more refined information about the quality of those institutions then is going to be captured in any of type of report card,” Gordon said. “My guess is the reason they want to have this is for low-quality schools, to make sure students know about schools, especially with a lot of two year colleges and schools with extremely low graduation rates, before they borrow a lot of money to pay for them.”
Gordon also said that customer service resources and complaint systems could benefit Georgetown students, who likely have difficulties locating where to go when they encounter problems with their lenders.
“[If] there is better oversight of lenders and more attention to customer service, the bill will be good for borrowers, which includes Georgetown students,” Gordon said. “It seems that people don’t just have problems repaying their loans but run into problems with their lenders and find it hard to adjust repayment.”
Georgetown University College Democrats Chair Matt Gregory (COL ’17) added that even if the bill does not directly affect many Georgetown students, it could pave the way for future actions to protect student loan borrowers.
“Many students, especially in the middle class, graduate having over $12,000 in loans,” Gregory said. “Even if it is more of a symbolic gesture, it will create a path for future administrations to create something concrete. … [Students] will have more information, be able to make better and informed decisions and won’t be as trapped by potentially predatory lenders.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 20, 2015 by Patricja Okuniewska Leave a Comment 
Over 325 students and staff members travelled around the country last week on service and immersion trips as part of the Alternative Breaks Program, which added seven new trips this year, including the first international group to Jamaica.
Center for Social Justice Associate Director Ray Shiu noted the importance of the programs as a whole in allowing students to experience different cultures as well as contribute to communities around the world.
“Through immersion into issues and in solidarity with community partners, [the Alternative Breaks Program] strives to build lasting commitments to social justice,” Shiu wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The program connects with communities through service, immersion and reflection.”
The program, which started in 1975 with a spring break trip to Appalachia, had 25 trips with more than 275 participants and 50 leaders in its 40th year. The seven new trips focused on urban agriculture, rural and urban health care, D.C.’s immigrant population, LGBTQ youth homelessness, and mental health, all in addition to the international expansion to Jamaica.
The Jamaica trip, which was entitled Magis: Jamaica and was a collaboration between the CSJ and the Office of Campus Ministry. explored economic inequalities at a global level. Twelve students, two staff advisers and student leader Caleb Weaver (COL ’16) spent four days on the north shore of Jamaica, participating in various service projects and studying the tourist economy of the region.
“We did an immersion experience in a homestay community and studied the tourist economy, as well as the ways that the structures of the tourist economy either promote economic justice or economic injustice, and the kind of relationships that have fostered between Americans and Jamaicans through this tourist interaction,” Weaver said.
He added that the group participated in service work at a local school and young women’s shelter.
ABP Board Chair Hopey Fink (COL ’15) highlighted the recent influence the program has had within the Georgetown community, as well as her desire to continue expanding participation. The program received more than 400 applications this year.
“Thanks to the addition of seven new trips this year … we were able to offer over 80 more spots than last year. We are looking forward to continuing to expand in new ways in the coming years,” Fink wrote in an email to The Hoya.
In addition to the new trips, the organization has evolved over the past year, changing its name from Alternative Spring Break to Alternative Breaks Program with the intention of adding trips during other breaks than the March holiday.
Acknowledging the previous week’s successes, Fink expressed optimism about the impact of this year’s new trips and other expansion moving forward.
“We are very proud of all the new trips that ran this year,” Fink wrote. “We are looking forward to strengthening our campus and community partnerships and to continuously improving every alternative break to give participants the best experience possible.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 20, 2015 by Toby Hung Leave a Comment 
When James E. Alatis graduated from the University of West Virginia in 1948, Georgetown was still a year away from establishing its School of Languages and Linguistics. Today, there are 105 students majoring in linguistics at Georgetown, and countless more studying foreign languages.
In his 46 years at Georgetown, Alatis served as associate dean of the SLL from 1966 to 1973, Dean of the SLL from 1973 to 1994, then distinguished professor of linguistics and modern Greek until his retirement in 2012. Alatis died on Feb. 28 at the age of 88.
The university will be holding a memorial service for Alatis in late April.
In a campus-wide email, Provost Robert Groves shared a message from an anonymous colleague commending Alatis for his passion for language and endless kindness.
“Throughout a long and distinguished career at the university spanning 46 years, his passion and advocacy for greater prominence for and the benefits of language education were unwavering,” the email read. “Thousands in the academic community and generations of students are indebted to him for his generosity of spirit and innumerable kindnesses of one of Georgetown’s true giants.”
Alatis is credited with introducing various initiatives to Georgetown, such as the Master of Arts in Teaching English as a Second Language program, the study of sociolinguistics and the departments of Arabic, Japanese and many other languages.
Senior Associate Dean for Administration and Senior Business Manager Richard Cronin (SFS ’80, LAW ’84) served as assistant dean of the SLL during Alatis’ deanship.
Cronin said that Alatis established a tradition for language learning at Georgetown that fostered support and collaboration. He said that Alatis’ defining characteristic was a strong belief in the importance of learning a foreign language as part of a college education.
“He really thought that everybody should study languages. He would ask people if they studied a language in college, and if they said yes, he would say ‘You’re one of mine,’” Cronin said. “It was so much part of him to advance [language learning at Georgetown.] He was a booster and a cheerleader.”
Chair of the Linguistics Department Heidi Hamilton (GRD ’83, GRD ’89) first worked for Alatis when she was a graduate student, and eventually became his colleague and friend.
Hamilton said that Alatis encouraged the merging of the study of languages and that of linguistics, which significantly improved the quality of language education at Georgetown.
“He saw [learning languages] and [linguistics] to be completely intertwined,” Hamilton said. “He thought that no linguist could be a linguist without knowing high levels of language, and no language student could understand their field without a solid underpinning of linguistics. That was his vision.”
In addition to his contributions to language teaching programs at Georgetown, Alatis was a founding father of Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages, the largest professional organization for teachers of English as a foreign language. He served as TESOL’s executive director from its founding in 1966 until 1987, when he became executive director emeritus.
In an obituary published on TESOL’s website, Alatis was quoted as having said that his goal for the organization was to promote cross-cultural communication and understanding.
“Our kind of teaching, which accepts other peoples’ languages and cultures as equally valid to ours, is essential to cross-cultural communication, mutual exchange, social justice and ultimately, it is devoutly to be wished, world peace,” Alatis once said.
At Georgetown, Alatis led many fundraising projects that resulted in the creation of new programs in the SLL. Under his leadership, the SLL received a half-million dollar grant from the National Science Foundation in 1968 to launch its sociolinguistics program, making Georgetown one of the pioneering universities in the country to offer such a program.
Distinguished Research Professor of Linguistics Emeritus Roger Shuy was close friends with Alatis, and joined the SLL in 1968, at Alatis’ convincing, to spearhead the sociolinguistics program.
In a tribute written by Shuy, he mentioned that Alatis never ceased to push for the expansion of the study of linguistics at Georgetown.
“The new major in sociolinguistics got off to an expectedly slow start with only eight students. … [Georgetown] has since grown to [be] the premier place to study sociolinguistics, thanks to Jim’s amazing foresight,” Shuy wrote. “[Alatis] also thwarted efforts by the university to drop linguistics from the curriculum. Jim was always a staunch friend of linguistics.”
In addition to sociolinguistics, Alatis was responsible for raising funds to start and sustain various language programs, particularly of languages that were less frequently spoken.
Hector Campos, a professor of Spanish and linguistics, described Alatis as a defender of smaller language departments.
“He was a strong supporter of the small languages. For example, Portuguese had very few students at that time, and any dean would have killed the program immediately,” Campos said. “But he always pushed us and asked how we could reinforce it and make the program stronger. He was a defender of supporting [lesser spoken] languages.”
Professor of modern Greek Ismini Lamb attributed the success of the modern Greek program to Alatis, who originally introduced the program in 1966.
“He brought Modern Greek, a less commonly taught language, to Georgetown in 1966. Now, the modern Greek program is the oldest, continuously running program in North America and it is thanks to Dr. Alatis.”
After the SLL was absorbed into the College in 1995 and its faculty formed the Faculty of Languages and Linguistics, Alatis remained as a professor of modern Greek, and often demonstrated his deep belief in the inseparability of language learning and cultural immersion in his classes.
When he first arrived at Georgetown, Campos audited Alatis’ modern Greek class.
“He would always teach performing dance for the students, even though he was old. He had to be 70-something at that point, but he would still dance for the students and show them Greek dance,” Campos said. “And at the end of the term, he would invite all the students in the program to a Greek restaurant, where everyone had to dance. He would be the first one to go with his wife and start dancing.”
According to Lamb, Alatis persisted with teaching Greek despite his many commitments and frequent business trips, which indicated his passion for language teaching.
“He travelled far and wide on long, long trips. Some of the [flights] would be overnight, and he would come straight here from the airport, ready to teach his Greek class,” Lamb said. “I would say ‘I can teach it for you, you had the long flight and fundraising [to do].’ He said, ‘Oh no. I wouldn’t miss teaching Greek for the world, I would pay to teach Greek!’ … His joy of teaching Greek was contagious.”
Beyond his significant contributions to the language and linguistics programs at Georgetown, Alatis is remembered by many members of the community for being a supportive and caring mentor.
University professor Deborah Tannen, who joined the linguistics department in 1979, is one of the many faculty members who was hired under Alatis’ leadership.
Tannen said that Alatis was always hugely supportive of faculty members in pursuing their research efforts, particularly with his leadership over the Georgetown University Round Table on Languages and Linguistics. On a personal level, Tannen remembered Alatis’ genuine care for the well-being of his friends and colleagues.
“He was always very interested in other people. It might be part of his Greek background,” Tannen said. “He always approached people [and] in particular was interested in what was happening to people’s personal lives. So when you were having troubles, he would always offer to help.”
Hamilton described that above all, Alatis’ legacy was in sharing his love for languages with the Georgetown community.
“He’s an overly generous person, intensely and fiercely loyal to Georgetown and the teaching of languages,” Hamilton said. “He was someone with such personality, a larger-than-life person who just exuded enthusiasm for language students and faculty.”
Campos, who was also hired by Alatis, recounted that Alatis’ warmth was evident even from the first time the two met.
“When I came for my interview [to be a professor], he was the dean. … At the very end of the interview, [I told him] I knew a little Greek. He asked me what I knew in Greek … and I recited a poem. Tears started coming out from his eyes. He said, ‘I heard that from my grandmother.’ So when the chair of the department comes to get me [after the interview], here’s the dean that everyone was afraid of, and he was giving me a hug,” Campos said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 20, 2015 by Andrew Wallender Leave a Comment 
The Office of Residential Living altered the housing selection process for students studying abroad this fall, shifting housing applications six months forward to March and giving students the option to have semester-long unfilled vacancies in housing groups.
“Ultimately we wanted to lay out spring housing options for fall study abroad students,” Executive Director for Residential Services Patrick Killilee wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Not all students who go abroad will be able to get the exact housing they desire, but we hope to be transparent in our processes and provide students housing they are comfortable with.”
Affected students were informed of the changes in an email sent Tuesday by Killilee and Assistant Director for Assignments Krista Haxton. The changes are the latest installment in a yearlong series of back-and-forth between the Office of Residential Living and students pushing for greater flexibility in housing options.
Other than requesting a vacancy, fall study abroad students can request to take the place of any student they know will study abroad in the spring, request international students to fill their spaces in an apartment or townhouse for the fall semester, apply to fill a vacancy in a living learning community or apply for spring housing by indicating their top housing preferences and optionally requesting a roommate.
The Office of Residential Life made a change to the housing rules in January 2014 that would have barred fall study abroad students from participating in the normal housing lottery. However, a student-led campaign against the rule change garnered around 400 signatures, leading to a one year postponement of the rule.
This past January, Will Simons (COL ’16) created a Facebook petition rallying against the proposed changes. Simons is the same student who led the previous year’s effort to delay the rule change, alongside Declan Kelly (COL ’17) and Ken Nunnenkamp (MSB ’16). A subsequent IdeaScale petition created by the trio in early February garnered over 540 signatures.
Although fall study abroad students will still be unable to participate in the regular housing lottery, they will be able to apply for a vacancy from the Office of Residential Living, which will allow housing groups to participate in the regular main campus housing selection process and keep an empty space for the duration of the fall semester while a student studies abroad.
“But those groups aren’t binding,” Simons said of the vacancy process. “So those can be changed. However, you can only request up to two vacancies. You still need to have at least one other person to enter the lottery with you, and then that would assume that you’re receiving both of those vacancies.”
Seventy-four students requested vacancies for next year through an online application due Thursday, according to Killilee. The number of applicants is lower than the cap set by the Office of Residential Living, so all of those vacancies will be approved after the Office of Residential Living verifies that the applicants are studying abroad in the fall.
The new vacancy option for students will essentially replace the current system of sophomores “filling in” for juniors studying abroad in the fall.
“[H]aving over 200 sophomores hold space for a semester is not conducive to the kind of community development we wish to offer our students,” Killilee wrote. “It is disruptive to the students having to change rooms, ultimately it is better for students to be in the same room and community for a full year. Many sophomores are not ready for that level of independent living and it can be alienating for some.”
Students were only given about 36 hours to apply for vacancies, however, causing a number of students, such as Danny O’Brien (MSB ’17) to change prior plans and feel rushed in the process.
“There was definitely overall confusion,” O’Brien, who has two apartment members studying abroad in the fall, said. “Our original plan had just been to get freshmen for a semester until our friends going abroad would come back. And basically we found out in one email that that wasn’t an option.”
Despite this, students and the Office of Residential Living are working to develop a more long-term solution to the issue through the creation of a working group in early February. According to Killilee, the new study abroad housing rules will be subject to regular inspection, with help from the working group.
Simons said he hopes the working group can find a permanent solution to address student need.
“Going forward, we’re going to use this working group that was kind of hastily created and is still in the process of being formalized to develop a long-term solution,” Simons said.
Though Killilee said that the IdeaScale petition did not influence any of the final housing options for next year, he did say that it shows student anxiety about the whole process.
Simons, on the other hand, said he believes that the student movement for more housing options for study abroad students is a demonstration of the power students have to shape their university.
“I think it really shows that students, when they come together, when they are passionate about an issue, they really have the power to enact meaningful change,” Simons said. “Even something that’s set in stone, students can change. And ultimately we have the power to shape our own experience at Georgetown.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 20, 2015 by Katherine Richardson Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University Student Association President Trevor Tezel (SFS ‘15) and Vice President Omika Jikaria (SFS ‘15) will complete their year-long terms in office March 21. The Hoya sat down with the pair to discuss their accomplishments, challenges and hopes for the future.
After a year in office, what has been each of your proudest accomplishments?
Trevor: I really was happy about the fourth year high financial need housing guarantee. It was really encouraging this year when we heard from Pat Killilee, the executive director of residential services that about 60 to 80 students were able to utilize that guarantee. That’s an example of a tangible impact and benefit of the work we did, so I’d probably count that one.
Omika: One of our proudest accomplishments is all the work that we did on the transfer end. Especially since we got the commitment to have a transfer student day this coming summer. I think that’s really exciting. It’s one of those things that should have been a long time coming and just giving people the tools and the access to resources in GUSA, we were actually able to achieve something really tangible.
What kind of legacy or influence do you see yourselves leaving?
Trevor: I think at the end of the day, there will be effects from the work that we did in a few years. But no one is going to know it came from us, just like no one knows where the Collegiate Leadership Program came from anymore. That’s fine and that’s a part of GUSA and student government. We’re in and we’re out of here in a very short period of time. But yes, I do think we moved the needle on the campus plan issue. I do think we moved the needle on a lot of other issues that were important to students. I think we got some tangible accomplishments.
Omika: I think we really prioritize getting involved, or getting a lot of marginalized student groups involved within GUSA, and just building up that institutional knowledge was really helpful. I hope that in the future people who wouldn’t necessarily be involved in GUSA will be.
What was the biggest challenge or surprise you did not see coming after you were elected?
Trevor: One thing that I didn’t anticipate with the Multicultural Council issue was that right now on Georgetown’s campus, we have very grave, very deep divisions that exist. I’m not just talking about between white students and students of color but between racial and ethnic classes and within racial and ethnic classes. Once GUSA decided they wanted to take on that incredibly complex issue that would have a billiard ball effect, I think it was kind of a watershed moment. It’s going to be really interesting to see how that plays out in the next year, especially with the upcoming vote on the diversity requirement. But I think through this position, I finally started to at least begin to understand the weight of some of those divisions that really still play out on campus.
Omika: I think kind of coming to terms with the fact that we could come in with a platform, but that the administration kind of throw things at us regardless was definitely a little shocking at first, especially right when we came in and we were faced with the third year housing requirement. That was the first challenge we had to face head on, but it kind of brought into perspective the fact that the effect of the last campus plan was still there even now and the fact that we have to address that throughout this year and that future GUSA executives will have to as well.
Could either of you identify a decision that you regret or something you would do differently?
Trevor: When we ran and were elected, we definitely were trying to posit ourselves as the GUSA ticket who would bring in the experts, keep our heads down, do the work and produce results for students, and I think we did that. What we didn’t do was constantly tell students what we were doing. What we came in with to GUSA were frayed relationships between the executive and senate, within the executive, and while those haven’t gone away, they’ve gotten a lot better. Part of the reason for that was this idea of who own what accomplishments that GUSA is producing. I think in the process, we weren’t able to be as public over the year with some of the work we were doing as we would have liked to.
What do you think caused these communication issues?
Trevor: On one end, kind of negotiating a lot of these issues is complicated, requires extensive conversation with administrators and only the conclusion is kind of necessary to sort of make that public statement of what happened. Above and beyond that, no, it’s just a priority we had. In order to rebuild the institution of GUSA and rebuild the faith that GUSA members had in the organization they were apart of, we had to stop being this kind of mill of Bill Clinton wannabes who are trying to rack up a list of accomplishments for every little thing they can do in a short, 12-month time frame. We needed to take a long-game approach.
The Multicultural Council was frequently criticized in this year’s executive race debates. Do you understand why, and would you do something differently if you could do it again?
Omika: I think, as Trevor was saying, a lot of the criticism we might have gotten was because we didn’t necessarily publicize exactly what was going on within the council and there might have been a lot of misunderstanding. But that being said, even just the fact that it was a topic of debate and that it was brought up within the context of GUSA is telling in terms of the fact that it’s now part of a conversations and that people are more passionate about the issues and willing to be informed. I definitely take that to be a really positive aspect of having the council.
Trevor: The last event that we co-sponsored before we leave on Saturday was a town hall co-sponsor between the Last Campaign for Academic Reform and the GUSA Multicultural Council. We had student advocates on the diversity requirement in the curriculum in the same room with GUSA individuals, which seems like something that shouldn’t be a hard task but in this university of silos, it really is. I thought that was really encouraging and I was really happy that that was kind of our last event to see that yes, the way that these issues are able to move forward is collaboration between all these different separate groups on campus who are wanting to advocate on this.
A common theme in the GUSA elections this year was people saying that students dislike GUSA as an institution. In fact, there is just general widespread apathy about the association. How did that affect your term and what do you think that people should do about it in the future?
Omika: I think a big part of it is students not necessarily knowing what GUSA does. People at Georgetown are very involved, but involved in what they care about and what organizations they’ve been apart of since they first got here. So I think GUSA can just do a better job of engaging a wider range of people and letting people know what it’s doing. I had never been involved in GUSA until I ran last year, so I can definitely sympathize with that and that sentiment of being confused a lot of the time about what GUSA is doing and how that impacts me. After a year in office, I can say that it impacts a lot of students and people should be hearing about it.
What demographic is least represented in GUSA? How can future leaders go about helping this group gain representation?
Trevor: One group that I think that is going to be and has been underrepresented in GUSA is disabled students. A titan of the disability movement and a future national leader of the disability movement is about to graduate from Georgetown, and I’m very concerned. Joe and Connor are very aware that the great work that Lydia Brown (COL ’15) has done can’t end. Furthermore in order to advance a Georgetown that is socially inclusive of all students, making sure that disabled students are represented both in their actions over the next year but also in the composition of their cabinet, staff and external board is going to be huge.
Omika: Also, pretty obviously, people of color are underrepresented in GUSA and so that’s something that we definitely wanted to address and bring more into conversation with the Multicultural Council. Hopefully, by involving people who would normally not be involved in GUSA and including them in conversations, that problem can be solved over the next few years. It’s definitely going to take time, but it’s really important.
How did you define your term with administrators?
Trevor: I think what we’ve seen in GUSA over the last few years is that as it’s become a broader body with higher participation in elections, greater engagement and elections of students who aren’t traditionally involved in GUSA or were involved freshman year. It has made GUSA an organization that really pushes the administration on a lot of issues and is not afraid to put pressure when they want things to move faster. I think over the last few years this has become increasingly true and reflects widespread student discontent with some of the actions being taken by the administration.
Omika: I think what Trevor’s trying to say is that we’re not scared to address the issues and pressure where there needs to be pressure placed. At the end of the day, our main priority was advocating for students and having student interests at the forefront, and I think we definitely carried that out.
Coming into the elections, how did you feel about the satirical campaign Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Connor Rohan (COL ’16), and how did your feelings change after they won?
Omika: I guess in the beginning, I kind of realized that there was a distinction between a joke candidate and a satirical candidate. Joe and Connor definitely, even though they weren’t in it to necessarily win it, they knew that if they won, they would have to follow through with the kind of tone they took throughout the campaign, which was making it for students, being more transparent and really making GUSA more visible. In the beginning, I was a little skeptical and a little confused about their intentions. As the campaign went on, I saw their intentions were positive. I’m really excited to see what they do because they’re definitely very talented, and even though they’re taking a non-traditional approach to GUSA, in many ways that might be necessary at this time.
Trevor: I think they were able to bring the skills without the knowledge. The great part about that is that knowledge can be learned, but the skills can’t, I think it took The Hoya poll to see that they were in the lead. By the time election day rolled around, though I would’ve been very comfortable and content and pleased with a Luther-Rohan administration.
What are a few of the most important issues that your successors should be tackling this year?
Trevor: So, one issue that I think it is very obvious is the current implementation of the 2010 campus plan and the development of the 2018 campus plan. I think it’s going to be incumbent upon Joe, as the student representative to the GCP Steering Committee to negotiate effectively on students’ behalf to ensure the next campus plan is one that respects students’ rights, their decisions about where they want to live and prioritizes fixing our current infrastructure before we go on to build more.
Omika: I think a couple of other things they should continue focusing on involve utilizing GUSA’s resources to add input on certain issues that have advocated on in the past few years, but still need more work like sexual assault, mental health and disability justice. Even as they advocate for fair implementation of the 2010 campus plan and development of the 2018 campus plan, they shouldn’t forget these other issues that have gained momentum over the past couple of years that still have work to be done.
What are your plans for the future after Georgetown?
Trevor: I will be enrolling in University of Florida Law School in fall 2015.
Omika: I’ll be working at PricewaterhouseCoopers in technology consulting in San Francisco.
How did GUSA affect you personally and in general, just in terms of growth?
Trevor: I remember Adam [Ramadan] saying this at his exit interview last year and I think it was a good way to put it, is that GUSA is the best job that you never want to have again. I learned a lot about myself, strengths and weaknesses, I learned a lot of ugly truths about Georgetown and getting things accomplished, but also a lot of positive, encouraging and reassuring experiences when you see how the fruit of your labor is coming together. On a personal side, I learned a lot about myself as a leader and as a negotiator and that’s really been invaluable.
Omika: This has really been the most challenging and rewarding thing that I’ve ever done. It’s definitely the best job I’ll never have again, but I’m really glad I did it having never been in GUSA before. I learned so much about Georgetown and got to work with so many different people, and I feel so lucky to have met so many different people. It’s definitely been a very self-reflective experience and I definitely know myself a lot better now. I think the best part about it was meeting so many other students because I really enjoyed that and realized how passionate and talented they are and it’s really inspiring.
This interview has been condensed for space and edited for clarity.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 20, 2015 by Emma Rizk Leave a Comment 
Approximately 250 Georgetown students participated in a Twitter and Facebook campaign starting March 2 requesting that the university hire a program assistant for the Women’s Center and Health Education Services who would handle programming on health and sexuality issues, leaving the two organizations free to focus on counseling and survivor outreach.
Students used the hashtag #GUProgramAsst to discuss the issue. They suggested that the assistant could hold office hours in the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access and the LGBTQ Center.
Take Back the Night President Sarah Rabon (COL ’16) outlined the need for a joint program assistant.
Take Back the Night is a student advocacy group committed to the fight against gendered violence
“We want people to keep seeking resources,” Rabon said. “To do that at a level that is appropriate for the student body and meets the needs of the student body, we need a minimum of at least one new person to oversee programming and bridge the gap between the Women’s Center and Health Education Services.”
Nora West (SFS ’15), one of several students organizing the campaign, is concerned that the confidential counselors at Health Education Services are sacrificing time they could be spending with survivors of sexual assault to work on programming.
“[Confidential counselors] are constantly faced with the choice of helping a survivor or programming around this issue,” West said.
In past years, there has been a significant increase in programming around education and prevention of sexual assault on campus, specifically with the addition of the mandated New Student Orientation program “I Am Ready” in fall 2014.
“We’re moving toward this framework of sexual assault education as something that’s ongoing through your four years. … If we had a full-time programming assistant it could be something all students engaged with … something that is an essential part of being a Georgetown student,” Rabon said.
“There is a fair bit of programing around sexual assault, but it’s the programming we’ve always had,” West said. “We have been maintaining the status quo which obviously is not what creates a cultural shift.”
The majority of tweets during the campaign were directed at Provost Robert Groves because he appropriates funding for the university, according to West.
Queen Adesuyi (COL ’16), who also helped organize the campaign, said that it was important participants understand the nuances of language regarding sexual assault and correctly use it on social media.
“There is a lot of language and academic issues involved with sexual assault that makes it hard for just the average person to advocate for it without it being problematic,” Adesuyi said.
To combat this difficulty, West created a Google Doc of possible tweets that she updated daily to be used by those who wanted to show their support of a program assistant but did not know how exactly to put that support into words, asking that students direct their tweets at Groves.
“It’s [Groves’] final decision and as a lesser known campus figure, he is able to remain unaccountable for his actions,” West said. “Part of this campaign is letting him know that we as students are aware that if a position is not funded, he is the person responsible for that.”
Groves deferred comment to Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson, who said that he is seriously considering the request.
“We have worked collaboratively with students and colleagues across campus to address the vital issues of service to students and education/prevention work,” Olson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We take this request seriously, and are carefully considering how best to move forward in supporting and educating our students.”
Olson added that the university will continue to respond to student need and add staff to help the programs improve.
“We are very encouraged that we were able to add a new full-time professional in Health Education Services this past year, and we are committed to assuring that we are meeting student needs,” Olson wrote. “Through the years, we have continued to innovate, to add staff and programs, and to follow national best practices. We will continue doing so.”
Associate Vice President for Student Affairs and Deputy Title IX Coordinator Jeanne Lord and Olson have both indicated that they want to meet with students working on the campaign, but according to West, the meetings have been continually delayed.
“If this mattered to them outside of a PR perspective they would be meeting with us and they would be making room in their schedules to do that,” West said. “They can prioritize this issue and they have certainly chosen not to.”
Women’s Center Director Laura Kovach expressed an interest in working with students to expand services and staff for students.
“We are always strategizing ways to increase staff in our spaces within Student Affairs.,” Kovach wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We look forward to conversations that will provide us with the opportunity to increase our staff resources for students.”
Director of Health Education Services Carol Day said that hiring a joint programming assistant would have a number of benefits.
“We have quite a few programs that would benefit from the addition of the right person in a [graduate assistant] role who could help with ‘Are You Ready?’ and other programming initiatives around sexual assault and relationship violence,” Day wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Our professional staff are content experts and health practitioners who help facilitate ongoing training and work closely with [Sexual Assault Peer Education] and do additional training and outreach to student groups, faculty, staff and administrators. We would expect a [graduate assistant] to help with programming logistics but not necessarily be a content expert.”
Day added that Health Education Services is hoping to fill a sexual assault specialist position this semester, which could fulfill some student requests.
“We expect to fill that position with a health professional who has expertise and experience in providing sexual assault services directly to students in a higher education environment,” Day wrote. “That person will also help with training and programming.”
West said that the administration has also downplayed the need for a program assistant, citing how much progress has already been made in this area. She added that students will continue to advocate for a program assisstant in the future in different ways.
“Twenty percent of our female students are still survivors of sexual assault,” West said. “One in 33 men on this campus are still survivors of sexual assault and there is more work to be done. But our achievements have encouraged an attitude of complacency among administrators.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 20, 2015 by Jack Bennett Leave a Comment 
Georgetown is hosting the second annual IgnatianQ Conference, a Catholic forum intended to promote dialogue on LGBTQ issues in relation to Jesuit values, from March 27 to March 29.
The conference is organized by a number of student and campus groups including GU Pride, the LGBTQ Resource Center and the Office of Campus Ministry. The forum will consist of keynote speeches, panel discussions and breakout sessions hosted by experts on LGBTQ issues, faith leaders and Georgetown alumni. Last year’s conference was held at Fordham University.
This year’s keynote speakers include Vice President for Mission and Ministry Fr. Kevin O’Brien, S.J., renowned writer on Catholic issues Elizabeth Donnelly (SFS ’78) and Communities in Schools President Dan Cardinali, whose organization works to prevent students from dropping out of school. Most of the conference’s larger events will take place in the Healey Family Student Center, with the smaller breakout sessions occurring in either Healy Hall or Maguire Hall. This year, the discussion topics will center on sexual identity at Georgetown, the history of LGBTQ alumni, community goals, sexual assault, interfaith discussion and campus resources for LGBTQ students.
GU Pride President Thomas Lloyd (SFS’ 15) led the initiative to bring IgnatianQ to Georgetown last spring after sending student representatives last year’s conference at Fordham University, including members Phil Tam (MSB ’14) and Eric Nevalsky (SFS ’16). The conference, run by a group of Fordham students, reached out to Jesuit colleges and universities to submit proposals for the 2015 conference. Lloyd and GU Pride submitted a proposal detailing Georgetown’s access to space, finances and faculty support May 11, 2014, and were selected as the winner May 14.
Lloyd said that Georgetown makes for a good home for IgnatianQ because it has a history of welcoming LGBTQ students, specifically as the first Jesuit and Catholic institution to create an LGBTQ resource center. He said he wants to share Georgetown’s culture with other LGBTQ students around the country and be the standard for forums of discussion. Students from Jesuit schools around the country will travel to attend the conference at Georgetown.
“Georgetown really offers its LGBTQ students a lot of resources, a lot of support, a lot of hope,” Lloyd said. “We really have a great community and we wanted to share elements, parts of our history, parts of our success with other universities.”
Lloyd added that the conference facilitates necessary discussions about the difficulties of advocating for LGBTQ rights in a Jesuit space.
“IgnatianQ is a very unique space,” Lloyd said. “There are very few people who understand what it means to do LGBTQ work in a Jesuit context and there are unique challenges, concerns but also rewards … for me personally doing LGBTQ work has been how I’ve made my meaning.”
The Roman Catholic chaplain of Campus Ministry, Fr. Greg Schenden, S.J., emphasized that the conference reflects Jesuit values through cura personalis, as it helps to open up a conversation about spirituality within the LGBTQ community.
“Cura personalis is care, not just for the whole person, but everybody,” Schenden said. “It’s not something you can simply say that ‘cura personalis is for this group over here, but not this group over here.’ No, cura personalis entails the entire human person [and] also our entire community here at Georgetown.”
Schenden said that he was excited for the conference and lauded its theme of “Contemplatives in Action,” a tenet of Jesuit values. By adopting this theme, attendees are encouraged to reflect on their lives and community.
“That goes back all the way to Ignatius himself,” Schenden said. “It always has an outward movement to the large community. And especially for Ignatius it was always where the needs weren’t being met … fostering the notion of contemplatives in action in our community here at Georgetown is a cool thing.”
Lloyd also stressed the conference’s role in finding commonalities between Jesuit and LGBTQ values. He explained that the conference honors and respects the LGBTQ community as members of the Georgetown community.
“I’ve always said the most important part of LGBTQ work in this [Jesuit] context is to affirm that we have a duty to LGBTQ students because our context demands it. It’s part of supporting the whole person. It’s part of being a universal church and a universal community, and a university community,” Lloyd said.
GUPride board member and IgnatianQ coordinator Campbell James (SFS’17) said he wanted to bring IgnatianQ to Georgetown to create an opportunity for students from all over the country who are interested in LGBTQ issues to network with one another.
“It’s going to be really, really, interestingm fun, networking-filled weekend,” James said. “It’s a lot of work that’s going to come to fruition and to have students from all over the country at Georgetown. That’s what I think is really important about LGBTQ work, creating a large network of solidarity and strength.”
The weekend will include Georgetown’s 10th Genderfunk Drag Ball on March 27, which will be held in the Healey Family Student Center’s social room.
Lloyd said that he wants the conference to set an example for all future IgnatianQ meetings, which will require a huge exertion of effort on the part of GUPride.
“We want to create a model of what LGBTQ work on Catholic campuses can look like.” Lloyd said. “The Georgetown name invariably raises the profile, which I think elevates the conversation.”
Schenden also said that he is excited for the conference because of the variety of faiths and experiences that will be represented. He pointed out that there is a chance for Georgetown students to learn more about other groups of people.
“[It’s great] to have the different faith traditions all represented and speaking on this topic,” Schenden said. “Especially for the LGBTQ community, [it’s] a great opportunity for the larger community here at Georgetown.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 20, 2015 by Jack Bennett 1 Comment 
Following World Bank Group President Jim Yong Kim’s speech on tactics to address climate change at Gaston Hall on Wednesday, members of GU Fossil Free stormed the stage and asked Kim for his opinion on the divestment movement.
During the transition from the speech to the question-and-answer session of Kim’s lecture, which was part of a lecture series sponsored by the Global Futures Initiative, three members of GU Fossil Free — Patricia Cippolitti (SFS ’15), Chloe Lazarus (COL ’16) and Elaine Colligan (SFS ’15) — walked onto the stage and unfurled a large banner. Three other members of the group, who stood first in the question-and-answer session line, asked Kim to address the issue of divestment.
The GU Fossil Free members held the banner, which read “‘CORPORATE LEADERS SHOULD NOT WAIT TO ACT UNTIL MARKET SIGNALS ARE RIGHT & NATIONAL INVESTMENT POLICIES ARE IN PLACE.’ – Jim Yong Kim GEORGETOWN, DIVEST NOW GU Fossil Free.”
Vice President for Global Engagement Thomas Banchoff, who moderated the question-and-answer session, paused and looked at the sign with Kim, then continued the session. Several Georgetown University Police Department officers requested the members to leave the stage. Five minutes later, they were escorted down the steps by the officers. They then moved to the back of the hall before being asked to leave the hall entirely.
GUPD Chief of Police Jay Gruber did not respond to requests for comment, while Banchoff declined to comment on the incident.
The event began with opening remarks from Banchoff and University President John J. DeGioia, who reiterated the Global Futures Initiative’s purpose of setting Georgetown as an example of a global university committed to serving others.
“This initiative … was launched in January to bring together the expertise of our community, the resources of our tradition and our commitment to the common good to discern and to model what it means to be engaged as a global university in service to the world,” DeGioia said.
Kim began the lecture by addressing the World Bank’s objectives to limit extreme poverty to three percent of the global population and to elevate the living standards of the bottom 40 percent of every country’s population.
Kim continued by laying out the scientific facts about climate change that he pointed out were supported by 97 percent of scientists. In particular, he noted that 2014 was the hottest year on record, and that 13 of the hottest years on record occurred in the last 15 years.
“Recently the extreme temperatures have hit the physiological limits of what humans and animals can withstand in being outside,” Kim said. “There’s really no more serious debate in the scientific community about the fact of global warming and that humans are playing a part in it.”
Kim then discussed the impact of climate change on development, including the possibility of floods and natural disasters leading to outbreaks of diseases like cholera and malaria in poor countries.
“We know that the poor will be affected the most,” Kim said. “Poor countries around the world are not ready for these disasters.”
In suggesting possible solutions to the consequences of climate change on development, Kim proposed that developing regions should implement the model of “smart cities.” For instance, he cited projects such as bus rapid transit lines in India, which significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Additionally, Kim criticized current fossil fuel subsidies from top oil-producing countries such as Egypt and Iran while promoting carbon taxes, climate smart agriculture, climate treaties and alternative energy. He concluded the lecture by addressing the responsibility of the students in attendance.
“I just want to let you know that this is going to be up to you,” Kim said. “I came here to talk to you about this specifically in order to send you a message. No matter what you end up doing — you can be investors, homeowners, drivers, and consumers — every choice you make can have an impact potentially on this particular issue. The most important thing is to educate yourselves.”
During the question-and-answer session, Kim answered the first question on Twitter from a Qatar campus student, ignoring the protesters only twenty feet away. Part way through his response, he paused mid-sentence to read GU Fossil Free’s banner, then responded with “Hmm, okay,” garnering laughs from the audience.
The first in-person question came from the three GU Fossil Free members, who asked Kim for his opinion on divestment.
“By financially linking ourselves to [fossil fuels] through investments in the fossil fuel companies, we link ourselves to the excess of fossil fuels,” one of the members said. “GU Fossil Free … recently met with our board of directors asking them to divest from the top 200 fossil fuel companies in their vote in May. So if you could say anything to the board of directors, what would you say?”
Kim’s response addressed the complexity of divestment, including the necessity of providing energy for poor countries and the nature of commingled funds, which would greatly reduce the university’s endowment if it were to divest.
“[The World Bank is] very exposed to fossil fuels because we’re in the business of trying to create energy for poor people. … There’s not a simple answer to this,” Kim said. “Having run a university before … these are difficult things to do. … These [fossil fuel companies] that you invest in … can be spread over many different funds. … If you were to completely divest from all fossil fuel companies today at Georgetown, the endowment would go down [and] you’re going to have less financing for the programs that support students.”
However, Kim lauded Georgetown students’ efforts in raising awareness about divestment issues.
“I think what you guys have done to force the conversation onto campus is a very good thing and I’m sure President DeGioia would say the same thing,” Kim said.
Director of Media Relations Rachel Pugh said that the board of directors will continue to review the issue of divestment. GU Fossil Free members have recently worked with university administrators after developing a proposal requesting that the university divest from the top 200 fossil fuel companies. The Committee on Investments and Social Responsibility voted against GU Fossil Free’s proposal in late January, proposing an alternative solution, which includes targeted divestment and continued assessment of the university’s investments. GU Fossil Free also met with five members of the board of directors in mid-February, and the board will review and discuss GU Fossil Free and CISR’s proposals at its meeting in May.
“The working group of the Board of Directors will be reviewing the divestment question carefully in the coming weeks and will want to hear from key stakeholders, including GU Fossil Free,” Pugh said.
Cipollitti, one of the GU Fossil Free members who stormed on stage, said that she did not intend to criticize Kim.
“We understand that Jim Kim is on our side in terms of wanting to combat climate change and ensuring the well-being of all the world’s people including the most vulnerable, so we are drawing the link between his sentiments and our campaign, to show that they’re fully compatible and the consistent thing to do, if it agrees with Jim Kim’s statements, is to divest from fossil fuels,” Cipollitti said.
Mark Noll (COL ’17), who attended the event, said that he thought Kim gave a comprehensive answer to GU Fossil Free’s question.
“[It] was very well articulated, because divesting is one of many options and it will obviously not solve the problem, and it carries significant financial consequences for the university,” Noll said. “I can see where he’s coming from, cautioning GU Fossil free not to focus solely on this one issue.”
Hannah Gerdes (SFS ’16) said she was unsure as to whether GU Fossil Free’s actions were effective.
“I didn’t see the point … because [Kim] is on stage answering our questions, so I didn’t quite understand why students were holding a sign up of a previous quote of his on stage when he’s actually here in person [and] we can actually ask him [questions],” Gerdes said. “[It] didn’t make complete sense to me,”

SFS 2016 says 
March 22, 2015 at 12:24 pm
What happened to all of the comments on this article?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 20, 2015 by Ashwin Puri Leave a Comment 
Prominent nuclear security experts spoke Monday night in the Intercultural Center auditorium on the importance of tackling emerging and evolving nuclear security threats facing the United States and its global allies in the 21st century.
The speakers included former United Kingdom defense minister and Vice Chairman of the Nuclear Threat Initiative Des Browne, Co-Chair of the Congressional Nuclear Security Caucus Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-Neb.), Associate in Nuclear Policy Program and Asia Program for the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Duyeon Kim, Visiting Assistant Professor at Georgetown University Ariane Tabatabai, former U.S. senator and President of the Lugar Center Richard Lugar (R-Ind.) and former U.S. senator and co-chairman and CEO of the Nuclear Threat Initiative Sam Nunn (D-Ga.).
The panel discussion focused on nuclear material security, nuclear terrorism and nuclear weapons proliferation. The event, titled “Managing and Reducing 21st Century Nuclear Security Threats,” was co-sponsored by Georgetown’s Center for Security Studies and the International Relations Club. Kim moderated and began with a discussion on the importance of securing nuclear materials globally as a way to deter potential nuclear terrorism.
“The world has to understand that protecting nuclear material is the best way, the most efficient, the most effective way to prevent nuclear terrorism,” Nunn said. “The hardest job for the terrorist is the easiest job for us. Once the material gets in the wrong hand, at that stage, every step of the way is more difficult for the good guys, and easier for the bad guys.”
On the 70th anniversary of the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Brown emphasized the small amount of material that would be necessary to facilitate nuclear terrorism in comparison with the massive quantities of material present today.
“There is by our estimation, collectively about 2,000 metric tons of weapons-usable material in 25 countries and hundreds of sites in those 25 countries, not all of them secure and well-protected,” Brown said.
Nunn then emphasized the outdated nature of the long-existing strategy of nuclear deterrence in an ever-changing landscape of nuclear terrorism, with unique groups such as the Islamic State entering the playing field.
“Deterrence basically has been the policy of the United States for a long time,” Nunn said. “We have not gotten away from that; we still have deterrents. But the problem here that we have to add to catastrophic terrorism, nuclear terrorism, is that nobody quite knows how you deter a group that doesn’t have a return address.”
The panel then moved to discuss the situation in Russia and Ukraine, highlighting the long-term consequences that current tensions may have on nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament.
The discussion also emphasized the ongoing importance of managing North Korea’s nuclear ability as vital to global security. Congressman Fortenberry focused on the importance of China when dealing with North Korea and proposed a potential joint nuclear command in South Korea to act as significant leverage against continued nuclear proliferation in the region.
“There are no nuclear weapons in South Korea, but if North Korea continues down this path, then a joint South-Korean-American nuclear command [could act] as a deterrent,” Fortenberry said.
During the question-and-answer session, a major topic of discussion was Iran.
When asked what a potential deal with Iran would look like, Tabatabai stressed the need for transparency in Iran’s nuclear activities as well as clarification of its former military activity.
“I think ideally a good deal would provide the [International Atomic Energy Agency] with enough access to the different facilities, and it would scale back Iran’s program enough, the breakout time of one year which has been on the table for a while,” Tabatabai said.
The discussion ended with Kim asking each panel participant to give a 10-second pitch on how audience members can help in the fight against nuclear proliferation and support nuclear security worldwide.
“Capture the moment, capture the imagination and create a new movement,” Fortenberry said. “The future of civilization is at stake.”
“Learn more,” Lugar said.
Attendee Brad Hong (COL ’16) said he appreciated the opportunity to hear from former and current leaders in nuclear security policy and said that nuclear threat policy is an ongoing, generational issue.
“Though the speakers practiced a healthy relationship of banter amongst each other, none cracked a smile when discussing the ominous possibility that just one instance was enough to change the history of our world,” Hong said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 20, 2015 by Emily Tu Leave a Comment 
Improving communication between physicians and patients with a focus on cultural awareness is crucial to facilitate more effective medical care for people of Asian descent, according to researchers from the Georgetown University Medical Center.
Due to cultural beliefs held by many members of the Asian community, developing a mutual understanding on both sides of a patient-doctor relationship is essential, according to Dr. Judy Huei-yu Wang, an associate professor of population sciences at Lombardi who studies the impact of culture on cancer screening and survivorship experiences among Asian-Americans.
Wang is currently directing three studies about mammography and colon cancer screenings in Chinese-Americans, in which she is studying culturally appropriate responses and from which she drew insight into improved practices for physicians.
Wang highlighted cultural practices as a significant factor affecting the medical care Asian cancer patients receive.
“Many of them have cultural beliefs that affect communication between physicians and patients,” Wang said. “For example, they aren’t accustomed to preventive concepts like screening, and they may lack knowledge about their cancer risks. They often think that seeing a physician is only for when they are sick and need to be treated.”
Fatalistic views of cancer, a lack of trust in professional medical care and deference to authority are also integral components of cultural norms that impact the physician-patient relationship, according to Wang.
“It’s really about the communication with the physician,” Wang said. “Some physicians may not understand that Asians might be trying to respect the physician’s busy schedule by not raising additional questions or asking for further explanations. But the physicians could take that to mean the patients already understand all of the information.”
Wang and Dr. Aiwu Ruth He, a Lombardi oncologist who specializes in liver and stomach cancers, are using their research to navigate the difficulties of increasing both cancer screening and clinical trial enrollment rates among Asians.
The local D.C. population is more than 9 percent Asian, and that demographic is increasing.
However, according to a 2014 study Wang co-authored, the rates of cancer screening and clinical trial participation among Asian Americans remain low, despite other studies indicating cancer as the leading cause of death among the demographic group.
Encouraging Asian participation in clinical trials is essential not only to aiding individual patients, but also to contributing to the development of more effective treatments for the population group as a whole, according to He.
“We know that the U.S. is a melting pot,” He said. “Yet if you look at clinical trials, the majority of patients participating are Caucasian. So we might not be able to identify benefits or effectiveness of specific treatments to certain racial or ethnic groups. If Asian patients don’t participate in clinical trials, we don’t have that data, which otherwise could potentially help the whole community.”
According to both He and Wang, an emphasis on self-care in Asian communities, which typically involves taking a natural approach to health through a balanced diet, herbal medicine and regular exercise, is an important cultural aspect to consider when providing medical care.
In terms of other factors influencing the medical care of Asian patients, both researchers said that language barriers are not significant issues in themselves, but are rather rooted in cultural differences.
“You need to look at what we mean by language barriers,” He said. “Patients may understand the surface meaning of certain words, but may not understand their deeper implications, especially if they aren’t exposed to a certain part of history or culture that most people, if they had been raised here, would have had exposure to.”
Among other possible solutions, both researchers highlighted culturally sensitive communication and education as crucial aspects of a medical process that could enhance Asian patient care.
“The main thing is to educate patients using tools they view as acceptable,” Wang said. “For example, we use videos of breast cancer survivors’ testimonials that they can relate to, which triggers their participation in screening tests. We need to make information culturally understandable.”
Wang hoped that her research would contribute to improving overall health incomes among patients from varied cultural backgrounds.
“There are not many researchers who understand how culture can influence people’s behavior,” Wang said. “Patient care needs to take into account different cultural beliefs — only then can we truly reduce health disparities.”
Joyce Zheng (MSB ’18), a Chinese-American student from New Jersey, said that the research highlighted issues in medical care for Asian patients she had not initially considered.
“I think it’s interesting that this research has been able to link cultural beliefs and Asian medical care,” Zheng said. “Especially the point about an emphasis on self-care, that’s something I’ve personally experienced growing up in an Asian household. I’ve never really thought about medical care in cultural terms before.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

