
February 10, 2015 by Campus News Editor Leave a Comment 
Rabbi Dr. Abraham Skorka, who co-wrote “Sobre el Cielo y la Tierra” (On Heaven and Earth) with Pope Francis, spoke about Jewish-Catholic relations as well as the need for limits on freedom of speech regarding religion in a discussion. The event was organized by the Office of the President, the Embassy of Argentina and Masorti Olami (also known as The World Council of Conservative/Masorti Synagogues) in Riggs Library Tuesday afternoon.
Skorka accompanied the pontiff as part of the papal entourage in the Middle East in May 2014. Since then the two have been working closely together in an attempt to develop meaningful dialogue between Jews and Catholics.
For Skorka, “real dialogue” involves active planning and commitment to future events as opposed to talk for the sake of talk.
“We approach each other knowing that both of us are very, very committed with the idea of real dialogue, not just tea and sympathy, but the real dialogue,” Skorka said.
Skorka then turned his focus to the role of the Catholic Church under Pope Pius XII during the Holocaust.
Skorka said that that some critics say that the Pope had the opportunity to save Jews, but his silence instead permitted the death of more Jews.
Skorka also discussed the current Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the connection between anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism, largely due to the role of the media. For Skorka, the media have distorted the meaning of the word Zionism.
“As all of you know, the word Zionism was transformed by the media into a bad word, a bad term. And the image of the Jews in the Diaspora was distorted by the misuse and misinterpretation of the word Zionism,” Skorka said.
Program for Jewish Civilization Director Jacques Berlinerblau moderated the discussion, and said he recognized this shift from anti-Zionism into anti-Semitism.
“I see an equation that we are very familiar with in Washington that anti-Zionism degrades easily into anti-Semitism,” Berlinerblau said.
This shift towards anti-Semitism has had lethal effects, most recently with the recent terrorist attack in Paris, which targeted Jews.
“Nowadays Zionism is a kind of anti-Semitism. Think about what occurred in Paris,” Skorka said.“Okay, the conflict is in the Middle East, it is between Israel and Palestine. Why did they attack a kosher supermarket? They didn’t know exactly if the clients in the supermarket are more Zionist, against the idea of a Jewish state in Israel — they knew nothing. … The only thing they knew is ‘We must attack Jews.’ And the ideology of them is anti-Zionist.”
The question of freedom of speech that has arisen in the context of the Charlie Hebdo attack brought up a debate about the depth of media criticism. Skorka said that today’s media and public fail to evaluate information as critically and deeply as those living a generation ago. Historically, Jewish intellectuals have been strong supporters of freedom of speech. “Here in the United States, freedom of speech has traditionally been a Jewish issue,” Berlinerblau said. “Some of the greatest defenders of the right of American freedom of speech, especially in the 1960s, were Jewish intellectuals.”
However, Skorka said he supports limited freedom of speech in cases where the speech is meant only to degrade others. Skorka said that this type of speech is only an abuse of the freedom.
Trixia Apiado (SFS ’18), who attended the event, applauded the common ground that Pope Francis and Jewish leaders have been able to reach in their dialogue.
“I’m from the Philippines and I followed Pope Francis’ visit in the Philippines this past week, so it’s nice to see another religious denomination speaking about the same thing,” Apiado said. “It’s just [about] helping the poorest no matter what their identities are and no matter what their religions are.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 10, 2015 by Tom Garzillo 6 Comments 
The 2015 Georgetown University Student Association election, which began Thursday at midnight in Red Square, features five student pairs, who have publicized their platforms on their respective websites and social media pages. The presidential and vice presidential tickets include Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Connor Rohan (COL ’16), Sara Margolis (COL ’16) and Ryan Shymansky (COL ’16), Abbey McNaughton (COL ’16) and Will Simons (COL ’16), Tim Rosenberger (COL ’16) and Reno Varghese (SFS ’16), and Chris Wadibia (COL ’16) and Meredith Cheney (COL ’16). A sixth candidate group of Mike Minahan (COL ’16) and Stephen Paduano (COL ’16) officially withdrew from the race Sunday morning. The candidates will discuss their platforms further in two debates on Feb. 11 and Feb. 16 and the race will culminate in a vote Feb. 19.

YOUTOPIA
Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Connor Rohan (COL ’16) have developed a satirical platform called “YouTopia” in order to bring issues within the university and GUSA to light. The platform addresses topics such as religious pluralism, transfer students and student funding through satire.
One example of satire in the Luther-Rohan platform is its description of student athletes. The platform states that student athletes should have, “first access to lifeboats in the event of a great flood” and, “get to be President of Georgetown for a day.” Rohan said that satire allows the campaign to criticize the university and its treatment of athletes.
“The athletics portion is clear satire of the amount of privileges they’re giving to athletes,” Rohan said. “I believe that it can be a little insane sometimes, and the amount of privileges that are afforded to athletes are not in the spirit of academia. The university, first and foremost, is meant to, in my opinion, serve the students.”
Despite the satirical elements of the platform, Luther and Rohan remain entirely serious on their description of student health. The Luther-Rohan ticket resolves to increase support for mental health by subsidizing CAPS appointments and expanding its emergency call services, work with the administration to prioritize disability access and improve sexual assault resources by training all employees on Title IX.
“If we don’t touch [health], it looks bad,” Rohan said. “If we make fun of it, it’s terrible and tasteless. And if we do it right not only does it show that we’re serious, but it shows that we are cognizant of the most important issues that people are facing at Georgetown.”
The ticket also aims to increase student involvement in GUSA, especially in relation to the 2018 campus plan.
“I think GUSA’s biggest failing is that it really does not mobilize the student base well,” Luther said. “At the end of the day, GUSA’s power does not lie in one or two individuals, or the executive position, or the senators or things like that. Its power lies in mobilizing the people and allowing them to have a say what is going on in the university.”

BELIEVE IN GEORGETOWN
Sara Margolis (COL ’16) and Ryan Shymansky’s (COL ’16) platform, at approximately 30 pages, is the longest of the five tickets. Through a focus on diversity, student experience, cura personalis, social justice and education, the pair hopes to serve as advocates for the student body.
The platform is unique in its call for a $5 million Student Activities Capital Campaign, which will partner over the next five years with the Georgetown University Alumni and Student Federal Credit Union, 1634 Society, the Office of Advancement and the Alumni Association to solicit donations from alumni that will go directly to funding student organizations.
In the student experience portion, Margolis and Shymansky emphasized the importance of the upcoming 2018 Campus Plan, in which the pair will fight to forgo the construction of new buildings until necessary renovations of existing residence halls occur. Similarly, the pair plans to push the university to sign a Green Space Agreement that will require every foot of green space removed by future construction to be replaced in exact square footage elsewhere on campus.
Other major components of the platform focus on marginalized groups ranging from transfer students to undocumented students to veterans to minorities to those identifying as LGBTQ.
“If you flip through our platform, we have specific micro-level policies for every single one of those marginalized student groups, every single one,” Shymansky said. “And in a lot of cases we are the only platform that addresses those specifically.”
The pair also said that exploring options for a new food distributor would be a priority since Aramark’s contract with the university expires in 2016.

RISE TOGETHER
Abbey McNaughton (COL ’16) and Will Simons’ (COL ’16) “Rise Together” platform aims to promote cultural change within GUSA by engaging and representing the entire student body. Their platform promotes constant interaction and collaboration with student organizations and leaders and McNaughton and Simons have committed to meet with one student representative from every student organization on campus, but have not defined “student organization” definitively.
To encourage GUSA involvement with student groups, the platform is collaborative, with sections written by specific student leaders and alumni with expertise in certain issues such as dining, entrepreneurship and free speech.
“I’m not only talking about bringing in new people and making sure every single student group is represented or feel as if they can get involved or share their problems with GUSA, but also make sure that GUSA is actively engaging the students, even with really easy things like social media and revamping emails,” Simons said. “It’s supposed represent all 7,500 of us.”
Some major initiatives in the McNaughton-Simons campaign include plans to increase student involvement in the 2018 campus plan by encouraging administrators to share information and collaborate with student leaders, to increase the student activities fee to ensure all Georgetown students have equal opportunity to student organizations and to advocate for increased mental health support on campus.
In addition, they hope to advocate for students with demonstrated need by providing a fund for clothing and transportation to internships, as well as a fund to help students cover the cost of laundry.
“We know that students don’t think GUSA does much,” McNaughton said. “We are committed to changing that. I think that our campaign and platform represents that and I want people to trust in that and vote.”

FOR THE LOVE OF GEORGETOWN
Tim Rosenberger (COL ’16) and Reno Varghese’s (SFS ’16) platform is a mix of short-term and long-term goals that ultimately look to better the school “for the love of Georgetown,” as stated in the campaign’s slogan.
Short-term projects include reform of CAPS and mental health, funding reform, improving workers’ rights and the quality of food at Leo’s, expanding the What’s a Hoya? Program, making the GU Farmer’s Market a larger part of campus and adding a more diverse selection of newspapers to the College Readership program.
Long-term goals include addressing the 2018 campus plan, increasing the Provost’s budget contribution to the student activities budget, making the campus more accessible to all students and improving life for transfer students.
The Rosenberger-Varghese platform addresses other aspects of Georgetown as well, such as athletics: ensuring the renovation of Kehoe Field, increasing the number of academic advisors for athletes and granting club sports greater access to varsity resources.
In the realm of academic life, the pair is seeking to greatly expand the academic opportunities available to undergraduates. This includes allowing SFS students to minor in MSB, NHS and College majors and allowing students in the NHS, MSB and SFS to get a certificate — or more than one certificate — in traditionally College minors.
One especially contentious issue that Rosenberger and Varghese look to mend is off-campus housing. They propose allowing juniors who live off-campus their junior year with the intent to return their senior year to receive four full housing points.
Eliminating special restrictions on off-campus students, increasing student representation on the Georgetown Advisory Neighborhood Commission and creating an online portal to allow students to advertise available housing are included in their platform as well.
Varghese said that his and Rosenberger’s platform is made of more than empty talking points.
“We didn’t want anything in our platform, any major campaign push, to be something you think about and ask, ‘Can anybody actually do that?’” Varghese said. “We think we can work with the fundamentals and make them better.”

DIGNITY
Chris Wadibia (COL ’16) and Meredith Cheney (COL ’16), whose slogan is “Dignity,” established an 18-point platform, separated into three core principles entitled “Washington and the World,” “Access and Transparency” and “Spirit and Service.”
“Washington and the World” focuses on providing students with opportunities beyond Georgetown, particularly with the Washington, D.C., and international community, through a series of programs. One of the campaign’s most publicized programs is “Finance Your Future,” which aims to provide students with tax assistance and classes on personal financial management taught by Georgetown alumni.
The campaign also plans on integrating student input as part of the “Access and Transparency” section.
In addition to revamping policies related to free speech, sexual assault and mental health, Wadibia and Cheney hope to establish a philanthropy trust to allow students with demonstrated need to apply for funds to specific expenses, such as flights home during breaks.
The third section of the campaign, “Spirit and Service,” mainly aims to expand service-oriented initiatives on campus, from increasing sustainability efforts to providing more funding for the Center for Social Justice.
Although the platform lists out the campaign’s priorities, there are few details on how and when its programs will be implemented.
Wadibia said that the succinctness of their platform makes it accessible to students.
“Our platform is succinct because we know students aren’t going to read a 30-40 page platform,” Wadibia said. “But an 18-point platform that’s maybe three pages in length is something that they could read in literally three minutes. So as a result, our platform focuses on making practical efforts.”
Cheney said that the platform is more focused on the candidates’ passion for the programs rather than its details.
“Something that is near and dear to both of us is the overall concept of our platform. It is more vague,” Cheney said. “Ours is so unique in that it’s [our] desire and drive to be so inclusive of everybody. It’s beyond something that we can put on paper.”
 
Hoya Staff Writers Mallika Sen, Andrew Wallender, Toby Hung and Deirdre Collins contributed reporting.

Anonymous says 
February 10, 2015 at 3:58 pm
I will say that I think the Abbey/Will platform is the most pragmatic. They really do touch the most number of issues in depth without writing 30-40 pages. I like that Chris/Meredith chose to keep it short, but I don’t think they touched on the important issues GUSA has the capacity to work on. Their platform really does list a bunch of ideas that aren’t related to GUSA at all….Great ideas, but maybe better suited for already existing community service organizations on campus. GUSA’s purpose is student advocacy, particularly related to student life….I like Sara/Ryan’s platform too….but it’s way too long. I also have a problem with their dining platform, as there isn’t really anything actionable.

Anonymous says 
February 10, 2015 at 5:28 pm
Is Abbey and Will’s videographer single? The one with the long hair and round glasses?

Anonymous says 
February 10, 2015 at 5:42 pm
I tried to read Chris and Meredith’s platform but I felt…. guilty. 
I kept seeing the word Dignity. 
I grew up Catholic and I still have nightmares from when my mother would instill Dignity in me with a wooden paddle

Anonymous says 
February 10, 2015 at 7:58 pm
I really felt better reading the commitments to improvements in dining, restrictive housing, and free speech in Abbey and Will’s campaign. They mix the idealism of a good passionate candidate with the pragmatism of what GUSA can actually influence and seem hopeful to improve GUSA’s role on campus in a realistic and meaningful way

A Student says 
February 10, 2015 at 9:11 pm
Thoughts on platforms:
Joe and Connor: Obviously not serious and pretty damn funny.
Sara and Ryan: Way too long, highly derivative, and the primary thing they seem to focus on is the $5 Million student activities idea, which is absurd and makes no sense anyway you look at it.  
Abbey and Will: Pretty good, I don’t see any signature ideas, but its through and I like the way that they cited who wrote each parts of the platform instead of pretending that they are subject experts on everything. Overall a very polished product. 
Tim and Reno: The decision to break everything up on their website makes their platform almost impossible to read, but from what I can tell, it looks pretty good. Very similar to Abbey and Will’s campaign at certain points, but they generally cover everything and have some unique ideas. Their funding proposals seem very optimistic though and almost impossible to implement short term. 
Chris and Meredith: I thought their platform page was a summary page and looked for more. Now that I understand it is approximately 3 pages long, I question the seriousness of the candidates. Most ideas are small in scope, like the bricks, some are ludicrous, and they ignore the concerns of basically 3/4ths of campus.

Um...really? says 
February 11, 2015 at 4:05 pm
“Something that is near and dear to both of us is the overall concept of our platform. It is more vague,” Cheney said. “Ours is so unique in that it’s [our] desire and drive to be so inclusive of everybody. It’s beyond something that we can put on paper.”
Honestly, this seems like an excuse for churning out a badly done platform. Sure, there may be some concepts that are hard to write, but you should have nonetheless tried. I think their campaign is focusing too much on appearance and not enough on substance.
I really liked how Abbey and Will incorporated comments from numerous people on Georgetown’s campus. In that sense, theirs is the most comprehensive and inclusive.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 10, 2015 by Kristen Fedor 1 Comment 
Rhino Bar & Pumphouse, the popular M Street sports bar, will be closing its doors Feb. 28.
Manager George Kennedy confirmed Rhino is not renewing its lease when it expires at the end of the month, citing the rising rent cost as reason for the closure. The bar is owned by restauranteur Britt Swan.
“The landlords decided to rent it out to somebody else,” he said. “They were asking for more than we could afford. They found someone that was willing to pay that amount.”
Kennedy also said the bar is not looking to relocate.
“This is the end of the establishment,” he said.
Rhino has been an oft-frequented spot by Georgetown students since its opening in 1998. 3295 M St., where Rhino is housed, has been home to a bar since the Shamrock opened in 1952. After the Shamrock’s closure in 1972, Winstons Bar occupied the location until Rhino’s entrance near the end of the millennium.
Kennedy said that a clothing store would take the location of the establishment but could not provide additional details. However, the listing is still available on the website of Asadoorian Retail Solutions, which is representing the property.
Hunter Dougherty (SFS ’15) frequently went to Rhino and said he will miss the bar when it closes.
“Next to [The] Tombs, Rhino was really the last bar catering to university students in the Georgetown area. There was something terribly endearing about that dive bar and it was a fundamental part of the fabric of Georgetown’s social scene,” Dougherty said. “Rhino was the Tombs’ rowdier cousin and the two went hand in hand as the pillars of the university’s bar scene.”
Rhino’s shutdown follows the closure or relocation of multiple bars in the Georgetown area. The Guards shut down in August 2012, The Third Edition closed in January 2013 and was replaced by Mexican restaurant El Centro D.F. and Modern shuttered its doors in summer 2014, replaced in September by Georgetown Piano Bar. Additionally, Mr. Smith’s moved from its location on M Street to the former Chadwick’s space on K Street.
Dougherty spoke to the area’s diminishing bar scene and said it will have a negative impact on Georgetown student life in the neighborhood.
“[Rhino’s] closure leaves university students with even less options in the Georgetown social scene, which has been progressively less accommodating to students as more retail establishments move into the area and M Street becomes a glorified strip mall instead of a neighborhood,” he said.
Underage students frequented the bar, which had its license temporarily suspended for five days by the D.C. Alcohol Beverage Control Board in July 2014 after it was found to have sold beer to an underage student in February 2013.
Michaela (MSB ’16), whose name has been changed because of underage status, said she thinks the closure of Rhino will force more students to host house parties that last longer.
“I’m hoping that people just have more parties that don’t end at midnight or 12:30 because you can’t go to Rhino, but if they don’t, I guess I’ll either be going to bed earlier or people will choose another bar,” Michaela said. “I just can’t think of anywhere that people would go to that all of their friends could get into as well.”
She added that the closing of Rhino could have negative effects on student social life overall.
“It’s going to be a lot harder, I think, for people to have a college experience,” Michaela said.

C2012 says 
February 10, 2015 at 11:07 am
Isn’t there a bar on campus now? Rhino was always synonymous with d-baggery anyways.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 10, 2015 by Owen Eagan 1 Comment 
Approximately 140 students and staff attended Residential Living’s informational tours of the former Jesuit Residence last Friday. The residence is under construction to become a dormitory beginning next fall.
Tours will continue to be offered every Wednesday and Friday until spring break, as the application to join the Spirit of Georgetown Living and Learning Community at the residence closes this Wednesday. The tours, which run at 4 p.m. every Wednesday and Friday, allow participants to view a mock-up of a six-person apartment on the fourth floor of the Jesuit Residence, which faces the Dahlgren quadrangle.
The sample apartment features two double-occupancy rooms, two single rooms, two full bathrooms, a central kitchen and a living room. Participants are also able to see the furniture designed for the rooms.
The residence includes 18 apartment units in total, including one nine-person, five eight-person, four six-person, five four-person and three three-person rooms.
The university contracted Ayers Saint Gross and Hoffman Architects for the design and construction of the residence, respectively. The Manhattan Construction Group managed the construction within the space.
According to Vice President of Planning and Facilities Management Robin Morey, it was important for the design to respect the historic nature of the building while also meeting the modern needs of the university.
“It really is, because it was an existent facility and not built up from scratch … respecting the past while making sure that we’re trying to meet the needs of the future,” Morey said. “All of that has to come together and you have to make compromises to get the best design that you can, and I think the team’s done a really excellent job here in doing that.”
The layout of the residence combines both aspects traditionally found in other dormitories on campus as well as newer designs.
The dark, hardwood-style vinyl floors of the residence marked the transition of the university’s dormitories away from carpeted floors, except in communal hallways for the purpose of noise reduction.
The residence also has plenty of natural light because of the new energy efficient glass panes placed in the refurbished window frames, which have adorned the residence since the 1930s.
Large spherical lights also hang from the high ceilings of the space, evoking the academic roots of the building in their resemblance to the classic globes often used in classrooms.
Additionally, the furniture in the residence resembles that of other buildings on campus since the university contracted CHL Business Interiors, which also provided the furniture for the Healey Family Student Center.
Other notable features of the FJR include a non-denominational contemplative space to be maintained by the President’s Office in conjunction with Campus Ministries. The great hall in Ryan Hall, which was once the main dining area for the university, will be converted into a group gathering and study space open to all students.
After the tour, students are invited to vote for their choice of furniture to be included in the Great Room of the residence, including a billiards table.
Morey noted that the final design of the residence should reflect the interests of students, many of whom have been following the design of the space at planning meetings since planning began in December 2013.
“It’s trying to take the best of everything that we know that the student body likes and fit it into a program in the existing building to the extent that we can,” Morey said.
Executive Director for Residential Services Patrick Killilee, who served as a tour guide on Friday, said that many students reacted positively to the design.
“I have not been on a tour with anybody who has not been just sort of awed by just being present in the space … we don’t build — and not we as in Georgetown — we as people don’t build like this anymore,” Killilee said. “You don’t walk into buildings that just have 18-foot ceilings above the entry level, so these are unique.”
Clara Cecil (MSB ’18) found the residence to be highly appealing.
“I think that it’s beautiful and that it would be an ideal living space,” Cecil said.
Courtney Maduike (SFS ’17) toured the building and said that she loved the representation of both the past and the future in the design.
“I love that they care so much about student input and approval in the renovation of the old Jesuit residence,” Maduike wrote in an email. “It’s an interesting and beautiful way to combine the traditional spirit of Georgetown, represented by the Jesuits, with the new, represented by the university’s current students. I absolutely love the building.”
Correction: An original article stated that tours ran from 2:00 p.m. to 4:45 p.m. on Wednesdays and Fridays. In fact, the tours run Wednesdays and Fridays at 4:00 p.m. for an hour.

Lancelot Wathieu says 
March 24, 2015 at 12:22 pm
Are they running tours or mockups of the FJR anymore?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 10, 2015 by Margaret Heftler 2 Comments 
As the five tickets campaign for the Georgetown University Student Association executive position, hundreds of fliers and social media blasts will go up, seemingly countless meet-and-greets will be held and thousands of doors will be knocked on.
Three election commissioners — Pavan Rajgopal (SFS ’14), Alden Fletcher (SFS ’17) and Grady Willard (SFS ’18) — are responsible for making sure these campaign activities all adhere to standards.
According to his LinkedIn account, Rajgopal graduated from Georgetown in December 2014. He remains a non-voting election commissioner, and provides advice and support to the Fletcher and Willard. GUSA President and Vice President Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) and Omika Jikaria (SFS ’15) allowed Rajgopal to remain on the commission since, firstly, it would be difficult and unreasonable to find a commissioner with enough knowledge in such a short time period after Rajgopal’s graduation, and secondly, because Rajgopal is the only member of the team with previous experience in a GUSA executive election.
The GUSA Election Commission enforces all GUSA bylaws during elections and audits the campaigns upon suspicion of broken rules.
“[The Election Commission members] are supposed to audit the candidates’ campaigns and make sure they’re within their spending limits, not fliering in places they’re not supposed to be. And if they find a candidate has violated those regulations, they are then supposed to issue sanctions,” GUSA Constitutional Council Chief Justice Josh Shinbrot (COL ’16) said.
The GUSA Constitutional Council oversees and regulates the Election Commission to ensure fair elections and is composed of three justices, who are charged with interpreting the bylaws and regulations of GUSA. These justices are appointed by the GUSA president and are tenured for the length of their undergraduate years. The Constitutional Council is the final board of appeals in all GUSA matters and its decisions are binding.
The Election Commission, on the other hand, strictly exists for the purpose of overseeing elections, and its members are also appointed by the GUSA president and tenured for the duration of their undergraduate career.
The commission moderates two information sessions before each GUSA executive race in order to go over election rules and requirements and closely oversees and communicates with candidates throughout the campaign period. In addition, the commission moderates two debates, which this year will occur on Feb. 11 and Feb. 16. They set time limits for the entirety of the debate including opening and closing statements and manage campus media and student questions throughout the events.
The Election Commission also plays a crucial role in the voting process.
“We count the votes and make sure that whole process goes smoothly,” Willard said.
Sanctions imposed by the Election Commission include anything from listing a candidate on the ballot below the write-in section to striking a candidate from the election altogether. Potential infractions include spending over the $300 limit on campaigning, campaigning before the official start of the season and setting up a campaign-sponsored electronic voting booth or locations on campus.
“It’s been at least four years since the election commission has actually sanctioned a candidate,” Shinbrot said. “I think 2009 was the last time someone was struck from the ballot, so it’s been a while.”
In February 2009, two GUSA executive tickets were disqualified by the Election Commission for poster violations. However, the Constitutional Council invalidated the ruling, the Election Commission members resigned and a new election with all eight original tickets and new election commissioners was held.
This year’s group of election commissioners includes two first-time commissioners, Willard and Fletcher. They replaced two election commissioners who graduated in 2014. One of last year’s commissioners Ethan Chess (COL ’14) brought the election commission into focus in January 2014 after filing a petition requesting the invalidation of a GUSA senate speaker election.
His knowledge of GUSA bylaws led him to send the petition to the Constitutional Council, since such an action is not under the jurisdiction of the Election Commission.
The new commissioners were appointed in the fall by GUSA President Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) after they applied for the position on Hoyalink. Willard said he applied because of his previous interest in student government.
“I had experience with elections in high school and thought it would be a unique experience to see what gets Georgetown students passionate and excited,” Willard said.
While the young age of the new commissioners might be viewed as a disadvantage, Fletcher said Rajgopal’s two-time experience provides a rubric for fulfilling duties. Rajgopal, who already graduated Georgetown in December 2014, is still involved in the commission after graduation, and serves as a non-voting member. Rajgopal said that the commission operates on consent with GUSA by-laws, so a third voter, or tie-breaker, is unnecessary.
“I don’t think it’s terribly much of a disadvantage because we do have Pavan, who’s been here for a while and knows a lot of stuff,” Fletcher said. “So we’ve had the chance to work with him during the senate election, which went very smoothly.”
Willard said he also did not think his age would pose a problem.
“I don’t really think it will influence proceedings that much,” Willard said. “There’s a list of the rules we follow, and we have a senior on the commission, a sophomore and I’m a first-year, and I think we have a good, varied experience.”
Rajgopal said that he would work to serve as a mentor to the two new commission members.
“I think the system is a lot more valuable in that the new election commissioners, Grady and Alden, are going to get experience during this election, and I’ll be able to walk them through that,” Rajgopal said. “But there’s not going to be another situation in which there’s two vacancies and two new people need to join. As much as possible, I’m trying to let them handle the process and do the work to make sure they understand all the rules and procedures. In the spring we’ll probably nominate a new freshman to take my place and they’ll be able to pass all the knowledge down to him or her.”
All of the commissioners shared the same hope that the current election will run smoothly. Fletcher said that having a competitive and idea-driven race is crucial.
“As always, I think it’s important to have a competitive race, in which it’s not just people being discussed but ideas as well, and so we welcome the kind of competitive atmosphere that comes with it,” Fletcher said.
He also said that the tone of the race is just as important.
“We don’t want it to have a destructive or negative tone in a way that just won’t be beneficial to the long term health of Georgetown’s student body and a way that people are not seeing the value in the rules or deliberately flaunting them,” Fletcher said. “And luckily, so far, I haven’t seen anything of that nature. We have some very good campaigns being run right now and they’re all doing their best, as far as I can tell.”
 
Correction: A previous article stated that The Hoya was unsure as to how Rajgopal continues to serve on the Election Commission due to his graduation in December 2014. In fact, Rajgopal did graduate in December 2014, but now serves as a non-voting, advising member of the Election Commission by order of GUSA President and Vice President Tezel and Jikaria.

Pavan Rajgopal says 
February 11, 2015 at 1:26 am
Hey Folks,
The Hoya didn’t give me the chance to comment on the questions raised about my status in the article before it went to press because an imminent print deadline (as a former Hoya staff writer, I completely understand that pressure), so I feel compelled to clarify some details – not that I’m narcissistic enough to think that most students are genuinely interested in the dealings of the people behind the figurative ballot box!
 I did indeed graduate in December 2014 for personal and financial reasons, although I will only walk in May with the Class of 2015 and continue to live a few blocks from campus and participate in other activities. Typically, we would nominate a replacement for a graduating member in the Spring to replace a graduating senior and planned to do so after these elections. However, I  only decided to graduate over Winter Break. Given the short turnaround between my graduation and the election, we did not feel it would be prudent to add a completely new voting member two weeks before the Exec Campaign.
The GUSA Constitution does stipulate that Election Commissioners serve as members only as long as they are members of the student body, so yes, I am not a voting member of the commission and would not be allowed to vote in a dispute with Alden and Grady. That said, the election rules in the GUSA By-Laws don’t leave much room for interpretation and we have operated on the basis of consent for as long as I’ve been on the commission. While we do have a younger commission due to two graduations last year, both Alden and Grady played a large role in administering the Fall Senate Elections and are very familiar with the Election Rules and vote tabulation process. Because I am still living in Georgetown and did not line up a replacement, I continue to provide them with historical knowledge about executive elections and advise them on rules and procedures. I also help to answer the dozens of emails we get from candidates on a regular basis and hope to help moderate the upcoming Presidential Debate. It would have been unfair, in my opinion, to dump all responsibility on these two because of a snap decision to graduate early.
If any campaigns are uncomfortable with my role in assisting Grady and Alden, I would be happy to relinquish my duties altogether. But I don’t anticipate a response like that…I suppose without a new round of Stewardghazi, this is the best we can do to find insider GUSA drama to entertain 1/20th of the student body to actively follow without actually discussing platforms that affect the other 19/20ths. I only hope my decision did not distract us from the campaign for an institution that, for all its apparent flaws, genuinely impacts our campus experience.
Happy Campaigning and Hoya Saxa!
Pavan

Trevor Tezel says 
February 11, 2015 at 1:43 pm
Happy to shine some more light on this issue. Pavan is not an enrolled student, but he is the only person on the Election Commission who has experience running an executive election. We wanted to be able to rely on his experience, while recognizing that the Student Organization Standards restrict his participation. Omika and I came to the decision that he would remain on as an Election Commissioner. However, if a dispute arises, his vote will not count. A 1:1 tie among the two remaining election commissioners will throw the issue to the Constitutional Council.
Happy to answer any more questions on this. I can be reached by email ([email protected]) or phone 321-806-9164.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 10, 2015 by Alicia Che Leave a Comment 
The next Georgetown University Student Association executive, who will be elected next week, will play an important role in the upcoming negotiations for the 2018 Campus Plan.
The university and the neighboring community will negotiate to solidify plans for the next 20 years of construction and maintenance around campus as part of the 2018 Campus Plan. Contentious negotiations for the 2010 Campus Plan required the university to house more students on campus, necessitating extensive construction projects around campus.
According to Associate Vice President for Community Engagement and Strategic Initiatives Lauralyn Lee, who heads the Office of Community Engagement, the negotiation process has already commenced, and the incoming GUSA leadership will take up an important role in the process.
“What we have been doing through [Georgetown Community Partnership] in the past two-and-a-half years is developing and working through the elements of the substance of what will compose of the plan,” Lee said. “We have lots of forums for student meetings in residence halls around specific projects, an open forum every semester, as well as GUSA-led working group focused on planning issues. All these activities [are] an effort to involve GUSA leadership and other students in the planning process.”
The GUSA executive has taken up a central role in Georgetown Community Partnership, the forum created as part of Georgetown University’s 2010 Campus Plan, to facilitate discussion, information sharing and consensus-based decision-making on issues of shared concern to the university and the neighborhood.
The GCP is led by a steering committee made up of university leaders, neighborhood civic leadership and the GUSA President.
Current GUSA President Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) said that the future executive leadership must have a strong grasp of student needs to advocate effectively on behalf of the student body during the negotiation.
“It’s going to take a strong executive that’s prepared to state and articulate student principles that are non-negotiable, but still at the same time be willing to come to the table so that we can get an agreement that can be hammered out in unison with the principal that the university and the neighborhood want to advance as well,” Tezel said.
Advisory Neighborhood Commissioner Reed Howard (SFS ’17) noted that since the GUSA president is the only student representative on the GCP steering committee and the master planning subcommittee, the winner of the Feb. 19 election would thus play an integral role in the future negotiations.
“The campus plan will affect the next 20 years of student life on the Hilltop, and we need an executive team with extensive knowledge and relationships in this area so that they can immediately hit the ground running as effective representatives,” Howard wrote in an email. “Right now the advocacy effort on behalf of the student body is fragmented and in need of greater coordination. The GUSA executive is uniquely positioned to mobilize the student body in a single direction.”
Promoting student representation in neighborhood organizations to increase the student voice in community affairs has been a focus for GUSA executives in the past few years, including Tezel and GUSA Vice President Omika Jikaria (SFS ‘15). Because of the sole student voice on the steering committee, six working groups were created under the steering committee to involve a greater level of student representation, which GUSA has helped to provide.
GUSA Undersecretary for Neighborhood Relations Olivia Hinerfeld (SFS ’17) noted that over the past year, the executive had primarily worked with increasing student representation in the GCP working groups and on the Advisory Neighborhood Commission. Two of the eight single-member districts of ANC2E, the region that includes Georgetown, feature student representatives: Howard and Kendyl Clausen (SFS ’16).
“I think that’s certainly the most important issue for students, particularly with the 2018 Campus Plan — ensuring that we have students involved at every point in the process,” Hinerfeld said.
Despite the variety of students working on the campus plan issue, GUSA senate Speaker Tyler Bridge (COL ’17) pointed to a lack of coordination between the executive and the senate as an area for improvement under the next administration in anticipation of future negotiations.
“Basically, what we have right now is a system of GUSA meeting once a week or twice a week with upper-echelon administrators in certain boards and certain meetings, and the president is supposed to convey that to the cabinet and somehow supposed to trickle down into the senate,” Bridge said. “I do not think that’s how we should work at all.”
Beyond the neighborhood, the GUSA president and vice president also represent the student body in wider city affairs, according to Tezel.
“Just a couple of weeks ago we were at a town summit to discuss some of the issues that Mayor [Muriel] Bowser was going to be facing as she took over. And we were able to provide feedback along with other D.C. committee members,” Tezel said.
Lee similarly highlighted Tezel and Jikaria’s work with voter registration.
“GUSA leadership has been involved in student voting — registering to vote in the District — so that we have the power of their voice as a District resident, in both city and local policy and federal policy,” Lee said.
With the increasing importance of neighborhood relations, the next president and vice president will likely continue the trend of occupying a neighborhood relations cabinet position that will work with the Office of Community Engagement to coordinate community events.
“Both the past and current GUSA had cabinet positions that were focused on neighborhood relations and D.C. relations. People in these roles have helped to recruit students for neighborhood events that our neighborhood association put on like picnic in the summer, community days or concerts,” Assistant Director of Community Engagement Jamie Scott said. “We think it’s important that students are participating in community life and to get students involved in neighborhood activities.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 10, 2015 by Tom Garzillo 6 Comments 
None of the 10 candidates running for Georgetown University Student Association executive office hold membership in a secret society, compared to four of eight candidates in last year’s election.
Secret societies dominated media coverage of the 2013 GUSA executive race, with the discovery of leaked emails revealing the identities of several members of the Second Society of Stewards, including one GUSA executive candidate and the current GUSA chief of staff. Last year, four candidates running for executive office confirmed involvement in secret societies. The Stewards and an offshoot known as the Thirds are the main secret societies on campus.
Presidential candidate Chris Wadibia (COL ’16) and vice-presidential candidate Will Simons (COL ’16) have both said that the Stewards approached them, but neither is a member. Neither clarified if they were contacted by the Seconds or the Thirds.
Simons said that he was approached last year, but after speaking with “a couple individuals,” he was never contacted again.
Wadibia said he was “very impressed by their mission statement and what they go about doing,” but he could not say anything else about the process.
“They stress one thing: utmost discretion that you don’t discuss anything with anyone,” Wadibia said. “I’m not at liberty to go into the details of it in regard to what we discussed.”
The Society of Stewards is a long-standing, all-male Georgetown secret society, comprised of both alumni and students, but few specific details are known to the general public. The group is believed to be largely conservative and Catholic, had strong ties to the Georgetown Academy, a conservative publication, and was founded by known conservative students.
The group, founded in 1982, remained a secret until 1988, when Rev. Joseph T. Durkin, S.J., moderator of the Stewards and a Georgetown professor, revealed its existence in The Hoya after he objected to the group’s secrecy and refusal to admit women. The organization existed as a single society until a schism in 1982 led to the formation of the Second Society, now known as the main branch of the Stewards, after the “first” society went defunct. The Third Steward Society also has cropped up as an offshoot of the first two groups.
Following Durkin’s exposure of the group, leadership announced that the Stewards would be dissolved. Despite this announcement, the society operated in total secrecy until 2001.
In 2001, then-Speaker of the Stewards Society Adam Carter (COL ’87, LAW ’91) explained the organization in an article published in the now-defunct Georgetown Academy. Carter said that the mission of the Stewards is to “inspire service to our school, and aspire to the building of character in young men, that they may be better sons, husbands, and fathers” in the article.
The Stewards have also been known to make donations to campus groups, including the Philodemic Society and Mask and Bauble. According to the records of the Stewards Charitable Trust, the society had nearly $150,000 in total assets in 2012. Manual Miranda (SFS ’82), a conservative GOP former congressional aide and lawyer with involvement in the State Department, co-founded the Stewards in 1982. In 1992, Miranda led a campaign to request Georgetown to withhold funds from a pro-choice student group. The campaign was successful and solidified the society’s conservative ties.
Simons and his running mate Abbey McNaughton (COL ’16) are linked with prominent Steward alum and Head of D.C. Alumni Association Sean Redmond (SFS ’97, GRD ’00, MBA ’11), who worked with the ticket to write the alumni and mentorship section of their platform. Redmond, a former photography editor and member of The Hoya’s board of advisers, did not respond to the request for comment. Simons said he chose to work with Redmond because of his expertise and did not consider his Steward ties.
“He’s the head of the D.C. Alumni Association,” Simons said. “He’s obviously very knowledgeable on everything regarding alumni-student relations and that’s why we asked him to help us write that piece of the platform.”
Simons said that a focus on Stewards detracts from the more important parts of each candidate’s platform.
“To be honest, it detracts from the importance of the issues,” Simons said. “I understand that some people think it’s important and I respect that but I think that there are too many important issues, especially this year, that need to be discussed. I think the real issues deserve more attention.”
Presidential candidate Tim Rosenberger (COL ’16) said that he is aware that one member of his campaign staff is a member of the Third Society of Stewards, a group that is not connected to the Second Society. He declined to name the student.
Rosenberger said that he suspects other campaigns have deeper Steward connections.
“We probably have easily the least Steward support of any ticket,” Rosenberger said. “Some of those [other] tickets should be a mining expedition.”
Despite this statement, all of the four remaining tickets said they were not aware of any staffer involvement in any secret society. In addition, all female candidates said that they were not approached by any secret groups, since there are currently no known female secret societies on campus.
Vice-presidential candidate Ryan Shymansky (COL ’16) said that the personal choice to accept membership to the society should not impact the campaign. He was not approached by a secret society.
“I think that we can look at everybody’s individual record, regardless of whether they’re a member of a secret society or not, and say who has the best ideas for Georgetown,” Shymanksy said. “If people want to spend their time in secret societies, that’s fine.”
Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Connor Rohan (COL ’16) spoke sarcastically about the Stewards involvement, and said they were also not approached.
“No, but we’re waiting for it. God d- – – – it Stewards, where are you, why are you even doing this?” Rohan said, regarding offers of membership. “We’re going to drop out if you don’t contact us. We’re going to drop out and we don’t care. Why even be at the school anymore if we don’t have you?”
Rosenberger’s running mate, Reno Varghese (SFS ’16), said that Stewards are not as important as they make themselves out to be.
“I really don’t think it matters,” he said. “You could rename it the Elitist Society and still get the same people.”
During the February 2013 GUSA elections, names of students and alumni members of the Second Stewards were released in an email and public tax returns leak. The revelation that leading candidates and top campaign staffers were Stewards caused a scandal in campus politics when one candidate, Jack Applebaum (COL ’14), was revealed to be a member of the Seconds, and the other, Adam Ramadan (SFS ’14), was revealed to be a member of an unknown secret society. The following year, half of the candidates were revealed to be Stewards.
Current GUSA President Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15), who was approached four times but declined membership, and Vice President Omika Jikaria (SFS ’15) were the only ticket without at least one member in the secret society.
Tezel said that the Stewards’ demand for secrecy and the effect of such a presence at Georgetown were the biggest reasons for his choice to turn down the offer.
“According to Tezel, the existence of secret societies on campus can and has dissuaded non-members from involvement in campus life due to the dominance of leadership positions by members of secret societies, predominantly heterosexual, white, Christian men,” the Tezel-Jikaria campaign said in a statement issued at the time. “This imbalance in resources constitutes socio-structural prejudice and is an institutional barrier to equal opportunity and equal representation on a campus that purports to support social justice.”

Beating A Dead Horse says 
February 10, 2015 at 11:11 pm
There are two separate, independent societies being referenced in this article:
– The Stewards Society
– The Second Steward Society
The Third Steward Society does not exist.

Dead Indeed says 
February 11, 2015 at 7:19 pm
Literally no one cares

Correction says 
February 16, 2015 at 5:31 pm
This article is incorrect in two ways. First, there is a female secret society on campus, I believe it’s called the Sophias. Second, Sara Margolis is a member of that society.

Correction says 
February 16, 2015 at 5:46 pm
This article is incorrect in two ways. First, there is a female secret society on campus, I believe it’s called the Sophias. Second, Sara Margolis is a member of that society.

StewardThroat says 
February 17, 2015 at 8:14 pm
Will Simons is a Steward.

TheRealStewardThroat says 
February 18, 2015 at 4:07 am
Is this StewardThroat or is this Sara Margolis? Because Will Simons is not a Steward…
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 10, 2015 by Charlotte Allen Leave a Comment 
Last year marked the highest charitable donations total given to Georgetown University, mirroring a national trend of increased alumni giving to alma maters.
In the 2014 fiscal year, which ran from July 2013 to June 2014, Georgetown raised $236 million in donations, $40 million more than the previous record total of $189 million in fiscal year 2013. The period was highlighted by the $100 million donation by Frank McCourt Jr. (CAS ’75) to create the McCourt School of Public Policy in September 2013. The donation was the largest received by Georgetown.
“We believe that this marks a transition point, and helps to send a signal that Georgetown is continuing to progress and is maturing into an organization that fundraises and receives support from donors that is consistent with both our peer group and our aspirational peer group,” Vice President for Advancement R. Bartley Moore (SFS ’87) said.
Ongoing fundraising for fiscal year 2015, which began in July 2014, has solicited $72.78 million as of the end of December.
The Georgetown increase reflects a nationwide increase in charitable giving to colleges and universities, which reached a record high in 2014 for the second year in a row, according to a Jan. 28 report in The Chronicle of Higher Education.
Giving across the United States totaled $37.45 billion in 2014, a 10.8 percent increase from 2013 and the highest amount that has been recorded since the survey started in 1957. The Chronicle attributed the increase to an explosion of wealth, rather than an increase in income.
According to Senior Director of Campaign Management and Donor Relations Stephanie Jacobson-Landon, trends in charitable giving strongly correlate with the state of the economy and the stock market — the increases have occurred since the end of the recession.
“It really does map closely to the overall U.S. economy and peoples’ general feeling of comfort that economic trends are going in a positive direction,” Jacobson-Landon said. “Charitable giving has been growing since the economic downturn, and by and large our giving totals have been going up as well as our overall participation rates.”
An increase in the donor populace has accompanied the total increase in charitable giving. Moore said that because of expanded outreach, the university has set a record number of donors every year for the past eight years, a particularly important factor since participation rate is built into the annual U.S. News and World Report rankings.
Additionally, giving by undergraduates during their time at college, which previously tended to rest around 23 to 24 percent, was 33 percent last year. The highest mark came in 2003, when 34 percent of current undergraduates donated.
The increase in giving corresponds with Georgetown’s landmark capital campaign, titled “For Generations to Come: The Campaign for Georgetown.” The campaign, which began in FY 2007 and will continue through FY 2017, aims to raise $1.5 billion, of which it has currently solicited $1.38 billion.
The largest capital project of the campaign is the construction of the $60 million John R. Thompson Jr. Intercollegiate Athletics Center. This past year saw three large donations by former men’s basketball players to the center: a $3.3 million gift from Patrick Ewing (CAS ’85), veteran sports agent and Syracuse University alum David Falk and his wife Rhonda on Aug. 21, a $1 million donation by Jeff Green (COL ’12) on Aug. 28 and a $1 million gift from Roy Hibbert (COL ’08) on Sept. 2.
Moore noted that there has been a steady increase in number of large gifts over the past few years, noting the McCourt donation and the $75 million gift from Robert McDevitt (C ’40) to endow faculty chairs in December 2008 as prime examples. In addition to the Ewing, Green and Hibbert donations in FY 2015, the university received $10 million from Patricia and Jon Baker Sr. (CAS ’64) in October to establish the Baker Center for Leadership and Governance within the McCourt School of Public Policy to promote policy research and discussion.
“Gifts of $10 million or more used to be quite rare, but now they are much more frequent occurrences for us,” Moore said.
Moore added that all gifts are allocated based on the donor’s wishes.
“We do exactly what the donor instructs us to do with the money that they give,” Moore said. “Where we exercise any discretion is when the donor gives a contribution that is unrestricted or only broadly directed.”
All unrestricted gifts to the main campus annual fund, the largest annual fund, go to financial aid.
Other general donations to the university happen through the annual Georgetown Fund, and the solicitation process takes many forms such as Phonathon — student calling — as well as the sending of letters and emails and the contribution of individual classes to reunion programming.
“A lot of the money we raise is raised by development officers who directly solicit support from a donor or multiple donors,” Moore said.
According to Moore, donors are more receptive to giving to the university after the end of the recession, particularly with the stock market boom benefiting wealth.
“The economic downturn is fading in people’s memories and there is an increasingly confident sense that we have returned to something more normal. People were less confident about giving away their hard-earned money, and that concern has now pretty thoroughly receded for most people,” Moore said.
Correction: This post previously said the $75 million McDevitt donation came in January 2011. It was actually given in December 2008. The post has been updated.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 10, 2015 by Andrew Wallender Leave a Comment 
Students living in Village A, Village C East, Village C West, New South, Kennedy, Reynolds and McCarthy Halls will be without access to water tonight because of a planned water outage beginning at 10 p.m. and ending at 5 a.m. on Wednesday.
The outage, which will stop all water flow from showers, toilets, sinks and washing machines, will occur to allow water line relocation for the construction of the Thompson Athletic Center, according to an email sent to affected students Monday evening by the Office of Planning and Facilities and the Office of Residential Life announcing the outage.
Construction of the Thompson Athletic Center is currently in the utility relocation phase, which will be completed by mid-February. Work on the center started in November 2014 and will be completed in August 2016.
Vice President for Planning and Facilities Management Robin Morey could not be reached for comment by press time regarding the outage.
Student reaction concerning the outage was mixed. Village C West resident Teresa Kim (SFS ’18) said the time of the outage is a large inconvenience.
“I don’t think anyone will be asleep by 10 p.m.,” Kim said. “I feel like people would come back to their rooms halfway through the outage, which means they would not be able to use the water in the bathroom. It will definitely inconvenience a lot of us, if not all of us.”
On the other hand, Southwest Quad resident Catherine Zolbrod (NHS ’17) said that she did not mind the outage since she can plan around it.
“I don’t really mind it,” Zolbrod said. “I think if they need to do whatever they need to do, it’s fine because I’ve been given fair enough warning, and I can plan my shower schedule around 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. It’s a pretty short time block, so I don’t really mind it, but I could see how it could be an inconvenience to some.”
Kennedy Hall resident Saniya Khullar (COL ’15) said that although the outage poses a temporary inconvenience, she understands the causes prompting it.
“I feel that it will definitely impact a lot of Hoyas who take showers at night and brush their teeth and for other hygiene purposes,” Khullar said. “Personally it doesn’t affect people like me that take showers in the morning, except for hygiene-related things at night. I definitely feel if it’s only for that short window and nothing longer, then it is fine as long as it is for the athletic center, but frequent or more such outages, I would not really like.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 10, 2015 by Maureen Tabet Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Center for Research on Children in the United States received three new grants in support of its long-term investigation of the effects of universal pre-kindergarten, continuing a partnership with Tulsa, Okla. public schools that began in 2001.
The grants from the Foundation for Child Development, the Heising-Simons Foundation and an unspecified third foundation will further CROCUS’s research on the long-term impact of a universal pre-K program, which offers free and voluntary enrollment in pre-K for all children in participating school districts, following up on preliminary research that the center had conducted in coordination with the Tulsa region since 2001.
The new research will focus on this year’s eighth-grade class, who had enrolled in pre-K in the fall of 2005. It will assess educational, social and behavioral aspects of student’s lives with respect to those not enrolled in the universal program.
“After taking a break for a few years, we decided to revisit Tulsa and continue our research because there is considerable debate in the public arena and in the scholarly community over whether the short-term positive effects of a strong early childhood education program persist or fade out over time,” CROCUS Co-Director and McCourt School professor of public policy William Gormley said.
Tulsa became the focus of the study in 2001 because of its diversity and potential for replication, and almost three-fourths of four-year-olds in Tulsa are enrolled in pre-K.
“The Tulsa pre-K program also offered the opportunity to learn what a relatively high-quality program (e.g., with well-educated teachers, paid on the public school wage scale, with reasonable teacher: student ratios) could accomplish ​for a highly diverse population of children with regard to both economic and race-ethnic-linguistic characteristics,” CROCUS Co-Director and professor of psychology Deborah Phillips wrote in an email.
To conduct the study and its further research, the center brought the Georgetown University Department of Psychology together with the McCourt School of Public Policy, then the Georgetown Public Policy Institute. Gormley noted that the variety of approaches were critical to the quality of the center’s research.
“From the outset, our evaluation has been multidisciplinary, drawing simultaneously from several social science disciplines, including economics, psychology, political science and public policy analysis. To understand something as complex as early childhood education, it is vital to take a multidisciplinary perspective,” Gormley said.
In 2008, CROCUS reported to Science Magazine that children who participated in Tulsa’s school-based pre-K program were nine months ahead of peers in pre-reading skills, seven months ahead in pre-writing skills and five months ahead in pre-math skills because of the program.
“Gains for English language learners whose parents speak Spanish at home were especially dramatic,” Gormley said.
The research received national attention, garnering recognition from the Department of Education and the White House. President Barack Obama has repeatedly called for universal pre-K programs around the country, most recently in a September speech at Northwestern University.
“The peak moment may have been when President Obama mentioned the Tulsa research in his 2014 State of the Union Address,” Phillips said. “Both Bill [Gormley] and I do the work we do because we hope it can influence public policy on behalf of children.”
To capitalize on the study, CROCUS contacted more than 2,000 eighth-graders whom they had initially tested in kindergarten for their short-term effects study. In collaboration with the Tulsa public schools and three neighboring school districts, they then gathered data on each student’s academic outcomes, school-related behavior and attitudes toward school in collaboration with the Tulsa public schools and three neighboring school districts.
“In the fall, we collected survey data on our original participants who are now in seventh and eighth grade. We were able to gather data on socio-emotional outcomes, which are very much unique in the pre-K literature. We also are in the process of analyzing school administrative and survey data,” CROCUS postdoctoral fellow Sara Anderson said.
Philips said that the results of the upcoming students would have significant implications for the future of childhood education in the country.
“This is a question of keen national interest because it goes to the heart of whether investments in early childhood education are worth it — whether they ‘pay back’ over time in expenditures on, for example, grade retention, special education, absenteeism and, ultimately, graduation rates and employment success,” Phillips wrote.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 10, 2015 by Alicia Che Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University will host its 52nd annual North American Invitational Model United Nations conference at the Washington Hilton Feb. 12-15. The conference continues to draw thousands of students from all over the world to discuss global affairs and this year will feature new initiatives to better engage participants and serve the mission of NAIMUN.
Founded in 1963, NAIMUN is the largest exclusively student-run Model United Nations conference in the world. This year, NAIMUN is expecting over 2,700 participating delegates hailing from 10 countries including the United States, and 200 Georgetown University student staffers will work as event planners and discussion moderators to ensure the smooth running of the conference.
The year’s conference will include a bigger emphasis on the educational aspect of Model United Nations.
“MUN is, at the end of the day, a competition, so it is very easy watching the participants get lost in the competitive aspect,” Undersecretary General of General Assemblies Allison Kim (SFS ’16) said. “But this can be detrimental to the overall purpose and the principle behind MUN, which is to raise awareness about big international issues and teach the skills related to solving these problems.”
The planning committee hopes to encourage greater interests for international affairs from the participants by helping them better apply the knowledge they learn in NAIMUN to the real world, Kim said.
“We try to incorporate a new element to this year’s conference, which is that, at the end of the committee session, we will be going through the lessons learned with the participants,” Kim said. “For example, we will be asking questions like, what have you learned throughout the week? How have your decisions affected your outcomes in the situation you were put in? In this way, we hope to bring the esoteric topics down to the level of reality and policy, and focus on how they impact the real world.”
The conference will include a variety of activities planned specifically to introduce participants to the vibrant college culture at Georgetown, although the groups will not be physically on campus. One such activity, Hilltop Madness, will bring together dance performance groups from the university to have a special showcase for the participants.
According to Secretary General Andrew Lyu (SFS ’16), the central and most important aspect in planning the event is the quality of experience the MUN participants will receive. Despite an increased number of participants expected this year, NAIMUN coordinators will continue to keep the size of each committee small and increase the number of committees to ensure that it can effectively engage every participant. There is also an attempt to increase the variety of topics discussed during the conference.
“The biggest difficulty in planning a conference of this scale is to make sure that there is a wide enough variety that delegates are able to find something they enjoy,” Lyu said. “This involves recognizing equal distribution of positions and topics so that all participants get something enjoyable.”
Lyu added that NAIMUN has always developed innovative topics to engage the participants.
“The uniqueness of running MUN at Georgetown is that we don’t get bogged down into the same topics over and over again,” Lyu said. “Even though you have traditional committees that have consistent themes like disarmament, social cultural themes, humanitarian aid and so on, people running these committee are choosing novel topics that are niche and different so that people do have interests to talk about them.”
Executive Director Aaron Lewis (MSB ’16) said that he wants participants to walk away from the conference having had a good time but also having learned what it takes to be involved in the arena of global policy.
“Essentially, we are trying to strike a balance between education and fun,” Lewis said. “We want the participants to have a fun weekend experiencing everything that D.C. has to offer and to learn about college and Georgetown, while also, through the NAIMUN experience, becoming better public speakers, debaters and global citizens.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 10, 2015 by Patricja Okuniewska Leave a Comment 
Lauinger Library opened a new exhibit last week on its third floor honoring the Jesuit heritage of Georgetown University.
The exhibit, titled “The Woodstock Theological Library: The Jesuit Heritage of Georgetown University,” is located in both the Kerbs Gallery, which is on the third floor of the library between the Circulation and Reference Desks, and the Woodstock Theological Library on the Lower Level.
The Kerbs Gallery exhibit focuses on the history of the Woodstock Theological Library, beginning from its founding in 1869 as part of the Woodstock College, which was a Maryland Jesuit seminary from 1869 to 1974, to the present-day.
Amy E. Phillips, the Woodstock Theological Library Rare Materials Cataloger, was one of the main organizers of the exhibit.
“The exhibit is a look at the early founding of the Jesuit Maryland province,” Phillips said. “The Jesuits were educated at Woodstock College, which was founded in 1869. I took some images from the resources that were used in the founding, such as a map of the farm they bought that would become the college – I showed the first librarian of the Woodstock Library – and also some of the scholarship that was produced out of Woodstock.”
Phillips said the preserved scholarship, particularly the Woodstock Letters, revealed a significant amount about the workings of the Jesuits around the world. The letters detail the Jesuit history and expansion from the late 1800s on.
“The Woodstock letters began as correspondence between the Jesuits about what they were doing,” Phillips said. “Then, as they expanded their missions in China, Japan and Latin America, [the letters] became more extensive. As a result, it is a look into what Jesuits from the United States were doing in the world, and also takes on certain intellectual character by documenting some of the theological discussions that they were having and researching.”
The exhibit on the Lower Level of Lauinger focuses on a different aspect of Jesuit heritage, namely the role of Mary as an icon and symbol in Jesuit tradition. The display takes inspiration from a similar exhibit titled “Picturing Mary: Women, Mother, Idea,” currently on display at the National Museum of Women in the Arts.
Woodstock Theological Library Director J. Leon Hooper, S.J., was encouraged to put together the display to portray the important role Mary has for Jesuits.
“The collections aim to point out the link between devotion to Mary and how it carried over into the theological considerations, especially in the 19th century debates about the innocence of Mary and the Immaculate Conception, as well as to demonstrate how central the image of Mary is,” Hooper said.
The display includes various depictions of Mary, scholastic arguments, images and documents dealing with Jesuits and the debate regarding the Immaculate Conception. The exhibit also includes the first printed edition of Saint Ignatius’ “Spiritual Exercises,” printed in 1548.
Hooper said the exhibit carries a special relevance to the Jesuit founder, St. Ignatius of Loyola, whose work inspired the founders of Georgetown University.
“Ignatius was a soldier and knight, whose injury by cannon ball caused him to read about lives of the saints and gospels,” Hooper said. “He hardly missed a beat from being a knight for a secular ruler to being a knight for Christ, and Mary is very central in all of that. The Spiritual Exercises are meditations and exercises, in which the central image is Christ the king calling him [Ignatius] to serve in trying to win back the world for God. Every one of the exercises has prayer to Mary that this will be fulfilled.”
The exhibits opened at a key moment, a few days after Jesuit Heritage week, which took place at the end of January and celebrated the Jesuit history of Georgetown.
Associate Professor Fr. William C. McFadden, S.J., said the exhibit plays an important role in educating viewers on the history and foundations of the university.
“The exhibit is part of a celebration of history,” McFadden said. “At a university, a library is special in that it captures in some sort of record way the history. You’d certainly want libraries to be a central aspect in any kind of celebration of that sort.”
Phillips said the exhibit will help celebrate the unique roots of the university.
“It is important to know our foundations and our particular unique Jesuit character,” Phillips said. “The life of the Jesuits, which was always about the whole person and pioneering work in both spiritual psychological growth and formation, as well as very rigorous academic training .”
Lydia Bubniak (SFS ’18) viewed the exhibit and said that it is an excellent way to keep students cognizant of Georgetown’s Jesuit roots.
“Georgetown was founded on the idea of caring for the whole person,” Bubniak said. “Reminding students of the original Jesuit ideals will result long-term in a more caring student body and alumni who seek to use their knowledge to change the world in a positive way.”
Gina Kim (SFS ’18) looked at the exhibit and said she saw the importance of embracing the identity of Georgetown University.
“Talking to my older friends, something they have cited as important is the emphasis Georgetown puts on the care for the whole person,” Kim said. “I believe our Jesuit identity helps create a spirit of Georgetown that I wasn’t aware of while applying to colleges, but I’m really glad I found. For me, I would be not only interested in learning about Jesuit history, but [also about] Georgetown’s history of tolerance and ability to be open-minded in a changing world.”
The exhibit will remain open for viewing through the end of February.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 10, 2015 by Sara Kamouni Leave a Comment 
Crime rates on the Washington, D.C. Metro are at a five-year low, according to a new report released by the Metro Transit Police Department Jan. 30.
The report shows that incidences of serious crimes, such as homicide and aggravated assault, saw a significant reduction of around 27 percent in 2014. Meanwhile, theft of cell phones decreased by 52 percent, and reports of sexual harassment declined by 13 percent.
Deputy Police Chief Kevin Gaddis attributed the reduction in crime on the Metro to outreach work carried out by the police force in order to raise public awareness.
“A big tactic we’ve used is public outreach, where we keep the public aware of what’s going on and we ask for their help with everything,” Gaddis said.
According to Gaddis, one of the most effective tactics of public outreach includes stationing officers at stations popular with bicyclists and offering users more secure locks.
Additionally, improved technology could contribute to decreasing crime figures, as the Metro’s updated video system makes criminals easier to identify.
Gaddis said that technology improvements also help police officers move more efficiently when crimes occur.
“A lot of times our police officers are going to a scene of robbery, and on their smartphones they’ve already got a picture of the suspect, so they’re able to apprehend them pretty quick,” Gaddis said.
WMATA Spokesperson Caroline Laurin added that the Metro frequently uses social media to quickly investigate crimes.
“We also very effectively use Twitter to our advantage. Because of the use of security cameras in our stations, we’re able to get good photos, so when we do have someone who is behaving inappropriately we’re able to put those pictures out on Twitter, and news outlets pick those up and report on them,” Laurin said. “It often leads to very good tips in from the public, which help lead to arrests.”
Concerns about the sexual harassment number in particular were due to worries that victims were not reporting incidents, though Laurin insisted that the change was due to Metro policies.
“We’ve been very public and vocal about our expectations about sexual harassment on the Metro,” Laurin said
Matt Gunn (COL ’17) said he usually feels safe traveling around the city.
“I feel safe on the Metro, especially compared to where I live in Chile. I’ve actually never heard of anyone getting into trouble, but it’s good that the police are doing more to reduce crime,” Gunn said.
However, Margot McDonnell, a third-year exchange student from England, was more wary of public transportation safety in D.C.
“I haven’t used the Metro very much, but when I went to Rosslyn, I thought the station was very dark and empty. The underground stations in London are brightly lit with plenty of staff and I feel much safer there,” McDonnell said.
While the Georgetown neighborhood is not an area of particularly high crime rates, Laurin still urged students to be vigilant about their personal safety when using public transportation.
“The biggest thing is to maintain awareness of what’s happening around you,” Laurin said. “If you’re aware of what’s going around you you’re going to be better equipped to handle anything that might occur, so we often encourage students to go out with friends.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

