
October 4, 2015 by Christian Paz 1 Comment 
The Initiative on Catholic Social Thought and Public Life hosted a panel discussion on the impact of Pope Francis’ visit to the United States and his message on politics, culture and religion last Monday evening in Gaston Hall.
The panel discussion, which was titled “Francis Factor Revisited,” featured guests such as former spokesperson for the president of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops Kim Daniels, President of the Foundations and Donors Interested in Catholic Activities Alexia Kelley, Public Broadcasting Service NewsHour commentator Mark Shields, ABC News political commentator Cokie Roberts and former Chairman of the Republican National Committee Michael Steele.
Monday’s panel was the second installment of a series of dialogues on the effect Pope Francis has had on Catholics around the world. The series began two years ago six months after Pope Francis was appointed.
University President John J. DeGioia introduced the panel and remarked on the many ways that the pope has lived out his call for Catholics to serve those most in need.
“The spirit at the heart of this initiative, spirit animated by a dedication to seeking peace, justice and understanding, resonates deeply within our community,” DeGioia said.
The panel, mediated by ICSTPL Director John Carr, began with a discussion of the pope’s address to a joint session of Congress and the progress Catholics have made within the United States.
“The person most responsible for our remarkable progress has been Pope Francis,” Carr said. “He was this solitary figure in white standing in front of a packed chamber, before two Catholic boys from Ohio and Pennsylvania.”
Roberts said that the papal visit had many implications on the United States.
“The message of the entire week is a challenge to all of us,” Roberts said. “We have to go do something now. It’s a great big challenge and one that we have to think about and find ways to act on all the time.”
Steele said that the papal visit is a sign of the increasing acceptance of Catholicism in the United States over the past decades.
“You think back just 55, 60 years ago at the level of anti-Catholicism that was rampant across America,” Steele said. “Flash forward here, in the well of the Congress is His Holiness Pope Francis speaking to the country, rapt attention. … We have turned a corner.”
Daniels spoke about the significance of the pope’s message to U.S. bishops.
“For the American bishops, he had a message of encouragement and a message of challenge,” Daniels said. “The American bishops have been second to none in their advocacy for and their on-the-ground work for the poor and the immigrant.”
The panel then moved on to questions related to the pope’s message to youth.
Kelley said that the pope’s message is universal.
“Francis’ message isn’t limited to a generation, and he is inspiring people across generations,” Kelley said. “The next generation of younger folks do have particular and unique values. … They want to be invited to participate and are drawn more to causes than institutions.”
Questions from the audience covered a range of issues, including the pro-life position of the church, the death penalty and the role of women in the church.
While Roberts said that women are still treated as second-class citizens within the Catholic Church, Kelley pointed out that women are currently leaders of major Catholic organizations.
“There are women now, there were women then, who are leading really important work, and it’s important that their leadership is visible,” Kelley said.
After the discussion and question-and-answer session formally ended, the panelists remained in Gaston Hall to answer individual questions from members of the audience who chose to remain in the auditorium.
During this time, Daniels said that the pope gave witness to the fullness of Catholic social teaching and the gospel.
“I think Georgetown students can be real leaders on all these issues if they act in their personal lives, deep in their prayer lives as Pope Francis called for [and] in the action they take in response to his witness this week,” Daniels said.
Kyle Rinaudo (SFS ’18) said that the panelists covered the issues with a passion he did not expect to see.
“I got to see some real perspectives by these people who are usually more pithy,” Rinaudo said. “It was interesting to see them talk honestly about these issues.”

David Karamardian says 
October 4, 2015 at 8:28 pm
Promote this writer pls
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 4, 2015 by Melina Delkic Leave a Comment 
Former Secretary of State and Georgetown professor Madeleine Albright and President of Kosovo Atifete Jahjaga discussed the importance of women’s political participation in peacekeeping in Gaston Hall on Wednesday.
The event, titled “Women Leading Peace,” was held by the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Securities and coincides with the release of a research study by the institute on women’s political participation.
Executive Director of IWPS Melanne Verveer moderated the event and began by asking Jahjaga to explain the roles that women played in peace-building and reconciliation in Kosovo during the Balkan Wars of the 1990s. In her role as secretary of state, Albright participated in peace talks that helped to end the genocide in Kosovo.
Jahjaga said that women in Kosovo played a pivotal role in peacekeeping in the wake of the Balkan Wars.
“Women in our country, they have become a backbone of the society, keeping our society together and organizing them politically in order to resist the regime of Serbia,” Jahjaga said.
According to Jahjaga, women in Kosovo organized humanitarian efforts despite dangers presented by the military and the police. They also helped provide medical care and treatment for wounded children.
“They were organized to go into the most remote villages in our country to [teach] lessons for kids who were not allowed to go to school,” Jahjaga said.
In addition, Jahjaga said that women carried food between villages and larger cities under siege.
“Their message was very simple,” Jahjaga said. “’We don’t have guns. We have bread, and we are going to bring [it] to the children in our villages.’” 
Jahjaga also emphasized the role women played in finding and documenting evidence of the human rights violations committed in Kosovo.
Since the war, Kosovo has implemented a quota on government employees, requiring at least 30 percent of public servants to be women.
Verveer asked Albright to discuss the integration of women into peace-building from a perspective outside of the Balkans. 
Albright discussed her experience being one of only seven female delegates out of 183 total delegates in the United Nations. 
“Because I was an American, I created a caucus [with the other six],” Albright said. “And we called ourselves the G7.”
The group lobbied for women on the war crimes tribunal, according to Albright, and pushed for the U.N. to declare rape a weapon of war.
“Some people don’t like this word anymore, but I am a feminist,” Albright said, eliciting cheers from the audience. 
The event moved into a panel discussion, featuring former Chief Commissioner of the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission Monica McWilliams, former Attorney General of Guatemala Claudia Paz y Paz, Executive Director at the Center for Multi-Party Democracy in Kenya Njeri Kabeberi and Chairperson of the Philippines Peace Panel Miriam Coronel-Ferrer.
McWilliams spoke of the 1996 formation of the Northern Ireland Women’s Coalition, a political party led by female politicians, and of the diverse women with whom she worked to promote peace in her region.
“We were all accidental activists,” McWilliams said. “This is what conflict does.”
McWilliams also said that she encountered many barriers as a woman in peace talks with a male majority. 
“Can you believe that I was actually a university lecturer, and I was told to shut up and sit down practically every day that I was at the table? To go home to the kitchen?” McWilliams said.
When Verveer asked Coronel-Ferrer what was difficult about being put into power on the Philippines Peace Panel, Coronel-Ferrer said that party leaders often left women out of negotiations, and they were then forced to get creative with their approaches and compromises.
Coronel-Ferrer said that women on the peace panel would give chocolate to men on Valentine’s Day as a symbol of their equality.
“It provides that women have the right to meaningful political participation. … You just never know what the tools are going to be that you use,” Coronel-Ferrer said.
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 4, 2015 by Daniel Silbert Leave a Comment 
 
More than 50 students voiced their concerns about student housing to administrators and representatives of the Georgetown University Student Association on Wednesday night at the first Hoya Roundtable of the semester in the Healey Family Student Center.
The issues brought up at the discussion aligned with the “Let’s Not Get Screwed Again” campaign that GUSA President Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Vice President Connor Rohan (COL ’16) spearheaded in the spring semester, before discussions of the 2018 Campus Plan.
The campaign, which received over 2,600 signatures in two weeks, called on the university to not require more students to live on campus, prioritize the renovation of existing facilities over new construction projects and give students a stronger voice in the master planning process.
The roundtable began with a presentation from administrators on changes to the university’s landscape. Vice President of Planning and Facilities Management Robin Morey outlined the university’s goals for the future.
“The important principles are we want more green space on campus,” Morey said. “Another important one is to create a pedestrian-friendly campus.”
For the past five months, the Student Master Planning Consortium, which consists of students and administrators, has discussed issues of pedestrian space, student housing and deferred maintenance in residence halls.
GUSA Secretary for Campus Planning Ari Goldstein (COL ’18) said that groups like the SMPC ensure that the master plan benefits both students and the university.
“We [can] structure the master planning process now and plan for the next 20 years effectively to create a residential living learning community that is a shared interest with students, administrators, neighbors [and] graduate students,” Goldstein said.
Students and administrators then broke up into discussion groups to address questions put forward by GUSA about residential renovations, the construction of new housing and the appeal of living off campus for senior year.
Students expressed their frustration with deferred maintenance issues.
GUSA Senator Carter Rise (COL ’17) compared his experiences of dealing with maintenance on and off campus.
“I subletted a house in the Georgetown neighborhood over the summer, and I called my landlord about a problem in the house and it was fixed [that] day,” Rise said. “Living on campus, I have problems that haven’t been fixed after four weeks that I made housing requests.”
Residents of Henle Village complained that there were mice in their apartments, despite being on the top floor, while students living in Darnall Hall complained of missing kitchen appliances. In the breakout sessions, students said that the two halls are in need of major renovation.
Students also raised concerns over the impact of construction on their daily lives. Complaints included pedestrian traffic caused by the narrow pathway on Tondorf Street and noise from the construction of the Northeast Triangle Residence Hall.
Emily Belson (SFS ’18), a member of the Georgetown Admissions Ambassador Program, said that construction detracts from the image prospective students have of campus.
“A lot of times they’ll ask about the construction, and often parents will ask when the construction [is] going to be finished,” Belson said. “I think they see the campus in a more negative light than I personally got to see it when I was a prospective student.”
Other changes students called for included stronger Wi-Fi and more community spaces for students. In a discussion on the appeal of off-campus living, multiple students said that the lower costs and feeling of autonomy were attractive to them.
“For the 2010 Campus Plan, there was no infrastructure for student engagement whatsoever and that’s why the plan ended up being so controversial and inequitable,” Goldstein said.
In the past, Hoya Roundtables have been planned predominately by university administrators and were styled like presentations. However, GUSA representatives worked closely with administrators in preparation for Wednesday’s event to better engage the student body in the planning process.
“The more lines of communication we can give between regular students and the administration, the better,” Luther said.
With the development of the 2018 Campus Plan under way, Luther said that GUSA has planned more meetings with high-level administrators.
“We’re going to go over what was discussed at this roundtable and see if it’s in line with what we’ve been talking about before,” Luther said. “Going forward, how can we take what the average student is saying here and implement it into real, tangible change?”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

