
February 5, 2015 by Katherine Richardson Leave a Comment 
The 2015 Georgetown University Student Association executive race began at the stroke of midnight today, as five campaigns vied for advertising space in Red Square at the start of the official campaign period.
The presidential and vice presidential tickets consist of Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Connor Rohan (COL ’16), Sara Margolis (COL ’16) and Ryan Shymansky (COL ’16), Abbey McNaughton (COL ’16) and Will Simons (COL ’16), Tim Rosenberger (COL ’16) and Reno Varghese (SFS ’16), and Chris Wadibia (COL ’16) and Meredith Cheney (COL ’16).
By 11:45 p.m. three groups of campaign staffers were present in the square, waiting to unfurl their campaign posters and fliers. Groups included those of McNaughton and Simons, Rosenberger and Varghese, and Margolis and Shymansky. McNaughton, Simons, Rosenberger and Varghese were present, while Margolis and Shymansky did not appear in the square.
At 11:58 p.m., the three groups began to sing “There Goes Old Georgetown,” the fight song, in unison as a fourth group, led by Luther and Rohan arrived with staff.
GUSA Election Commissioner Alden Fletcher (SFS ’17) was on hand to oversee the adherence to campaign rules. While the Healy Clock did not chime, the four teams began to hang their posters high in Red Square after agreeing it was midnight, with the help of ladders and duct tape. Luther and Rohan failed to bring a ladder, and borrowed a ladder from McNaughton and Simons’ team.
McNaughton and Simons’ poster, which went up first, featured a colorful painting of Healy Hall and read “Rise Together.”
“[The energy] has been awesome,” McNaughton said. “It’s been a lot of fun. People seem really excited. … I think this year is a great opportunity for some really good policy discussions and I’m really looking forward to that. We’re happy that it’s not snowing this year.”
Rosenberger and Varghese put up their poster second, with the help of Thomas Lloyd (SFS ’15), a former GUSA presidential candidate. The poster read “For the Love of Georgetown.”
“You have to be excited,” Rosenberger said. “No matter what happens in this campaign, we have a lot of issues we’re bringing that haven’t been discussed at Georgetown and we’re going to really reshape the way this conversation is happening on campus.”
The staff of Margolis and Shymansky affixed their poster, reading “Believe in Georgetown,” third. According to campaign staffer Reed Howard (SFS ’17), the candidates were in Nevils with the rest of their staff.
“Tonight’s a great celebration,” Howard said. “It’s a very exciting season for Georgetown. All of these candidates put out so many good ideas for how to make Georgetown a better place and I’m excited for what’s going to unfold. I know Sara and Ryan have the best vision for what Georgetown can be and I believe they’re the people to make that happen.”
Luther and Rohan’s poster, which went up fourth, featured a graphic of Darnall Hall and read “YouTopia.”
“We’re running on YouTopia,” Rohan said. “We’re essentially going to make everything perfect and there are never going to be problems again. We have SportsTopia, ArtsTopia. Our slogan is Blank-Topia, because you fill in the blank.”
Rohan said that his staffers are excited to begin the campaign.
“We’re excited and optimistic for the future,” Rohan said. “We definitely recommend you check out our platform. It’s good satire.”
At 12:20 a.m. a group of around 30 staffers ran from the doors of White-Gravenor Hall whooping and yelling, led by Chris Wadibia (COL ’16) and Meredith Cheney (COL ’16). The group gathered around its candidates, chanting, “Hang that sign!” Cheney helped nail the poster, which featured graphics of the candidates’ profiles and read “Dignity,” onto the wood of the right front-facing wall in Red Square.
“For the Chris and Meredith 2015 campaign, the atmosphere could not have been any better,” Wadibia said. “It was fully passionate. … Everyone was so excited, the energy couldn’t have been higher and we’re full of passion and excitement moving forward.”
The campaign’s Head of Social Media Natalia Peña (COL ’17) said the group was late because of the excitement.
“We were upstairs in a room all together, and we were just cheering on inside,” Peña said. “We forgot that we had to flier. We were just so excited because we love each other so much. We’d like to think that we’re a family, and I think everything here’s really shown that. I mean look at all these people who came out at midnight as a force.”
The group also formed a dance circle, chanting the names of staffers who danced for a few seconds each.
The official campaign period will feature two debates, on Feb. 11 and Feb. 16, respectively, and will culminate in a vote Feb. 19.
 
Hoya Staff Writers Tom Garzillo and Andrew Wallender contributed reporting. Full story to come in Friday’s edition of The Hoya.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 5, 2015 by Giovanna Azevedo Leave a Comment 
Russian Presidential Academy Department Chair of Global Leadership Studies and Georgetown University and New York University visiting professor Sam Potolicchio shared his tips on leadership Tuesday at an event entitled “How to Become President or CEO: Executive Leadership in the 21st Century.”
The event, hosted by the International Relations Club, GU Women In Leadership, the College Democrats, the College Republicans and the Brilliantly British Club, took place in the Intercultural Center.
Potolicchio drew on his background as the president of the Preparing Global Leaders Foundation, an international leadership training program with campuses in Russia, Macedonia, Jordan and the United States.
Potolicchio first introduced his ideas about what it takes to become a leader in today’s world.
“Leadership is about juxtaposition, it is about contrast,” Potolicchio said. “What is charisma? Charisma is being graced by God in some respects; it is being special; it is being unique; it is standing out.”
Potolicchio said that a successful leader can multitask, but also remain focused on what is important.
“It is very difficult to be able to attend to things simultaneously,” Potolicchio said. “We like to have leaders who are able to have a panoramic vision but also focus on the details at the same time. If you have that vision, you are able to make better decisions. If you want to be an effective leader, you need to be a first-class noticer. You need to be able to see things.”
Potolicchio emphasized that constant access to information can be very prejudicial to the young generation.
“In the age of distraction, you are not very good noticers,” Potolicchio said. “You’ve been raised with these evil things [cellphones] in front of you. If I compare your reactions to those of people who are a generation older, they do much better than you do, because you are not looking; you are not seeing. … It is very important to be able to attend to people and to be present. It will really make you stand out, particularly in your generation, when you are starting to lose some of these skills” Potolicchio said.
Potolicchio said that being humble is a crucial part of any leader as well as being surrounded by talented people.
“One of the missions of my leadership foundation is to try to get some of the most talented working on some of these problems that we have,” Potolicchio said. “So we are over-represented by women and by introverts, because both of these groups are very under-represented when it comes to prime leadership positions. That is a problem. If you really want to have the most talented people working on these issues, you can’t have these under-representations.”
The differences between introverts and extroverts are also key factors which needs to be analyzed in the study of leadership, according to Potolicchio.
“Let me give you some baseline definitions of introverts and extroverts,” Potolicchio said. “If you are an introvert and you go to a party, you might lose energy while you are this party, it tires you out. An extrovert feeds off the energy of the party. So it is very difficult for introverts to become president or CEO, because an event like this would very tiring for an introvert.”
Potolicchio then discussed the importance of always surrounding oneself with the best people.
“How do you make other people better?” Potolicchio asked. “This is a fear that many people have. If you are a leader, many times you don’t want to pick someone who is going to outshine you, who might get the award, who might take your job. So we try to isolate those who insulate us. But being a leader is how you make other people better, not just for the short term but also for the long term. This is something that many people aren’t doing. They don’t focus on actually including those around them.”
Tami Lacasse (SFS ’18) said she felt extremely captivated by Potolicchio’s speech.
“He managed to convey his points in such a memorable way,” Lacasse said. “He made it personal to us students. He framed what he said in a way that was relatable to his audience. I particularly appreciated his point on being present and attending to people. It is true that our generation is very caught upon on being connected all the time, missing out on actual personal connections.”
Marcela Gelhoren (MSB ’18) said she also enjoyed the content of Potolicchio’s lecture.
“Being a business student, I was very interested on hearing what he had to say,” Gelhoren. “I was very impressed with the way that he delivered his speech and the points that he made. I appreciated when he touched on the question of humility, as I think that it is something that is very lacking in the leadership of today. I will definitely keep in mind all of the information that he shared with us and I am sure that it will make me a better student and future professional.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 5, 2015 by Owen Eagan Leave a Comment 
Philosopher Jake Earl (GRD ’12) questioned the idea that parents have the moral right to raise their own children in the latest installment of the weekly Friday Bioethics Series in the Bioethics Research Library. The Friday event, sponsored by the Kennedy Institute of Ethics, was titled “The Baby Lottery: A Challenge to the Right to Parent Our Own Children.”
Earl, who is currently a doctoral candidate and teaching associate in Georgetown College as well as a graduate fellow for the KIE, delivered his proposal for the Baby Lottery, a system that would randomly redistribute newborns to different parental applicants selected from a waitlist.
“It would work a lot like organ donation,” Earl said. “So, all children born in a certain territory in a place like the United States — it could be a large territory because we have a lot of effective transportation, and we have a lot of infrastructure set up for that — any children born would be removed from their birth parents — so, the people who created them, who gave birth to them in come cases. They’d be cared for in health care, or some sort of other facilities, for a short period of time, during which they would be randomly assigned and then expediently distributed to people who are on a waiting list.”
Earl said parents on the waitlist would have to meet a set of minimum requirements to receive children, such as a steady source of income to support a child and a history free of child abuse.
Earl reasons that the implementation of the Baby Lottery could counter forms of injustice that he sees in modern society, including the unequal distribution of goods such as health care, education, status or wealth, among people of different backgrounds.
Earl also referenced the work of the American philosopher John Rawls. Rawls proposed a theory that he called the “Natural Lottery,” which is the uneven distribution of genetically inherited traits that tend to correlate with a person’s advantages or disadvantages in society. Earl says that his Baby Lottery counters the negative effects of Rawls’ Natural Lottery.
“At the very least, children would then all have an equal shot of being raised in homes that have a chance of outweighing or counterbalancing the disadvantages that they get from the Natural Lottery,” Earl said.
Earl encouraged the audience to question the Baby Lottery on any grounds during the question-and-answer portion of the event.
The only strong objection to the Baby Lottery that Earl found in the course of his extensive research was a claim involving parental moral agency, or the freedom of able parents to execute their right to fulfill their obligations to their children.
“One thing I think is interesting, and seems to me plausible, is that the right to parent one’s child, which is one of many different sorts of parental rights, is ultimately grounded in or justified by obligations that we have toward the child,” Earl said.
In light of this objection, Earl said his argument for the Baby Lottery is not conclusive. Earl added that if parents were to vote the Baby Lottery into law, the system could still be put into place.
“So, the Baby Lottery still isn’t dead yet,” Earl said. “But, I think I’ve identified one way of arguing effectively against it.”
Student reactions to the presentation varied.
“To me, it is very disturbing,” Janelle Spira (NHS ’18) said. “It is an interesting idea, but I don’t think that it could ever be practically implemented.”
 
“I found myself having a very visceral reaction of opposition to the speaker’s thesis,” Daniel McCorry (MED ’17) said. “But, I found his defense particularly stimulating because I couldn’t quite figure out why I was opposed to it on an emotional level.”
 
Causing people to consider such new ideas was one of Earl’s goals for the presentation.
 
“I think that thinking about the Baby Lottery prevents us from being completely complacent about how we understand what justifies our actual system of finding parents for children and what we expect from parents,” Earl said after the program. “In that way, I think it’s more of a thought experiment that helps to bring out what are really the moral grounds for the institution of parenthood and the family.”
 
According to KIE Head of Academic Programs Laura Bishop (GRD ’98), sparking the type of active discourse that took place during the question-and-answer section of the event is one of the goals of the Friday talk series.
 
“The whole goal is to have this free and open exchange — supporting your own opinions, listening to other people’s opinions and trying to come to the best judgment that you can or trying to model that for students,” Bishop said.
 
Bioethics talks occur every Friday in the Bioethics Research Library, located on the first floor of Healy Hall. Senior Research Scholar Robert M. Veatch will discuss the irrationality of doctors’ orders in this week’s installment.
 
 
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

