
February 9, 2015 by Kristen Fedor Leave a Comment 
A female Georgetown student was the victim of an aggravated assault by an unknown attacker on the 3300 block of M Street at approximately 1:37 a.m. Sunday morning.
Georgetown University Police Department and Metropolitan Police Department’s Second District are currently investigating the incident, though they have no suspects at this time, according to GUPD Chief of Police Jay Gruber and a Public Safety Alert sent to students Sunday.
The victim was walking westbound on M Street when attacked, but GUPD has no other information about the incident at this time.
“There’s not a great deal of information right now, and the victim wasn’t able to provide us with a lot of information when she was first encountered,” Gruber said.
“Aggravated assault” is defined as an assault that would cause serious injury to the victim. The Public Safety Alert said that the victim received injuries that required medical attention. It also stated that the victim was treated at a local medical facility and has already been released.
Although the original alert did not indicate any information about the victim, Gruber confirmed the victim attended Georgetown.
As part of the investigative process, Gruber said his team is also looking into possible witnesses or other Georgetown students who may have been in the area at the time of the assault.
“We’re still investigating that. We still need to interview any witnesses. We need to canvas back the area at night,” Gruber said. “I wish I could provide more information at this time.”
Anyone with further knowledge of the incident should contact MPD’s Second District Station at (202) 715-7300, or the Department of Public Safety at (202) 687-4343.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

