
March 27, 2015 by Owen Eagan 5 Comments 
Despite the longstanding connotation of the School of Foreign Service with the pursuit of careers in public service, recent statistics reveal that only a small percentage of SFS students enter the public sector after graduation.
Among SFS graduates in the Class of 2014 who participated in the Cawley Career Education Center’s First Destination Report poll, only 11 percent found jobs in nonprofit and public service work, and only 6 percent held positions in government. By contrast, 25 percent of graduates pursued employment in consulting services, while 15 percent pursued the financial sector. Two hundred and sixty-nine out of 356 SFS graduating students responded to the survey.
The Cawley Career Education Center compiled these statistics with input from 76 percent of the SFS Class of 2014. The percentages were drawn from the 80 percent of respondents who are currently employed.
SFS Associate Dean Emily Zenick said that the employment statistics do not worry the school’s administration.
“I don’t see anything as worrisome, about the trends,” Zenick said. “Students make all kinds of choices on what they should do after graduation, and I respect that.”
Zenick said that these numbers do not represent total fallout in the long-term involvement of SFS alumni in public service, citing that many graduates eventually transfer to public service work later in their careers.
“I don’t think that we can really see the trajectory until we see some long-term data, and all we have is anecdotal evidence from my colleagues and from keeping in touch with alumni,” Zenick said. “If you would look even two or three years out, I think that you would see a lot more students in these fields of public service, of government, of education. I think that part of that is that a lot of students are graduating with a good amount of debt from here.”
Additionally, Zenick emphasized the role that private sector employers have in contributing to the public good through means such as scientific or sustainable energy research, ethical investments and federal consulting.
Latin American Student Association President Nicole Arellano (SFS ’16) said that these statistics were unsettling.
“I think that it’s a little bit embarrassing because the SFS is one of the best schools for international relations studies in the U.S. and in the world,” Arellano said. “I think that it’s a shame that we’re not using those skills and those abilities and that knowledge to give back to the country.”
Social Innovation Public Service Fund Executive Director Naman Trivedi (SFS ’16) said that he is concerned with the SFS administration’s new emphasis on developing curricula on business, especially with the recent establishment of the global business major in January. The SIPS Fund provides grants to students for use in enterprises that promote the common good.
“I personally think that that whole program detracts from the point of the SFS, if we are trying to create a program where students engage in public service or foreign service,” Trivedi said.
However, Zenick said that the addition of business programs in the SFS reflected students’ preferences.
“I think that we have to listen to how students feel,” Zenick said. “I think if you look at the intention of this major and the classes taken, it really is not a pre-professional major.”
According to the global business major website, the major “distinguishes itself from other majors not in its outcomes (we expect that GBUS majors might work at corporations, not-for-profits, the government or move into academia, etc.), but rather by providing students with a basic fluency in the language of business and how it relates to politics, economics and culture.”
Additionally, Zenick said that the mission of the SFS has changed since its founding in 1919 to adapt to current trends.
“I think that there is a little bit of a misnomer that is associated with the School of Foreign Service … really being a training ground for people going into the foreign service, and that’s just really not the case anymore,” Zenick said.
Despite this, during the 2014 SFS graduation ceremony, commencement speaker and Former Secretary of Defense Robert Gates (GRD ’74) told students to pursue public service after college.
“My parting question to you, as graduates, is simply whether the wise men and women of Georgetown’s School of Foreign Service will devote some of their lives to public good,” Gates said in the May 2014 speech. “Dare I say, it is your duty.”
Other possible factors that contribute to low public sector involvement include a more visible presence of private sector recruiters on campus, as well as the tendency of private sector employers to hire students in the fall, while public sector employers generally seek candidates in the spring.
“A lot of private sector recruitment is in the fall, which is right when students come back for classes, when there is a lot of pressure to find a job, whereas the public sector recruits in the spring, so you have to be a little bit patient,” SFS Academic Council President Megan Murday (SFS ’15) said.
SFS students also reported that the preference to enter private sector companies may be a result of their tendency to accept entire introductory groups of employees, whereas public sector companies generally hire only on an as-needed basis.
“[Public sector] organizations are much more likely to post jobs as they become available. … So you need to be more persistent about checking up on organizations that you are really passionate about, and waiting for them to have an opening for you,” Murday said.
Trivedi said that public sector jobs also require greater qualifications, more advanced degrees or higher levels of career experience.
“Even if the [student is] competent enough, [public sector companies] are only hiring people who have [Master of Business Administration degrees] … and so that limits students from going into government right away,” Trivedi said.
Additionally, according to U.S. Census Bureau statistics, 60 percent of federal employees are over the age of 45, compared to 31 percent within the private sector. Trivedi noted that one possible factor leading to SFS graduates’ interest in the private sector is that graduates might prefer to work with people closer to their own age.
“So as a 21- or 22- year old, do you want to work with people your parents’ age or do you want to work with people your own age?” Trivedi asked.
Zenick also mentioned that recent graduates of the SFS may not be prepared to pass the U.S. Foreign Service Officer Test, which is essential in pursuing a career in foreign service. It includes a three-hour written test, a personal essay and an oral assessment that evaluates the knowledge and abilities of the test-taker.

Carlos says 
March 27, 2015 at 11:44 am
How could the author fail to mention discrepancies between public and private sector salaries?  Entry level pay for the foreign service is ~20k/year.  
Welcome to The Hoya.

Alexandra Van Dine says 
March 27, 2015 at 1:38 pm
There’s also the fact that government jobs are exceptionally hard to come by–you really need a Master’s degree, to have interned for one organization for a long period of time (multiple semesters), or some kind of unbelievable “in.”  With hiring freezes in many agencies, there are undoubtedly plenty of SFS grads who would very much like to enter government or other forms of public services, but are unable to do so due to structural and bureaucratic barriers.
Instead of being concerned over these statistics, we should be more concerned about how difficult it is for young, smart, energized, dedicated, creative people to contribute to how our country is run.  Now there’s something to write your representatives about!

Niko Kostas says 
March 28, 2015 at 12:45 pm
Why does the title read “Increasingly” when there is no numerical comparison to previous SFS classes?

Donna C says 
March 31, 2015 at 2:50 am
Entry level pay for FSOs is at $35,000 and above, not including all the living benefits, not having a graduate degree or more than 2 years work experience does not preclude you from taking the tests and passing to medical clearance. There are also lots of special entry programs such as Pathway for Students and fellowships such as PMF for recent grads without 2 years of getting the undergrad or graduate degrees. 
For those who want to work in public service, planning and some work experience can go a long way.

upsc-2017 says 
October 1, 2017 at 3:36 am
I feel basic reason is difference of salary offered.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 27, 2015 by Matthew Larson Leave a Comment 
The Metropolitan Police Department received criticism from city activists for maintaining poor relationships with black and LGBTQ communities in Washington, D.C., during its annual public oversight hearing March 8.
The hearing, held in front of the D.C. Council’s Committee on the Judiciary, included extensive testimony from MPD Chief of Police Cathy Lanier, who noted a 9 percent drop in violent crime around the city and a steady rate of homicide over the past two years. There were 105 homicides in 2014 and 104 in 2013.
Representatives from the D.C. Ferguson campaign, a grassroots movement formed by members of the National Black United Front and the Act Now to Stop War and End Racism Coalition, among other organizations, also spoke at the hearing, decrying the alleged use of “jump outs” by the MPD.
A “jump out” occurs when a group of officers in an unmarked van quickly arrive at a public place and arrest anyone present suspected of criminal activity. Opponents criticized these operations, saying they were highly offensive and disproportionately affecting black communities.
D.C. Councilmember David Grosso (I-At Large) published a statement on Feb. 20, prior to the hearing, that condemned the MPD’s continued usage of jump outs, calling them unfair to city residents.
“[Police] come screaming up in a car, usually unmarked, and everybody piles out really fast and puts everyone against the wall to try to shake them down,” Grosso said to The Hoya. “There are many things wrong with that.”
Grosso explained that these tactics are ineffective at apprehending real criminals, as they now know to expect a “jump out” and are prepared to avoid arrest. Instead, he said they only increase tensions between police and the public, targeting black residents unduly and primarily taking place east of 16th Street NW.
“You have disrespect. You have a bad assumption that somebody is a criminal. You have a bad relationship,” Grosso said to The Hoya. “It just seems to me like it is a bad approach to policing.”
MPD spokeswoman Gwendolyn Crump acknowledged that while the MPD uses officers in plain clothes to investigate crime, there are no specific units that utilize this program to harass city residents.
“As Chief Lanier testified to the council in October, the department does not have ‘jump out’ units,” Crump wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Plain clothes and undercover police operations are used by MPD for multiple purposes such as investigating robberies, burglaries, drug, prostitution offenses, and gun offenses.”
Additionally, Crump strongly disputed the notion that the officers participating in these operations targeted specific black communities. Rather, she said they are solely conducted to reduce crime.
“They are not targeted at any particular community,” Crump wrote. “[They] are used to address crime problems and citizen complaints.”
However, Grosso disputed Crump’s claims that targeted jump outs do not occur, citing examples from his time as councilmember as evidence and adding that parents teach their children on ways to react if a situation like this occurs.
“Maybe they want to protect their image and they don’t really want to talk about the reality of what’s happening on the street,” Grosso said. “There is really a use of this practice in D.C. so why they would deny it is baffling to me.”
Eugene Puryear of the D.C. Ferguson Movement echoed Grosso while testifying at the oversight hearing, calling MPD’s refusal of acknowledging their use of the tactic as a major part of the organization’s dissatisfaction with police and “the reason why we have to stand up and say ‘Black lives matter,’” according to The Washington Post.
Grosso said that the first step to stopping jump outs would be for Lanier to admit that they exist. For Grosso, passing a law to prohibit jump outs would not have the desired effect that a cultural change in the police force would.
“I think the most effective way to do this is for the chief to finally admit this and have the institutional training that steers this tactic out of their practice,” Grosso said. “The hardest part is getting the chief and others to admit that this is happening and having a negative effect on the city.”
Coinciding with the concerns about MPD’s relationship with black communities was criticism of its interaction with LGBTQ persons, according to a report released March 9 by the Hate Crimes Assessment Task Force. The report questioned the effectiveness of the MPD’s Gay and Lesbian Liaison Unit, hate crime data collection and interactions with D.C.’s trans communities.
The D.C. Trans Coalition released a statement specifically regarding the HCATF findings related to hate crime, which still regularly go unreported.
“We continue to receive reports of officers refusing to mark reports as possible hate crimes,” the statement said. “[W]e need to see greater respect given toward those reporting hate violence to ensure that these cases are properly reported.”
However, the report also noted that there were areas that the MPD was addressing in a timely manner, commending the timely progress of LGBTQ cultural competency training for MPD officers.
“MPD has committed to training all its personnel on LGBTQ cultural competency in calendar year 2015,” the D.C. Trans Coalition statement said. “[We] appreciate the opportunity to work together to create a quality product for officers and sergeants.”
In September, a Georgetown University student was injured in a bias-related assault involving sexual orientation, where MPD arrived first to the scene and took the student to a hospital.
GU Pride Media Manager and Historian Campbell James (SFS ’17) said that a relationship between police and the LGBTQ community is to everyone’s benefit.
“Having healthier relations between the general LGBTQ community and MPD is important,” James said. “If people who identify as LGBTQ cannot feel safe with the protection of MPD then that lack of trust permeates into distrust of other institutions.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 27, 2015 by Emma Rizk Leave a Comment 
Pulitzer Prize-winning New York Times journalists C.J. Chivers and Tyler Hicks discussed their experiences as war reporters in Ukraine, Syria and on other fronts.
The Wednesday night conversation, held in the Intercultural Center Auditorium, was the inaugural event in the Georgetown journalism program’s Salim El-Lozi Lecture Series. The lecture series honors the memory of El-Lozi, a Lebanese political journalist who was kidnapped and murdered in 1980 for voicing his criticism of the Syrian occupation of Lebanon, and Libya’s Muammar al-Gaddafi. Each lecture to follow in the series will focus on international freedom of the press and the First Amendment.
Chivers, who served in the U.S. Marine Corps after graduating college in 1987, began reporting in 1995. He has reported as a foreign correspondent from Israel, Afghanistan, Iraq, Russia and Uzbekistan. Hicks is a photojournalist who is currently based in Kenya but has covered news in Syria, Libya, Afghanistan, Pakistan and Chechnya, among others since 1992.
The event was moderated by Alex Horton (COL ’14), a lecturer in the journalism program, who began by asking Chivers and Hicks about their understanding of journalistic ethics in a war zone. Chivers said that he and Hicks avoided interfering with the squads that took them into the field, and that he was constantly concerned that his curiosity might endanger the lives of others.
“From the moment you’ve diverted the activity or the direction or the decisions of the people you’re with, if anything happens it’s on your soul,” Chivers said.
The two returned multiple times to a particular incident in Afghanistan in which they went out with a patrol. One of the men on the patrol was killed in a surprise ambush. Hicks, who had to swim across a river and nearly became hypothermic, remembers it as one of the worst nights of his life.
“It takes a lot to go out there, physically, emotionally, to put yourself in that place,” Hicks said. “Months of planning, and then you want to document what’s happening, you want to have a record, especially when there has been a causality. These guys deserve to have their stories told.”
“You’re in a tunnel, everything vanishes,” Chivers said of the ambush. “You have to toggle between your safety concerns, which are constant, and being able to inform the reader you’re out there because you’re not out there for you, you’re out there for your readers. Everything you do has to have a journalistic purpose.”
Chivers and Hicks reflected on how journalism has changed in recent years, specifically focusing on new threats to journalists in the field. When unable to travel with American forces, Chivers and Hicks began performing detailed risk assessments before entering conflict zones.
“Before we would do the trip we had thought through as many contingencies as we could have,” Chivers said. “That’s not going to protect you. What it does is it builds hesitation into what you’re doing and it has a plan so somebody is working on it if something goes wrong … but you can’t anticipate all the risks.”
When Hicks and Chivers were reporting in Syria in 2013, the Syrian Civil War had escalated, making it extremely unsafe to report in the country. Hicks said that it is important for a journalist to recognize when to leave a situation if it becomes too dangerous.
“You get to a point where you can’t work in a place anymore,” Hicks said. “There is no way I would go there now. It would be irresponsible for me and everyone around me. It’s literally suicide to go there now as a Westerner.”
Hicks also spoke about his Pulitzer Prize-winning reporting of the 2013 Westgate Nairobi mall massacre. As the decision to enter the mall was spontaneous, Hicks was unable to make detailed risk assessments or contingency plans.
“I can’t deny that it’s a selfish act to go and take that kind of chance. It’s selfish because if something happens to me, my family and my friends have to deal with the consequences,” Hicks said.
Chivers and Hicks both emphasized that they did not want to glamorize war reporting.
“[War reporting is] exceptionally dangerous. It’s not as valuable as people would have you believe,” Chivers said. “It is part of a mosaic of understanding a conflict. The frontline experientialist approach is an element … but it is no more important than covering the mosques and the schools.”
The consequences of war reporting extend far beyond bodily harm. When an audience member asked how Chivers and Hicks cope with what they have seen and experienced in the field, they spoke about the challenges they and their peers faced when they returned home from war zones.
“It’s not a good line of work and it’s not good for you, and I would say a huge fraction of our peer group — and we would include ourselves in that fraction — are screwed up,” Chivers said. “The alcoholism rates, the divorce rates, the substance abuse rates, the problems with coping and the various understandable afflictions that beset people who are exposed to trauma and violence.”
“I’m a very different person than I was before this type of work,” Hicks said. “You feel less entitled to have certain pleasures in life and that starts to affect your family. It’s a difficult transition. … It’s terrible being in these places; you find yourself in so much heightened stress and fear.”
A former Marine squad leader in the audience asked Chivers and Hicks if they ever reached the point where they felt they had to put down the camera to help the soldiers around them.
“There have been a few times when we have stepped in,” Chivers said.“Those are exceptionally rare. We’ve carried stretchers of wounded guys, we’ve applied bandages, we’ve held hands of people and poured water into the mouths of people who were shot or wounded. We’re human beings first.”
Alexandra Chinchilla (SFS ’15) and Bianca DiSanto (MSB ’17) both said that they were struck by the honest commentary Chivers and Hicks shared.
“I was really surprised that they were that honest. They sat down with us and they told us basically, ‘Don’t go into this profession because the risks have changed and there is an emotional cost to it,’” Chinchilla said.
“I am not from a journalism background or interest remotely, so it brought up a lot of issues and ethical questions that I had never really considered before,” DiSanto said. “A lot of it resonated with me and it felt very real and raw.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 27, 2015 by Kristen Fedor Leave a Comment 
The #FreeAustinTice campaign to raise awareness for a university alumnus who was kidnapped in Syria while working as a freelance journalist in 2012 is gaining traction on Georgetown’s campus with the efforts of the Journalism Department and the Center for Student Engagement.
After completing his second year at Georgetown University Law Center, Austin Tice (SFS ’02) left his law education to cover the escalating war between the Syrian government and rebel forces. While there, he disappeared in August 2012 en route from Daraya, Syria, to Beirut, Lebanon, at the age of 31.
According to reports from French newspaper Le Figaro on March 20, Tice, who is believed to be a captive of the Syrian government, is still alive. U.S. officials are allegedly in negotiations with the Syrian government for his release. The reports cite an anonymous European diplomat, who claims an American diplomat, Czech diplomat and Syrian Deputy Foreign Minister Faisal Moqdad are negotiating in Damascus, Syria for Tice’s safe return.
Delphine Halgand, U.S. director of Reporters Without Borders, an international nonprofit organization that aims to protect journalists and that has been working with Tice’s family since September 2012, confirmed reports that Tice is alive and added that the organization has knowledge that he is not held by ISIS or any terrorist groups.
“That’s the tricky part because we want to raise awareness but there are things we cannot say. But what we can say is that there are diverse, credible sources from diverse source origins that confirm he is alive and pretty well treated,” Halgand said.
Halgand also said the Syrian government has been cooperative and has told Tice’s family they will help with his release.
The State Department was unable to provide further details, but officials expressed concern for Tice’s wellbeing and appreciation for his work.
“We continue to work through our Czech protecting power in Syria to get information regarding U.S. citizens missing in Syria, and we appreciate the efforts of the Czech mission on behalf of our citizens,” a State Department official wrote in a statement to The Hoya. “We have long expressed concern about the safety of journalists in Syria and strongly urge all sides to ensure their safety.  This serves as a reminder of the great risks journalists are taking in order to shed light on the truth of what is happening in Syria.”
Reporters Without Borders has been consulting with the Tice family since 2012, connecting them with underground sources in Beirut and Arab media, according to Halgand. After the August 2014 execution of freelance journalist James Foley by the group that calls itself the Islamic State, the organization’s work turned towards public awareness of Tice’s situation at the request of the Tice family.
“I think that about 99 percent of Americans heard about [Foley] but had no idea that there is another American journalist who is missing and alive in Syria,” Halgand said. “The goal of the campaign was really to raise awareness among the American public, to encourage the US administration to do everything it can to bring Austin back home safely.”
The #FreeAustinTice campaign, run by Reporters Without Borders, officially launched in February, including an online petition and the Blindfold Pledge. Several media outlets, including The Washington Post, Hearst Newspapers Group and The Atlantic Media Group, are official partners in the #FreeAustinTice campaign.
The Blindfold Pledge is the crux of the marketing campaign, calling participants to take a photo with the “#FreeAustinTice” blindfold, post the image to social media and challenge someone else to do the same.
The last known image of Tice is a video from September 2012 showing him blindfolded, surrounded by his captors.
“We decided to use the blindfold symbol as a symbol of Austin and his kidnapping to say in a sense when a journalist is missing, we are all deprived of information. We are all blindfolded,” Halgand said.
The Newseum, also a partner in the campaign, opened a small exhibit showcasing Tice’s work last week.
According to Halgand, Georgetown has been supportive of the Tice family since his kidnapping, providing legal advice among other services. Now that the #FreeAustinTice campaign has publicly launched, members of the university will be working with Reporters Without Borders to bring the project to campus.
“I know he had a strong attachment to his school so I think it’s particularly important for Georgetown students to be aware of what a talented alumni has become and how they can help him today,” Halgand said.
Georgetown University’s Journalism Department officially offered help with the campaign, addressing Tice’s kidnapping at a Wednesday panel with Pulitzer Prize-winning journalists C.J. Chivers and Tyler Hicks. Attendees received #FreeAustinTice blindfolds when they entered.
The Center for Student Engagement held a meeting Wednesday afternoon to address ways to bring the #FreeAustinTice campaign to Georgetown. Representatives from Georgetown University Television, The Caravel and The Hoya attended. (Full disclosure: The Hoya is a member of the Media Board.)
Associate Director Amanda Carlton said the CSE has reached out to the Media Board, the Advertising and Marketing Association and the Georgetown branch of Amnesty International, among other student groups, about contributing to the campaign.
“It’s a lot of an open slate,” Carlton said. “This is a very grassroots campaign. They want us to use a lot of social media.”
During the meeting, Carlton described several ideas to increase awareness throughout the student body, including setting up a photo booth on campus for students to take the Blindfold Pledge.
While no concrete plans are in place, Carlton said the CSE hopes to reach out to as many student groups as possible to ensure the campus campaign is a success.
“How is it [that we go] beyond engaging students: inviting them to a place to learn more about Austin and to sign that petition — to do that action step, which is really minimal in our daily lives, but can make a huge difference to one person who is also a Hoya himself,” Carlton said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 27, 2015 by Xinlan Hu Leave a Comment 
The Booth Family Center for Special Collections on the fifth floor of Lauinger Library reopened Wednesday after nearly a year of renovations, which transformed part of the floor into a 9,200-square foot exhibition room with $150 million worth of books, manuscripts and art pieces.
According to Director of the Center for Special Collections John Buchtel, these renovation efforts will grant students larger access to the university’s special collections.
“One thing we are trying to do with this renovation is to make it more welcoming, open and visible, to put these exhibition cases that are secure, climate-controlled and appropriate for collections in locations where students can actually see what the treasures of our university are,” Buchtel said.
The renovations, which began last April, cost a total of $5 million, and were largely funded by a $3 million donation from the Booth family. The other $2 million consists of a $1 million donation from Barbara Ellis Jones (CAS ’74), a $500,000 donation from the Lauinger family and additional donations from many library contributors. The center now holds a collection of over 100,000 rare books, 750 distinct manuscript collections, 7,700 linear feet of university archives material, 50,000 to 60,000 linear feet of fine art prints and other art objects. These collections are estimated to worth over $150 million.
The center is currently displaying “Treasures Since 2000,” its first exhibition since the renovation, which features artifacts from the units of manuscripts collection, rare books collection, university archives and university art collection. Items on display include the first bible printed in America, Abraham Lincoln’s letter to General McClellan and the first poem published by William Wordsworth, which was a recent donation from professor Paul Betz. Exhibits in the center will change frequently.
The renovated center also added new spaces within its glass walls including a reception area, reading room, processing room, digital workroom and a classroom that can be reserved for class research sessions with the special collections.
Buchtel said that the classroom is now ready to serve more student researchers.
“In the five-year period prior to the renovation, we had 49 different faculties from 17 different departments and programs bringing their students in, hundreds of students,” Buchtel said. “We are going to do a lot more than that now. … We can almost hit that by a year-to-year basis. There are so many Georgetown classes that can make use of this.”
According to University Librarian Artemis Kirk, the center has aimed to collect rare items that can enrich learning experiences on campus.
“From time to time, if there are materials that are considered medium rare, we will think about whether we should put them into a special collection studies not just for Georgetown but also for future scholarship. That’s a combination for special collection and developing and managing our circulation collection,” Kirk said.
Meanwhile, the special collection’s online University Archive Unit, which will celebrate its 200th anniversary in 2016, preserves artifacts both ancient and modern. The archives even have historically documented tweets welcoming Georgetown’s new bulldog mascot from 2013 with the hashtag #WelcomeJJ.
“We are not doing our complete duty if we are not capturing the university history by any form in which it comes,” Kirk said. “We are doing both … old and new and looking into the future. Part of the special collection is meant to record, capture and preserve the history of this institution.”
The library has also worked to digitize many of the manuscripts and books featured in the collection, but Kirk said that physical experience with texts in the special collections space is an unmatched experience.
“When you can digitize materials, especially books and prints, you can give people access to what we have,” Kirk said. “You could find a reading copy of a lot of things and you would understand a novel by reading it by yourself. But if you actually see the handwritten manuscripts, you would get a different sense of what it is that the author is conveying.”
Besides research areas, the center also enhanced its collection storage area with separate climate-control and fire suppression systems.
“[The] special collection has a dual mission. We are here to promote history, but we are also here to preserve it,” Buchtel said. “So one of the most important features of the renovation was to upgrade our [Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning system] so that we have proper environmental conditions for our collections.”
The special collections are open to all students for both independent study and coursework. Buchtel encouraged interested students to look up materials on the library website and set up an appointment with librarians beforehand, as some of the materials are off-site.
“We can help with what it is that students are trying to find and we are very, very happy to do so,” Buchtel said. “Any students can come in and use the collections, for independent studies or regular classwork.”
Buchtel said that students from all majors would be able to appreciate the center’s initiative in restoring documents from the past.
“It enriches all of us to have a sense of history,” Buchtel said. “Even if you are studying micro-biology or foreign affairs and not doing a degree in history, it matters that you have a sense of where you come from and where the culture has come from. Part of what we are here for is to foster that.”
Jessica Hickle (SFS ’18), who is currently researching Berlin during World War I, said that she was excited to access the rare material.
“It’s a really awesome opportunity for students to have access to such rare materials that brought such incredible insight into the history of the school and the more general history,” Hickle said.
Hickle also took interest in a scorebook for Georgetown’s club baseball team from 1869 to 1873 in the University Archive section of the inaugural exhibition.
“I would encourage people to look at the artifacts that are specifically Georgetown-related,” Hickle said. “I was looking at a baseball sports chart from really early on in Georgetown history. It’s really cool that we still have those things.”
Lynn Lee (SFS ’18) said that while the center is a valuable initiative, she is concerned that it would take up the limited study space in the library.
“I think it’s great that students will get access to rare books etc.,” Lee said. “But I also regret that Georgetown does not have the space to put the center elsewhere. I was hoping that people can use Lau 5 [as a] normal study area and maybe have a collection somewhere else, maybe at Healy or somewhere.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 27, 2015 by Sara Kamouni 5 Comments 
Divestment from fossil fuels could negatively impact the financial returns for universities, according to a new report from an economic consulting company.
The study, released by Compass Lexecon and sponsored by the Independent Petroleum Association of America, highlighted the negative impacts of university divestment from fossil fuels, branding divestment a “bad idea” for the uncertainty it causes.
“The costs to investors of fossil fuel divestiture are highly likely and substantial, while the potential benefits — to the extent there are any — are ill-defined and uncertain at best,” Compass Lexecon President and Chairman Daniel Fischel, the principal author of the study, wrote in the report.
The study created stock indices, compared their returns and found that those without investments in the energy sector underperformed by up to 0.7 percent.
In the context of universities, the study also found that divesting from fossil fuels could cut funding for underprivileged students.
The study estimates that the cost to university endowments, which total $456 billion around the United States, would be $3 billion a year.
Despite these negative findings, representatives from Compass Lexecon maintained that the study does not explicitly advocate against fossil fuel divestment.
Senior Vice President Alex Rinaudo explained that the findings in the paper should be taken objectively and stressed that Compass Lexecon does not take an official stance on divestment.
“The point of the paper is not to say that divestment is or is not an option. I think it’s a very complex issue which could have benefits, but which also could have costs,” Rinaudo said. “The real point of the paper was to point out from a purely financial perspective, in terms of maximising assets, our analysis shows that divestment is highly likely to lead to a reduction, and from that perspective divestment comes with a very real financial cost.”
Universities have responded in various ways to the question of divestment. While The New School in New York City decided to divest from all fossil fuel investments in February and focus increasingly on climate change in its curriculum, Harvard University dismissed its students’ attempts to divest. University President Drew Faust said that divestment was neither “warranted nor wise” in an Oct. 2013 statement.
Rinaudo added that the decision of whether or not to divest from fossil fuels should be made on a case-by-case basis.
“Ultimately that’s up to the individual, and Georgetown, like every other institution, will have to make that choice,” Rinaudo said.
According to The New York Times, the report contradicts two previous studies on divestment. One by Northstar Asset Management predicted that divestment would reduce returns by 0.15 percent, while another by the Aperio Group said that divestment from 15 stocks specifically targeted by activists would have no real impact.
The issue remains contested at Georgetown.
The Committee on Investments and Social Responsibility previously rejected student organization GU Fossil Free’s calls for total divestment from 200 companies over the next three years, issuing alternative recommendations for strategic divestment and targeted engagement with energy companies to increase pressure on the companies to develop alternative sources of energy.
The board of directors is in the process of considering CISR’s proposal, as the issue of fossil fuel divestment is still an ongoing question among university officials, according to Director of Media Relations Rachel Pugh.
“The working group of the board of directors will be reviewing the divestment question carefully in the coming weeks and will want to hear from key stakeholders on a range of issues,” Pugh said.
Fossil Free members, who continue to campaign for divestment, criticized Compass Lexecon’s study.
“The report completely fails to understand the issues. It implies that climate science and the social costs of carbon are still very much up in the air, despite the fact that an overwhelming scientific consensus suggests otherwise,” Fossil Free member Graham Willard (SFS ’18) said in a statement on behalf of the organization.
Willard specifically pointed to the role of the Independent Petroleum Association of America in the study as an additional cause for concern.
“Any study commissioned by people who have a direct stake in its results should not be taken too seriously,” Willard said.
Correction: This article previously identified the IPAA as the International Petroleum Association of America. It has been updated to reflect its actual name, the Independent Petroleum Association of America.

A Student says 
March 27, 2015 at 3:57 pm
GU Fossil Free continues to embarrass the university, this time with displays of ignorance as to how economics and statistics work. In any case, as soon as the members of GU Fossil Free throw out their laptops, tupperware, start walking everywhere, refuse to take taxis, etc as all of those are connected to the evil energy companies they hate, maybe they would have a leg to stand on

eugene rooney says 
March 28, 2015 at 4:52 pm
GU Fossil Free=Ludites

Michelle says 
March 30, 2015 at 3:53 pm
“The study, released by Compass Lexecon and sponsored by the Independent Petroleum Association of America, highlighted the negative impacts of university divestment from fossil fuels…”
Um, has NOBODY picked up on the fact that this study was literally sponsored BY the fossil fuel industry? It’s a real shocker that the fossil fuel industry would say that it was bad to divest from fossil fuels…

SFS 2016 says 
March 30, 2015 at 4:50 pm
Beyond merely disagreeing with GUFF (we shouldn’t sacrifice the endowment’s gains so a handful of students can feel like they’ve done something against Big Oil), I really just don’t even understand what they actually hope to accomplish with any of this. Even though they don’t have the greatest grasp on economics, presumably they do understand that Georgetown University selling maybe $100 MM in energy stocks (a generous estimate) would do essentially NOTHING to the energy companies. 
This whole thing seems like an enormous waste of time. Rather than fighting with the administration over a pretty unpopular divestment proposal, these students could be out there actually doing some good for the environment in a wide range of capacities. This is not one of them.

SFS2016 says 
March 31, 2015 at 8:59 am
The Independent Petroleum Association of America? I’m reminded of the old studies put out by tobacco companies that said smoking wasn’t dangerous.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 27, 2015 by Sarah Fisher Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University General Counsel held a panel discussion on sexual assault and due process March 12 and discussed recent changes to related policies implemented by the federal government.
At the panel, organized by the American Constitution Society, Vice President and General Counsel Lisa Brown noted that the increased focus on sexual assault on college campuses requires constant evaluation by universities to stay up to date on new regulations.
“Along with Student Affairs, Health Education, [Institutional Diversity, Equity and Affirmative Action], student leaders and many others at Georgetown who are dedicated to preventing and responding to cases of sexual assault in our community, we are constantly evaluating our policies, procedures, and resources to ensure they are fair to all parties involved, consistent with the law and true to our values,” Brown said to The Hoya. “Keeping up with new laws, guidance documents and agreements — as well as best practices from other institutions and experts in the field — is an important way that Georgetown does this work.”
A March 13 article published by the Washington Examiner called the conversation a criticism of federal policies, which Brown said mischaracterized the tone of the discussion. Brown maintained that the purpose of the meeting was to review changes in sexual assault policy, and that the tone of the conversation was not as negative as the Washington Examiner described.
“The resulting story in the Washington Examiner … was taken quite out of context, as I was not lamenting new rules on this important issue,” Brown said.
The federal government introduced new legislation in the Senate this month that would increase university accountability in sexual assault cases. Titled the Campus Safety and Accountability Act, the proposed bill would raise penalties for universities in violation of Title IX, provide more resources for survivors, require more transparency in disciplinary procedures and distribute campus climate surveys.
This past year has seen a slew of reform bills responding to sexual assault on college campuses. In January 2014, President Obama formed a White House task force to head federal efforts to prevent and respond to sexual assaults on college campuses, and in September 2014, the White House and Center for American Progress’ Generation Progress launched a public awareness campaign against sexual assault called “It’s On Us” that aims to involve student leaders at Georgetown and at nearly 200 other universities in campaign efforts.
Following these efforts, Georgetown added an alcohol amnesty clause in cases of sexual assault and launched the webpage sexualassault.georgetown.edu with information and resources on sexual assault in February 2014 and reformed sexual assault policy in September 2014, reducing the number of individuals involved in sexual misconduct hearings and hiring outside investigators to look into complaints prior to the hearings. Previously, sexual assault hearings were handled in the same way as other breach of conduct hearings.
While the Examiner article claimed that these various federal policies reflect a bias against the accused, Sexual Assault and Health Issues Coordinator Jen Schweer said she believes survivor-centered sexual assault policies are not biased but critical in order to change the culture around sexual assault.
“I think the recent national dialogue and attention to the issue of sexual assault through laws and policy has allowed all of our communities to understand the importance of environments that are survivor centered,” Schweer said. “I don’t believe at all that survivor-centered means biased.”
Schweer added that more sexual assault policy should address the amount of sexual assault crimes that go unreported.
“Sexual assault is one of the most underreported crimes. It’s absolutely critical that we change the conversation to provide access to systems to those who want to use it as part of their healing,” Schweer said.
Georgetown University Student Association Secretary of Student Health and Safety Nora West (SFS ’15) said that the changing policies still leave a continued presence of bias against the survivor.
“Even with these new rules there is still a bias against survivors,” West said. “People are just reacting to the fact that there has been an upswing in cases due to the increased awareness around the issue. For the first time, perpetrators are being held accountable, and only sometimes, realistically. Let’s not pretend the system is biased against them.”
At Georgetown, 12 cases of sexual assault have been heard since 2012. Six people were found not responsible and six people were found responsible. Of those six found responsible, three were expelled and three were suspended. The Department of Justice says that two to eight percent of sexual assault accusations are false, which is about the same as those of other crimes.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 27, 2015 by Giovanna Azevedo Leave a Comment 
When Georgetown closes out its celebration of Women’s History Month on Tuesday with an event featuring ballet prodigy Misty Copeland, hundreds of students will have attended its 15 events, which featured discussions on gender, race, politics and disability.
For the first time, the month-long series of programming received funding from an initiative launched by the Office of the President in October 2014 that funds cultural and advocacy groups with official months designated to their causes. Women’s History Month received $1,500 in funding from the Office of the President and is the sixth of seven heritage months this academic year, preceded by Black History Month in February and followed by Asian-Pacific American Heritage Month in May.
Women’s Center undergraduate assistant Mary Rogers (COL ’16) said that the money helped fund resources for disabled students.
“The extra money was really helpful in being able to secure ASL interpreters for students who may have needed them,” Rogers said. “It helped make some of the events a little bit more inclusive.”
The aim of the month is not only to celebrate women but also to reflect on female achievements and setbacks in the past and in the future, according to a campus-wide email sent in mid-March.
The Georgetown University Student Association, the Women’s Center, Georgetown University Women of Color, Take Back The Night, Catholic Daughters, Women in Politics, Women’s Veteran Panel, Georgetown University Veteran’s Association and the Female Empowerment Magis Row House participated in and organized the events, creating a series of discussions on women in society, the church and the workplace. Events included movie screenings, guest speakers and roundtables on sexual assault and feminism.
Women’s Center undergraduate assistant Mary Rogers (COL ’16) said she believes the heritage month and its events are extremely important in the effort to empower women on campus.
“I think Georgetown has really been an old boys club for a while,” Rogers said. “We didn’t fully become co-ed until 1969 and even now we still struggle with getting more women in the upper levels of leadership on campus. Having a women’s history month that is recognized by the university is really important in letting all students on campus know that women are not only recognized, but valued here.”
The month-long celebration of women began March 6 with a kickoff coffee hour in the Female Empowerment Magis Row House. Other major events included a women’s veteran panel, a networking event and a feminism roundtable.
Rogers said that she especially enjoyed the Women and Disability Roundtable that featured disability rights advocate Lydia Brown (COL ’15) and National Council on Disability Executive Director Rebecca Cokely.
“In my opinion the best feminism is an intersectional one that includes gender, race, ethnicity and disability, so it was really great to explore that,” Rogers said.
Women’s Center volunteer Sylvia Levy (SFS ’18) also helped to organize some of the programming for Women’s History Month.
“The event that I organized, and was very excited for, was a panel discussion about women’s careers and activism,” Levy said. “The panel discussion was, I thought, very important and successful. Topics that were covered ranged from the importance of intersectionality in the work place and in activism efforts to tips on networking and operating in male-dominating fields.”
Levy said she was extremely happy with the response that the event received from fellow students.
“Afterwards, many students who attended came to me and told me how helpful the insights the panelists gave about women’s activism in tech, global rights and local activism were,” Levy said. “I am so thankful for all the help that I got and how much excitement for the event all of the students … I came into contact with had.”
New South Chaplain-in-Residence Jessie Lowry said that she used Women’s History Month as an opportunity to host conversations with students, which further celebrated women at Georgetown.
“I have noticed all the wonderful events on campus taking place in honor of Women’s History Month,” Lowry wrote in an email. “One of the things that I have always wanted to do is gather some wonderful women at Georgetown and simply talk openly and informally about what it is like to be a woman here. What are the unique challenges? What is like to make friends, join clubs, date, make your mark?”
Madeline Westrick (SFS ’18), who attended the month’s events, said that initiatives such as Women’s History Month are of vital importance to the Georgetown community.
“Women deserve to be celebrated and there are so many issues out there which need to be candidly discussed,” Westrick said. “As a society, we have come a long way, but there is still so many things that we need to work on in order to ensure that women have every single door possible open to them. I feel proud to be part of an institution that celebrates and empowers women.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 27, 2015 by Sarah Fisher Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University Law Center is expanding its online presence by adding two new masters-level programs to its roster of classes starting in fall 2015.
GULC is debuting an Executive Masters of Law in securities and financial regulation, which is the first degree in that field of law to be offered online. Additionally, the center is adding a Masters of Studies in Law for non-attorney tax professionals.
The LL.M. program in securities and financial regulation will address banking law, corporate governance, financial derivatives, securities litigation and other topics in that field. The MSL in taxation will give accountants, economists, actuaries and other non-legal financial professionals exposure to tax law.
The securities regulation program was modelled after the LL.M. in taxation online program, which was the first executive master’s degree offered online by the Law Center and which was launched in fall 2014. The creation of the taxation program was initially requested by the Internal Revenue Service, according to Associate Dean of Graduate Programs Nan Hunter.
“We were asked to develop an executive LL.M. in tax by the Internal Revenue Service,” Hunter said. “They wanted to be able to offer their staff attorneys around the country … an LL.M. without having to travel.”
The LL.M. allows IRS employees with law degrees to focus on expanding their tax law experience.
After the launch of the taxation program, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission followed in the IRS’s footsteps and asked the Law Center to develop an LL.M. in securities regulation.
As a trial for the new online LL.M., Hunter explained that GULC first only offered classes to staff attorneys in government agencies. After a successful test, they decided to expand the course to include other legal professionals.
“We offered the online participation only to government staff attorneys in part because we wanted to make sure that we were doing it at the highest quality level,” Hunter said. “We rectified [all] of the initial problems we had, and so we then offered … the LL.M. in securities regulation we’ll be starting next fall.”
Ellis Duncan, director of the GULC graduate tax program, noted that the online programs were designed with students who were not from the surrounding District of Columbia area in mind.
He stressed that the program will provide the same quality education as those within a physical classroom at the Law Center.
“There are many tax attorneys across the country whose careers could benefit from earning an LL.M. from Georgetown, but who cannot relocate to Washington, D.C.,” he said. “These students can [now] take advantage of our vast curriculum in taxation.”
Duncan added that he hopes the online LL.M. and MSL programs will help to expand the Law Center’s brand nationwide and internationally by attracting more high-quality students and said being able to enroll more students from new geographic locales can cultivate a more diverse image.
“[GULC] benefits by attracting a more diverse class of high-quality students,” Duncan said. “[It] enhances our national and global reputation as more students and attorneys around the globe hear about what we have to offer.”
Both online degrees will require 24 credit hours of coursework, with the LL.M. requiring 16 specialization credits in the securities and financial regulation area and the MSC needing 20 specialization credits in the taxation area.
GULC Dean William Treanor said he was proud of GULC’s new approach to teaching law in these fields and explained the center’s priority of offering diversity in its academic options.
“Georgetown Law’s LL.M. program has long been a leader in the field, offering a variety of degree options to both U.S.-educated and foreign-trained lawyers,” Treanor said in a press release. “These innovative online programs are an outstanding addition to a program that is already regarded as one of the finest of its kind.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 27, 2015 by Amy Char Leave a Comment 
After studying education with her African studies certificate, alumna Rebecca Gross (COL ’14) designed and founded an education initiative in Malawi that aims to teach young girls leadership skills by helping them propose viable solutions to community problems.
The initiative, called Student Driven Solutions, was created in December, and students in the program are currently in their fourth week of lessons. Gross said that the five-month curriculum combines both practical lessons of financial literacy and business skills with active participation. The class will culminate in a final project in which students will work in groups to identify a problem in their community to address.
“Students have said that early pregnancy and early marriage is a critical issue that keeps girls from completing their education,” Gross wrote. “Girls feel pressured by their families and communities to marry in order to secure their financial future.”
SDS’s teaching team is comprised of Gross and two recent graduates of Chancellor College, which is located in Zomba, Malawi. Current students at Chancellor College serve as mentors to the girls in the program, while trained secondary school teachers lead the lessons.
Gross, who graduated with an economics major and an African studies certificate, wrote her thesis on the United Nations’ Millennium Development Goal of Universal Primary Education’s impact on the quality of Sub-Saharan Africa and citizens’ satisfaction with primary schooling. The goal’s target is to ensure that all children worldwide will be able to complete primary schooling by 2015.
“Most countries have not met the goal of full universal enrollment in primary school, but African countries have made great progress,” African studies professor Lahra Smith, whom Gross named as one of her most inspiring professors, wrote in an email. “Rebecca’s thesis focused on quality of education, not just access, and that is an even harder goal in sub-Saharan Africa. The rising enrollment rates, which have been rapid in some places, required new teachers, new school facilities, new textbooks. Not all of that has come together fast enough.”
Prior to her thesis completion, Gross had both firsthand and secondhand involvement in education. She worked with One Heart Source as a teacher in a village in Tanzania and saw how enthusiastic her mom was as an elementary school teacher, which Gross said piqued her interest in education.
“After completing the thesis, I better understood the challenges to education in the region and was all the more determined to effect change in whatever way I could,” Gross wrote in an email.
SDS’s website highlights that the program chose to teach financial literacy to girls in Malawi because it is one of the poorest countries in the world yet home to the greatest number of citizens who said they planned to start a business in the next year in a survey. One of the program’s main goals is financial literacy, because Gross said it is key to stabilizing developing economies. Moreover, the program focuses on girls because only 13 percent of Malawian girls complete four years of secondary school, according to the SDS website.
Gross described characteristics of a typical female Malawian student’s day: She walks a long distance to get to school, her teacher is responsible for at least 40 students (all of various ages and different proficiency levels), her classmates may harass her by attempting her to engage in sexual acts and she must prioritize her chores over studying once she gets home.
“While many schools in Malawi emphasize rote memorization, we focus heavily on group work and active participation,” Gross wrote. “At SDS, we believe that creativity and teamwork sparks innovation and empowers students to imagine their own path to community development.”
Gross said that her time at Georgetown helped inspire her to found Student Driven Solutions.
“Without the inspiration of my fellow Hoyas, I don’t know if I would have had the confidence to become a leader,” Gross wrote. “I cannot stress enough how important it is to be surrounded by a community that challenges you and makes you think differently. … Undoubtedly, Georgetown’s mission to become men and women in the service of others has guided me in my journey since graduation.”
Education, Inquiry and Justice Professor Sabrina Wesley-Nero, another professor whom Gross named as one of her most inspiring professors, said that Georgetown has an obligation to help students examine injustice in the world.
“Vital to Georgetown’s identity are the basic values of social justice, the recognition of the power of education and a commitment to doing good for others,” Wesley-Nero wrote in an email. “These aspects … of being a Hoya do not end once students graduate.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 27, 2015 by Anna Riley Leave a Comment 
Since he founded the Preparing Global Leaders Foundation, a nonprofit organization aimed at teaching leadership skills to students and young professionals three years ago, President Sam Potolicchio (COL ’02, GRD ’11) has expanded the foundation’s programs worldwide to engage hundreds of aspiring global leaders.
The foundation organizes conferences that consist of short courses and workshops on diplomatic affairs, conflict resolution, social justice and leadership skills. The conferences, which are held in Russia, Jordan and Macedonia, last one to two weeks and include around 50 participants from 40 different countries.
Currently, there are already approximately 20 Georgetown student volunteers involved in promotion, research and other duties.
Although the courses are mainly taught by professors from around the world, the conferences have hosted numerous public figures in the past few years, including Editor of Politico Magazine Garrett Graff and the former Press Secretary for the Prince of Wales Colleen Harris. In addition to lectures, participants take part in simulations, such as mock interviews and mock parliaments.
Potolicchio said that the goal of the conference is to bring together young leaders from different backgrounds.
“I believe that if you have this approach and utilize different perspectives, particularly differences of nationality, religion, race and gender, then you can cultivate a different type of mindset in aspiring public servants and leaders,” Potolicchio said.
In particular, Potolicchio said that the conferences are a platform for young leaders from conflict zones around the world to engage in dialogue with one another.
“Friendships are formed here between students from conflict zones: Serbia, Kosovo, Russia, Ukraine, Palestine, Lebanon, Israel and more. We’re really advancing some important issues here and creating a dialogue instead of just a monologue between countries that have difficulties with each other,” Potolicchio said.
Several Georgetown students and faculty have participated in previous conferences. For instance, government professor Clyde Wilcox taught a course on public speaking at the Jordan program.
PGLF Chief of Staff Danny Aherne (COL ’16) said that professors at the conferences offer their guidance even outside of the classroom.
“We try to find professors that are not only the top in their field, but that are dynamic and engaging and care about their students,” Aherne said. “At the end of the day, you want people who are not only going to engage students in class, but also outside of the class.”
Government professor Marc Morjé Howard taught a mini-course on democracy in the Moscow program and serves on the board of PGLF.
“Even though the PGLF programs are often quite, they leave a tremendous and lasting impact on the students, both personally and professionally,” Howard said. “PGLF students come away with deep and lasting cross-national friendships, along with skills that prepare them for leadership positions in their home countries and the world.”
According to Aherne, participants form close relationships with professors at the conferences.
“Our professors will eat all their meals with the students,” Aherne said. “They build sort of a family to the point where people are crying at the end just because they don’t want to see everyone go, because then they scatter back to the corners of the earth.”
Dylan Kaplan (COL ’15), who attended the program at Moscow last summer, said that he developed his leadership skills at the conference.
“One of the most important things I learned was how to improve my ability to connect with the audience when public speaking,” Kaplan said. “Dr. Potolicchio also convinced me that leadership isn’t just something you are born with, but is something you can learn and leadership can be taught.”
Additionally, Kaplan said that he formed numerous friendships with other participants.
“The program had some of the smartest students from around the world,” Kaplan said. “My favorite part was spending time with the other participants. We explored Moscow together, went out at night together and really became great friends. The participants came from the Middle East, Europe and almost every stretch of the globe. … The program was one of the most memorable weeks of my life.”
Executive Director of PGLF in Skopje and Struga, Macedonia, Angela Velkova, said that the participants, who came from various backgrounds, were able to share their culture with one another. Velkova cited the Country Presentation Night as an example, during which participants present the folklore, culture and food of their countries.
“This is a night of revelations,” Velkova said. “One cannot choose words to describe the emotions when we see unfolding in front of our eyes scenes of Iraqi participants waiving an American flag, Georgian, Russians and Ukrainians dancing ‘Casatchok,’ Serbs and Kosovars singing ‘Gjurgjevdan.’ It is a unique experience.”
This summer, the conferences will take place in Jordan and Macedonia from May 23 to 30 and August 11 to 23, respectively. In previous years, PGLF has received approximately 1,000 applications for around 50 spots.
Additionally, the foundation offers financial aid for admitted participants. According to Aherne, one of their goals is to shift to a tuition free model, which would require a significant amount of fundraising in the future.
In addition to the prospect of becoming tuition free, Potolicchio said that he hopes to expand the program to all regions of the world.
“We are progressively expanding, so we’d like to kind of have a signature school in every single region in the world, and it’s catching on,” Potolicchio said. “Almost every single delegate that comes to this program comes to me and says, ‘I want to start this program in my country.’”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

