
April 10, 2015 by Mallika Sen Leave a Comment 
As Georgetown readies for the influx of prospective freshmen this weekend, another individual is conducting a college tour of his own — Admiral Cecil Haney, the commander of U.S. Strategic Command.
USSTRATCOM, one of the nine unified combatant commands under the Department of Defense, is responsible for the United States’ strategic capability through facets such as cyberspace operations, joint electronic warfare, and intelligence and reconnaissance. The four-star admiral is also the shepherd of the country’s nuclear deterrence force.
Keir Lieber, a professor in the government department and School of Foreign Service whose work focuses on nuclear weapons and strategy, met Haney at a conference in Omaha, Neb., where the latter expressed his interest in visiting college campuses. Haney’s visit to Georgetown follows on the heels of trips to Stanford University and the University of Nebraska Omaha. He delivered a lecture on 21st-century deterrence to Professor Matthew Kroenig’s introduction to international relations class Thursday.
He spoke with The Hoya about his outreach initiative, the state of the United States’ nuclear arsenal and the impact of current events.
 
In your lecture, you outlined an interest in visiting colleges and connecting with students. What sparked this interest?
 
The interest I had actually stimulated some thinking of how our country at large is not looking at thinking about, on the world stage, this coalition of events and the various threats we have. A lot of concern over lots of articles in various publications that sort of have these great theories of nuclear weapons that we have in our arsenal today, these cold war relics, without a balanced approach.
That we have to strive for a world free of nuclear weapons is a good thing that I support, but we have to do it in a balanced approach or we’ll lose strategic stability. Seeing so many unbalanced products out there really caught my attention to stimulate more discussions. There is no more fertile ground than college campuses. Then I wanted to be able to not just have any college campus but be able to have some of these universities like Georgetown that have in-depth faculty and students that are very interested in international affairs, international relationships, balance of power and those kinds of things.
 
Is this focus on a Generation Z deliberate or formalized initiative, or is it just out of personal interest?
It was only something to connect to the young folks in the audience. In some regards, I’m not very big at stereotyping any group but to use that to look at the dimension between those giants like Kissinger, et cetera, and the giants we need to have from this generation going forward.
 
Could you outline the vital importance of nuclear weapons today?
Nuclear weapons today provide us a nuclear deterrent and assurance capability that is important, given the fact that we have other nations that have nuclear weapons. Also from the assurance side, providing that nuclear umbrella we have agreed to with other nations so that we can have less nations deciding their own nuclear capability.
 
And aside from this deterrence and assurance, can nuclear weapons play additional roles on the world stage to elicit different things?
I would say that nuclear weapons are first and foremost about the business of strategic deterrence. It’s about maintaining strategic stability and not just with nuclear weapons by themselves, but with strategic capabilities. As I mentioned, space and cyberspace have a role to play in this regard. But it’s part of whole government strategic deterrent and assurance activities that by themselves require that whole government kind of approach in order to be successful.
 
What would you identify as threats where deterrents might fail?
It’s the unthinkable, but we would not want deterrence to fail first and foremost. If deterrence fails, we would want the conflict terminated as early as possible and in our favor. So consequently, the business of having that capability to go about deterrence first is also to remind any adversary that would want to escalate their way through a conflict in the nuclear kind of extreme circumstances that they won’t get the benefits they aim to achieve. That restraint is a much better option.
 
What is the most likely scenario in which the United States would use a nuclear weapon?
First and foremost, the actual order to use a nuclear weapon in air is one that can only come from the president of the United States. I’m very careful not to hypothesize how his decision calculus would work in those cases. I would say it would be a waiting decision first and foremost, as it was when we look back in our history of the utilization of the atomic bomb in World War II. I hope we don’t have those kinds of circumstances in the future if we use our deterrence and assurance mission correctly.
 
What constitutes your biggest priority on a macro scale and what is your day-to-day focus?
Well, day-to-day and macro is to provide deterrence and to deter strategic attacks against the United States of America or its allies and provide the president options if deterrence fails. Clearly we don’t have that latter on a day-to-day basis but maintaining the readiness of the strategic forces, whether they’re in the nuclear part of my business line, the space or cyberspace part, missile defense et cetera and those mission areas to ensure the readiness is there in order to support our overall joint military operations.
 
Do you find yourself on a day-to-day basis focusing more on cyberspace, electronic warfare, or another priority?
 
Haney: On a day-to-day basis for example, I start my morning [at 7 a.m.] in the morning operations and intelligence brief that covers the world, in particularly strategic activities in the world and all of my mission areas that are relevant. It also covers the readiness of my operational forces and capability in terms of things. And then of course you have immediate priorities but those may be associated with some exercise that I may be working to do with my associative forces and capabilities or support that I provide to the other combat and commands.
 
How would you describe the attention given to the state of the nuclear arsenal programs since the end of the Cold War?
I would say one, here in 2014, we had several things occur. One that was a very good one was a real deep look at the nuclear deterrent enterprise, and that’s all the various things that support this particular mission through service capabilities associated all the way down to the equip part that supports our nuclear and strategic missions.
With that, in our budget to reprocess, there was a recognition that things had to be supported in order to have a safe and effective capability well into the future. We had those associated deliberations and the associated support in recognition that this is an important mission for our country, for homeland security et cetera.
 
In talking about the modernization of the arsenal, what would you describe is a necessary scope for modernization, and to what extent should the United States devote funding to just pure maintenance? 
First, for my organization, as I indicated during the discussion, we have been operating a lot of our capability well beyond its design life when it was first created. It’s a good thing in terms of the American ingenuity, to know what went into those systems and our ability to also improve the longevity of some of those systems — the various platforms or the submarines aircraft and the intercontinental ballistic missile.
We have been able to do life extension programs and have initiated some on our warheads as well as the business of ensuring we have surveillance programs. They are also in the process of making sure this business works — that it is safe, secure and effective. But, like most things, they eventually time out and we have to replace the stuff before it times out. That’s why part of the modernization is in one case, the survival leg of our deterrent capability of submarines. We have to start the work that replaces those submarines so as these we have today decommission, we have a replacement form so we continue to have that survival leg. That’s just one of the modernizations examples.
 
How would you balance modernization and maintenance?
Well, the balance here is you have to sustain the capability that you have but you can’t just run it to death, you can’t fly airplanes and just continue to fly them, you have to take and run them through a maintenance period in order for them to continue to last the lifespan you desire as best you can, before they will still eventually time out. The modernization period is important because they either provide you better capability or give you a renewed insurance policy if you will that will last you many more decades to come beyond where this existing capability will time out. So both are important because if you don’t sustain what you have to get to the point where the new modernized equipment can come online without having a gap. A gap in this kind of capability will have a major impact to strategic stability.
 
In a 2009 speech in Prague, President Barack Obama stated a commitment to disarmament. How does this commitment affect the also-stated commitment to deterrence and modernization?
In 2009, when President Obama gave the Prague speech, he stated clearly that the goal was to have the world free of nuclear weapons. He also articulated that the likelihood of it occurring in his lifetime was not very high at all and that as long as the world was not free of nuclear weapons, the United States of America would have a safe, secure and effective nuclear arsenal. That latter piece is often not included in the first piece and it’s important because it’s not that long of a paragraph that that’s part of the whole president’s statement instead of cookie-cutter-ing it up in bite-size chunks.
 
What steps, considering the commitment to disarmament in some form was articulated, are being taken to eventually reach that?
Well, when you look at, and I don’t know if you saw the one slide I had in there that showed the number of nuclear warheads we had in our stockpile over time, and we had over 30,000 back in the late sixties, and today when you see how we have reduced that in every area, whether it’s the number of warheads, number of submarines, number of bombers, number of intercontinental ballistic missiles, we have decreased the numbers. In fact, we’re working diligently, and we’ll get there for the new start treaty limits, which were required to be there by 2018. The piece I emphasize is that we have continually over time done reductions, but part of this requires arms control agreements that are verifiable, that are not unilateral so that we can maintain strategic stability as we come down in numbers.
 
How would you describe Russia’s compliance with New START and how does this affect the United States?
Russia has completely complied with the treaty. This treaty allows us to do a number of inspections on them per year and inspections on our capability per year and they go on throughout the year and have not been impeded whatsoever on either side so far. They’re complying [with] the New START Treaty. It’s the [Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces] treaty that they have violated and we are hoping that they will come back on board in compliance with the INF and treaty.
 
How does this violation of the INF treaty affect the U.S.’s plan and response?
Well, as in any overall negotiation, number one to identify the problem and number two continue discussions with Russia over getting them back on board associated with treaty compliance. While at the same time ensuring that the rest of the world understands where they are, Russia as a nation state, and we would hope they would respect the international norms by the treaties they have signed up to be a part of. The real question and I don’t know the answer to it would be, “Why did Russia walk away from this treaty?” and then, “What are they planning on doing with this kind of capability in the future?” Too early to tell at this point.
 
In terms of the nuclear umbrella, in terms of extending protection to allies, how credible is this umbrella and how sustainable is it today with the shifting alliances with the new treaties and things like that?
The credibility of our strategic deterrence and our insurance umbrella we provide our allies is fully on board and implemented today. We’re not taking any shortcuts in that regard even as we work toward our New START treaty requirements, those we take into account as we move through those particular deliberations.
 
In terms of the U.S.’s program of deterrence in Asia, as China expands its power protections and its influence in the region, how does that credibility sustain itself?
China as a nation has grown economically and they’re in the process of also modernizing their overall military capability. Our hope in the various mechanisms working with China is that they will rise to the level on the international stage as a responsible actor, and that requires a certain bit of transparency associated with intention as well as capability. As we have been in the western Pacific arena for years, our allies and partners, we have five of our seven treaty allies are in the western Pacific area and as a result we take those commitments seriously, and we will continue to work with our allies and partners as we continue to work with China quite frankly on a policy level.
 
Should a deal be reached with Iran, what do you think the effectiveness would be and how would it change strategic anticipation?
First and foremost, we have, as a country, worked this P5+1 framework, which as I mentioned during my remarks I’m encouraged by that, to get Iran as a responsible player in the international community. It’s really up to Iran whether or not Iran will work within this framework in order to have an agreement that can be, again, verifiable and they have to be committed to that going forward.
 
That framework was obviously reached by diplomatic negotiations. Did you have any input?
This framework is led by, as you’ve seen on TV and everything, Secretary [John] Kerry. The secretary of state has been at the forefront associated with this. My job is associated with providing strategic deterrence capabilities and that’s clearly not an area in my lane. Iran is not in the area of responsibility of another geographical combatant command.
 
Cyberspace, especially today, and you mentioned this extensively, is hailed as both a modern frontier and a realm of modern warfare. How much of a shift have you seen in terms of addressing threats on the cyber front, and how weighted now is your work in cyberspace?
As you many have seen, building our cyberspace capabilities and capacity was my fourth listed priority of the six shown up there today. It’s been there throughout my tenure as the combatant commander of strategic command. It was also listed on my predecessor’s priorities in terms of things. As such we have worked not just in terms of investment in the building of talent, but also in terms of ensuring we’re organized so that we can work efficiently and effectively in defending the Department of Defense information network and to be able to be responsive to the needs of our country. My sub-unified command, U.S. Cyber Command, works across the board with other interagency partners associated with that mission.
 
Of the priorities of strategic command, what would you identify as posing the greatest challenge to tackle?
In execution of all of them, the biggest challenge right now facing our country is how we deal with the Budget Control Act in terms of how we fund our military apparatus at large given the complex, dynamic and uncertain security environment we’re in right now. Getting that piece figured out, so that we can look to have stable funding and the necessary funding we need so we can continue to work to protect our democratic values and our way of life in this country.
 
 
Given your responsibilities, what keeps you up at night?
First and foremost, when you work as hard as I do and you finally get horizontal, you’re asleep at night. But as I mentioned here, it’s multidimensional. First and foremost, that we as a country work to have the ability to be able to have the necessary defense capabilities we need given the threats that are upon us and that we will have a deliberate approach to funding the defense, and I don’t mean just the Department of Defense, but all those other things that ensure our homeland security and ensure the safety of our citizens abroad, and our commitments to our allies and partners is very important as we look at a whole laundry list of complex issues that we’re about.
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 10, 2015 by Alicia Che Leave a Comment 
As students rushed to and from their classes in the Edmund A. Walsh Memorial building this week, they passed by a nondescript gold shipping container on N Street — unaware that, inside, unprecedented conversations were taking place.
Participants who stepped into the box, titled the “Portal to Afghanistan,” were digitally transported thousands of miles away to have a full-body video chat with a complete stranger in Herat, Afghanistan.
This interactive box studio uses multimedia technology to create accessible, secure and meaningful encounters between people in Washington, D.C., and those in Afghanistan. Developed by emerging artist Amar Bakshi, Portal to Afghanistan is on display at 3622 N St. from April 7 to 18 and offers a unique experience for those interested in exploring how creative use of technology could empower cross-cultural communication. Shared Studios entirely manages and organizes each private session, and interested community members can sign up for a 15-minute session on Shared Studio’s website
“Technology really allows people to talk to one another, but too often new tools are not used to connect people who likely would not otherwise meet,” Bakshi said. “Portals grounds these technologies in a particular context and community that creates room for de-instrumentalized encounters between strangers. Often we use the tools at our disposal online to strengthen our own networks rather than reaching out to strangers across various divides. Portals provide a different avenue to create encounters between people.”
Shared Portals, which includes Portal to Afghanistan, is a major initiative under Shared Studios, a multidisciplinary arts, design and technology collective focused on connecting people from diverse populations and carving wormholes throughout the world. Inside the portals, which are modified from shipping containers and equipped with audio-visual technology, one comes face-to-face with someone in another container anywhere in the world. The two subjects then engage in a conversation as if in the same room.
Since the launch of Shared Portals in December 2014, more than a thousand people in Iran and the United States have carried on private, 15-minute conversations with strangers from the other country. In the past few months, Shared Portals placed exhibits at Yale University and the Lu Magnus Art Gallery in New York City. This time, due to a new partnership with professors at the University of Herat, Shared Portals is bringing its real-time correspondence to Afghanistan for the first time.
The Laboratory for Global Performance and Politics at Georgetown is hosting the Portal Project after reaching out to Bakshi expressing interest in collaboration. Lab Co-Founder and Co-Director Cynthia Schneider, distinguished professor in the practice of diplomacy, said that Georgetown thought the art installation would complement a larger initiative and performance by the Lab in partnership with the Georgetown Department of Performing Arts entitled “Generation (Wh)Y.” The “theatrical experience,” which will incorporate multimedia aspects, was created after Georgetown students experienced video interactions with students from Egypt, Syria, Afghanistan, Sudan, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Palestine, Qatar and Iraq, among other countries. According to the Department of Performing Arts’ website, the project will run April 17 and 18 in the Davis Performing Arts Center.
“We used intimate live performances and web-based technology and social media platforms to allow viewers to move through multiple spaces exploring real experiences from global voices and the poetry of everyday life,” DPAC Artistic Director Derek Goldman, the Lab co-founder and co-director, said. “It celebrates different encounters that people are having with folks around the world.”
Schneider said she believes that Georgetown’s portal is an invaluable chance to foster deeper cross-cultural understanding.
“In the wake of President [Mohammad Ashraf] Ghani’s visit, we have heard a hopeful message for Afghanistan’s future and for the ongoing positive cooperation between our two countries,” Schneider said. “But against that backdrop come reports of continued violence, endemic poverty, and other challenges. The Portal provides the chance to understand how ordinary Afghans view their lives and their future.”
Bakshi said he envisions that the use of technology could transform the way people communicate and shape their ideas of group identity. He also indicated that he chose shipping containers as a medium to unite participants in a common space with deep symbolism.
“Using shipping containers also has symbolic value, by making a mundane artifact more meaningful and creating a moment around it,” Bakshi said. “Shipping containers are a symbol of global commerce and a trade-centric culture. Here I want to re-purpose these containers  in a consistent way and to facilitate de-instrumentalized encounters. The myriad associations enhance this context.”
Those participating in the exchange are expected to respond to the same prompt: “What would make today a good day for you?” Bakshi said the question encourages participants to speak about details of their daily lives and touch on the small things that make a long-lasting memory for them.
During one of the 15-minute conversations that took place on Wednesday, two participants shared insights about their lives, college experiences and personal viewpoints on philosophy and religion. Afghan college student Mohammad Yones said he taught his partner on the other side of the screen greeting phrases in Persian, which carry the meaning of “I wish you happiness.”
After leaving the Portal, participants write about their experiences in a gold book, which are then published on the project’s website.
Besides the 15 minute individual appointments, the Portal can also be used for off-hours reservations for longer stretches of time, enabling artists, students or academics to converse or collaborate.
In the future, Bakshi anticipates the Portal to expand to more countries and more diverse populations. Potential future destinations include Iraq, Monrovia, Liberia and China. Shared Portals hopes to create a portal installation in a different location each month for the next six months.
“The conversation pair does not need to be super-charged,” Bakshi said. “One day you might have Moscow and Ukraine, but it could also be two parts of D.C. The idea is having two groups engage across varying forms of distance.”
“Through the Portal, I gained a friend who reminds me that education, electricity and the economy are not things to take for granted,” Ramjit said.
 
This article has been updated.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 10, 2015 by Chris Balthazard Leave a Comment 
Although a recent focus on improving teacher quality has elicited marginal improvements in the D.C. Public Schools system, structural problems of safety and security continue to pervade the city’s schools, leaving significant room for improvement in the District’s education strategy.
The high school graduation rate in Washington, D.C., was 61 percent in 2014, well below the national average of 81 percent. For public schools in particular, the rate lagged behind at 58 percent, while public charter schools graduated 69 percent of their students, which, though better, registered a seven percent decline from 2013.
Eight years after D.C. Public Schools Chancellor Michelle Rhee ushered in an era of radical change, the situation of the DCPS system remains far from rosy.
Rhee, who was appointed chancellor in 2007, focused on improving the quality of teachers in the District, contentiously closing 23 schools in 2007 for poor performance, firing 36 principals and publicly taking on teacher unions. Her successor, Kaya Henderson (SFS ’92, GRD ’07), has continued the practice, closing 20 schools in 2012.
“In 2007, 95 percent of teachers were rated good or great, and then … 12 percent of students in the eighth grade were reading proficiently according to the [National Assessment of Educational Progress],” a DCPS central office administrator who asked to be identified only by position said. “And there’s a disconnect between those two numbers. Certainly, the 95 percent of teachers who we said were meeting our expectations — that doesn’t mean that they didn’t care deeply about students, want the very best, or were trying very hard — but it certainly meant there was a disconnect between how we were defining those expectations and the outcomes that our students were having.”
To evaluate teachers more rigorously, DCPS implemented the IMPACT test in fall 2009, which utilized reviews from different evaluators, community involvement and test scores. The system drew criticism from Washington Teachers’ Union President George Parker for “taking the art of teaching and turning it into bean counting,” according to the Washington Post in 2009.
Although test scores have improved overall since Rhee took over, much of the increase occurred in a large jump from 2007 to 2008. Since 2008, math scores have increased — except in Ward 5 — but reading scores have not, dropping more than five percent in four wards; in 2014, just 23.8 percent of students in Ward 8 were considered to be reading proficiently at their grade level.
The continued struggle of the educational system indicates to educators that issues larger than teacher performance are at play.
Brian Becker, the assistant headmaster at Washington Jesuit Academy, a small private school for grades five to eight in the Michigan Park neighborhood in northeast D.C., believes a successful school derives largely from the support of a strong community and culture.
“Our character and education plan incorporates many Jesuit values, but basically talks about building a strong and responsible community,” Becker said. “It’s a culture, not a long list of rules. So I think that any school, to succeed, needs to establish a culture with clear-cut expectations, and then constantly reinforce and shape that culture.”
Yet this safety and security can be difficult to find in the poorer parts of D.C., which encompass most of the city east of Rock Creek Park. The percentage of students who qualified for free and reduced lunches reached 76 percent in 2013-2014 school year, and there were over 2,450 homeless children in the DCPS system in the 2012-2013 school year, according to a report by the D.C. Fiscal Policy Institute.
The same report noted that, according to the Children’s Law Center, more than 5,000 children in the District who needed mental health services may not have received them.
Last April, while kids were on the Ludlow-Taylor Elementary School playground in the Capitol Hill neighborhood, a man was shot and killed across the street, although he was out of sight.
Such violence is not uncommon, often spilling over into school areas and robbing students of the security needed to focus on academic performance. In the 2011-2012 school year, urban.org reported that of the 336 incidents of gunfire in D.C. during the school day, over half took place within 1,000 feet of a public school.
“From a needs platform, students who are not experiencing the basic Maslow’s hierarchy of needs at home, vis-a-vis shelter, food, and safe environments,” Alexander Levey, assistant director of admissions and financial aid at the Upper School of Sidwell Friends School in northwest D.C., said. “They arrive into an academic classroom maybe not having all of the brain freedom to explore academic tasks. And that is the starting point. So it’s really important in those communities to make sure kids are feeling safe and secure in order to then start to learn.”
The violence may contribute to the city’s high truancy rate: 56 percent of high school students had more than 10 unexcused absences in the 2013-2014 school year.
Private schools like the Washington Jesuit Academy steer students away from neighborhood strife and towards a belief that college is an attainable goal, but the public school system is more vulnerable, and the charter school system, which provides marginally better test score results than public school systems do and which remains an integral part of the D.C. education environment, is no failsafe.
While 44 percent of school-age city residents are now enrolled in public charter schools, the second most of any city in the nation, according to the Washington Post, the schools are concentrated in Ward 1, leaving students in Wards 7 and 8, which have weaker neighborhood schools, with few options to commute to charter schools. The District does not have a school bus system.
Though the demographics of the average school in 2014-2015 came out to 67 percent black, 17 percent Hispanic and 12 percent white, individual schools generally do not approximate those demographics, with significantly greater percentages of blacks in Wards 7 and 8, Hispanics in Ward 1 and whites in Wards 2 and 3.
Building a strong and safe community might begin with addressing the problems of violence and underlying poverty, but schools have found other ways to incorporate culture and community into their classroom as well.
The city’s Hispanic population as a whole grew over 14 percent between 2010 and 2012, and 24 percent of students speak Spanish at home and speak English less than “very well,” which presents a problem for schools that have trouble successfully integrating such students.
Yet three bilingual schools in the District, as well as Cardozo High School’s International Academy, have turned the problem on its head, teaching students — often recent immigrants — content as well as English so they can graduate on time.
Other angles to building community include seemingly little things like improving recess through structure and inclusiveness, the goal of Playworks, a national company which operates in several D.C. schools.
Topher Anuzis, who worked as a coach for two years at Playworks and currently works in their D.C. office, clearly saw the impact the program had on the school community.
“In the school that I was [coaching] at for two years, I definitely noticed a decrease in bullying, and a decrease in fighting during the day,” Anuzis said. “The incident reports I had to put in the first couple months of my first year were out of control, but by the end of my second year, I rarely had to report a fight because they were happening so infrequently.”
Music, too, is seen as another way to improve community and culture in D.C. schools, which Becker believes are making real progress.
“They’re heading in the right direction,” Becker said. “As a parent of a three-year-old who is eagerly awaiting the results of the DCPS charter school lottery at the end of the month, I understand in a totally different way the high-stakes game that is raising kids in the city and providing for their education. If I didn’t think that schools were improving at all levels, it would be difficult to justify raising a family in the city.”
Brian Dillon (COL ’11), an English teacher at Key Academy, a charter school in Southeast D.C., acknowledged the difficulty of fixing the education system. Without one solution in particular to quickly fix the problems in the District, Dillon pointed to dedicated teachers and administrators as key to advancing the education system, noting that their willingness to implement and test a variety of solutions could eventually improve outcomes for DCPS students.
“It’s not like there’s a silver bullet, or a magic formula,” Dillon said. “There’s just a bunch of committed adults who work sixty hours a week, and are with the kids from 7:30 to 4:30 every day, who care a lot and make sure the work gets done. … [In the District,] there are thousands of adults and thousands of kids trying to make it better, and it’s really hard work.”
Correction: A previous version of this article identified the Washington Jesuit Academy as a charter school. It has been updated to reflect that it is a private school.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 10, 2015 by Toby Hung Leave a Comment 
Workers at O’Donovan Hall, Hoya Court and the Georgetown University Hotel and Conference Center said that they have made progress in their contract renegotiations with Aramark, after their current three-year contract ended in March. Workers expect to reach a deal with Aramark at their next meeting on Tuesday.
In the past several months, workers have spoken out against Aramark’s management for failing to meet fair work and wage conditions and violating workers’ rights. Students from the Georgetown Solidarity Committee collaborated with the workers in drafting a petition expressing the workers’ demands, which include a 40-hour paid workweek, better health care benefits, protection for immigrant workers and sustainable on-campus food practices.
Aramark Corporate Communications Director Karen Cutler agreed that the two parties have made progress in the negotiations.
“We continue to make progress but it would not be appropriate to comment on the ongoing negotiations,” Cutler wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Donte Crestwell, a worker at Leo’s who has been part of the negotiations committee, said that while Aramark has agreed to an open dialogue with workers, they have not met all of the workers’ expectations.
“They came in good faith. It wasn’t what we expected but they did make an effort,” Crestwell said. “As of right now, the negotiations are still open so we can’t give any details. It was better than what they had [earlier], but not what we expected.”
However, Leo’s worker Josh Armstead, who has also been involved in the negotiations committee, said that Aramark has yet to acknowledge a fair process for worker unionization in meetings.
Workers at Hoya Court and the hotel have expressed their desire to join UNITE HERE, the same union that workers at Leo’s, Cosi and Starbucks joined in 2011. GSC organized two rallies in February and March to demonstrate student support for workers achieving a fair process for unionization.
“The economics is not what we want it to be. We still have not heard anything on the fair process for non-unionized workers at Hoya Court and the hotel,” Armstead said.
Additionally, Aramark has not responded to the letter issued by Vice President of Auxiliary Services Joelle Wiese and Director of Business Policy and Planning J. Callahan Watson in February, which requested that Aramark respect workers’ rights.
“We haven’t heard back from [Aramark on the letter]. We’re just waiting to hear something from them,” Crestwell said.
Despite these setbacks, Armstead said that there have been significant improvements in both the language and economic aspects of the negotiation.
“The current progress is that they came to us in the last negotiation in good faith, and we actually did see progress on the language of the contract and on the economic side of the contract. … To have them show that they have an open proposal after seven, eight months is definitely an improvement,” Armstead said. “It’s not where we want it to be, but it is a sign of good faith.”
In an email to The Hoya, Wiese wrote that she still expects Aramark to continue an open dialogue with workers.
“We expect that Aramark and the union will continue to negotiate in good faith to reach a mutually agreeable outcome,” Wiese wrote.
Armstead said that he hopes the negotiations will present fair conditions for both the workers and Aramark.
“The main thing is we definitely want to come out with a stable contract that works for us and works for them. But we want the contract with dignity. We definitely need the economics and the fair process, [and to] have the workers be paid fair wage, so that they can live in the city and surrounding areas and have due rates,” Armstead said.
Armstead said he hopes that the decision reached on Tuesday provides workers with fair treatment.
“We would love to see that Aramark, on [April 14], gives us a fair proposal on the economics and addresses the fair process issue,” Armstead said. “We want them to treat the workers well. We do a lot of hard work. There’s a lot of people on this campus that make it run smoothly. We want to be treated with respect, economically and morally.”
Armstead said that Aramark should not stall the negotiations, which have been ongoing for months.
“My personal opinion is that it would not be in the best interest for these negotiations to stall past that date. The workers are fed up. Anything could happen if a deal is not concluded on [April 14],” Armstead said.
Armstead said that he will continue to inform other workers about the progress of the negotiations until a final agreement is made.
“We keep [the workers] motivated. That’s part of the job. We give them the information,” Armstead said. “You try to keep the anxiety levels low [and] keep their spirits up.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 10, 2015 by Tom Garzillo 4 Comments 
In an effort to create a more inclusive Georgetown University Student Association, President Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Vice President Connor Rohan (COL ’16) have assembled a cabinet filled with newly created positions and GUSA novices.
Led by Chief of Staff Abbey McNaughton (COL ’16), the cabinet consists of 67 students. Of the cabinet, 46 percent has no prior experience in GUSA.
Luther and Rohan chose to accept applications to their cabinet, which McNaughton said was an effort to make GUSA more representative of all students. They received a total of 123 applications.
“It was really to make sure that GUSA was representing all parts of campus and not just the same group of politically interested government people,” McNaughton said.
Luther said that while drawing in new students to GUSA was important, he was more concerned with attracting the most committed and knowledgeable people possible.
“We didn’t go into it saying we want the breakdown to be X, Y and Z,” Luther said. “We went into it looking at each position saying, ‘who is the most qualified for this,’ in terms of who is the most passionate, who is the most engaged and who is going to make the biggest tangible difference.”
McNaughton echoed this sentiment, and said that the administration sought to select the most passionate candidates.
“[We wanted] people who are genuinely passionate about these kinds of things, and have really targeted, realistic goals for the next year rather than people who just want to be involved in GUSA,” McNaughton said.
Luther said that after he and Rohan were elected without a clearly defined platform or budget, he saw it as a chance to work with a “clean slate.”
“This year, it’s a bottom-up approach,” Luther said. “It’s the secretaries who are driving the policy. We’re not going to micromanage them and tell them exactly what they need to work on.”
Part of the administration’s reforms include the creation of new positions, such as the secretary of free speech, student group of the week coordinator, undersecretary for D.C. affairs, secretary of student organizations, undersecretary for unrecognized student groups, secretary of international student affairs and minister of fun.
Other positions were created out of previously existing ones. For instance, campus planning, residential living and auxiliary services are now three separate entities with their own secretaries, as opposed to previous years in which they were combined into one.
Additionally, the administration divided the secretary of student health position into a secretary position for student health, an undersecretary position focused on mental health, a secretary position for student safety and an undersecretary focused on sexual assault.
Luther said that these new positions will enable GUSA to better represent all interests on campus.
“We thought we’d get a lot more results out of this,” Luther said. “Certain positions covered a lot of very important topics, and while there were great people doing those jobs, it was perhaps hindering their ability to work on some of those other issues.”
McNaughton said she expects that GUSA will still be unified despite the new compartmentalized positions.
“Giving them their own positions isn’t [meant] to break apart the intersectionality of those areas, but to give even more attention to them. We see those secretaries continue to collaborate,” McNaughton said.
The undersecretary of mental health will serve to address the mental health of students, which was one of the only issues that Luther and Rohan did not satirize in their campaign. The position will be filled by
Ben Johnson (NHS ’17), who said that broadening the conversation about mental health on campus will be a major focus of the cabinet next year.
“As an ally, I’ve seen many friends go through mental health crises on campus, and occasionally struggle to find the right resources,” Johnson said. “Improving mental health resources and promoting mental health is finally beginning to be recognized as the essential health issue that it is.”
Johnson, who is also a member of Georgetown Emergency Response Medical Service, has no past experience in GUSA. Motivated to join by an interest in the topic of mental health, he said that GUSA members will serve as both facilitators and initiators.
“As a facilitator, my role is primarily to serve as a bridge between the many like-minded but separate student and university groups and resources. As an initiator, I aim to seek out under-addressed mental health issues in the Georgetown community through the lens of the GUSA Mental Health Committee, and work to create partnerships to see those issues brought to light.”
The new position for secretary of free speech, which will be filled by current member of the Speech and Expression Committee Sam Kleinman (COL ’16), will help direct policy initiatives to change or augment university policies regarding speech and assembly. He will work closely with H*yas for Choice Vice President and Hoyas United for Free Speech member Vincent DeLaurentis (SFS ’17) to oversee the new Office of the Free Speech Advocate that he campaigned to create.
Kleinman, who served as a GUSA senator representing LXR this year, said that the office will ensure that the rights of Georgetown students are protected.
“It will advise folks who are bringing complaints against university officials,” Kleinman wrote in an email to The Hoya. “It responds in real time to potential policy violations to ensure that the university doesn’t interrupt a legal protest.”
Another student responsible for crafting Luther and Rohan’s new image of GUSA is Minister of Fun Craig Levites (COL ’17).
Levites, who also became editor-in-chief of The Georgetown Heckler after Luther was elected into office, is responsible for presenting GUSA’s important issues in a fun and engaging way to the student body.
“Joe and Connor really want GUSA to be the campus megaphone,” Levites said. “Over the next year, I think people will finally come around to seeing GUSA as the ally that it is, not the alienated outsider group it’s been labeled as in the past.”
Melina Delkic (COL ’17) is the student group of the week coordinator and like many students in the Luther-Rohan cabinet, a first-time GUSA member. Delkic is responsible for profiling student groups on GUSA social media pages and highlighting the work that groups are doing to bring something new to campus. In the past, GUSA has only highlighted student individuals on its website.
“Joe and Connor created this position because there are so many fantastic student groups on campus that people don’t know about,” Delkic said. “Those groups deserve to reach as many people as possible. … Clubs are really the heart of Georgetown.”
Delkic’s online presence overlaps with Stephen Cacace (MSB ’16), director of social media. Cacace, who is also a GUSA newcomer, said he was motivated to get involved after seeing students’ reactions to the unconventional Luther-Rohan campaign.
“People were excited about GUSA for the first time in my three years here,” Cacace said. “I went to the GUSA Facebook page and Twitter account and was underwhelmed.  I felt that the new administration needed someone to help them get their voice heard.”
As social media director, Cacace works with the communications team to help shape and implement GUSA’s social media strategy across Facebook, Twitter and a newly created Instagram.
Luther said that he is particularly excited for the new social media strategy, Levites and the emerging role of humor in GUSA.
“Craig is going to keep things loose and make sure we stay true to our message,” Luther said. “Make sure I don’t become some beltway insider overnight.”

anon says 
April 10, 2015 at 10:34 am
The Undersecretary for D.C. Affairs is not a new position. Additionally, the previous administration also accepted applications and conducted hours of interviews to fill the Cabinet positions. A significant number of people serving in the previous administration also had minimal prior experience with GUSA (have you ever heard of freshmen?). 
The Hoya’s love affair with this new administration is not totally unjustified, but at least give credit where credit is due. They are not completely revolutionizing GUSA, no matter how many times everyone claims that they are.

A Student says 
April 10, 2015 at 12:33 pm
The only change that appears to have occurred to GUSA is that more useless positions have been created for people to stick on their resumes. The President of the U.S. only needs a 15 person cabinet, no idea why anybody at Georgetown thinks they need 67 people to do anything

SFS 2016 says 
April 12, 2015 at 7:53 pm
How big was the previous cabinet, for comparison? Seems like an important fact to include.

Another student says 
April 15, 2015 at 10:24 am
@A Student — While the President of the US does only have a 15-person cabinet, the federal Executive branch consists of over 4,000,000 employees. The cabinet is the entire GUSA Executive and is responsible for everything from programming to community engagement to advocacy, much more than just advising Joe and Connor. 
I personally think a larger cabinet is better because it will allow for more diverse perspectives to be represented in GUSA. As long as it is managed well, I think this could be a very good development
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 10, 2015 by Emma Rizk Leave a Comment 
“DHS reports the Hypothermia Alert will remain on.” The message from the District of Columbia AlertDC system is casual, and for most students, it simply signifies another cold winter night.
For the Georgetown students and staff on the Hypothermia Outreach Team, however, the alert is a call to action. As the temperature dips below 32 degrees, the team ventures out into the streets of the Georgetown neighborhood to help people experiencing homelessness in the freezing cold find safety and shelter.
During last year’s polar vortex, two men experiencing homelessness in the Georgetown neighborhood almost died of hypothermia resulting from exposure. Both men were regular guests at the Georgetown Ministry Center, a local nonprofit organization that reaches out to the chronically homeless individuals in the neighborhood.
The experience inspired the organization to establish the outreach team in collaboration with Georgetown’s Center for Social Justice in January 2014.
While only around 25 students, faculty and staff volunteers were trained for HOT in its first year, which operated as a small pilot program, over 300 university volunteers trained this year to recognize signs and symptoms of hypothermia, distribute supplies and alert people of available shelters: 190 of these volunteers have actively participated on an outreach trip this year.
The CSJ sent out an email to the Georgetown community in October inviting volunteers to join.
”I believe the increase speaks a great deal about the growing interest of our community coming together to be part of this growing issue,” CSJ Associate Director Ray Shiu wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Whenever the temperature dips below freezing, or the city issues a hypothermia alert, some of the 190 active volunteers gather at the Center for Social Justice Research, Teaching and Service to load up backpacks with supplies including food, blankets and clothing. Over the course of the winter, during which nearly 70 hypothermia alerts were issued, the team provided aid 384 times to people experiencing homelessness in the Georgetown neighborhood.
The interventions carried out by the team have saved lives, according to GMC Communications Director Stephanie Chan.
“Twice this winter, HOT called 911 for individuals,” Chan said. “The second time they called 911, they found one of the guys who comes into our day center regularly unconscious on the side of the street, wearing only one shoe and a light jacket, and he was unresponsive, so they called 911 for him, and I think ended up saving his life.”
The homelessness crisis in D.C. reached critical levels this winter, as D.C. General, the city’s largest homeless shelter, quickly ran out of space, and the District was forced to contract with motels both in D.C. and Maryland to accommodate the demand for emergency shelter.
Despite the crisis, the interventions by the outreach team appeared to make a real difference in the Georgetown community, according to HOT Student Coordinator Sarah Sohlberg (NHS ’16).
“This year is the first year in a long time — I’ve heard from a lot of GMC staff that I’ve talked to — that we haven’t had a member of our community die of hypothermia,” Sohlberg said.
According to Chan, HOT’s presence in the community has also been well-received by the homeless population.
“I know, from speaking to a couple of the guests who come to our day center, they appreciate knowing that people are out there checking up on folks and making sure that people are okay,” Chan said. “Even the act of showing that we care has a big impact.”
Jamil Hashmi (COL ’16), a HOT leader, spoke about how the team is a unique program in the District.
“College students doing hypothermia outreach is not something that you see within homeless services,” Hashmi said. “HOT does a great job of finding a need in the community and taking what Georgetown can offer, which is volunteers, and meeting that need.”
While on the streets the night of Valentine’s Day, Gianna Maita (COL ’15), another HOT leader, and Hashmi came across a homeless woman who was unprepared for the weather, intoxicated, and who then started having a seizure. She expressed a wish not to go to the hospital but she consented to being examined by paramedics. Hashmi called 911 while Maita reassured the woman.
“I was always asking her if what I was doing was okay and if it would help her, that’s part of how I deal with respecting the dignity and the privacy of people sleeping outside,” Maita said. “Advocating for her needs was our role in that situation. … We are there to make sure everyone is safe and feels safe.”
Sohlberg said many of those experiencing homelessness in Georgetown are isolated because of mental illness or distrust of the shelter system.
“People will refuse to go to shelters because they have had such bad experiences with violence or getting their stuff stolen or general harassment,” Sohlberg said.
Such situations expose the homelessness crisis in Washington, D.C., which has exceeded shelter capacity for the past two winters and caused government officials to scramble for temporary solutions.
“We shouldn’t have a system that allows people to remain homeless for so long,” Maita said. “Chronic homelessness is something that could be stopped very easily by our city with the right kinds of affordable housing policies.”
D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser has pledged to create more affordable housing to solve the continued crisis. Her budget calls for an increase in the sales tax to fund services to end family homelessness by 2018 and all homelessness by 2025, also setting aside $100 million to the Housing Production Trust Fund.
Georgetown is increasingly involved with homelessness outreach efforts as well, with Sohlberg noting that the CSJ is expanding their programs in response to the increased interest among Georgetown students.
“A lot of students want to dispel the stereotypes and break down barriers that exist between Georgetown students and the homeless community of D.C.,” Sohlberg said.
That has led to the creation of the Homelessness Outreach Program, a new CSJ program currently coordinated by Sohlberg that links students with GMC to work on long-term projects with the organization. In fall 2015, a volunteer on staff will further formalize the program through a collaboration between the CSJ, the Office of Campus Ministry and the Georgetown Ministry Center, according to Shiu.
Despite the rapid growth of the homelessness outreach programs and the critical interventions of the Hypothermia Outreach Team, Maita called for structural changes to eliminate the necessity for the team in the first place.
“We wouldn’t have to send a bunch of 20-year-olds into the freezing cold if there weren’t people sleeping out in the freezing cold in the first place — if D.C. had the right support network to make sure that doesn’t happen to people,” Maita said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 10, 2015 by Kristen Fedor Leave a Comment 
Forty-nine years after Washington, D.C., last hosted the Major League Baseball All-Star Game, the annual festivities will return to the city in 2018 for the first All-Star Game to be held at Nationals Park.
MLB Commissioner Robert Manfred Jr. announced the plans for the Nationals to host the 89th Midsummer Classic during a press conference April 6, the opening day for this season.
“I am pleased that the Nationals will have the opportunity to host the Midsummer Classic for the first time since Major League Baseball returned to our nation’s capital in 2005.  The best sporting event of the summer, which will be held one decade after the opening of Nationals Park, will add a new chapter to the long and distinguished baseball tradition in Washington, D.C.,” Manfred said.
Washington Nationals Managing Principal Owner Theodore Lerner thanked Manfred and was optimistic about hosting the All-Star game.
“As the stewards of the national pastime in the nation’s capital, hosting this event has been a goal of ours from the beginning,” Lerner said. “We’re confident that under Mayor Bowser’s leadership, the city will be a superb host for All-Star week and we look forward to welcoming baseball fans from around the world to beautiful Nationals Park.”
Hosting such a high-profile MLB event is significant for the city, considering its rocky history with baseball. The District was without a baseball team for 33 years after the Washington Senators moved to Arlington, Texas, in 1972, changing their name to the Texas Rangers. Prior to the Senators’ move, D.C. hosted the All-Star Game four times in 1937, 1956, 1962 and most recently in 1969.
The Washington Nationals, who moved to the nation’s capital from Montreal where they used to be the Expos, brought baseball back to D.C. in 2005, and Nationals Park opened in 2007.
Jimmy Lynn, a professor in Georgetown University’s Masters in Sports Industry Management program, highlighted this history of the sport in D.C.
“This is fantastic for the community that went without baseball to host a high-profile event which is a marquee event for Major League Baseball,” Lynn said.
Lynn added that hosting a popular national event is beneficial for the entire city and explained how All-Star games focus on other promotional aspects beyond the game itself.
“I think there is a lot of carry-over for other sports but just the city in general. It puts the city on the map for those couple of days,” Lynn said. “It’s not just an All-Star Game on Tuesday. They also do a lot with fan experience: D.C. is trying to reach out to the younger generation of fans and play into that, and I think they’re going to create an All-Star Game experience where fans can come and experience interactive places around the ballpark. It’s just a huge win for the city and a huge win for the team.”
Mayor Muriel Bowser also emphasized the impact hosting the 2018 MLB All-Star Game will have on the growing image of the city as a sports town.
“D.C. is not just a political town that hosts presidential inaugurations and heads of state; we are a great sports town, too,” Bowser said. “I am proud of the work of the Washington Nationals organization both on and off the field.”
Though accommodating such a large sporting event poses potential challenges, Lynn said he was not concerned about D.C.’s capability to host a successful All-Star weekend with the help of MLB. Instead, he noted that the experience could make D.C., which submitted an unsuccessful bid to become the U.S. candidate to host the 2024 Olympic Games, more attractive to hosting major events in the future.
“[D.C.] absolutely does have the capacity,” Lynn said. “Whether it’s a World Cup or an Olympic committee, when they look at host cities, they look at, has that city hosted a major event? The more DC hosts high-profile events, this will be positive for the city in general.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 10, 2015 by Mallika Sen Leave a Comment 
As Georgetown readies for the influx of prospective freshmen this weekend, another individual is conducting a college tour of his own — Admiral Cecil Haney, the commander of U.S. Strategic Command.
USSTRATCOM, one of the nine unified combatant commands under the Department of Defense, is responsible for the United States’ strategic capability through facets such as cyberspace operations, joint electronic warfare, and intelligence and reconnaissance. The four-star admiral is also the shepherd of the country’s nuclear deterrence force.
Keir Lieber, a professor in the government department and School of Foreign Service whose work focuses on nuclear weapons and strategy, met Haney at a conference in Omaha, Neb., where the latter expressed his interest in visiting college campuses. Haney’s visit to Georgetown follows on the heels of trips to Stanford University and the University of Nebraska Omaha. He delivered a lecture on 21st-century deterrence to Professor Matthew Kroenig’s introduction to international relations class Thursday.
He spoke with The Hoya about his outreach initiative, the state of the United States’ nuclear arsenal and the impact of current events.
In your lecture, you outlined an interest in visiting colleges and connecting with students. What sparked this interest?
The interest I had actually stimulated some thinking of how our country at large is not looking at thinking about, on the world stage, this coalition of events and the various threats we have. A lot of concern over lots of articles in various publications that sort of have these great theories of nuclear weapons that we have in our arsenal today, these cold war relics, without a balanced approach.
That we have to strive for a world free of nuclear weapons is a good thing that I support, but we have to do it in a balanced approach or we’ll lose strategic stability. Seeing so many unbalanced products out there really caught my attention to stimulate more discussions. There is no more fertile ground than college campuses. Then I wanted to be able to not just have any college campus but be able to have some of these universities like Georgetown that have in-depth faculty and students that are very interested in international affairs, international relationships, balance of power and those kinds of things.
Is this focus on a Generation Z deliberate or formalized initiative, or is it just out of personal interest?
It was only something to connect to the young folks in the audience. In some regards, I’m not very big at stereotyping any group but to use that to look at the dimension between those giants like Kissinger, et cetera, and the giants we need to have from this generation going forward.
Could you outline the vital importance of nuclear weapons today?
Nuclear weapons today provide us a nuclear deterrent and assurance capability that is important, given the fact that we have other nations that have nuclear weapons. Also from the assurance side, providing that nuclear umbrella we have agreed to with other nations so that we can have less nations deciding their own nuclear capability.
And aside from this deterrence and assurance, can nuclear weapons play additional roles on the world stage to elicit different things?
I would say that nuclear weapons are first and foremost about the business of strategic deterrence. It’s about maintaining strategic stability and not just with nuclear weapons by themselves, but with strategic capabilities. As I mentioned, space and cyberspace have a role to play in this regard. But it’s part of whole government strategic deterrent and assurance activities that by themselves require that whole government kind of approach in order to be successful.
What would you identify as threats where deterrents might fail?
It’s the unthinkable, but we would not want deterrence to fail first and foremost. If deterrence fails, we would want the conflict terminated as early as possible and in our favor. So consequently, the business of having that capability to go about deterrence first is also to remind any adversary that would want to escalate their way through a conflict in the nuclear kind of extreme circumstances that they won’t get the benefits they aim to achieve. That restraint is a much better option.
What is the most likely scenario in which the United States would use a nuclear weapon?
First and foremost, the actual order to use a nuclear weapon in air is one that can only come from the president of the United States. I’m very careful not to hypothesize how his decision calculus would work in those cases. I would say it would be a waiting decision first and foremost, as it was when we look back in our history of the utilization of the atomic bomb in World War II. I hope we don’t have those kinds of circumstances in the future if we use our deterrence and assurance mission correctly.
What constitutes your biggest priority on a macro scale and what is your day-to-day focus?
Well, day-to-day and macro is to provide deterrence and to deter strategic attacks against the United States of America or its allies and provide the president options if deterrence fails. Clearly we don’t have that latter on a day-to-day basis but maintaining the readiness of the strategic forces, whether they’re in the nuclear part of my business line, the space or cyberspace part, missile defense et cetera and those mission areas to ensure the readiness is there in order to support our overall joint military operations.
Do you find yourself on a day-to-day basis focusing more on cyberspace, electronic warfare, or another priority?
On a day-to-day basis for example, I start my morning [at 7 a.m.] in the morning operations and intelligence brief that covers the world, in particularly strategic activities in the world and all of my mission areas that are relevant. It also covers the readiness of my operational forces and capability in terms of things. And then of course you have immediate priorities but those may be associated with some exercise that I may be working to do with my associative forces and capabilities or support that I provide to the other combat and commands.
How would you describe the attention given to the state of the nuclear arsenal programs since the end of the Cold War?
I would say one, here in 2014, we had several things occur. One that was a very good one was a real deep look at the nuclear deterrent enterprise, and that’s all the various things that support this particular mission through service capabilities associated all the way down to the equip part that supports our nuclear and strategic missions.
With that, in our budget to reprocess, there was a recognition that things had to be supported in order to have a safe and effective capability well into the future. We had those associated deliberations and the associated support in recognition that this is an important mission for our country, for homeland security et cetera.
In talking about the modernization of the arsenal, what would you describe is a necessary scope for modernization, and to what extent should the United States devote funding to just pure maintenance?
First, for my organization, as I indicated during the discussion, we have been operating a lot of our capability well beyond its design life when it was first created. It’s a good thing in terms of the American ingenuity, to know what went into those systems and our ability to also improve the longevity of some of those systems — the various platforms or the submarines aircraft and the intercontinental ballistic missile.
We have been able to do life extension programs and have initiated some on our warheads as well as the business of ensuring we have surveillance programs. They are also in the process of making sure this business works — that it is safe, secure and effective. But, like most things, they eventually time out and we have to replace the stuff before it times out. That’s why part of the modernization is in one case, the survival leg of our deterrent capability of submarines. We have to start the work that replaces those submarines so as these we have today decommission, we have a replacement form so we continue to have that survival leg. That’s just one of the modernizations examples.
How would you balance modernization and maintenance?
Well, the balance here is you have to sustain the capability that you have but you can’t just run it to death, you can’t fly airplanes and just continue to fly them, you have to take and run them through a maintenance period in order for them to continue to last the lifespan you desire as best you can, before they will still eventually time out. The modernization period is important because they either provide you better capability or give you a renewed insurance policy if you will that will last you many more decades to come beyond where this existing capability will time out. So both are important because if you don’t sustain what you have to get to the point where the new modernized equipment can come online without having a gap. A gap in this kind of capability will have a major impact to strategic stability.
In a 2009 speech in Prague, President Barack Obama stated a commitment to disarmament. How does this commitment affect the also-stated commitment to deterrence and modernization?
In 2009, when President Obama gave the Prague speech, he stated clearly that the goal was to have the world free of nuclear weapons. He also articulated that the likelihood of it occurring in his lifetime was not very high at all and that as long as the world was not free of nuclear weapons, the United States of America would have a safe, secure and effective nuclear arsenal. That latter piece is often not included in the first piece and it’s important because it’s not that long of a paragraph that that’s part of the whole president’s statement instead of cookie-cutter-ing it up in bite-size chunks.
What steps, considering the commitment to disarmament in some form was articulated, are being taken to eventually reach that?
Well, when you look at, and I don’t know if you saw the one slide I had in there that showed the number of nuclear warheads we had in our stockpile over time, and we had over 30,000 back in the late sixties, and today when you see how we have reduced that in every area, whether it’s the number of warheads, number of submarines, number of bombers, number of intercontinental ballistic missiles, we have decreased the numbers. In fact, we’re working diligently, and we’ll get there for the new start treaty limits, which were required to be there by 2018. The piece I emphasize is that we have continually over time done reductions, but part of this requires arms control agreements that are verifiable, that are not unilateral so that we can maintain strategic stability as we come down in numbers.
How would you describe Russia’s compliance with New START and how does this affect the United States?
Russia has completely complied with the treaty. This treaty allows us to do a number of inspections on them per year and inspections on our capability per year and they go on throughout the year and have not been impeded whatsoever on either side so far. They’re complying [with] the New START Treaty. It’s the [Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces] treaty that they have violated and we are hoping that they will come back on board in compliance with the INF and treaty.
How does this violation of the INF treaty affect the U.S.’s plan and response?
Well, as in any overall negotiation, number one to identify the problem and number two continue discussions with Russia over getting them back on board associated with treaty compliance. While at the same time ensuring that the rest of the world understands where they are, Russia as a nation state, and we would hope they would respect the international norms by the treaties they have signed up to be a part of. The real question and I don’t know the answer to it would be, “Why did Russia walk away from this treaty?” and then, “What are they planning on doing with this kind of capability in the future?” Too early to tell at this point.
In terms of the nuclear umbrella, in terms of extending protection to allies, how credible is this umbrella and how sustainable is it today with the shifting alliances with the new treaties and things like that?
The credibility of our strategic deterrence and our insurance umbrella we provide our allies is fully on board and implemented today. We’re not taking any shortcuts in that regard even as we work toward our New START treaty requirements, those we take into account as we move through those particular deliberations.
In terms of the U.S.’s program of deterrence in Asia, as China expands its power protections and its influence in the region, how does that credibility sustain itself?
China as a nation has grown economically and they’re in the process of also modernizing their overall military capability. Our hope in the various mechanisms working with China is that they will rise to the level on the international stage as a responsible actor, and that requires a certain bit of transparency associated with intention as well as capability. As we have been in the western Pacific arena for years, our allies and partners, we have five of our seven treaty allies are in the western Pacific area and as a result we take those commitments seriously, and we will continue to work with our allies and partners as we continue to work with China quite frankly on a policy level.
Should a deal be reached with Iran, what do you think the effectiveness would be and how would it change strategic anticipation?
First and foremost, we have, as a country, worked this P5+1 framework, which as I mentioned during my remarks I’m encouraged by that, to get Iran as a responsible player in the international community. It’s really up to Iran whether or not Iran will work within this framework in order to have an agreement that can be, again, verifiable and they have to be committed to that going forward.
That framework was obviously reached by diplomatic negotiations. Did you have any input?
This framework is led by, as you’ve seen on TV and everything, Secretary [John] Kerry. The secretary of state has been at the forefront associated with this. My job is associated with providing strategic deterrence capabilities and that’s clearly not an area in my lane. Iran is not in the area of responsibility of another geographical combatant command.
Cyberspace, especially today, and you mentioned this extensively, is hailed as both a modern frontier and a realm of modern warfare. How much of a shift have you seen in terms of addressing threats on the cyber front, and how weighted now is your work in cyberspace?
As you many have seen, building our cyberspace capabilities and capacity was my fourth listed priority of the six shown up there today. It’s been there throughout my tenure as the combatant commander of strategic command. It was also listed on my predecessor’s priorities in terms of things. As such we have worked not just in terms of investment in the building of talent, but also in terms of ensuring we’re organized so that we can work efficiently and effectively in defending the Department of Defense information network and to be able to be responsive to the needs of our country. My sub-unified command, U.S. Cyber Command, works across the board with other interagency partners associated with that mission.
Of the priorities of strategic command, what would you identify as posing the greatest challenge to tackle?
In execution of all of them, the biggest challenge right now facing our country is how we deal with the Budget Control Act in terms of how we fund our military apparatus at large given the complex, dynamic and uncertain security environment we’re in right now. Getting that piece figured out, so that we can look to have stable funding and the necessary funding we need so we can continue to work to protect our democratic values and our way of life in this country.
Given your responsibilities, what keeps you up at night?
First and foremost, when you work as hard as I do and you finally get horizontal, you’re asleep at night. But as I mentioned here, it’s multidimensional. First and foremost, that we as a country work to have the ability to be able to have the necessary defense capabilities we need given the threats that are upon us and that we will have a deliberate approach to funding the defense, and I don’t mean just the Department of Defense, but all those other things that ensure our homeland security and ensure the safety of our citizens abroad, and our commitments to our allies and partners is very important as we look at a whole laundry list of complex issues that we’re about.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 10, 2015 by Gaia Mattiace Leave a Comment 
Several campus offices, including the Center for Social Justice Research, Teaching and Service, the Office of Advancement, the Office of Mission and Ministry and the School of Nursing and Health Studies, collaborated this fall to raise over $4,400 for the Holy Family Parish in Caldwell, Liberia.
Chair of the NHS Department of Human Science and member of the Committee on Mission and Values Rosemary Sokas said that the committee conceived of the project in the fall brainstorming possible ways of directly reaching out and supporting African communities. The committee consists of dozens of faculty members and students.
“We got together with some of the students just to … think about ways that might be appropriate to … connect in a more ongoing way [and to begin] to have a relationship with them,” Sokas said.
The project raised funds from members of the Georgetown community by creating awareness of the Ebola crisis through town hall discussions and web seminars.
According to Holy Family Parish pastor Timothy Baghrmwin, the money collected through this fundraising effort has provided essential resources at the parish’s time of need during the Ebola crisis.
“[The] Georgetown University community came in a timely way to help. … That has gone a long way to provide some medical supplies for the clinic. It has also provided food for our poor people. Just before Easter we distributed 48 bags of rice and chicken to the poor of our parish and community,” Baghrmwin said.
Baghrmwin also said that the parish still requires financial support to pursue projects in the surrounding community.
“We have a school project we intended starting last year but unfortunately with the Ebola incident, the whole project is put on hold. The finance is not available to furnish to the first five classrooms and pay the salary of teachers,” Baghrmwin said.
Sokas said that they will continue to contribute funds to the community in Caldwell, which has been greatly affected by the Ebola crisis.
“[Even] before the Ebola crisis, the proportion of health care workers to the population [in Liberia] was less than 10 percent of that even in Nigeria. This is an area where the need was huge to begin with and has only gotten worse as the economy has collapsed and as the health care system has been fragmented further,” Sokas said. “This is just as clearly an area of need that we can work on as a longstanding on going effort. … We don’t just plan to walk away as the Ebola crisis recedes.”
Sokas said she was proud to see Georgetown students, alumni and faculty come together to support this cause. In addition to fundraising, Sokas has contributed greatly to increasing awareness of the Ebola crisis on campus. In the past year, she has organized two town-hall-style meetings in which various individuals discussed the different facets and implications of the Ebola virus.
“I am really in awe of the ability of people in our community at Georgetown to come together and really walk the walk and support each other, trying to live the Jesuit values and that this particular relationship with Holy Family Parish is a wonderful example of that,” Sokas said.
According to Executive Director of the Center for Social Justice Andria Wisler, the Jesuit connection between Georgetown and the Holy Family Parish allowed for easier channels of communication.
“As it is a Jesuit parish, we had channels through our Jesuit province to ensure that these funds were easily transferred directly to the parish,” Wisler said.
Fundraising was organized in two tiers, which included a web seminar created by the NHS and a donation collection box at the Office of Mission and Ministry. The webinar included an online fundraising drive for Georgetown students, professors and alumni.
“Fundraising took place through Dr. Sokas’ contacts, making announcement via email and Facebook, as well as at events in the fall semester related to raising awareness about Ebola. Fundraising also took place at Campus Ministry religious services,” Wisler said.
In addition, student fellows of the Jesuit Universities Humanitarian Action Network contributed to fundraising and educational activities. JUHAN is a joint initiative between Georgetown, Fairfield University and Fordham University in increasing humanitarian crises relief efforts.
Sokas said that although they started the fundraising efforts to respond to the urgency of the situation in Liberia, she hopes to continue providing aid in new ways and working in conjunction with new programs, such as Jesuits Missions Inc., a Jesuit missionary enterprise that will help transfer funds to the parish.
“We’re in communication, working with, Jesuit Missions Inc. to figure out the mechanisms to get the funding from the United States into the parish. We did it through Georgetown University when it was an emergency situation, which was wonderful. … right now we need some plans to make it a really ongoing regular activity,” Sokas said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 10, 2015 by Lucy Prout Leave a Comment 
Dr. Donna Freitas (COL ’94) spoke about the current hookup culture and how it shapes the national conversation about sexual assaults on college campuses in an event titled “Blurred Lines: Sexual Assault and the Hookup Culture” Tuesday in White Gravenor Hall. The event was co-sponsored by Love Saxa, the Office of Student Affairs, the Tocqueville Forum and the Leadership Institute.
Freitas is a non-resident research associate at the Center for the Study of Religion and Society at the University of Notre Dame. She is also a fiction and nonfiction author with works appearing in national newspapers and magazines including The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times and The Boston Globe.
Freitas took a holistic stance on consent, sexual assault and the college hookup culture, differing from the staunch assertions and rigid definitions that often frame the national conversation about sexual assault.
“Part of why we need to rethink the way we talk about consent and sexual assault in light of the hookup culture is because hookup culture is a culture where we are learning to be ambivalent about sex, ambivalent about our partners, to be ‘whatever’ about them,” Freitas said. “We are learning to not communicate around sex because ideally, the best way to stay unattached is to not pay attention or care about your partner. This does not mean that a hookup is sexual assault. It means that consent is often very murky in a hookup. It’s very, very blurred.”
College students are not content with the current hookup culture according to surveys of students from four-year college institutions — including Catholic, evangelical, public, and private-secular schools. The findings were presented in Freitas’ books “Sex and the Soul” and “The End of Sex.” After countless conversations with students about their hookup experiences, Freitas said she was able to define the social contract of the hookup.
“A hookup is a competition of who can care the least, and whoever cares the least wins,” Freitas said. “You are not supposed to care about your partner. Everybody sort of knows this — the social contract of a hookup — but in reality, it’s really hard to not get attached. However, you are not supposed to become vulnerable or emotionally invested to be sexually intimate. One of the tricks I kept hearing over and over was to not communicate with your partner.”
While almost no students in Freitas’ research were anti-hookup in theory, they felt overwhelmingly frustrated that the disconnected hookup seemed to be their only option in college. This self-imposed separation left the majority of students desiring more and raised warnings for Freitas during her study.
“One of the things I kept hearing was, ‘The best way to not get attached is to not communicate,’” Freitas said. “For me, I saw this as a big red flag. In order to consent, you need to communicate. In a culture of hooking up, what people are learning [is] that the best way to survive being sexually intimate is to not communicate at all.”
But conversations about consent usually disregard the fact that college students want to hook up and that alcohol often facilitates this. Because of this shortcoming, talk of consent does not reach the ears of students.
“We aren’t really looking at what consent means in the context of hookup culture,” Freitas said.
Freitas also said that the current conversation about casual sex is too simple and that hard questions are not often asked, while the very clear line between casual sex and sexual freedom is forgotten. Hooking up enables a culture of casual sex to settle in, leaving many feeling disempowered, according to Freitas.
Freitas’ message appeared to resonate with the group of students in the room, though Martha Strautman (COL ’18) said she was left searching for answers after the talk.
“I thought the talk was spot on,” Strautman said. “Dr. Freitas really captured how I have experienced the freshman college hookup scene so far this year. But, I found myself leaving the room feeling a little discouraged — I wish she kept talking. She outlined the issue and her research behind non-communication with partners and the competition to care less, but when students asked how we should act to change this, she didn’t really give an answer.”
Gabby Johnson (COL ’18) said she wishes that the extent of the talk could have reached a greater Georgetown University audience.
“I think that the workshops at the beginning of the year did not do such a great job about providing a good definition of consent,” Johnson said, referring to sexual assault awareness discussions that premiered at this year’s New Student Orientation.
“I don’t blame them because consent is so hard to define, especially when alcohol is brought into the equation,” Johnson added. “Dr. Freitas acknowledges this and really did a good job of focusing on the importance of consent, while allowing us to still hook up if we want to.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

