
February 27, 2015 by Margaret Heftler and Kshithij Shrinath Leave a Comment 
Despite displeasure from members of Congress, marijuana legalization took effect in Washington, D.C., at 12:01 a.m. Thursday. The sale of marijuana remains illegal.
Having passed with 69 percent of the vote in November’s election, the measure faced a 30-day congressional review period, beginning Jan. 13. Its expiration at midnight paved the way for implementation.
Initiative 71 permits individuals who are 21 years of age to possess up to two ounces of marijuana, freely give up to one ounce to another person who must also be at least 21 years of age, and use marijuana in private spaces.
Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) and Metropolitan Police Department Chief of Police Cathy L. Lanier clarified in a press advisory Thursday that restaurants and private clubs do not constitute private spaces, emphasizing that the substance could only be used in private homes. The operation of vehicles under the influence of marijuana is still unlawful as well.
“[Initiative 71] does not allow for the sale of marijuana, the use of marijuana in public spaces, the use of marijuana by juveniles,” Bowser said at a press conference Wednesday.
Additionally, marijuana possession remains illegal on federal property, approximately 25 percent of the land in the District, including the National Mall.
Metropolitan Police Department officers have undergone training to ready themselves to respond in accordance with the new legislation. According to Lanier, new protocols will only differ slightly from those implemented last July when D.C. decriminalized marijuana.
“It’s not some major change or shift in what the officers do under decriminalization,” Lanier said at the Wednesday conference. “We’ve been working on this for a while. … Our officers are going to be fully prepared for 12:01.”
Prior to legalization, marijuana possession and private use of less than one ounce was considered a civil offense with a fine of $25, while public use would result in a jail sentence of up to 60 days. Before decriminalization in July, possession and use resulted in a criminal offense that could be punished by up to six months in jail and a $1,000 fine.
Zack Pesavento (SFS ’08), press officer for the D.C. Cannabis Campaign, which led the campaign in favor of Initiative 71, said that legalization would lead to fewer race-related arrests in D.C.
“Really, what we’re doing is putting an end to marijuana prohibition that has disrupted thousands of people’s lives not only here in the District but all over the country,” Pesavento said. “The biggest change is we’re going to stop seeing a system that’s really just been used to target low income and minority communities here in the District.”
Congressional Drama
The District’s efforts to legalize have received scrutiny and backlash from certain members of Congress.
In its omnibus spending bill passed in December, Rep. Andy Harris (R-Md.) included a policy rider that prevents the District from “enacting” any law that legalizes marijuana.
Bowser and the D.C. Council, along with Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.), argued that the initiative was self-enacting when approved by voters, and thus legalization was ratified before the passage of the rider.
“We are of the same view that the initiative was enacted at the point that the voters voted and the board certified the results. Since the handling of legislation falls to the legislative branch … I sent the legislation to Congress as a requirement of law,” D.C. Council Chairman Phil Mendelson (D) said at the press conference. “I had no choice but to do so.”
Mendelson sent the initiative to Congress, which reviews all legislation passed by the District, on Jan. 13. Over the past 30 days that Congress was in session, members of Congress had the opportunity to prevent the initiative’s implementation by introducing disapproval motions which would have to be passed by the Senate and the House of Representatives and subsequently signed by President Barack Obama. No such motions were introduced.
Still, members of Congress were alarmed by D.C.’s move to legalize. Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter to Bowser on Tuesday that said any move to implement the initiative would be “in knowing and willful violation of the law.”
Attorney General for the District of Columbia Karl Racine disagreed with Chaffetz’s interpretation.
“Every single representation that the mayor has made and the representations that Councilmember Mendelson has made are correct,” Racine said. “The Initiative 71, in the Attorney General office’s view, is law.”
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) also each released statements supporting the District’s interpretation of the omnibus bill.
Bowser encouraged Congress to allow D.C. to proceed with legalization, noting that people around the country would be observing the strained relationship between the District and Congress.
“For Americans wondering why we’re being treated differently than Colorado, than Alaska, this demonstrates our relationship with Congress,” Bowser said. “We encourage Congress not to be so concerned with what seven out of 10 residents said should be the law in the District of Columbia.”
According to The Washington Post, Harris and Rep. Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), who chairs the subcommittee in charge of District affairs, did not heed Bowser’s pleas, warning local officials that legalization would jeopardize funds for other District programs, as Congress retains the authority to approve D.C.’s budget. Harris also implored Attorney General Eric Holder to prosecute officials for implementing the law.
“Me being in jail wouldn’t be a good thing,” Bowser said in response.
Marijuana Sale
Initiative 71, notably, does not permit the sale of marijuana, only allowing the drug to be obtained by growing plants or receiving it as a gift. Councilmember David Grosso (I-At Large) had introduced a bill in October to implement a tax-and-regulate system in preparation for legalization, but the policy rider in the omnibus prevented further discussion about such a system.
“The appropriations rider that passed Congress in December does appear to present an obstacle to further action by the D.C council on marijuana related policies,” Pesavento said. “It appears that the congressional obstruction has at least temporarily halted progress on that front.”
Although the sale of marijuana itself is still illegal, supporters of Initiative 71 believe the marijuana industry can still grow. Comfytree Enterprises, which promotes and supports marijuana-related business, is hosting a “Cannabis Academy, Expo and Job Fair” Saturday and Sunday in Capitol Hill to teach people how to take advantage of the “green rush.”
“You are able to set up a business that is financially benefitting from gifting and donating cannabis,” Bowen said. “Things like cannabis clubs: a cannabis collective where you’re able to charge a membership fee for the group you belong to, and they happen to gift you cannabis as part of that membership. That is something that people can do.”
Bowen said that the lack of government regulation could allow an increased number of small businesses to enter the market, allowing the economic benefits of marijuana to trickle down.
“Most of the time, the state is rolling out the program, and there’s a handful of dispensaries and a handful of cultivation centers that are controlling it,” Bowen said. “They also a lot of the time make it so cost prohibitive that small business owners, the middle class, women, African-Americans and others who are generally marginalized in mainstream markets are not able to participate on the same level. … So what a home-grow situation does is that it evens the playing field a little bit.”
Despite the publicity around the issue, Pesavento said that Initiative 71 would not result in a huge cultural change in D.C., a sentiment echoed by local officials.
“People are fed up, they’re tired of the arrests. … That’s the biggest change you’re going to see from this going forward,” Pesavento said. “There are people who will start to grow a few plants at home and people will be able to share marijuana with their friends but there’s not going to be a very dramatic change, at least right now.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 27, 2015 by Emily Tu 8 Comments 
The Last Campaign for Academic Reform and the Provost’s Committee for Diversity are advocating for a diversity course requirement in the core curriculum of all four undergraduate schools, to be implemented in fall 2015.
According to the student-run LCAR’s platform, the two-course “Diversity, Power and Privilege” cross-list requirement would enable students to engage critically with issues of race, class, sexual identity, immigration status, gender and gender identity, and disability and ability within a safe classroom space.
A petition calling for the requirement was distributed to students by LCAR beginning Feb. 23, and it has already obtained over 800 signatures.
LCAR began campaigning for the requirement in December 2014 with the creation of a proposal through a committee beneath the Black House. The group works with, but is separate from, the Provost’s Committee for Diversity, which was formally institutionalized in February 2014, and is made up of select students, faculty and administrators. Vice Provost for Education Randall Bass, who has been heavily involved with students on the committee, said he is supportive of this initiative.
“A university’s core curriculum is one way that it communicates its values to incoming students,” Bass wrote in an email. “I believe deeply in expanding and modifying our core so that engaging difference and diversity is part of that communication.”
Although Provost Robert Groves did not respond to requests for comment on the issue, Bass said Groves is supportive.
“The provost is also very committed to the idea,” Bass wrote. “Of course, he believes that it has to be a requirement that is in synch with faculty across the main campus and makes sense for the curriculum.”
A History of Diversity Advocacy
In 2009, University President John J. DeGioia launched a Main Campus Initiative on Diversity and Inclusiveness in response to a series of bias-related incidents on campus. The Initiative released recommendations for improving campus inclusiveness in May 2010, including a proposal to implement a diversity requirement. The proposal was not passed through the university’s faculty approval process, and a requirement was not established.
The then-University Provost James O’Donnell said that of all of the President’s Initiative’s goals at the time, the requirement would be the most difficult to achieve.
“Here is where enthusiasm and academic time run up against each other,” O’Donnell said (The Hoya, “Provost Discusses Diversity Initiative Progress,” April 23, 2010). “Other issues of curriculum and general education requirements are complicated, and there are other things people are interested in seeing us advance and do. It is going to take some time.”
In November 2012, students re-introduced the push for a diversity requirement with the creation of the Cura Personalis Initiative. The entirely student-led group aimed to create a cultural and ethnic studies center, strengthen academic courses in minority and ethnic studies and grow support for mentorship and scholarships for minorities on campus.
“A student could go through Georgetown never taking a class [that is] not based on either the United States or Europe. Georgetown is very much behind its peer institution[s] in terms of the breadth of its academics,” Initiative member Carly Rosenfield (COL ’14) said (The Hoya, “New Initiative to Address Diversity,” Nov. 13, 2012).
In December 2013, students encouraged campus-wide discussion about diversity issues with #BBGU, a hashtag part of a Twitter protest. The hashtag, which signifies Being Black at Georgetown University, provided an online forum for students of color to discuss their Georgetown experiences. The university supported the movement, posting tweets on its Facebook page. In a Feb. 3 article in The Hoya, Groves cited the #BBGU movement as a catalyst for the creation of his committee (The Hoya, “#BBGU Prompts Discussion,” Feb. 3).
Most recently, a cartoon in the Georgetown Voice published Feb. 19 depicting a black student and a female student being beaten in a horse costume sparked campus-wide discussion about racism and misogyny. Students organized a town hall discussion and demonstration to share ideas and educate others about different student experiences on campus. At the demonstration, students passed around the diversity course requirement petition.
“This is what coming together looks like,” organizer Kimberly Blair (COL ’15) said during the demonstration. “I want to stand today in solidarity with each other. … We’re trying to create unity and consciousness so that you can put yourself in somebody else’s shoes while you’re here at Georgetown.”
LCAR Proposal
Provost’s Committee’s Academic Sub-Committee co-chair and LCAR member Esiwahomi Ozemebhoya (COL ’15) emphasized that the campaign does not aim to add courses to the existing curriculum. According to a fact sheet compiled by LCAR and posted on the group’s Facebook page, over 80 courses have already been identified that could potentially fulfill the requirement. Some classes on the list include “Hindu Religious Traditions,” “Fame: Harlem Renaissance Celebrity” and “Ethics: Global Justice.” The courses fulfill a theology, humanities and writing and ethics requirement, respectively in the core curriculum.
“What’s new about our approach is that we’ve created a two-course overlay,” Ozemebhoya said. “A class can double count for two different disciplines and also engage these five learning goals that we’ve created, which aim to engage with the ideas of power and privilege and provide a reflective component for students.”
LCAR member Dan Zager (COL ’18) stressed the importance of instituting a diversity requirement in the context of the social, political and economic environment surrounding the Georgetown community.
“Currently there’s no requirement in the curriculum that allows students to really analyze the different positions in society,” Zager said. “It’s still obvious that depending on how you identify, you have a certain type of social capital — whether it’s through gender, race, ethnicity or religion. What we’re trying to do with the requirement is to study how society allows for this inequality. Through that, we can better connect not only within the university community but also with the wider community outside the campus.”
The results of the Provost’s Committee’s research into the implementation of the requirement have yielded promising results, indicating that students will be able to complete the requirement within their first two years, according to Ozemebhoya.
Ozemebhoya added that instituting the requirement could influence the outlook of future students regarding administrative change.
“I think that it could give students hope about changing things within the university,” Ozemebhoya said. “Students currently don’t have a say in what the core curriculum looks like. It’s not mobile or malleable, as education and learning are supposed to be — it’s not changing with the times. I would hope that students would be able to have more of a stake, to hold the university responsible for what they’re required to learn.”
MCEF Consideration
In February 2014, student committee beneath the Black House began working to draft an official proposal of the requirement, which they presented to administration in early December. This proposal, which has been adopted and edited by the members of the diversity committee, will be presented to the Main Campus Executive Faculty March 27.
The proposal must pass with a majority vote in the MCEF, before being sent to the university board of directors for final approval. The MCEF is comprised of 57 faculty members from each Georgetown school, and any vote requires a minimum of 29 votes to reach a majority.
The MCEF is a legislative body comprised of representatives from each academic unit of the main campus, including department, program, faculty senate and student representatives. The two students currently on the MCEF are Kathryn Crewdson (SFS ’15) and Sonya Nasim (NHS ’16). The body works to determine, create and implement academic policy for the university’s main campus.
According to Bass, the board seems receptive and interested in making this change.
“They know it is coming and are likewise supportive,” Bass wrote. “There are also many dimensions of the actual implementation that need to be worked through in order to integrate into advising, degree audits, integration into the bulletin, etc. That will take time.”
Zager said that if the vote passes the initial MCEF vote, students can immediately begin work on implementation.
“If the MCEF votes yes, we can start taking steps to work with the university registrar,” Zager said. “We will start cross-listing classes that could be vetted as diversity courses and be considered a part of the requirement.”
Professor Mark Rom, who represents the McCourt School of Public Policy in the MCEF, expressed support for a focus on diversity, but did not explicitly state support for the proposal itself.
“I fully support the concept that Georgetown should be highly attentive to issues of diversity, whether regarding the student body or the course curriculum,” Rom wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I have not yet seen the proposal for a diversity course requirement and will give it my fullest attention when I do. That, together with the discussion at the MCEF, will determine my judgment on this matter.”
Professor Lioudmila Fedorova, representative for the department of Slavic languages in the MCEF, echoed Rom’s views.
“There is no doubt that MCEF will and does support the spirit of the policy,” Fedorova wrote in an email. “But such a major change has profound effects on each department and the curriculum in general, and a clear procedure of approving certain courses for this requirement should be established. It is not enough to just vote yes. The task is to work out the details of the policy.”
LCAR and the Provost’s Committee have contacted a student groups on campus to gauge support and gather feedback. LCAR will also host a town hall March 5 to provide an open forum for dialogue regarding the proposal.
“The administration wants this to be done as quietly as possible,” Ozemebhoya said. “But I don’t think that something as major as this should be done quietly — it should happen with students knowing about it and having an opinion about it. Whether it’s negative or positive, we want to hear from you.”
Ricardo L. Ortiz, associate professor of U.S. Latino literature and culture, one of several faculty members who helped draft the proposal, explained that the conversation facilitated by this campaign could have a long-lasting impact.
“I would be delighted if it is approved,” Ortiz said. “But if it’s not, I feel it would be a step in the right direction. It won’t feel to me like we’ve wasted our energy or our effort, because it’s still an important conversation for Georgetown to have with itself. I don’t think it would be the last time something like this would come up around questions of what I feel are the urgent demands that diversity puts on the world today.”
Many Jesuit colleges and pier institutions have already established diversity requirements, including Boston College, Loyola University Chicago, Dartmouth College, Brown University and Yale University.
“Georgetown is kind of playing catch-up here,” Ozemebhoya said. “I think that the way it handles this situation will say a lot about the future of the university and our place in academia. This diversity core requirement is a long time coming.”

Burr says 
February 27, 2015 at 2:21 pm
“Most recently, a cartoon in the Georgetown Voice published Feb. 19 depicting a black student and a female student being beaten in a horse costume sparked campus-wide discussion about racism and misogyny”
Shouldn’t this sentence mention that the Voice is liberal or left-wing?  We all know that if the cartoon were published in a conservative or libertarian campus publication, that affiliation would be mentioned.

hoyalum says 
February 28, 2015 at 4:02 pm
Why?  There are just as many liberal racists as conservative ones.

hoyalum says 
February 28, 2015 at 4:07 pm
But definitely agree with your comment…

Burr says 
February 27, 2015 at 3:21 pm
I’ve said before that professors in certain department and programs at GU are behind this initiative.  After all, as the LCAR literature states, it’s been going on for 25 years.  And if you can’t keep seats filled with students interested in taking your courses, you’re not likely to either last long or feel fulfilled professionally, especially if your main motivation is to indoctrinate, rather than teach, your students.  The involvement of Associate Professor Ricardo Ortiz proves my point.
The proponents claim that 80 classes have been identified that can fulfill the requirement which “would enable students to engage critically with issues of race, class, sexual identity, immigration status, gender and gender identity, and disability and ability within a safe classroom space.”  Of course, students can do this (and already do this) without a diversity course requirement foisted on them.  There are already a large number of diversity initiatives at Georgetown, starting with NSO, and any student who wants to take one of these 80 courses is free to do so.  
Students shouldn’t be forced to take what will no doubt be courses that focuses on political and ideological fetishes of the professor, rather true scholarship.  This is especially true with the possibility of moving from five to four courses each semester.  
And just think of the complaints and lawsuits that will occur when some student who rejects the thinking of a left-wing professor and speaks in class, ends up getting poor grades out of the experience.  The net is effect is negative for the University.  Not only do you now have unhappy students who will not donate after graduation, but you’re likely to generate a slew of controversies as students fight back.  
Also, not everyone has a victim complex or is ideologically motivated, and the majority of students, both left and right, who support equality and don’t discriminate, will see how this works out in practice and are also likely to have their Georgetown experience reduced as a result.  Electives they want to take in an area that interests them, either personally or professionally, will no longer be an option because they now have to sit through two classes telling them how privileged they are and how horrible a country America is, and that they need to be discriminated against to make the world more “fair.”
That list hasn’t been released, but who wants to bet the majority of these courses will come out of the “grievance studies” departments and already have a low number of student who choose to take these courses.  A useful research project, once this list is published, is to see how many students those classes average compared to others in their department, school, and the university as a whole.  The truth is this requirement would be a jobs program for Women’s Studies, English, African American Studies, and the Peace and Justice Program.
There is a reason why such courses are under-subscribed.  It’s because students don’t see value in them.  Some students will no doubt enjoy those courses (whether they benefit from taking them is another matter), but the majority know that taking such courses is not an optimal use of their time or tuition dollars.  When you look at the cost of tuition, each course at GU costs about $7.5K.  Now you’re forcing students to waste $15K in tuition dollars (paid for likely by student loans, or a part-time job), to sit in courses they don’t want to be in and from which they gain nothing?  
The only way this proposals works is as a check the block type system which defeats the purpose of the activists.  For instance, your Arabic or Guns and Bombs major can use his or her Middle East History and Introduction to the Arab World courses to fill the requirement.  Otherwise, there will be a lot of unhappy students will enjoy their Georgetown experience a lot less than they could have, and will be less likely to donate in the future.

DisgustedAlumnus says 
February 28, 2015 at 2:13 am
Will Al Sharpton and Jesse Jackson be guest lecturers?

hoyalum says 
February 28, 2015 at 4:06 pm
Why doesn’t the diversity curriculum include diversity of creed/belief?

mo shmo says 
March 1, 2015 at 9:59 pm
because there’s already a theology requirement?

hoyalum says 
March 2, 2015 at 9:10 am
Non-liberal thinkers are marginalized at Georgetown, and at other campuses across the country, to the detriment of the university.  If the proponents of the diversity curriculum are serious and honest, they would acknowledge this and include respect for and discussion about non-liberal values systems… but they aren’t, right?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 27, 2015 by Kelsey Quackenbush Leave a Comment 
His Highness Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani, emir of the State of Qatar, discussed the Arab Spring, education reform and Qatar’s political role in the Middle East with University President John J. DeGioia on Thursday in Gaston Hall.
The event was met with protest from a group of seven students against Qatar’s labor system, who stood up after the emir had left the stage, chanting, “Georgetown is undermining its core Jesuit values by condoning and benefiting from this system that neglects the dignity and human rights of these workers.”
The group also protested in Healy Circle, a free speech zone, after the event and were told to leave multiple times by Associate Vice President for Student Affairs Jeanne Lord, who cited safety concerns. Lord did not respond to request for comment by press time.
Al Thani, 34, the youngest head of state in the Arab region, assumed rule after his father’s 2013 abdication. He came to campus after visiting the White House to meet with President Barack Obama on Tuesday. DeGioia welcomed Al Thani and addressed the strong commercial, educational, scientific and technological ties that the United States shares with Qatar.
“One of the youngest heads of state in the world, the emir began his service after his father Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani stepped down. Since becoming emir in June 2013 he has provided steady leadership in a region often beset by turbulence,” DeGioia said.
Before Al Thani’s visit to the United States, he visited Salman, the new King of Saudi Arabia in Saudi Arabia. Al Thani discussed that he believes it is Saudi Arabia’s role to try to solve the problems that exist in the region.
“For us as a small country in the Gulf, Saudi Arabia is the most important country to have a good relationship with,” Al Thani said. “I am confident that King Salman and the people aiding him as well, especially the second generation aiding him, I am confident that they will do a good job … and that they will do their best.”
On Feb. 24, The New York Times published Al Thani’s op-ed, “Qatar’s message to Obama.” In it, he wrote about the necessity to take action against the terrorist groups that are continuing to gain power in the Middle East and beyond as well as tyrants that refuse to share power.
“Addressing the root causes of terrorism will require a deeper, longer-term and more strategic approach to the problem. It will require political leaders to have the courage to negotiate pluralistic, inclusive, power-sharing solutions to regional disputes. And it will require that tyrants be held to account,” Al Thani wrote.
He echoed this sentiment in the discussion.
“We have to identity and see the real cause of those terrorist movements,” Al Thani said. “When the Syrian people stood up against Bashar al-Assad asking for freedom, dignity. you can go back, and you can check. All of them were youth asking for dignity and freedom, and there wasn’t any terrorist movement. We said that from day one. If Bashar al-Assad doesn’t find a solution … we will be facing a terrorist movement…If we don’t find a solution we will be dealing with real terrorist groups that nobody can control.”
During the event, Al Thani spoke about the Arab Spring and the necessity of engaging the youth who began those movements and bringing their voices to the table of discussion.
“You have to give them hope for the future,” he said. “We should never tie terrorism with our religion, terrorism doesn’t have a religion … Hope is the most important thing we should give.”
The Arab Spring, a series of revolutionary demonstrations, protests and riots, began December 2010. Since January 2015, rulers have been forced from power in Tunisia, Egypt, Libya and Yemen. Al Thani also expressed concern with the United States’ involvement in the region.
“I’ll be honest with you — we shouldn’t only be depending on America. [We] Arab countries, we should do our own work, and then we should ask the Americans if we need help to help us solve our problems,” Al Thani said.
The British-educated Al Thani spoke about Qatar’s focus on reforming education as well as Qatar’s role in stabilizing the region.
“We start with what we did internally, the reforms that we did internally,” he said. “We concentrated a lot on education. We believe that education is the thing that we should do best at home. So that is why we invited six of the best American universities in Doha.”
Al Thani and DeGioia’s discussion was followed by a question-and-answer session with the audience, and one student asked the Amir about Qatar’s bid for the 2022 World Cup.
“It’s bad to say that the race was between Qatar and America, to hold the World Cup of 2022, and I know that you guys, people here were very upset that how could this small country beat this great country, and I think you should believe … that you can lose sometimes,” Al Thani joked.
Callie Flanagan (COL ’17) attended the event and said she was impressed by the relevance of Al Thani’s discussion on education.
“I was really impressed. … I thought he talked about issues that were relevant especially to the university. He talked a lot about education, which for me personally is very interesting, and as a university it is really important that he talked about that,” Flanagan said. “One of the most interesting things he said was when he was talking about how the cause of terrorism is hopelessness, and I was very impressed with his stance towards that.”
Not all students were equally satisfied with Al Thani’s discussion. The student protesters, who stood up at the end of the event to a confused audience, cited displeasure with Qatar’s labor system.
“We’re just a group of concerned students; we’re not affiliated with any of the groups on campus,” Françoise Farrell (COL ’17), a protestor, said. “But basically the issue is that the Kafala system is a system of labor that Qatar uses, and basically it’s called the sponsor system, and so in order to be a migrant worker working in Qatar you have to be sponsored by your employer … so you’ll get sponsored, and then you’ll come over, then they will take your passport and confiscate your work visa.”
The protest moved outside to Healy Circle, where the students held up a sign that read “SFS-Q Exploits Migrant Workers, Modern-Day Slavery is Not A Jesuit Value! #WorkerSolidarity.”
Lord approached the group multiple times and told them to leave, but since Healy Circle is, in fact, a designated free speech zone, the students did not leave.
“She is telling us that we are not allowed to be here and that we need to leave and that it’s inappropriate for us to be protesting this, but this is a free speech zone, and so technically I don’t think they can do anything,” Farrell said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 27, 2015 by Lucy Pash 1 Comment 
The Georgetown U.S.-Afghan Women’s Council recently appointed first lady of Afghanistan Rula Ghani as its newest honorary co-chair, who will serve alongside former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and former U.S. first lady Laura Bush.
The USAWC was founded in 2002 as part of the U.S. State Department as an initiative between former U.S. President George W. Bush and Afghanistan President Hamid Karzai, but moved to Georgetown in 2008. It strives to develop the education, health, financial standing and leadership of Afghan women and children by seeking public and private resources and creating partnerships that will support them.
Executive Director of the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security and USAWC member Melanne Verveer said that Ghani would offer a new perspective to the council.
“It is terrific to have Mrs. Ghani on the council, as the council is enriched by Afghan participation,” Verveer wrote in an email to The Hoya. “In the past, Afghan officials have served on the council. Mrs. Ghani brings an important perspective on what kinds of support would be most useful, and she was actively engaged in our recent meeting that Mrs. Bush hosted in Texas.”
Likewise, University President John J. DeGioia said that Ghani would be essential in forming a more inclusive community for the GIWPS.
“Mrs. Ghani’s inspirational leadership [on behalf of women’s issues] reflects a deep conviction that a more inclusive society is a stronger one — a belief at the heart of the work of the GIWPS and the USAWC here at Georgetown,” DeGioia said on the university website.
USAWC Vice Chair and Director of the Medical Center Phyllis Magrab echoed Verveer’s enthusiasm about Ghani joining the council. In particular, Magrab believes that Ghani has a genuine concern for women living in rural Afghanistan.
“She is very concerned about the most marginalized populations of Afghanistan, particularly the women in rural areas. When many of these programs come to be, they happen in the big cities, but they never reach the small villages and the women that are struggling in those villages,” Magrab said. “She believes that we should be training women in the villages to be teachers and healthcare workers, that we should be developing community centers in the small villages. She is a wonderful role model for women in Afghanistan.”
Magrab agreed that Ghani brings equilibrium to the council, as the other two honorary chairs were both previously U.S. first ladies.
“Mrs. Bush and Mrs. Clinton are both former first ladies, so it provides a nice symmetry to have the same kind of visibility and recognition in Afghanistan that we have here in the United States,” Magrab said.
Ghani, who grew up in Lebanon, received two master Lebanonnice symlitical studies and journalism from the American University of Beirut and Columbia University, respectively. Her children were also born in the United States.
Other USAWC members include University President John J. DeGioia and U.S. Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women’s Issues Catherine Russell. The Afghan co-chairs include Afghan Minister of Foreign Affairs Salahuddin Rabbani and Afghan Minister for Women Affairs Husn Banu Ghazanfar. The council’s other members are made up of government leaders, professors, members of the private sector and philanthropists.
Since its founding, the USAWC has embarked on various projects to ameliorate living conditions and increase opportunities for Afghan women. For instance, the council initiated The Rising Afghan Women Leaders Initiative on the School of Foreign Service’s campus in Doha, Qatar, which cultivated the personal and professional leadership skills of 22 Afghan women leaders and six Georgetown University students.
In addition, through other projects such as the Ayenda Foundation, The Grossman Burn Foundation and Afghan Women Leader’s Connect, the USAWC provides scholarships, employment, medical care and leadership training for Afghan women. These organizations have also set up day-care centers, taught computer skills, provided medical services, offered business and voter education training and supplied direct financial support.
As the council continues to tackle issues that Afghan women currently face, it seeks to find solutions to pressing issues such as literacy, education and health.
“Literacy is a very big issue for women, and girl’s education is a huge issue. Now, a large percentage of girls are in school, whereas in 2002, hardly any girls were in school. Once women are educated, you have the idea of women starting businesses and being entrepreneurial. At the time when the council was started, Afghanistan had next to the worst maternal survival rate and also very low child survival rate, with an age period of 0-5. Burns were also a serious problem because women burned themselves cooking,” Magrab said.
As the U.S. and Afghan members of the USAWC have built a strong collaborative relationship, they have been able to efficiently identify the urgent needs of Afghan women.
“The Afghan co-chairs have been very instrumental in helping us to determine what kinds of needs there are in Afghanistan. We work closely with the Afghan government to find out what kinds of needs there are that some of our members might be interested in building projects around,” Magrab said.
 
Correction: An earlier version of this article stated that her children were fathered by former Afghan president Hamid Karzai. They were in fact fathered by her husband, Ashraf Ghani.

VijayT says 
February 28, 2015 at 8:17 am
Bigtime error in your article : “Her children with Karzai”  .
She – the current first lady.
Karzai – the former president
How could the current first lady have children with the former president !!
This would be considered blasphemous in her land, no less.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 27, 2015 by Tom Garzillo Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University Student Association President Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) and Vice President Omika Jikaria (SFS ’15) announced their administration’s support for the creation of a Disability Cultural Center, a project led by GUSA Undersecretary for Disability Affairs Lydia Brown (COL ’15), on Feb. 23.
“The DCC will serve as a resource for students with disabilities and their allies, and will coordinate programming to educate the Georgetown community on topics such as disability rights activism, disability cultures and disability public policy,” a GUSA press release dated Feb. 23 said.
Although Brown released her proposal for the creation of the DCC in August 2012, Jikaria said that the GUSA press release will serve to catalyze Brown’s recent concentrated campaign.
“GUSA has always been in support of the creation of the Disability Cultural Center,” Jikaria wrote in an email. “As Lydia conducts a more concentrated campaign right now, we felt that a press release would be the appropriate way to highlight our support and bring attention to the proposal.”
Brown said that the Tezel-Jikaria administration, as well as the two previous GUSA executive administrations, supported her proposal, but that this week’s endorsement comes at a time of great change within the university.
“Trevor and Omika have been working with me their entire term on disability issues and have always supported a DCC,” Brown wrote in an email. “We’re releasing the announcement now because we’re on the cusp of the next opportunity for student advocacy in the matter planning process, and believe that recent events and dialogue around disability have pushed the DCC issue to the forefront. Essentially we feel this is the best possible time to reinvigorate advocacy on this particular issue.”
Brown said that this center is a necessary addition to the university community.
“It’s very important to have a DCC because we need to be able to have safe spaces for communities that experience societal and historical underrepresentation or marginalization,” Brown said.
The proposal for the DCC was first introduced by Brown in August 2012, and calls for the creation of social, educational, academic and supportive programs for the Georgetown disability community, in addition to increased disability rights activism and advocacy.
Through the center, disabled students would have access to leadership development training, professional networking opportunities and peer mentoring programs. The DCC would work with D.C.-based disability organizations and facilitate access to research and scholarship on disability in public policy and government.
Furthermore, the DCC would promote the inclusion of disability studies curriculum, scholarship, research and teaching throughout the university. The proposal also advocates for partnership between the DCC and other student groups to create “a more accessible, equitable, inclusive and diverse Georgetown,” according to Brown’s proposal.
If the DCC is created, Georgetown will be the fourth university in the world to have a cultural center devoted to disabled students, joining Syracuse University, the University of Minnesota and the University of Illinois at Chicago.
“The DCC will provide a physical space for disabled students and allies to have conversations around this identity, provide various programming around disability topics and to act as a resource for disabled students,” Tezel said. “Without a DCC, or equivalent institution on campus, students like myself will not be able to leave Georgetown with the same learned understanding of the diversity within our community.”
Tezel added that his stance on disability issues has changed since he was introduced to Brown while serving as deputy chief of staff under Nate Tisa’s (SFS ’14) administration.
“When I originally came to Georgetown, I viewed disability issues as ones that required accommodations, treatment and nothing else,” Tezel said. “Meeting Lydia Brown and learning more about the disability justice movement has allowed me to appreciate disabilities as an issue of diversity. … Lydia really challenged me to think critically about issues surrounding the disabled community.”
The DCC would be a university-funded administrative office, managed by a full-time staff director and other paid staff. It would initially be housed under Student Affairs, though the proposal supports the creation of a central Office on Diversity and Inclusion, according to Brown.
The proposal names several possible locations for the center, including the Leavey Center or the Healey Family Student Center.
“I think it could be achieved within five years, which allows enough time to look for staff and to look for space,” Brown said. “It might start with a very small budget and a single person in a small office somewhere, and in five years at the end of that time, there’s more of a space for people to actually physically go instead of one tiny office.”
Both Tezel and Brown spoke about the importance of hiring an access coordinator.
Tezel said that this coordinator is necessary to control and manage the accommodations resources important to the disability community at Georgetown.
“This person would coordinate in order to ensure that reasonable accommodations can be made at any university event, whether it be sponsored by a student group, an academic department or an administrative office,” Tezel said.
Brown said that the Academic Resource Center is understaffed and underfunded, and that an access coordinator is needed to ensure that funding will be available to groups that need accommodations. The ARC currently provides support for students with Attention Deficit Disorder and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, learning disabilities, physical disabilities, chronic health conditions and psychological disabilities. It conforms to the Americans with Disabilities Amendments Act of 2008 and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and provides services including accommodated testing, assistive technology, medical housing, Communication Access Realtime Translation and interpreting for coursework, note taking services, and FM audio systems.
“I feel that there is an urgent need for the creation of this center because people with disabilities at Georgetown don’t have the kind of institutional support that we deserve,” Brown said.
Brown said that she has been disappointed by a lack of administrative support for the DCC. It has been over two and a half years since the DCC was first proposed, but Brown said administrators have only offered “non-committal vague statements without committing to any kind of concrete plan or timeline.”
Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students Todd Olson said that he, in fact, hopes to engage with this idea further in the future.
“As administrators, we are committed to exploring these issues in depth, both through current staff who work with our students, and through the Disability Justice Working Group,” Olson wrote in an email. “This group includes students, administrators and faculty, and has been discussing a range of issues about student needs, the physical environment [and] educational needs for the campus community.”
GUSA President-elect Joe Luther (COL ’16) said that his administration will continue to work with Brown and support the creation of the DCC.
“Dialogue about this issue has too often been on the periphery of Georgetown and it is our hope that the DCC can change that,” Luther said. “We will continue to work with disability rights advocates in the coming year to make Georgetown a place which is inclusive and welcoming to all.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 27, 2015 by Sarah Fisher Leave a Comment 
Legislation to permit concealed firearms on college campuses is currently being considered in 10 states, with gun rights advocates arguing that such laws would reduce sexual assault.
Bills to allow guns on college campuses are currently being considered in Florida, Nevada, Indiana, Montana, Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas and Wyoming.
A committee of the Florida State Senate passed a bill legalizing firearms on college campuses Feb. 19, though the bill still must be passed by the full Senate. State Representative Dennis K. Baxley defended the legislation on the basis of preventing sexual assault.
“If you’ve got a person that’s raped because you wouldn’t let them carry a firearm to defend themselves, I think you’re responsible,” Baxley said during a House subcommittee meeting, according to The New York Times.
Sixteen states currently forbid firearms on campuses, according to data from the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence. Twenty-four states allow individual schools to decide, while 10 states already permit guns on campus.
While it does not allow firearms on college campuses, Washington, D.C.’s ban on concealed carry of firearms was overturned in July. Legislation passed by the D.C. Council in response to the federal court decision imposed stringent requirements on the licensing process and prevented the carrying of firearms in government buildings, schools and public transportation.
Although D.C. allows conceal and carry, it does not affect university policy, according to Emma Iannini (SFS ’16), president and co-founder of Georgetown Against Gun Violence, a student organization formed in February.
“I have talked to administrators who are experts on campus safety, and they all say the same thing. Here at Georgetown we have leadership who know that there is nothing to be gained by adding more guns to campus,” Iannini said.
The university’s Code of Student Conduct includes the “possession or use of any potentially dangerous object or weapon, including … firearms” as a conduct violation to be adjudicated by the Office of Student Conduct.
GAGV Vice President and Co-Founder Sarah Clements (COL ’18) explained that the debate over allowing firearms at universities began in the wake of several shootings on college campuses, most notably the shooting at Virginia Tech University in April 2007.
“Even though most, if not all, of the survivors and victims’ family members of Virginia Tech advocated against campus carry in the wake of that shooting, there were some people who said, well, the only logical thing that could have prevented this was if somebody in that room had a gun,” Clements said. “From there the NRA really uses it as a ploy to sell more firearms and to try and reach out to a demographic that they really desperately need, which is young people.”
Iannini noted that the bills circulating around the country would force public universities into actions they would otherwise be reluctant to take.
“Public universities who are reliant on funding from these same state legislatures could literally be under fire from this,” Iannini said. “They are the ones who would be forced to follow the letter of the law passed by the legislature and either be encouraged or forced to allow students and administrators, people who really shouldn’t be armed, running around campus.”
Clements added that allowing firearms on college campuses would amplify existing dangers in student life.
“The gun lobby doesn’t know what college life is like. We do. There are really great things about college, but there are also negative sides like drinking on the weekends and sometimes drug use,” Clements said. “A lot of times of depression and high tension and high-stress situations almost constantly: to put a gun, a firearm, in those situations is completely dangerous and completely illogical.”
While lawmakers are pointing to sexual assault prevention as the reason driving gun liberalization, Sexual Assault Peer Educator Nora West (SFS ’15) said that concealed weapons would not address the sexual assault problem.
“Regardless of issues with students properly using weapons … 90 percent of college sexual assaults are committed by acquaintances,” West said. “[It is] unlikely that students would be carrying around their weapon at all times and using it against an acquaintance.”
West added that this proposed solution to sexual assault emphasizes the need for potential victims to take action, rather than addressing the perpetrator of the crime.
“It places the responsibly with the victims to defend themselves rather than directly blaming the perpetrators and simultaneously lets campus police off the hook as the ones who should be able to protect all students in the event of a potential violent crime,” West said. “It creates yet another opportunity for the survivor to be blamed for their perpetrator’s actions.”
Although Georgetown University College Republicans Chair Amber Athey (COL ’16) agreed with West on the issue of sexual assault, she said that conceal and carry would not necessarily be a bad thing for all universities.
“Many factors are involved in creating and maintaining an atmosphere of safety and security on college campuses; one specific policy is not going to be relevant for all types of universities. While concealed carry may be a suitable complement to other security measures on one campus, it may not make sense for another,” Athey said.
West said she felt that there were more effective solutions to the problem of sexual assault than allowing guns to be carried on campus.
“[We should focus on] education and outreach resulting in bystander intervention,” West said.
Hoya Staff Writers Emma Rizk and Lucy Prout contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 27, 2015 by Maureen Tabet Leave a Comment 
Applying to college is a daunting process for all high-school students, but for over 20 years, Georgetown’s Institute for College Preparation has helped underprivileged students in Ward 7 maneuver the process and find their way to college.
Originally named the Schiff Scholars, the program was founded in 1989 through a grant from the biology department to get students in lower-income areas into the biomedical sciences.
The institute offers intensive preparation for students, who enter the curriculum in the seventh grade and continue through their high-school graduation. Ninety-seven percent of the students in the institute matriculate to college, with 100 percent of those in the class of 2013 having postsecondary options.
ICP Executive Director Charlene Brown-McKenzie explained the mission of the institute as rooted in its outreach to younger students.
“We look at access and success for the poorest and neediest students of the city. How we do our work is really about early college awareness. Preparing young people for college and success is not just something you can do at the tenth or eleventh grade,” Brown-McKenzie said.
Currently, the ICP invites students from Kelly Miller and Sousa Middle Schools in Ward 7. At both schools, 99 percent of students are on free or reduced lunch.
“We talk about the war on poverty, and that’s really where we look at this educational pipeline and look at college success and college attainment as an opportunity to break the cycle of poverty in the District,” Brown-McKenzie said.
Students are invited to apply for the program if they attend one of the two middle schools and participated in Kids2College, a six-week program for sixth-graders that involves a large number of Georgetown undergraduates who teach a college-awareness program for sixth graders.
The institute’s students come to Georgetown’s campus every Saturday and for eight weeks over the summer for enhanced learning and tutoring. Around 125 students throughout all years participate in the Saturday Academy.
The ICP currently partners with multiple student groups on campus, including the GU Minority Health Initiative that is looking at health disparities in the city. Additionally, the GU Math and Science Hands-On Enrichment group works with ICP students for math and science tutoring.
“It’s been great, over the last few years, to have other university student groups come and participate with our students and our families,” Brown-McKenzie said.
Eight ICP participants have graduated from the university so far, though the institute does not serve as a pipeline to the university. The first graduate was English major DeAngelo Rorie (COL ’00).
“I am absolutely certain that without the Schiff program, I would not have gotten into Georgetown,” Rorie said. “I think one of the key things is that the program afforded us opportunities to be exposed to things beyond our neighborhood.”
Rorie now serves as the director of youth services at United Planning Organization, which leads outreach to low-income residents in the District. Rorie said his experience with the ICP partly inspired him to follow this career path.
“Many of these young people hailed from similar backgrounds, and I was a story of success,” Rorie said. “My existence at Georgetown highlighted the fact that you, too, could come from these circumstances, endure the same strife and make your way through a school like Georgetown.”
The initiative aims to address inadequacies that students experience at schools in the District, which had a high-school graduation of 64 percent, among the lowest rates in the country. In 2013, only 53 percent of low-income students in the District graduated on time.
“Here in the District, many of our schools don’t adequately prepare young people for a school like Georgetown, academically. So much is left up to the school systems, and the education that many young people are getting in the District is not on par or comparable to what many of Georgetown’s enrollees receive,” Rorie said.
Brown-McKenzie said the initiative attempts to provide the opportunities of the average Georgetown student. One particular experience recently added to the ICP was study abroad. In August 2013, the ICP took ninth and tenth grade students on a trip to South Africa, offering the students a global education.
Director of Partnerships and Community Engagement Brenda Atkinson-Willoughby explained how the initiative’s work affects families as well.
“Students and their families, who start out with a vague understanding of the college process, have learned and continue to learn the value of early college planning,” Atkinson-Willoughby wrote in an email. “We often see families who have enrolled younger siblings in ICP and parents who enroll or return to college.”
The initiative continues to evolve, according to Brown-Mackenzie, adapting to national changes in college accessibility.
“This is an exciting time, as we continue to grow and pay attention to what’s happening nationally around college access and success, and how we can be a leader in the work about academic preparation, social and emotional development of our young people,” Brown-McKenzie said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 27, 2015 by Kristen Fedor Leave a Comment 
Income-based repayment, which provides students with more flexibility in handling student debt, is becoming an increasingly popular option for repaying student loans, decreasing the emphasis on timeliness and provides greater opportunity to work in nonprofit or other service fields upon graduation.
Under income-based debt repayments, loans are paid back in increments based on the level of a person’s income. Through an executive order issued June 9, President Barack Obama made such repayments the cornerstone of student loan reform, allowing all federal loan borrowers to cap their monthly payments at 10 percent of their discretionary income. Additionally, loans are forgiven after 20 years, and those working in the public sector are able to have the debts cleared after just 10 years.
Young Invincibles, a D.C. based organization geared at promoting the interests of 18 to 34 year olds, contributed to a detailed report on income-based repayment in partnership with the Gates Foundation. In their conclusion, the organization advocated for the federal government to make income-based repayment the default system for student loans.
Young Invincibles Press Secretary Colin Seeberger explained that this system of debt repayment provides students with more options after they graduate.
“Income-based repayment options simply give additional flexibility to student borrowers by allowing them to repay less in the early years of their careers and more as they ascend the career ladder and their salaries increase,” Seeberger wrote in an email.
Anthony Carnevale, director and research professor of the McCourt School of Public Policy’s Center on Education and the Workforce, echoed Seeberger’s emphasis on diversifying a graduate’s employment options.
“It’s really matter of giving students choices. By and large, income-based repayment allows people to make choices in their careers that aren’t necessarily tied to their need to pay back their loan,” Carnevale said.
Carnevale added that income-based repayment allows graduates to enter nonprofit work or focus on service without having to worry as much about the status of their loans. This aligns with Georgetown’s commitment to encouraging students in service.
“This idea is consistent with Georgetown’s emphasis on service. It says that service gets special treatment, which it already does, but it would make it more so,” Carnevale said. “If you do not-for-profit work teaching, become a doctor, go to rural Idaho, we’re going to forgive your loans.”
Opposition to the rise of income-based debt repayment derives from the fact that the federal government may incur losses by forgiving student debt. It is currently estimated that the government is poised to make $108 billion from interest payments on student loans over the next 10 years.
However, Carnevale said the possible changes will not come with government expenditure, but rather, with how the government will predict future profits.
“Mostly, the objections to this I find pretty thin. I think generally people think income based repayment is an option that students should have. The big question then is should it be the default? Should it be where everybody starts?” Carnevale said.
He added that he believes most politicians would agree in favor of income-based repayment, but that government dysfunction could be to blame for the lack of progress on this front.
“In a Democratic Congress, I suspect it would move. In a Republican Congress, less likely, but not totally unlikely, because it’s just one way to help people pay off college and to make sure the college education they got has labor market value, which most politicians would agree is a priority,” Carnevale said. “There is some sophistication — not a whole lot — required to legislate on a question like this, and that sophistication is just not there in our political system anymore.”
Although income-based repayment is not the default system, the number of people switching to income-based debt repayment plans has increased considerably in recent years. According to Carnevale, roughly 12 percent of people holding loans today are on an income-based repayment plan, compared with the 3 to 4 percent around five years ago.
Seeberger said it is increasingly popular, especially for college students, to pursue income-based repayment for their loans as awareness of the option grows.
“Pegging student loan repayment to income is gaining popularity as more borrowers learn about the option. Many borrowers have told us that enrolling in an income-based plan has allowed them to pursue their career interests and avoid moving back in with a parent,” Seeberger wrote. “We’ve also seen advocates and the administration dedicate more attention and resources to getting the word out about these plans.”
Despite the potential for income-based repayment to alleviate some issues of student debt — with The Upshot, the data-driven blog for The New York Times, recently hailing the payment plan as a possible solution to the student loan crisis — Seeberger and Carnevale agreed that the high cost of education remains the largest problem for universities.
“Ultimately we would like to see the government make the possibility of graduating from college without a mountain of debt a reality again,” Seeberger wrote. “We have to move beyond debt management and get to the root of the problem — the soaring cost of college and inadequate support for students.”
Carnevale said that as it becomes easier to pay back debt, universities could simultaneously increase their tuitions.
“The more money we put into higher ed, the higher the prices go. If we give higher ed $400 billion, they’ll spend $410. If we give them $410, they’ll spend $420,” Carnevale said. “This does not constrain cost. This just constrains debt, which just allows cost to go up.”
Though income-based repayment helps students with debt, Carnevale said it does not fully address the problem.
“I think in the end, it is part of the package in the higher education reform, but it’s not the whole package because it doesn’t do anything to restrain costs. Arguably, it increases costs,” Carnevale said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 27, 2015 by Gaia Mattiace Leave a Comment 
The Student Activities Commission is considering altering its club budget allocation process by providing clubs with tiered-access lump sums, a change that they hope to institute next semester.
SAC is still working on the wording of the proposition, which will be further discussed at its next meeting on March 2. A decision regarding budgeting will have to be reached by the end of March to institute the change by next semester.
According to SAC Vice Chair Barry Goldsmith (MSB ’17), the idea for the change in budget allocation has been in the works for some time, though it was only this year that SAC members really pursued the plan.
“The idea has been floating around for several years now, but until this past year nothing was ever really done to explore it in any detail,” Goldsmith said.“I give Connor and the rest of the commission the utmost credit for really going above and beyond to come up with reforms that will greatly benefit our student organizations on campus.”
According to SAC Chair Connor Maytnier (COL ’17), the current application process has a series of steps that can be cumbersome for groups involved in applying for funding. To receive money, a club must estimate the numbers of events it will host for the semester and the number of attendees the events will attract.
“In the current system, groups must be extremely detailed, listing specific prices and estimated attendance numbers,” Maytnier said.
To remedy this problem, SAC has devised a new and improved budgeting allocation process that would reduce the number of steps and eliminate other difficulties posed by the current system. The new system would provide funding to groups by evaluating their needs and placing them in one of 10 tiers. The tier will be determined by a variety of factors, including a rough outline on what activities a club plans to organize.
The tier of the club would also be determined by other factors including a club’s number of members, past funding and current number of events, among other things.
Once the tier level of the group is confirmed, the group will have control over how the money is divided up for events and usage.
“Groups would then receive a lump sum of money for the semester,” Maytnier said. “They would have the freedom to portion it out as they wish across the semester’s events.”
The new budgeting system would further alter the previous system by changing the event cancellation or modification process and the current penalties that SAC imposes for these deviations.
Under the system that SAC currently uses, groups wishing to cancel or move an event that has already been allocated funds must submit a form and wait for SAC to vote. SAC members want to change the system so that clubs can decide when and how to use the funds given to them, so that every cancellation and modification does not have to go through a SAC vote.
“Funding will be determined based on a general outline of events, not a detailed event-by-event model,” Maytnier said.
According to Maytnier, the current system also enforces penalties based on whether or not an event authorization form was submitted, which can often lead to mistakes and confusion. If the form is not submitted by the club for some reason, the group is penalized by the current system. But the new system would simply allocate funds and allow the club to use them for events at their discretion.
The proposed system would retain safeguards for ensuring groups use their funding wisely by taking into consideration how many events the group actually held in deciding their budget for the next semester.
The proposed changes have already been receiving support from clubs, according to Maytnier.
“Over 30 organizations have responded and the feedback has been largely favorable toward the proposed system,” Maytnier said. “Based on many of the comments, I think organization leaders see the proposed system as a way of simplifying the budgeting process while also granting more flexibility to groups.”
Animalia Vice President Casey Nolan (COL ’17) said that she would prefer this type of tiered funding.
“While I can’t anticipate the exact effects of the plan, as someone who’s had to plan budgets for clubs for the upcoming semester, I prefer the tiered access to benefits in that it doesn’t force people to anticipate every event that they’re going to have throughout the semester,” Nolan said. “While SAC does allow for some flexibility in planning events during the semester itself, I think it’s easier for people to allocate money as they wish with a block plan.”
Goldsmith emphasized how these changes come with the continued prosperity of student groups in mind.
“Our main priority in making these changes is to improve the system from the student groups’ perspective,” Goldsmith said. “Right now they almost have to jump through hoops of bureaucracy to get their funding, but we believe the proposed changes will greatly lessen those hurdles and make it easier on our groups.”
Associate Director of Student Engagement Amanda Carlton, SAC’s adviser, said she had no opinion on the budget structure change, but that she continuously seeks to support the aims of SAC members.
“I don’t necessarily have an opinion to share on the topic,” Carlton said.  “As the advisor to SAC, I regularly encourage them to consider different methods by which to accomplish their goals and meet the needs of their constituent groups, while also ensuring that they are seeking multiple perspectives on the methods they are considering before a final decision is made.”
The change comes at a time when SAC is struggling with funding cuts.
“Over the past few semesters, we have had scale cuts that have been substantial challenges for our organizations,” Maytnier said. “For example, the scale cut this semester is 71.8 percent and last semester’s was 63.7 percent.”
Maytnier said that SAC is always concerned with the best way to provide clubs with the funds they need, even though demand will constantly exceed the supply of funds.
“At the end of the day, SAC realizes that requests will always outnumber our resources,” Maytnier said. “This past semester, we received $350,000 in requests and had only $150,000 to allocate. Despite this, SAC also realizes that we can work to make the budget allocation system more simplistic, efficient, and equitable for all groups.”
Maytnier said that the change is more about making the process easier for the students than changing the amount of funding itself.
“While we can’t make more money fall from the sky, SAC does have the ability to simplify its processes,” Maytnier said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 27, 2015 by Andrew Wallender Leave a Comment 
The Fourth Annual Walsh Exchange, one of the only undergraduate international relations research conferences in the country, will be held at Georgetown and various locations around D.C. the weekend of April 10-12. The conference will feature a keynote address from World Bank Managing Director and CFO Bertrand Badre.
The conference is housed within the School of Foreign Service and is sponsored by the SFS Dean’s Office, the Mortara Center for International Studies, the Lecture Fund, Students of Georgetown, Inc. and the Georgetown University Student Association.
This year’s conference will feature a number of improvements over prior years, including programming beyond Georgetown’s campus and an increased representation of students from schools other than those located in the District, according to Director of Events Lizzy Tse (SFS ’17).
“Last year’s feedback after the conference was that there was not enough programming outside of the conference for the participants,” Tse said. “There wasn’t enough stuff for them to do, essentially. So this year, a major new focus is developing the out-of-conference programming.”
As part of this year’s new programming, participants will visit the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a local think tank, where students will have a chance to speak with policy analysts and researchers.
Walsh Exchange Chair Sidharth Sharma (SFS ’16) said that the program organizers are also considering a monuments tour and river cruise in addition to networking events.
“I’m excited for it,” Director of Marketing and Media Garrett Williams (MSB ’18) said. “I think there are a lot of cool things with the speakers themselves, but also the programming as a whole. We’re going to try to utilize the area we’re in as much as possible. I really do think it’s going to be a great weekend.”
The main focus of the conference is to give undergraduates a chance to get a first taste of presenting research outside the context of the classroom, according to Sharma. The conference will include three student panels held in the McGhee Library, located on the third floor of the Intercultural Center.
“We just want a creative space where undergraduates can have the opportunity to shape the way that we talk about international relations,” Sharma said. “A lot of times when you think of research, it’s usually with graduate students or undergraduates who are working on a thesis or paper for class. We want them to think outside of that … to get them thinking about the broader implication of what they’re working on.”
Five papers were already accepted by conference organizers as part of an early acceptance process. The research topics range from the Middle East post-Arab Spring to Russia to Asia-Pacific security.
Sharma said that he is anticipating about 12 presenters in all, half from Georgetown and half from other schools.
The majority of early submissions were from non-Georgetown students, a first for the program, according to Williams.
“It’s weird because normally we have mostly Georgetown [submissions] and a few others, but this year we’ve really had a lot of external papers and were still working on getting our Georgetown numbers up,” Williams said.
A major stumbling block for Walsh Exchange organizers has been publicizing the conference and convincing undergraduates to submit their research, often 20 to 50 pages long.
“That’s actually the biggest challenge, I think, is just getting people,” Sharma said. “It’s hard to get them to submit [research] because there’s this stigma.”
But each year the Walsh Exchange continues to grow. This year’s early application process saw applications from schools that the event organizers did not even advertise to.
Other goals that the steering committee has are doubling audience attendance and increasing communication with conference alumni.
This year’s Walsh Exchange Steering Committee is made up of seven individuals, two of whom are freshman. Sharma said that he wants to create a long-term sense of continuity within the steering committee.
“We’re trying to build an institutional memory,” Sharma said. “I think a lot of times you have a lot of upperclassmen who then graduate, and then it’s hard to pass on how we do things. So I think it’s good to have freshmen on the team.”
Conference alumni over the years have ended up working at places ranging from think tanks to the White House, according to Sharma.
Students wishing to present research at the conference must submit their applications by March 1.
Tse said that the conference is a great starting point for any undergraduate even remotely interested in a career involving research.
“This is a chance for undergraduates to really showcase their research, get that first paper out there or make that first presentation if they’re serious about going into a specific field of research,” Tse said. “It’s just their first go at wanting to publish something.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 27, 2015 by Ashwin Puri Leave a Comment 
The Office of the Provost announced on Feb. 18 a pilot program that serves to allocate funds to undergraduate students of all four Georgetown schools with the purpose of expanding research efforts through conference presentations, publications or performances.
The Provost Undergraduate Research Presentation Awards will provide up to $500 to student applicants who endeavor to share their research with the greater professional or scholarly community for travel, hotel fees and registration or publication costs.
An initiative spearheaded by Vice Provost for Education Randall Bass and Vice Provost for Research Janet Mann, the awards will serve as a way to assure no student is barred from presenting their research due to financial constraints.
Students may apply for the awards through an online application with a faculty letter of support and the winners will be selected by members of the Provost Undergraduate Research Council, which is comprised of Groves, Mann and undergraduate students and faculty members. Applications are due Feb. 27 and April 15.
According to Mann, many Georgetown students complete incredibly detailed and creative research projects but are not necessarily appreciated outside of the Georgetown community. PURPAS plans to solve that dilemma.
“Many undergraduate students are heavily involved in research and creative activities on campus either independently or in collaboration with faculty and other students. Much of the work is very high quality and deserves to be seen outside of the Georgetown community,” Mann said.
“Georgetown undergraduates are capable and talented, but sheer labor is also essential for bringing that work to fruition for public or scholarly consumption.”
According to Mann, the awards will help offset the expensive burden that presenting research may have, but will also motivate students to further expand their research efforts and to set the bar high in terms of publication venues.
In addition to benefiting students through encouraging them to present to the highest levels of academia, Mann emphasized the benefits of having the Research Award on a student’s scholarly record.
“[Students] not only have the PURPAS to put on their resume, but also the conference presentation, publication or performance,” Mann said. “It helps motivate the student to follow through on their work and achieve at a higher level.”
According to Mann, funding for the awards is a result of alumni outreach efforts advocated by Vice Provost Bass for a trial period of one year with the hopeful conclusion of a permanent fund for PURPAS.
“Vice Provost Bass has been engaged with our alumni and many are particularly interested in supporting student research activities,” Mann said.
According to Bass, PURPAS is a result of the realization that potential funding should be available to all students, not just those who are able to find it through various means.
“Every year a few students come knocking on various doors for funding,” Bass said. “As Vice Provost Mann and I were talking about this over the last year, it struck us that we should just make this a regular opportunity open for all students, less ad hoc and not just rewarding the few students to find their way to funding sources,” Bass said.
While Mann encouraged all prospective applicants to apply, she especially endorsed applicants who view their research with personal significance and promote its importance on a broader scale.
“We are most interested in seeing applications that demonstrate the importance of the work to the student and hopefully, to the larger community,” Mann said. “It is a terrific learning experience to create a scholarly or artistic product for the community outside of Georgetown.”
In conjunction with PURPAS, Bass also said he wants to see additional undergraduate research in the years to come.
“Over the next five to 10 years, we hope more and more undergraduates will have the opportunity to do original research either individually or collaboratively,” Bass said. “We would love it if students and faculty would come to see this kind of opportunity to present or publish as just part of the landscape of undergraduate education.”
Prospective applicant Nicole Mansour (NHS ’18) said he heavily values the inception of the PURPAS program and sees it as an initial step in encouraging additional students to become more involved with on-campus research efforts.
“The new Provost’s Research Presentation Awards provides students with the opportunity to pursue research regardless of financial means,” Mansour said. “In the NHS as well as Georgetown as a whole, much is learned in the traditional classroom, but with this research award, people can expand their learning experience to include hands-on learning outside the classroom and foster creativity without tight financial constraints.” Mansour said.
Jason Petty (SFS ’17), who hopes to present his research on agriculture and gainful employment in Lesotho at other universities and science conferences, said that he believes the awards will encourage students to share their research with others.
“I think the Provost’s Office offering to assist paying for research can only expand the curricular and enrichment opportunities available for students,” Petty said. “Students ought to be able to present their research and body of work, which takes considerable time to accumulate, and the Provost Office is taking steps to ensure that financial barriers do not inhibit such an incredible opportunity. I think it’s fantastic and hopefully students take advantage of it.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 27, 2015 by Sarah Fisher Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown Neighborhood Library sustained water damage in its historic Peabody Room Feb. 13 after a sprinkler pipe burst.
The water affected the walls of the first and second floors of the library, as well as the Peabody Room, which is housed on the third floor. The room, which is the only separate collection on local history in a neighborhood library, houses a rare collection of District artifacts, including books, maps, photographs, letters, scrapbooks and clippings dating back to the 18th century relating to the people and places of Georgetown. The library, which is part of the D.C. Public Library system, is located at 3260 R Street NW.
“Fortunately, there has been minimal damage to the historic collections of the Peabody Room,” the library said in a statement. “The few items in the room that were damaged have been moved to the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Library to be treated by library staff.”
While the MLK Library — the central location of the D.C. Public Library system which is located in Gallery Place — will treat the books, all of the damaged items will be treated and eventually returned to the Georgetown Neighborhood Library, though no timetable has been set for the reparations.
The library is currently closed for approximately three weeks so that repairs can be made to the building to reduce the risk of mold but will likely be reopened around March 9. While the library is closed, holds and other patron services will be available through the Palisades Library at 4901 V St. NW.
Georgetown University will offer assistance to the public library as need, according to University Librarian Artemis Kirk.
“We of course will offer to assist that library as they might wish, but I understand that their damaged collections have already been transported to the conservation lab of the main DCPL branch,” Kirk said.
Lauinger Library previously housed the Georgetown Neighborhood Library collections after the public library was victim to a fire in 2007 that damaged the building and destroyed some of the its rare books but left many of the photos untouched.
“Our University Archivist Lynn Conway offered access to our many thousands of photos of the surrounding Georgetown area to the public library. We also offered access to Lauinger Library to any residents of the neighborhood,” Kirk said.
Kirk said the library remains open to the public while the neighborhood library undergoes renovation and reconstruction.
“All the public are still welcome,” Kirk said.
Matt Martin (COL ’16), who works at the circulation desk at Lauinger Library, noted that the various libraries in Georgetown have a synergistic relationship.
“I’d say that with all of Georgetown’s many libraries there’s plenty of books here at Georgetown to use,” Martin said. “I’m glad that we have the Georgetown Public Library because it’s a great place to study off campus if the library space is too overutilized for your taste, or if you want a book that Lau doesn’t happen to have.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 27, 2015 by Amy Char 1 Comment 
The Modern Language Association released a report that surveyed 2,435 two- and four-year institutions’ foreign language course enrollment, revealing a 6.7 percent decline in foreign language course enrollments in universities around the country. According to French Department Chair Andrew Sobanet, who also serves as the convener for the Faculty of Languages and Linguistics, Georgetown saw a 4.8 percent drop in foreign language enrollment during the same time period.
Sobanet pointed to the interest of Georgetown students in global affairs as a mitigating factor against the national trend.
“Foreign languages are at the core of Georgetown’s educational mission as a global, student-centered research university,” Sobanet wrote in an email. “The study of language, cultures and literature affords students a rare opportunity for dedicated mentoring from faculty, intellectual and personal growth and a deep appreciation of cultural differences.”
While the total number of foreign language enrollments decreased between 2009 and 2013, languages such as Korean, American Sign Language and Chinese increased in popularity.
Additionally, Georgetown College Associate Dean Sue Lorenson noted that Arabic enrollments increased after the events of Sept. 11, while Russian enrollments have increased recently, pointing to political tensions in the Caucasus region as a possible explanation. Despite the decline in enrollment, there are still more Russian majors in the class of 2015 than there are biochemistry or physics majors.
“Trends in language study are intricately tied to immigration patterns, political uprisings, economic booms and crises, and cultural shifts,” Lorenson wrote in an email. “Georgetown students are savvy and often internationally focused, and we’ve seen language enrollments ​wax and wane as the world changes.”
According to Lorenson, there are 3,470 enrollments in language courses this semester. Thirty-eight percent of those enrollments are in lower-level courses, which are courses at or below the level required to meet the College’s language requirement.
On the other hand, 62 percent of the enrollments are in upper-level courses, which Lorenson said makes Georgetown unique, as language enrollments are typically concentrated at the introductory level at many universities.
SFS Associate Dean Emily Zenick said that the dean’s office strongly encourages SFS students to pursue foreign language study after passing the language proficiency exam.
“It’s not ‘proficiency’ on a transcript that proves you speak a language,” Zenick wrote in an email. “If your last language class taken is in the first year and you take no others, what can you really claim about ‘proficiency’ at the time of graduation?”
Despite the apparent relative popularity of foreign language study compared to other universities, Dean of the College Chester Gillis said the decline in the number of students majoring in foreign languages was likely a consequence of the financial crisis in 2008, resulting in more students choosing to major in economics and science, technology, engineering and mathematics disciplines.
“These choices may be dictated by students themselves,” Gillis said. “They may be dictated by parents and families that are suggesting these particular majors, thinking that they will lead to gainful employment more quickly or more easily. Or more lucrative employment, perhaps, and that may or may not be true.”
Lorenson wrote that there was a measurable drop in the number of humanities majors, which includes foreign language majors, between 2012 and 2013. These graduating classes were comprised of students who began college in 2008.
According to the National Association of College and Employers, foreign language majors have the highest starting salary among humanities majors.
With the marketable skill of bilingualism and the experience of studying abroad, which is a requirement for most language majors, foreign language majors distinguish themselves from other job candidates, according to Lorensen.
In light of globalization, Gillis said that most large companies are multinational who might want to hire candidates who understand different cultures.
“I think if we are educating global citizens, which we are at Georgetown, we have a responsibility to educate them in the full domain of that,” Gillis said. “There’s a significant benefit to this in your career and your life when you can translate between cultures. … [Languages] provide a window to another world, just the way biology perhaps provides a window to another world in the biological sciences.”

Foreign Language Student says 
February 27, 2015 at 9:47 pm
Strange that national trends are tending more and more to declines in foreign languages now that the world is becoming increasingly globalized. 
One thing that the Hoya does not do in this article is mention the QUALITY of the language classes. I am a graduate student here at Georgetown, and during my undergrad I have taken many foreign languages classes, including several in Korean, French, Spanish, Chinese, and even Catalan, and all were EXCELLENT. 
When I arrived to Georgetown, I was thoroughly disappointed with the foreign language classes here, ESPECIALLY Korean. Reading this article, I was very upset that the aspect of quality was not mentioned, and I was particularly upset to see that Korean was one of the languages that saw an increase in enrollment despite its poor quality here. This article gives that department good publicity when in reality it needs to be changed for the better. 
A six-credit language class costs $10, 000, and the Korean class is one of the absolute biggest wastes of time and money at this school. I am only here for one and a half years, and since I can’t start Japanese or Chinese in the middle of the year (second semester), I’ve essentially wasted a year of potential language study, time, and money because of the poor quality of that department.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 27, 2015 by Emma Rizk Leave a Comment 
H*yas for Choice convened a panel of representatives from Georgetown Health Education Services, Planned Parenthood Metropolitan Washington and Advocates for Youth to discuss sexual health resources on Georgetown’s campus Monday night.
The panel was composed of PPMW Legislative Affairs Organizer Michelle Woods, PPMW Sexual Health Educator Blanca Torres, Advocates for Youth international policy analyst Amanda Keifer and Director of Georgetown Health Education Services Carol Day.
Day discussed the flaws of the Student Health Clinic run by Medstar in St. Mary’s, including long wait times and Georgetown’s religious affiliation affecting its type of care.
“Student Health will even prescribe birth control pills, but not primarily only for contraception,” Day said. “Under the Affordable Care Act you have a right to have these services anywhere, including under Georgetown. But our hospital, because they’re Catholic, some people will do it, some people won’t.”
Grace brought up the concern of students who feel the need to misrepresent their medical requirements in order to obtain birth control.
“If you’re not honest then they can’t really help you as much as they could help you if you were totally honest,” Day said. “You’re not going to surprise them with anything … they’re not making judgments like you think they are.”
Torres was adamant that if students feel judged, they should seek care elsewhere.
“I can understand being afraid of feeling judged when they might not prescribe you birth control because you want it for preventing pregnancy,” Torres said. “However if you’re going to a doctor, and you’re having those feelings, find another doctor, don’t be intimidated by the insurance process.”
Woods outlined the Hobby Lobby Supreme Court case and how it has affected women across the country. Last June, Hobby Lobby, an Evangelical Christian corporation, challenged the Affordable Care Act and the Supreme Court ruled that corporations have religious freedom to disregard the contraceptive mandate. This has huge implications for many companies and their employees who can be denied access to intrauterine devices, the morning after pill and other forms of birth control.
“The overall picture moving forward is how do we access women’s rights and women’s health … if corporations and companies have more rights than women?” Woods said.
Keifer, who does opposition research for Advocacy Youth, discussed how the Hobby Lobby case has implications for LGBTQ rights as well. She said that although there are differences between the pro-choice and the pro-LGBTQ rights movements, the two should join forces to advocate for sexual rights.
“Reproductive rights, bodily autonomy, bodily integrity — all those things are rolled into one very important narrative, and that is what we get to do what we want with our bodies,” Keifer said.
Since 2010, when many tea party candidates came into Congress, more anti-choice legislation has been passed than ever before in the United States. The biggest barriers to access of sexual health resources are parental consent laws, mandatory ultrasound laws, and a 24-hour waiting period with counseling before an abortion. These laws, all aimed at preventing abortions, exist in several states, including Virginia. In both Virginia and D.C., as well as across the country, public funding cannot go to an abortion other than when a women’s life is in danger, rape or incest are involved.
But the movement to provide sexual health resources has had some victories, according to Woods.
“We’ve been decreasing unintended pregnancies across the nation, even with these crazy laws, and a lot of that is access to contraceptives and reproductive health care,” Woods said.
Torres discussed the important steps student should be taking in regard to their own sexual health. She urged students to ask for five tests on a regular basis: chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis, HIV and hepatitis. According to her, specificity is key when talking to a doctor, as is getting tested for those STDs regardless of symptoms and sexual orientation.
“Providers will make assumptions based on your age, your race, your gender, your sexual identity to decide what tests you should be tested for,” Torres said. “But in reality, if you are sexually active you are at risk for STDs.”
According to a Georgetown survey conducted every two years, the top two sexually transmitted diseases on campus are herpes and chlamydia.
Keifer stressed the need for young adults to advocate for themselves when it comes to their sexual health.
“As young people who are empowered and hopefully have knowledge … you need to take that knowledge into the office,” Keifer said. “Make sure you are being your own agent and ask the questions you feel like really get at your specific needs.”
Annie Mason (NHS ’18) said she came to the talk to learn more about on-campus sexual health resources.
“[I came] to hear the dynamic from health [education] on campus…just kind of wondering from a feminist pro-choice standpoint what resources are offered to me on campus and how open health [education] is to providing resources to students … in terms of reproductive health and sexual health,” Mason said.
Tevin Simard (COL ’18) also said he came to the panel to gain a better understanding of the sexual health resources on campus, a topic not often openly discussed at a Jesuit university.
“The reason I came out here today was to get more information on sexual health resources on campus and also in the D.C. Metropolitan area, only because those resources aren’t very well advertised due to the Catholic nature of our institution,” Simard said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

