
January 26, 2015 by Deirdre Collins Leave a Comment 
Akshay Sinha (GRD ’15), a second-year student in the McCourt School of Public Policy, was awarded the 2014-15 McCourt School Whittington Scholarship. As part of the scholarship, Sinha received an $11,000 financial award and will be recognized at the McCourt School’s Whittington Lecture.
“Akshay excels academically and is committed to community service. When selected, he had the second highest GPA in the Master of Public Policy program. He also volunteers in many McCourt and non-McCourt activities,” McCourt School Director of Communications Lauren Mullins said. “The McCourt School is thrilled to recognize Akshay, an exemplary student at our School. The Whittington Scholarship is incredibly meaningful to our community.”
The Whittington Scholarship was created in memory of Leslie Whittington, a former dean of the Georgetown Public Policy Institute and professor who died in the 9/11 attacks with her husband and two children. The annual scholarship is awarded to a second-year McCourt School student who displays high academic achievement and commitment to service.
Sinha, a student from New Delhi, came to Georgetown after working for KPMG Advisory Services in Mumbai, India for three years and decided to attend the McCourt School because of his interest in clean energy.
“I used to work in consulting and I’ve always been very interested in energy and energy projects as such. I wanted to get more involved with project design, financing and specifically, clean energy projects. It was logical for me to do a public policy program. The McCourt School happened to be the best and was based out of D.C.,” Sinha said.
Committed to community involvement and service, Sinha is an active member of student groups including a community soccer team and the Georgetown Public Policy Student Association, while also having volunteered with non-Georgetown affiliated organizations such as the Irish Wheelchair Association in Dublin, Ireland and the Missionaries of Charity in Kolkata, India. Sinha explained his commitment to community involvement as an important element of his education.
“For me, school has never just been about academics. Schools are always about community. The best part about going to school is that it gives you time to explore things you don’t have time to do in the rest of your life. You have time to get involved and meet new people. It’s a lot of fun and its also very educative to learn about other people,” Sinha said.
Last year, as the GPPSA Interest Representative, Sinha was responsible for intra-student interactions and for organizing events that allowed students to share their experiences with one another. Sinha is now the treasurer of the GPPSA.
He also emphasized his relationships with other students and his professors as integral to his education and experience at the McCourt School.
“My fellow students are really great and very intelligent people. There is a lot that I can learn from them and I think I have learned as much from them as I have learned in class. There is a big sense of community we have here,” Sinha said.
Andreas Kern, Sinha’s thesis advisor and a visiting assistant professor of international political economy, development economics and European policy, called Sinha an exceptional and deserving student.
“Akshay is an exceptionally well-trained, intellectually curious, hard-working and very humble student with a great sense of humor and a strong passion for evidence-based policy making. He also has a strong passion for finding sustainable and feasible solutions to complex policy challenges,” Kern said.
Kern first met Sinha when Sinha approached him about his project on suicides among farmers in the Indian cotton industry. Having met with Sinha and the group of students he worked on the project with, Kern was very impressed by the group’s creativity and with the ideas they produced, noting Sinha’s passion and strong work ethic.
“I realized that Akshay is a student, who is willing to run the extra mile in order to make a difference and to improve the lives of those among us in this world that are less fortunate than him/us,” Kern said.
Sinha explained that most second-year graduate students apply for the McCourt School’s scholarships with a common application that evaluates both academic performance and community involvement.
“I wasn’t really expecting to win the scholarship so it was definitely a surprise. I wasn’t expecting to get anything because there are so many other deserving students. It was a very pleasant surprise and was uplifting and in a sense, very inspiring,” Sinha said.
Currently writing his thesis on oil price volatility and the adoption of renewable energy, Sinha wants to work in designing, implementing and managing clean energy projects in developing countries after graduation.
“I want to work in the field of clean energy. I am interested in working specifically within developing countries on medium to large-scale clean energy projects. I want to structure, design and look for ways to finance these projects,” he said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 26, 2015 by Katherine Richardson Leave a Comment 
The Corp will close its three coffee services, Uncommon Grounds, Midnight Mug and More Uncommon Grounds, in a staggered schedule from Jan. 28 to Feb. 1 to accommodate an institution-wide change in coffee vendor and coffee brewing equipment.
Uncommon Grounds will close on Wednesday and Thursday, Midnight Mug will close on Friday and Saturday and More Uncommon Grounds, which is closed on weekends, will be shut Friday, Saturday and Sunday.
The closed stores will allow technicians to install new coffee equipment in each store, including brewers, espresso grinders and cleaning equipment. During this time, Students of Georgetown, Inc. will also transition from its current brand of coffee, Mayorga Coffee, to Compass Coffee.
Compass Coffee, according to Moore, will cost 5 to 10 more cents per cup than Mayorga Coffee, but will also significantly increase coffee quality.
“This is something that we’ve had to put a lot of work into over the past four months … but it’s something that we’re really excited about because we know that a lot of people want to see even higher-quality coffee products,” Corp COO Patrick Moore (MSB ’15) said.
Compass Coffee, located in the Shaw area in Washington, D.C., opened in late September. The company was created by Michael Haft and Harrison Suarez, two former Marines who became passionate about coffee after meeting at Washington University in St. Louis and serving in Afghanistan together.
Since opening just three months ago, the coffee brewery has been covered widely by the press, with a multiple-part series in the Washington Post, a feature in chef Martha Stewart’s holiday catalog and a ranking on Thrillist’s list of best coffee shops in D.C neighborhoods. Compass Coffee is also served at Baked + Wired in Georgetown.
The Corp’s partnership with Compass Coffee also includes a change to the brewery’s recommended Curtis and La Marzocco brand machinery, known as the Vulcano. The Corp’s current machinery will be put in storage in case the new equipment malfunctions. Moore declined to comment on the cost of the additional machinery.
During the days the storefronts are closed, the Compass Coffee founders will train over 200 Corp employees on the proper use of the new equipment. Moore said that the equipment will lead to quicker and more efficient coffee brewing.
“Consistency and quality is how we chose the equipment,” Moore said. “We’re hoping that it will also be quicker to serve drinks. The Vulcano enables people to get the espresso ready to go in half the time it normally would have taken. … We’re hoping that will speed up the process of making drinks for our baristas.”
Moore said he expects a significant revenue loss during the days when Corp stores are closed, but declined to specify the exact loss. Despite this, Moore said that benefits of this change far outweigh the revenue loss.
“This change in general is very important to us and we hope that this is important to campus as well,” Moore said. “We’re willing to show that we can take that hit … that being said, we think that this is the plan that will help us make the best possible product moving forward.”
Moore said he is eager to receive student feedback on the new taste.
“We hope that campus will respond positively,” Moore said. “We’ve tried to stagger our different stores as much as possible, so while we know that there will complications on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. … That being said, we hope that people will bear with us as we try to make ourselves better.”
 
For further coverage of the vendor switch, see Tuesday’s A1 and Friday’s Business & Technology page.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

