
May 16, 2015 by Emily Tu Leave a Comment 
In journalist Charlie Rose’s commencement address to the Georgetown College Class of 2015, he encouraged graduates to seize the opportunities available to them and live life fully.
Before his commencement address, Rose received an honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters. Journalism Program Director Professor Barbara Feinman Todd read the citation for the honorary degree, emphasizing Rose’s profound impact on the field of journalism.
“Today, Georgetown University delights to honor a citizen and journalist whose life and work both exemplify this institution’s commitment to a conversation that bows to the past and beckons to the future,” Todd said. “With pride and pleasure, Georgetown University confers upon Charlie Rose the degree of Doctor of Humane Letters, Honoris Causa.”
Rose began his address by highlighting technological progress in society and the challenges this generation faces.
“The common denominator in all of this is the velocity of change,” Rose said. “It is a hugely interesting time to go out into the world. If the economy gives you a place to stand, and it should, you will make us all very proud with what you can do and find a place to deal with all of these complex issues.”
Rose drew from his experiences as a journalist to offer ten key pieces of advice to the graduating class.
“I’ll tell you this afternoon, with a lifetime of questions and listening to the stories of everyone, from the playing field to the battlefield, I come as someone who plays a role in the conversation of America,” Rose said. “Know who you are. Know your values, know your strengths and weaknesses and know what you love. Make that your passion. You define yourself. Accept no limitations on your dreams. Accept no limits because of race or gender or national origin. You are who you say you are, you define who you are.”
The speaker also called the graduates to take action in serving others and to recognize the value of hard work.
“Lose yourself in greater good,” Rose said. “Find places and ideas where you can lessen suffering and enhance knowledge. Make your life your story, and you are the actor, the director and the star. … Hard work matters. No one has ever come up to me at an interview and said, ‘The reason I am at this table is because I was smarter, or anything else.’ What they’ve achieved is because they’ve worked harder than everybody else, because they wanted it and cared more about it.”
Rose stressed the importance of maintaining relationships, noting the impact positivity and boldness can have.
“People will matter, as they have already,” Rose said. “They have shared your hopes and your disappointments, your successes and your failures. Keep them in your memory and your speed dial. Take a moment to smile and make someone’s day, I promise it’ll make your day. And be a little crazy at the same time. … The people who are crazy enough to think they can change the world are the ones that can change the world, and I know there are among you those people.”
Rose ended his speech with a direct address to the family members and friends of the graduating class.
“We owe you, we appreciate you and we love you for giving to this university an opportunity to give something special to your child, which was the capacity to learn,” Rose said. “As every graduate leaves here, certainly with memories, but also with a paper in your hand, with knowledge in your head and passion in your heart, you know that you have our confidence that you’ll write your own story, that you’ll make the world better, and that you will have fun.”
After the speech, the Class of 2015 received their diplomas from Dean of Georgetown College Chester Gillis, led by the three valedictorians of Georgetown College Aletha Smith (COL ’15), Elise Widerlite (COL ’15) and Paul Bucala (COL ’15).
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 16, 2015 by Kshithij Shrinath Leave a Comment 
United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon reflected on the importance of service and unity in a world filled with crises and opportunities during his address to the Class of 2015 at the School of Foreign Service’s commencement ceremony this morning.
The ceremony began with an invocation from Fr. Gregory Schenden, S.J., and a brief address from Provost Robert Groves.
“All of you together represent the totality of our educational community,” Groves said. “We know that families and diverse university staff are keys to help [students and faculty] do their work.”
Secretary of the University Edward Quinn then read the university’s federal charter, which celebrated its 200th anniversary on March 1 this year.
Master of Science in Foreign Service Program Director Anthony Arend, who won the Constantine E. Maguire Medal for outstanding service to the SFS this year, introduced Ban, who was appointed South Korea’s Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade in 2004 and became U.N. Secretary-General in 2007.
“He has worked to ameliorate the underlying causes of conflict,” Arend said. “He has often said, ‘Missiles may kill terrorists, but good governance kills terrorism.’”
Highlighting Ban’s work promoting women’s rights and tackling global climate change, Arend, together with Interim Dean James Reardon-Anderson and University President John J. DeGioia, presented Ban with the degree of Doctor of Humane Letters.
“I feel at home at Georgetown. Your list of graduates reads like a United Nations directory,” Ban said.
This year marks the 70th anniversary of the founding of the United Nations in San Francisco in 1945. Noting the milestone, which he called a “crossroads,” Ban pointed to the unique challenges and opportunities currently facing the world.
“The existential threat of climate change looms. Today, we face multiple tragic crises from Syria to Yemen to South Sudan. There are more refugees — 50 million — any time since the end of the second world war,” Ban said. “Yet, we are the first generation that can end global poverty. We are the last generation that can address global warming.”
Speaking to the graduates, Ban offered three pieces of advice. First, he asked them to choose a life of service.
“What counts is how much one gives back to the world,” Ban said. “This is my ninth year as Secretary General, and I have seen leaders rise and fall. But what I have seen is this simple truth. When individuals serve others, they enrich themselves. When countries serve others, they bolster their own security.”
Second, he called them to “be bold.” Pointing to the advances in LGBTQ rights around the world and even within the United Nations itself, Ban noted the importance of leading progress related to peace, development and human rights. He specifically highlighted the upcoming Sustainable Development Agenda to be adopted by the U.N. later this year and the comprehensive agreement on climate change expected to be confirmed in Paris in December.
Third, he implored the graduates to listen, particularly to opposing views.
“I have seen too many leaders turn a deaf ear to the aspirations and concerns of their people,” Ban said. “Listening is just as important for average citizens. Turn to each other with open minds.”
Ban said that listening would bridge gaps in the world today and unify societies.
“We must close the empathy gap that is so prevalent in our world today,” Ban said. “We must be one world.”
Closing his speech, Ban said that a responsibility to the world and social justice accompanied the privileges associated with a Georgetown degree.
“Keep your head above the cloud and your feet planted on the ground, and move step by step toward your goal,” Ban said. “Aim high and take practical action to reach your goals.”
After Ban’s address, Ambassador Andrew Steigman, professor of diplomacy, called the names of the graduates to receive their diplomas, beginning with dean’s medal recipient and class marshal Mina Pollmann (SFS ’15). 426 students graduated from the SFS this morning.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

