
March 3, 2015 by Owen Eagan Leave a Comment 
As more than 35,000 Civil War soldiers fought at the Battle of Bull Run in July of 1861, the blasts from the cannons could be heard 30 miles away at the Former Jesuit Residence on Georgetown’s campus.
When the 69th and 79th regiments of the New York National Guard travelled south to D.C., many of the soldiers stayed in the collection of buildings. And when President Abraham Lincoln himself came to campus to inspect soldiers, he no doubt passed by the buildings.
The buildings making up the FJR survived the Civil War, multiple fires and a smallpox pandemic.
And now the FJR, built in 1830, is poised to enter its next phase of existence as construction is completed on the space that will house the newly developed Spirit of Georgetown Residential Academy, which will function as a Living Learning Community.
More than 380 students applied last month to live in the residence, and tonight the 148 students selected to live in the LLC will choose their rooms in a housing lottery.
The FJR complex, set to open this August for the 2015 fall semester, has been a widely anticipated new addition to the campus, with numerous university offices, committees and organizations working together with outside contractors since 2013 to shepherd the project to its current stage. The project aims to embrace the history and mission of Georgetown, while also looking toward the university’s future.
A Storied Past
The FJR is composed of three separate buildings — Gervase Hall, Mulledy Hall and Ryan Hall, built between 1830 and 1904.
Mulledy Hall formerly housed a campus dining hall, the College Chapel, an auditorium capable of accommodating more than 1,000 people and a study hall.
During the Civil War, Gervase and Mulledy Halls witnessed some of the country’s most transformative moments. Following the battles of Second Bull Run and Antietam, Gervase and Mulledy Hall were transformed into a military hospital for injured soldiers.
From 1957 to 2003, Jesuits lived in Ryan Hall before moving to the newly built Jesuit Residence at Wolfington Hall. In addition, students lived in the halls of the FJR alongside Jesuits in Ryan Hall, which was originally built as student housing in 1904.
“It was a lot of fun,” Fr. Otto Hentz, S.J., said, as he reminisced about his experiences living in the FJR, where he lived beginning in 1962.
Hentz said one of his favorite features of the complex was the Georgetown Room, a large common room that Jesuits had to pass through as they moved from Ryan Hall into Mulledy Hall.
“On the riverside there were couches and chairs and newspapers and stuff, and on the Quadrangle side was a place where you could get snacks — beer, coke, coffee, you know, pretzels, stuff like that,” Hentz said. “So it was well placed in the sense that you had to pass through there, again, at different times in the day, and you kept bumping into people, depending on what you were up to, you could sit down and chat for a while and then move on. And in the evening people would group down there at different paces and have a beer and chat. It was a lot of fun.”
Hentz also recalled the friendly and lively conversation that took place within the space.
“One time there were a bunch of us arguing — I forget about what — but some visitor was going to walk around to the library and check the encyclopedia and we said: ‘Oh that’s forbidden, you can’t do research here, that’s unfair.’”
Theology professor Fr. Christopher Steck, S.J., moved into the FJR in 1999 said he would always remember the times the Jesuits would go out on the patio of the Jesuit Residence to watch fireworks during special holidays.
“There was a patio way up above and then we used to watch fireworks from that patio,” Steck said. “You can still see it, it’s on the Gervase side, but we would gather, and I think someone would do mint juleps and we would watch the fireworks.”
Hentz also recalled more somber occasions in the Georgetown Room. He said he especially remembered the night Rep. Bob Drinan, S.J., (D-Mass.), one of two priests to ever serve in Congress, was ordered by the Vatican to leave after serving five terms due to his pro-choice political leanings.
“That was very hard on [Drinan] because he believed very deeply in what he was doing,” Hentz said. “But he used to come home, you know, around 10:30 or 11 at night and there’d be a few people there having a beer — but a number of people who wouldn’t ordinarily be there were there to welcome him, knowing it was a tough day for him.”
Hentz said that the day President John F. Kennedy was shot was another especially memorable moment during his time in the Jesuit Residence.
“I walked into the Quadrangle by Dahlgren and people were assembling from all over, secretaries and faculty and students, and they had set up an altar on the porch in Old North to say Mass for the president,” Hentz said. “ You had people kneeling on the bricks out there.”
Hentz also shed a different light on the events of that day.
“In those days, the Quadrangle was all freshmen, except for the Jesuit residence, and I was living on [third-floor] Healy and I was walking down third Healy to go to my room and a student saw me and he said, ‘Mr. Hentz, you’re looking very sad,’ and I said, ‘The president’s been shot,’ and he said, ‘Who would want to shoot Fr. Bunn?’”
Rev. Edward J. Bunn, S.J., was president of Georgetown University between 1952 and 1964.
Fr. William McFadden, S.J., another former resident of the Jesuit community, who lived in Mulledy in the 1990s, said that he remembered the time President-elect Bill Clinton (SFS ’68) gave a speech from the steps of Old North in 1993. McFadden was told by the Secret Service that he could not move his blinds open or closed, or snipers on the roof might target the movement.
“I know that Clinton is coming and I’ve got a prime viewing spot, but I’m not going to open those blinds because they told us not to,” McFadden said. “I figure if I stand over against the wall and … if your eye is close enough and the blind is open a little bit and you see a lot. So I looked through and I see these soldiers in battle dress carrying these guns.”
“So I thought, well I’m going to watch,” McFadden continued. “So I stood there, and I watched Clinton come down the steps and greet the diplomatic corps. But that was memorable. I’ll tell you, to be there and think that at any minute this window could explode — I didn’t think it was going to happen — but it could explode.”
Fr. Brian McDermott, S.J., spent his freshman year in 1954 on the fourth floor of Ryan Hall in a corner room overlooking the Potomac. McDermott left Georgetown after his sophomore year to join the Society of Jesus. Years later, when McDermott was a teacher and administrator at the Weston Jesuit School of Theology in Cambridge, Mass., he returned to Georgetown on his sabbatical and was placed in the same room he had lived in 40 years earlier as a freshman.
“They put me into my old freshman room, which was then part of the Jesuit community,” McDermott said. “And on the windows, on one of the windows there was etched a student’s name with a date in the 1930s. It was etched there when I was freshman and it was the same windowpane in 1997.”
The exact windowpane on which that student’s name was carved has since been replaced with a new one, but the window frame to McDermott’s old room in Ryan Hall has been refurbished and remains.

Constructing a New Living Space
In 2003, Georgetown’s Jesuits moved to their new home in Wolfington Hall because of asbestos and poor conditions in the FJR. For over a decade, Ryan and Mulledy Halls sat empty, while Gervase became a location for university administrative offices.
It was not until 2013 that formal construction planning began on the Former Jesuit Residence student housing project. The new residence hall, the design of which is targeted to appeal to upperclassmen due to its apartment-style units, will occupy the Ryan and Mulledy buildings, which are connected. The renovations come as part of the 2010 Campus Plan to provide campus housing for 385 more students by summer 2015, and the new residence will provide 148 new beds for rising sophomores, juniors and seniors.
The residence was originally designed with space for 160 residents, but students expressed a strong preference for more common space in the building. That input influenced the design, decreasing that number to the current 148-person living capacity.
The residence includes 18 apartment units in total, including one nine-person, five eight-person, four six-person, five four-person and three three-person rooms.
According to Vice President for Planning and Facilities Management Robin Morey, preserving the historical aspects of the buildings has been a significant aspect of the project.
“It really is, because it was an existent facility and not built up from scratch, respecting the past while making sure that we’re trying to meet the needs of the future,” Morey said. “All of that has to come together and you have to make compromises to get the best design that you can, and I think that the team’s done a really excellent job here in doing that.”
Fr. Joseph Lingan, S.J., who is the current rector of the Jesuit community at Wolfington Hall and who has worked as a major contributing consultant in the housing project, said he was impressed by the university’s commitment to preserving the historical value of the FJR.
“They have been very sensitive to the fact that this was at one point our home,” Lingan said. “I think that they have been very sensitive in a very positive way.”
The fact that students will get to live in a place with so much historical significance is important for Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson.
“To have this opportunity for upper-class students to be in the heart of campus in this historic space that has such a long history with our Jesuits is just a real treat and it’s great opportunity,” Olson said.
One preserved feature of the complex is the great room in Ryan Hall. The large space that was once the main dining area for the university and that later served as the Jesuits’ dining area, will now be converted into a group gathering and study space open to all students.
According to Olson, another plan for the FJR construction project is to make Georgetown’s campus more accessible to students with disabilities.
“We are creating better, accessible routes from the lower part of the campus up to Dahlgren Quad and to Healy Hall,” Olson said.
The construction will also include the addition of a new green space in front of Gervase and Ryan Halls.
“On a campus where we really need green space, we’ll gain green space with this project,” Olson said.
According to Morey, this addition will also help with sustainable water retention in the area.
The complex will also include an inter-denominational contemplative space, formerly the chapel for the Jesuit community, which will be managed between the Office of the President, Campus Ministries and the Office of Mission and Ministry.
“To have that [contemplative space] as a part of the building is a powerful signal that we take seriously both the history of Georgetown and our current focus on spirituality and on faith as important tenets of the Georgetown experience,” Olson said.
Fr. Gregory Schenden, S.J., Roman Catholic chaplain to the Office of Campus Ministry, said he is excited for the planned contemplative space.
“The fact that this sacred space, this former community chapel is being preserved as well, as sacred space, is key to the overarching philosophy behind the residence itself,” Schenden said.
Lingan said that the Georgetown Jesuit community is happy about the development of the space.
“I also know that we’re enthused that the space is finally being used,” Lingan said. “It’s kind of nice to think that it’s being used for housing as it was for us — our house; and the living and learning dynamic that they’re putting focus on with regard to that building is, I think, especially appreciated by us.”
Building A Community
Over 380 students applied for 148 membership spaces within the Spirit of Georgetown LLC. Ten percent were rising seniors, 42 percent rising juniors and 48 percent rising sophomores.
Students living in the LLC commit to engage in four aspects of community life. First, students must abide by nine tenets of the spirit of Georgetown, which include academic excellence, educating the whole person and cura personalis, among others.
The requirements behind the LLC have been developed since January 2014 by the Residential Academy Planning Committee, affiliated with the Office of Residential Education. The group is composed of student, staff and faculty members from across Georgetown’s campus, with representatives from the InterHall Council, the Center for Social Justice, the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access, the Campus Ministry Office and various campus organizations.
The second aspect involves student participation within cohorts — smaller groups of 15 to 20 students from the various living spaces around the FJR — that will meet once or twice each semester for reflection. The third aspect seeks to foster a broader sense of community within the building and asks residents to host programming related to the LLC’s mission.
The fourth aspect of the community involves the students’ education and engagement with an e-portfolio program, an online record that displays a student’s academic and extracurricular work and commitments during their Georgetown careers as a showcase for future employers.
Courtney Maduike (COL ’17) was accepted to live in the academy in a group of eight applicants.
“I am honored and beyond ecstatic to be a part of the inaugural class of the Spirit of Georgetown Academy,” Maduike said. “The residence gives students a chance to not only learn about, but also take part in a defining characteristic of our great school — our Jesuit identity.”
The Residential Academy is modeled in part after the residential colleges of other universities around the country, which are typically academically focused environments that center around a particular discipline and that have unique program requirements. The Residential Academy will be the first of its kind at Georgetown, and the only one on campus for the foreseeable future.
Joseph Ferrara, Chief of Staff to University President John J. DeGioia, said he was especially proud of the project.
“The Spirit of Georgetown Residential Academy is an exciting new development for our community,” Ferrara wrote in an email to The Hoya. “It’s especially significant for this new aspect of our residential life to be located in the heart of our historic campus and to focus so deeply on the Jesuit heritage that animates our university. This is another example of the ways we are investing in the student experience, and providing new opportunities to engage our mission.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 3, 2015 by Kristen Fedor Leave a Comment 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s visit to Washington, D.C., to speak to a joint session of Congress on Tuesday sparked a national debate about the politicization of Israel’s relationship with the United States and drew criticism from student organizations at Georgetown.
In his speech, which comes in advance of Israeli legislative elections March 17, Netanyahu will address the ongoing negotiations over Iran’s nuclear program, urging the United States to take a stronger position in the talks. Speaker of the House of Representatives John Boehner (R-Ohio) invited Netanyahu to speak in an unprecedented move, as it is customary for the president to invite foreign leaders to make speeches before Congress.
Accordingly, Netanyahu’s visit has been criticized for dragging Israel into U.S. partisan divides, particularly as the relationship between the United States and Israel has largely remained a bipartisan priority despite increased polarization in Congress.
“From a bipartisan perspective, Israel is one of the few issues that has bipartisan support in Congress and by accepting a predominantly right-wing based offer — as an individual not representing Georgetown Israel Alliance, my greatest fear is turning Israel into a partisan issue,” GIA President Harper Weissburg (SFS ’17) said.
President Barack Obama will not be attending the speech and has declined to meet with the prime minister during his visit. Forty-one congressional Democrats and Senator Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) are reportedly planning to boycott the speech because of the politicization of the meeting.
J Street, a national organization describing itself as “pro-Israel, pro-Palestine, pro-peace,” published a full-page advertisement in The New York Times that called for Netanyahu’s speech to be postponed until after the Iranian negotiations and the Israeli elections, which will both occur in the middle of March. Molly Wartenberg (SFS ’16), co-president of Georgetown’s J Street U chapter, the student arm of J Street, noted the fraught timing of the speech.
“We would be happy for Netanyahu to come to Congress and present before them and speak to them but this moment in time it’s just not extremely appropriate essentially because there are these really sensitive negotiations occurring between U.S. officials and Iranian officials. Additionally, Israeli elections are around the corner,” Wartenberg said.
Netanyahu, however, addressed these contentions during a speech to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee on Monday, maintaining that his speech does not aim to specifically aid any Republican agenda.
“As prime minister of Israel, I have a moral obligation to speak up in the face of these threats while there is time to avert them,” Netanyahu said. “My speech is not intended to show any disrespect to Obama or the esteemed office that he holds. I have great respect for both.”
Ari Goldstein (COL ’18), who serves as marketing and external secretary for GIA but did not speak on behalf of the organization, attended Netanyahu’s speech at the AIPAC policy conference. He said that the speech did not reflect partisan issues.
“I think it sent a really strong message of unity and bipartisanship around the core interest and values which are so fundamental to the U.S.-Israel relationship, and that’s what he should have done,” Goldstein said.
Netanyahu’s speech coincides with the Georgetown Students for Justice in Palestine’s Israel Apartheid Week, an annual event held at universities around the United States that protests the Israeli occupation of the West Bank and Gaza Strip through the construction of an apartheid wall in the Intercultural Center Galleria. The week at Georgetown will run from March 2 to March 6.
SJP President Leila Shebaro (SFS ’15) also expressed discontent with Netanyahu’s invitation to Congress, although she was dissatisfied by the close relationship between the Israeli leader and the United States rather than the politicization of the partnership.
“I don’t know if you could find another leader with the same kind of record of human rights violations that consistently gets such a warm reception from American politicians,” Shebaro said.
As part of the week’s events, SJP members will gather on the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol Building to protest Tuesday’s speech.
However, the SJP has faced criticism that the week, and especially the apartheid wall, is polarizing for the use of the word “apartheid” and its perceived accusatory nature.
“When an apartheid wall goes up on campus, it is an inflammatory symbol that polarizes the conversation, and it saddens me that it puts my club in a position to seem like we’re diametrically opposed to Students for Justice in Palestine, when we’re not,” Weissburg said. “We don’t get to say, ‘Oh, and I personally believe this about Netanyahu’s speech.’ We do not have the privilege of being nuanced.”
Shebaro emphasized that any open discussion of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict would bring up strongly opposing viewpoints but said the week would encourage honest reflection.
“I think that there is a difference between being antagonistic and simply being honest and being willing to have the physical conversations,” Shebaro said. “There’s nothing about what we do that we want to be unwelcoming to anyone. Our goal is really just to open up the dialogue so people feel they can have an honest conversation about the reality of the situation.”
Despite the national polarization of Netanyahu’s visit, J Street U Co-President Natalie Magioncalda (COL ’16) hoped that the university would be a place for finding common ground.
“There is so much rhetoric on both sides, and we are trying to find that space where people on all sides of the spectrum can find that common ground because there is a lot of common ground,” Magioncalda said. “It’s just very hard to see through it when you have these polarizing aspects.”
Hoya Staff Writers Emma Rizk and Kshithij Shrinath contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 3, 2015 by Sarah Smith Leave a Comment 
Over the past year, national discussion has highlighted the criminal justice system’s discrimination and disconnect from local communities. Georgetown University Law Center’s D.C. Street Law Program has tried to bridge that gap for over 40 years, inserting law students into D.C. public and charter schools to introduce high school students to legal concepts.
Each week, Georgetown law students teach high school students about the law, including the criminal justice system structure, the basic rights granted to people and the operation of trials and other processes within the system.
Having shaped the experience of Georgetown law students for decades, the program has evolved into a central aspect of the school.
“When you speak to alumni of GULC, no matter whether they are in private practice as associates or partners, or in a district attorney’s office or in the federal government somewhere, so many of them have Street Law stories,” program participant Umar Sattar (LAW ’16) said. “To go into D.C. public schools and teach high schoolers different legal concepts and get them excited about school is a pretty amazing thing to do as a law student.”
The idea for the clinic originated in 1972 with student Ed O’Brien (LAW ’73) and professor Jason Newman, who also served as the director of the Harrison Institute for Public Law.
“[O’Brien and Newman] had the idea of law students teaching about the law affecting young persons’ daily lives,” Street Law Director Richard Roe said.
Engaging students in public and charter high schools across the District, the program aims to teach practical skills to impact the students’ lives outside the classroom, in addition to the basic legal advice it offers. In 2012, the program involved 250 students in 11 local high schools.
“The Street Law experience on the surface can be fairly straightforward; learning practical law,” Roe said. “At the same time it can be profound and multidimensional; how people learn and cooperate to move forward to understand and possibly shape a complex world using rules and principles consistent with fairness and justice.”
The high school students in the program choose to take the Street Law course as an elective course during school hours, and the program aims to engage students of all academic skill levels. The program begins with a one-week orientation in August introducing basic methods. Afterward, students can take the course, which includes weekly two-hour seminars and individual meetings with law students, in either the fall or spring semester.
In 2013, the District of Columbia had a high school graduation rate of 64 percent, one of the lowest in the country, and only 58 percent graduated from public schools. Roe said lessons learned from the Street Law clinic are able to help the high school students, many of whom originate from inner-city and underprivileged neighborhoods, in higher education.
“High school students learn self-government — not only the principles of democratic rule, but also how to govern themselves, how to apply their thinking, how to listen, to take turns, to agree to disagree, to respect other views,” Roe said. “Street Law is an avenue to socialize students to the kind of discourse they will find in college.”
Approximately 24 law school students per year are selected as teachers in the program after an application process that begins in March. The teachers, who receive course credit based on faculty reviews of their performance, are then linked to various D.C. public and charter schools based on their scheduling availability, planning extensive lessons that often including role playing and mock trials to engage students in conversation.
With the emphasis on active learning, students participate in an annual citywide mock trial tournament at the D.C. Superior Court, where actual judges and attorneys preside over the deliberations. This year, the tournament will be held on March 19 and 25.
Rachel Morris (LAW ’16), vice president of the Student Bar Association, worked with 10 high school students at Anacostia Senior High School in Ward 8.
“At first I was hesitant to take on the added responsibility of teaching high school students — it requires far more accountability and preparation than working with adults because teenagers are not as forgiving,” Morris said.
Despite her initial hesitation, Morris said that her experience with the students was rewarding in the end.
“Exposing students to new ideas through the student-centered learning process and watching them achieve that ‘aha’ moment is one of the most fulfilling experiences you can have as a teacher,” Morris said.
Sattar echoed Morris, noting in particular the applicability of his teaching experience to his future as a lawyer.
“You always have to be on. You’re standing in front of 20 or so children and it’s your responsibility to make sure they are understanding what you’re teaching them,” Sattar said. “These are things attorneys do in court day in and day out, simplifying legal concepts for a jury, being able to articulate ourselves in a manner that everyone can understand. … I think Street Law has taught me how to become a better person and without a doubt, a better lawyer.”
The Street Law Clinic, with its model of using law students as teachers and conducting outreach to students in urban neighborhoods, has found international popularity. According to Roe, staff members have been invited to run workshops about the implementation of similar programs in Ireland, Scotland, Russia, Hong Kong, Spain, Turkey and Peru this year alone.
The program has also expanded to teach legal skills to adults, running similar courses during the summer in emergency housing facilities and correction shelters.
After noting the success of the Street Law Clinic, Roe and his students built upon the program by founding Thurgood Marshall Academy, a charter school in the Congress Heights neighborhood in Ward 8, incorporating exposure to the law into the curriculum in a manner similar to the clinic.
“The idea was to apply the Street Law methodology across the curriculum. It draws students from among the lowest performing junior high schools in D.C.,” Roe said.
Now the third-highest performing high school in the District, according to U.S. News and World Report, every graduating student in the academy’s 11 graduating classes has been accepted into college, according to Roe.
Sattar said that the Street Law Clinic did not promise an instant fix to all of the problems facing high school students in the District but instead offered law students a chance to contribute to the community in what way they could.
“Education is a child’s greatest weapon against a life of poverty, and we are just doing our part to make sure these students will be well equipped in that department,” Sattar said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 3, 2015 by Ashley Miller and Kshithij Shrinath Leave a Comment 
Four-time National Basketball Association champion Shaquille O’Neal spoke about brand management and his philanthropic ventures, serving as the keynote speaker of the second annual Diversity Dialogue Conference held in the Rafik B. Hariri Building on Friday.
The daylong conference, hosted by Georgetown Aspiring Minority Business Leaders and Entrepreneurs, discussed the future of diversity and inclusion in conversations with corporate leaders, including representatives from PepsiCo, Under Armour, Accenture, Ernst & Young and PricewaterhouseCoopers.
In a packed Lohrfink Auditorium, O’Neal’s address, which occurred during the middle of the conference and drew frequent laughs from the audience, took the form of a conversation with his agent Perry Rogers (MSB ’91) and professor of marketing Marlene Morris Towns.
Towns introduced O’Neal and emphasized his business savvy.
“He’s always been a first mover with technology, which many of you may not know. He was an early investor in Google and was the first verified account on Twitter,” Towns said. “He’s one of the largest sports brands, both literally and figuratively.”
O’Neal began by discussing his personal brand and how he makes investing decisions.
“I like to call myself the master of the fun business. Anything that’s fun, I like to get involved with. When it comes to the products I’m dealing with, I let Perry deal with the money. I always go to the story,” O’Neal said.
Reinforcing O’Neal’s devotion to relationships over money, Rogers explained that O’Neal, who is a television analyst for TNT, picked the network over media giant ESPN, even though ESPN had promised to make him the centerpiece of their basketball coverage.
“[Shaq] knew … he’s got to have a relationship with them. He said he’s in the fun business because that is his personality, and so authentically, he wants to make sure he’s in partnerships that make sense,” Rogers said. “I am not allowed to tell him the numbers.”
Noting his status as a role model to children, O’Neal also touched on his approach to philanthropy, which he said was instilled by his parents. During the question-and-answer session that followed the conversation, O’Neal invited two 10-year-old children up to the stage to ask him questions.
“I remember when I was that kid looking up to Magic Johnson. To be from where I’m from and have kids looking up to me is a big social responsibility, so I think the best thing I can do is make them smile,” O’Neal said.
Rogers echoed O’Neal’s dedication to serving the less fortunate.
“He’s always been a size 23, but [the shoe company] called me up and said, ‘He’s a size 22,’” Rogers said. “[Shaq] said, ‘Yeah, but I wear size 23 … Perry, you don’t understand. I grew up poor, and my feet were growing fast, and I was always outgrowing my shoes. When I was a kid, I promised myself I would be wealthy enough to have shoes that fit me, and so I wear size 23 intentionally to remind myself of the childhood that I had.’”
Matt Whang (MSB ’16), who attended the keynote, found O’Neal both entertaining and informational.
“Shaq’s a natural entertainer. He definitely gave a lot of valuable life advice. I think the crowd loved him. I really enjoyed what he had to say,” Whang said.
Earlier in the conference, business leaders discussed shifts in diversity dialogues and the role of diversity in the creation of innovative ideas during the Chief Diversity Panel.
During the panel, MSB Dean David Thomas said that because of rapid progress in diversity seen in recent years, some question the need for any dialogue.
“Less than two miles from this room sits a man in public housing, whose name — nobody’s surprised when a black man is in public housing — happens to be Barack Hussein Obama,” Thomas said. “Do we even need to have a dialogue anymore, because all the things I couldn’t even imagine in 1956 [have been done]? Lots of people would say ‘dialogue done, conversation done.’”
Thomas also spoke about the shift in self-perception among minorities.
“I literally used to think of myself only as black,” Thomas said. “Those other identities seemed irrelevant. Today, when I talk to young people like yourselves in my office, I’m often impressed by how much broader you see yourselves.”
With recent events around the country sparking a national conversation about race, the focus of diversity dialogue has also shifted back to race, but PricewaterhouseCoopers Director of Diversity Cherrie Mallory McCoy said that diversity is multidimensional and ultimately offers a variety of thought that benefits firms.
“The shift has been a mindset of how we can tap into diverse populations and generate innovative thought,” McCoy said. “We are looking at how we put our teams together because it is a scientific fact that more diverse teams create more innovative ideas.”
The panel also offered advice for students after they manage to land their first jobs. Pamela Culpepper, chief people officer of Golin, a communications company, said that getting hired comes with a responsibility of increasing opportunities for others by increasing access and visibility.
“It’s about helping others reach the levels that you’ve reached and then championing them on the way,” Culpepper said. “You’ve stepped on some landmines; tell them about the landmines you stepped on so they won’t have to.”
Additionally, McCoy said that diversity is not a concept that should only be reserved for one’s future workplace but should instead be embraced in everyday life.
“Spend time with somebody different than [whom] you typically spend time with,” McCoy said. “If you spend all your time with the same people who think like you, act like you, dress like you, walk like you, you’ll never going to get a feel of what is really happening outside of your small bubble that you’ve made.”
Mike Roland (MSB ’15) attended the event and said that it is important to embrace multiple identities and then use that to broaden perspectives.
“I definitely feel that it is beneficial, especially the way Dean Thomas was talking about when we talk about ourselves; we don’t just see ourselves as a race,” Roland said.
“Many races and ethnic groups, even within their own ethnicity, think very differently. It’s better to have people who think differently and are able to work as a team than having the same group of people because that could limit your progress.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 3, 2015 by Alicia Che Leave a Comment 
Nine campus and community groups, including the International Relations Club, the Lecture Fund and The Hoya, hosted a documentary screening and panel discussion in support of Education is Not a Crime, a campaign for universal access to higher education in Iran, on Friday.
The event, which was held in the Intercultural Center Auditorium, featured a screening of Iranian-Canadian journalist and activist Maziar Bahari’s documentary “To Light a Candle” and was followed by a panel discussion with World Bank Global Indicators and Analysis Director Augusto Lopez Claros, Program for Jewish Civilization Director Jacques Berlinerblau, Tavaana Co-founder and Co-Director Mariam Memarsadeghi and University of Florida Institute for Human Rights and Peace Development Founding Director Winston Nagan.
The campaign seeks to address the religious persecution of Bahá’ís in Iran, who have been barred from studying or teaching in universities since 1979, in addition to unwarranted imprisonment, torture and execution.
Bahari’s documentary uses personal stories and archival footage to demonstrate the predicament of Bahá’ís in Iran and their non-violent advocacy for justice. The documentary also centered on the Baha’i Institute for Higher Education in 1987, an underground university for Bahá’í students and faculty members both in Iran and around the world.
Following introductory remarks by Claros after the film, the panelists spoke about the suffering and perseverance of the Bahá’ís as shown in the film.
Nagan described the film as extremely powerful in its depiction of the struggles encountered by the Bahá’ís.
“The resistance and struggle to stand up for the fundamental values reflected in the Bahá’í faith are universal values,” Nagan said. “It affirms the fundamental idea of the dignity of human beings.”
Memarsadeghi said that discriminatory educational policies would have negative implications for Iran.
“[Iran is] losing out because they can’t retain their high talents. They end up taking people in the lowest ranks of society to put them at the top so that they hold on to power because the newly empowered group have a vested interests in their staying,” Memarsadeghi said. “But in the long term, they are not able to perform so the country falls apart, not just economically but in all aspects. It is the result of being afraid of merit, knowledge, progress and human fulfillment.”
The panelists then discussed the potential opportunities brought about by secularization in Iran.
Berlinerblau first said that having a clear notion of secularism and what it represents is important for the emergence of a respected secular power in the Middle East.
“The problem of the Middle East is that secularism is understood as atheism. The things that secular regimes deliver like expressive freedom and tolerance for minorities are traditionally interpreted as an agenda of an atheist regime,” he said. “But really, what happened in all secular regimes is that all secular states believe that although religion might be great, it must be subordinated to the power of the state.”
Memarsadeghi followed by commenting on the importance of teaching the public at large about human rights and democracy to inspire a transition to an open society.
“Iranians have come to appreciate at the most basic level of the wisdom of separating religion from the state so that all people can practice religion as they choose,” Memarsadeghi said. “If there is anything for the better, if there is hope, it’s because the people have resisted. There is a lot of lip service the government is doing, but it’s downright lie. What matters is real consciousness among Iranians.”
In addition, the panelists touched on the potential of technology and social media in empowering civil society. In particular, the panelists referenced to the Arab Spring and agreed that technology has had a profound impact on a global scale.
“Technology allows for the expression of values that shape expectations, which moves at a faster pace [than the] government can control,” Nagan said.
Memarsadeghi agreed that the impact of technology is observed in Iranian civil society.
“The kind of activities that Iranian society are engaging with has changed profoundly since the advent of the technology,” Memarsadeghi said.
Towards the end of the panel discussion session, the panelists addressed questions from the audience and also gave opportunities for attendees to share their thoughts.
Ayan Mandal (COL ’18) said that he was both saddened and inspired by the film and panel’s discussion on the Bahá’ís struggle.
“It really struck me how far the oppressed Bahá’í people are willing to go to make their education happen, and it inspired me as a student to take my education seriously because I am really privileged to be able to educate myself with ease,” Mandal said.
Sarah Moore (GRD ’16) said that she was able to relate the discussion to her own interactions with friends of the Bahá’í faith.
“This event is extremely interesting to me. I grew up having a lot of Bahá’í friends but I didn’t know the level of persecution they faced and how much they have to fight for their education,” Moore said. “One thing I found particularly interesting was when after the panel discussion [Memarsadeghi] talked about how the Bahá’ís are not seeking revenge for the persecution and I think I really saw that in my friends because they never brought up all these terrible things that are happening to them, and they are always full of love to their country and also the new opportunities they have here.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 3, 2015 by Emily Tu 1 Comment 
Two Georgetown graduates, Carol Ibe (GRD ’06) and Aya Waller-Bey (COL ’14), received Gates Cambridge Scholarships in mid-February, which offer a full-time postgraduate degree in any subject at the University of Cambridge.
Founded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in 2000, the Gates Cambridge Scholarship program is one of the most competitive scholarships in the world, with the goal of developing a global network of future leaders dedicated to improving the lives of others.
There are currently over 1,300 Gates Cambridge scholars and alumni from over 90 countries. Ninety-five new U.S. and international scholarships are awarded each year.
Out of the 800 annual applicants from the United States received scholarships, 40 were selected, including Ibe and Waller-Bey. Ibe and Waller-Bey underwent a rigorous selection process from September to mid-October, which culminated with interviews in January.
Ibe, who completed a Master of Science in Molecular Biology and Biochemistry at Georgetown in 2006, said that she was surprised upon being notified of her acceptance.
“It still feels likes I’m in a dream,” Ibe said. “Even when I received the notification that I was shortlisted, I felt like it was unreal. For me, it’s been a wonderful experience, still unbelievable to some extent.”
At Cambridge, Ibe seeks to complete a Ph.D. in plant sciences to further her understanding of rice cultivars and agroecosystems in order to contribute to the improvement of food security in African nations.
In 2013, Ibe founded JR Biotek, a biotechnology education-based company dedicated to training scientists in Africa to utilize biotechnologies in improving agricultural productivity, human health and environmental sustainability.
“My passion is working with African nations to find more effective ways to improve food security,” Ibe said. “There is more that can be done to provide food for the millions of people who are suffering every day from hunger, malnutrition and poverty. With my Ph.D., I want to gain the skills I need to inspire and empower a new generation of scientists in Africa.”
Ibe emphasized the quality of education she received at Georgetown as a major factor in her academic and career success.
“Prior to coming to Georgetown, I completed my undergraduate degree in Nigeria,” Ibe said. “We did not have laboratories that were as well-equipped, or professors who really knew much about the important field of molecular biotechnology. I wanted to take what I learned at Georgetown back to Africa, and I would say that Georgetown was key in my interest in starting JR Biotek.”
Maria Chiara Monaco-Kushner, Ibe’s former colleague and scientist at the National Institutes of Health, said that Ibe had the initiative and desire to help others.
“I didn’t doubt she would receive this scholarship,” Monaco-Kushner said. “She’s an incredible, intelligent person, full of initiative, and I’m sure she’ll do well in the Cambridge program. One thing that struck me was her dream to help people in African nations. She had the possibility to start her company and she wanted to give back — that’s what I really admire about her.”
Waller-Bey completed a bachelor’s degree in sociology with a social justice concentration at Georgetown, and currently works in the university’s Office of Undergraduate Admissions as an admissions officer and African-American recruitment coordinator.
Waller-Bey echoed Ibe’s description of her initial response to receiving the scholarship.
“I’m still overwhelmed,” Waller-Bey said. “I had different emotions, firstly disbelief, then joy. I feel extremely blessed to have the opportunity to complete my education and also be a part of a community of people who are passionate about their disciplines.”
At Cambridge, Waller-Bey is looking to pursue a master of philosophy by taking the Arts, Creativity, Education and Culture route in the Faculty of Education.
“I was drawn to Cambridge in particular because of that route,” Waller-Bey said. “I was looking for an institution of higher education that would allow me to not just study education, but also something I’m very passionate about, which is music. At Cambridge, I’m hoping to re-examine how integrating elements of hip-hop music into the classroom can increase the participatory learning of students, especially low-income students and students of color.”
Waller-Bey said that her Georgetown experience and her work in the admissions office has impacted the development of her long-term objectives.
“When I was a student, I was very involved in activism, particularly on the need for providing students of color with an environment conducive to who they are,” Waller-Bey said. “My activism and work at admissions ignited the passion I have now for creating more visibility for underrepresented, marginalized communities in education and in the media.”
Assistant professor of history Marcia Chatelain taught Waller-Bey as a freshman student and later developed a mentor relationship with the graduate.
“Aya blew me away with her passion for learning as a first-year student,” Chatelain wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I have been absolutely privileged to be her teacher and mentor, because I learn a lot from her. I know that Aya will be an incredible force in changing the nature of education. She will not only represent the very best of U.S. students, but also the spirit of Georgetown.”

Proud Hoya says 
March 3, 2015 at 4:12 pm
Congratulations to the both of them! They will do Georgetown proud =]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 3, 2015 by Kshithij Shrinath Leave a Comment 
People with disabilities murdered by their parents were honored in a vigil on the National Mall Sunday.
The vigil, which was held in front of the U.S. Capitol, commemorated the Disability Day of Mourning and was supported by prominent disability rights advocacy organizations, including the Autistic Self Advocacy Network, ADAPT, Not Dead Yet and the National Council on Independent Living.
First organized in Sunnyvale, Calif., in 2012 in response to the murder of 22-year-old George Hodgins by his mother, the Disability Day of Mourning is held annually to bring attention to the deaths of people with disabilities. The first rally in D.C. was held on March 30, 2012, and events have been held every subsequent year on March 1.
Twenty-two cities around the United States and three locations in Canada, Hungary and the United Kingdom held vigils Sunday.
According to Lydia Brown (COL ’15), a student activist for disability rights who attended the rally and has participated in the Disability Day of Mourning every year since its inception, approximately 20 people attended the Washington, D.C., rally despite the icy conditions, although she was the only Georgetown student in attendance.
The vigil featured speeches from Autistic Self Advocacy Network President Ari Ne’eman, White House Associate Director of Public Engagement Taryn Mackenzie Williams, Disability Day of Mourning founder Zoe Gross and Brown.
After the speeches, the attendees took turns reading over 100 names of all the recorded victims of parental murders since the 1990s. According to ASAN, over 70 victims have been added to the list in the past five years.
“Part of the reason we hold these vigils annually is we keep reminding each other and the public that, even as we’re mourning our dead, more of us are murdered,” Brown said. “And the narrative is the same: that we’re better off being dead than disabled.”
Brown noted that for people with disabilities, the concept of parental murder was particularly horrifying.
“Our family members [are] the people who you think should be the number one person supporting you. That should be the first person you should trust,” Brown said. “The first person you rely on to protect you is the one holding the gun to your face, is the one who is strangling you.”
By bringing attention to the issue, Brown said the organizations involved hoped to bring serious prosecutions against the perpetrators of such crimes, who often receive light sentences. She brought up the example of Charles-Antoine Blais, a six-year-old autistic child who was drowned by his mother in 1996. The mother received a sentence of six months at a halfway house.
“ASAN and the [American Civil Liberties Union], for example, are very much in favor of increasing prosecution under the Hate Crime Prevention Act, which includes being disabled as one of the classifications,” Brown said. “Those people were like me. What we hope to have one day is that the list of names hasn’t grown longer.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 3, 2015 by Alicia Che Leave a Comment 
OWN IT has partnered with Georgetown’s Office of Public Affairs and Strategic Development for its second annual OWN IT Summit.
The office will serve as an advisory body during the planning of the summit, a daylong conference scheduled for March 28 that aims to bridge the gap between successful female leaders and college students.
OWN IT hosted its inaugural conference in April 2014 at Georgetown, bringing together over 400 attendees and 30 nationally recognized speakers to discuss women’s leadership experience. Staff from the Office of Public Affairs and the President’s Office have been working with students for the past year to plan the 2015 summit.
OWN IT co-founder Helen Brosnan (COL ’16) said that the OWN IT team proposed the idea of formal partnership earlier this year.
“We have worked with some people in the Office of Public Affairs since last year,” Brosnan said. “We had regular meetings with them, and we keep them updated so that we can get people in the university interested in the summit [to] know about it. When we met at the beginning of the year, we pitched the idea [of partnership] to them and they kind of came to us. We both realized that this would be a nice fit.”
Office of Public Affairs members who are on the OWN IT Steering Committee meet regularly with the student organizers to discuss various issues, ranging from inviting speakers to acquiring sponsorships.
“It is like running a mini-business we have no idea how to run,” Brosnan said. “And now we can have some professional advice in an institutionalized or formalized way.”
“However, at the end of the day, it’s still the students and the executive team that put this all together,” OWN IT co-founder Kendall Ciesemier (COL ’15) said.
Georgetown Associate Vice President for Strategic Communications Stacy Kerr said she believes that the OWN IT Summit aligns with the university’s commitment to fostering an environment in which women can learn and grow.
“We saw this as an opportunity to create programming and content that can benefit and inspire members of our own community and young women around the country, as proven by the other universities who are now hosting OWN IT events on their campuses,” Kerr said. “We believe that OWN IT events are providing exciting content for our community and positioning Georgetown as a leader in inspiring young women around the country.”
The university also recently formed the Georgetown Women’s Alliance, which aims to bring together women and groups from across campus. According to Kerr, GWA will serve as a formal umbrella under which many current activities can be aligned to create greater visibility for work occurring across Georgetown.
“GWA intends to create a wide range of opportunities in which Georgetown students, faculty, staff and alumni may participate and find learning, development and growth experiences like the OWN IT Summit,” Kerr said. “[OWN IT] is very consistent with the programming goals for the Georgetown Women’s Alliance and the work that they support to inspire and enrich our community.”
Although the Office of Public Affairs will be taking full responsibility for the budget of the OWN IT conference, no direct funding will be provided by the university. Instead, the budget will be completely covered by outside entities.
“We have a planning committee made up of just undergraduates, and one of our chief responsibilities is to cover our budget,” Ciesemier said. “Our sponsor this year is Bloomberg, who also sponsored last year’s conference.”
OWN IT founders said that their relationship with the Office of Public Affairs has been helpful and that the office’s experience and expertise are huge assets.
“We have been very grateful for this open partnership, and to have that kind of advice from people who do know what they are doing is just invaluable,” Ciesemier said. “It also helps to have a structure in place that encourages us to push the boundary a little bit and do exciting things within the university. This is really what makes Georgetown special — the fact that initiatives can happen here, and not just happen here but have the university say, ‘Hey how can I help you’ and ‘What resource can we offer you?’ It’s been unbelievable.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 3, 2015 by Matthew Larson Leave a Comment 
Professor Erika Seamon of the American Studies Program won the 2015 College Academic Council Faculty Award, which she will receive during the Faculty Honors Ceremony on March 19.
This year, over 700 Georgetown College students voted to nominate their former or current professors who they felt impacted them during their time at Georgetown. Students could nominate up to three professors.
This year marks the ninth year of the award, as well as the first year that a professor from the American Studies Program has received the award.
“I cannot think of a higher honor than getting an award that is chosen solely based on student feedback,” Seamon said. “I can’t really ask for anything more.”
Seamon teaches many of the core courses in the American Studies Program, including American Civilization and senior thesis seminars. She believes she won the award because her students appreciate being challenged and forced to think critically in her classes, which makes for a better educational experience.
“I push my students really hard,” Seamon said. “I think because they are intellectually curious and brave, they appreciate being pushed.”
Seamon also praised the American Studies Program for the opportunities it provides in the classroom. As it is an interdisciplinary major, it attracts students from a large variety of backgrounds, which contributes to its unique nature.
“It’s a unique major in the college in that it’s very flexible,” Seamon said. “It’s been a wonderful space to teach in because it attracts really curious students.”
Seamon was first notified that she won the award as she was gathering her belongings after her American Civilization class. CAC President Parnia Zahedi (COL ’15) approached her and told her the news.
“I had no idea [of the nomination],” Seamon said. “But it was a pretty nice way to end class. It was a pretty nice surprise.”
Each year at the beginning of the second semester, the CAC sends emails to all students of the College and asks them to nominate their favorite professors. Voting began on Jan. 20 and was extended from Jan. 27 to the 28th to allow for more voting, which brought this year’s vote total in line with last year’s. Over 400 members of the faculty were nominated.
“Whoever receives the top number of votes receives the faculty award,” Zahedi said. “Hopefully the professors really value being honored.”
After the end of the voting process, the council counts the votes and assigns different point values for each professor that received first, second or third place in a student’s nomination. Seamon received the greatest number of first place votes, which ultimately made her the winner of the award. She will receive the award at the Faculty Honors Ceremony, which will also be attended by the top 100 professors with the most votes.
According to Zahedi, while Seamon will be receiving the award, the top 100 professors also received a significant number of votes. Zahedi could not provide the exact number of votes that Seamon received.
“[Seamon] had a significant majority of votes, especially from students who placed her number one,” Zahedi said. “She had the greatest majority by far. … [But] just being in that top one hundred is an honor to be voted upon by students.”
However, Seamon will be ineligible to receive the award again for five years because of a CAC policy that prohibits a faculty member from receiving a second award during the five year timespan.
Secretary of the CAC Casey Nolan (COL ’17) said the CAC Faculty Award was different from other honors that Georgetown bestows upon its faculty because of the fact that it is voted upon solely by students and is not limited to tenured professors.
“We want to give students a chance to formally thank professors for their hard work and dedication,” she wrote in an email to The Hoya. “College Honors is distinct.”
Students may attend the Faculty Honors Ceremony in Copley Formal Lounge for an entrance fee of $5.
Dani Bembry (COL ’15) took two of Seamon’s classes, American Civilization 1 and 2, as well as a year-long senior thesis class. She said she believes that Seamon’s success comes from her ability to appeal to a broad variety of students.
“[Seamon] is able to be valuable to so many different students who are studying so many things,” Bembry said. “I think that speaks to her ability to convey information and empower students.”
Bembry noted that the topics from Seamon’s classes have directly affected her career path. For example, in American Civilization, she learned about how memory was preserved, which then led her to apply for a job at DropBox, where she will work after graduation.
“I feel like her teaching really inspired my post graduate plans,” she said. “If I didn’t have Professor Seamon, I definitely would have been on a different track.”
Laura Higbee (COL ’15) started as an American Studies major in the spring of her sophomore year and worked as Seamon’s teaching assistant for her American Civilization class this semester. She praised Seamon for her creativity, noting that the first paper assignment in the class asked students to design a museum exhibit rather than tediously analyze a passage from a book.
“I had a lot more fun writing that paper than I probably would have [in another format],” Higbee said. “She purposely designs different kinds of assignments than you would get from any other type of professor.”
Seamon said that she cares less about receiving the award than the fact that her classes have left a mark on her students.
“Sometimes it’s tough to know exactly what’s getting through,” Seamon said. “This award has great meaning for me because it means that my students are learning something.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 3, 2015 by Gaia Mattiace Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown Climate Center released 100 new case studies Feb. 19 that detail the predicted impacts of climate change on transportation infrastructure around the country and provide recommendations on how to mitigate these effects.
The center, which is part of the Georgetown University Law Center, created the reports over the past year and a half in collaboration with law students along with the United States Department of Transportation and the Federal Highway Administration.
Climate Center Adaptation Program Manager Jessica Grannis, a staff attorney at the Harrison Institute for Public Law, said that the Federal Highways Administration initiated the project to produce and compile case studies with the goal of determining possible changes to make infrastructure durable to the challenges of climate change.
Climate Center Executive Director Vicki Arroyo said the diversity of groups involved made the project enjoyable.
“We’re really pleased to partner with U.S. DOT and the Federal Highway Administration in providing this resource to states and communities across the country, and we are especially proud that our current and former Georgetown students played key roles in crafting and coordinating these case studies,” Arroyo said.
The reports highlight methods that various cities around the country are taking to mitigate the impact of climate change. Grannis said that the center chose studies that focused on tactical solutions that could be implemented while building infrastructure.
“They had to have some climate change connection … where measures were being undertaken specifically with climate change in mind, or things that would have a resiliency benefit given future climate change scenarios and focusing on things that were transportation related,” Grannis said.
To provide state transportation agencies with a breadth of possible solutions, Grannis added that the center looked into several factors of climate change impacts.
“[We looked at] what transportation agencies can do to prepare for flooding and sea level rise versus permafrost melt versus extreme heat in the Southwest, so looking for a variety of impacts in how transportation agencies were responding,” Grannis said.
According to Grannis, by making infrastructure more resilient, local governments could also protect the health of surrounding ecosystems.
“A lot of the types of strategies that you would employ to make your infrastructure more resilient to future impacts also have co-benefits that can … provide environmental benefits,” Grannis said. “Using street trees and planting vegetation along roads and highways also has environmental benefits retaining and cleaning storm water.”
The case studies noted that the costs of implementing the program would be immediately higher than the status quo, but Grannis said the changes could save transportation agencies money in the long run by making elements of the infrastructure sturdier.
“The hope is that if we are making these investments now, we’re making wise investments up front, so that those investments will be sustainable over the long term,” Grannis said.
Arroyo highlighted the proposal’s structural and economic benefits.
“Putting more time and forethought into our transportation planning to prepare for climate change would save taxpayer dollars by avoiding the need to repeatedly rebuild the same infrastructure after extreme weather events,” Arroyo said in a GULC press release. “These case studies highlight some of the most innovative activities that are happening in the transportation sector to prepare for changes we are already experiencing, including more extreme weather and rising seas.”
The climate center opened at the law center in 2009. In October, it launched an online tool with a similar function to the case studies, allowing the public to note actions taken by their state legislatures in response to climate change.
Georgetown University Student Association Secretary of Sustainability Caroline James (COL ’16) praised the climate center for leading research into solutions that prevent further degradation of surrounding ecosystems.
“What is worthy of praise about many of the suggestions about the Climate Center’s proposals is that many of them contain both adaptive measures. It is crucial that our infrastructural projects over the next 10 to 25 years address not only how we will survive effects of climate change, but also provide ways we can diminish its effects in the first place,” James said. “I’m simply glad to see that the Climate Center is being used for on-the-ground projects and research like this.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 3, 2015 by Matthew Larson 1 Comment 
Five members of the Georgetown University College Democrats spoke with a legislative aide of Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) about student loan reform at the Hart Senate Office Building last Friday morning.
The group, comprised of Aditya Pande (SFS ’18), Tracey Zhang (SFS ’17), Matt Schneider (COL ’18), Tonisha Lewis (COL ’18) and Leo Zucker (SFS ’17), met with Ariel Evans, a labor legislative assistant in Murray’s office.
The group mainly discussed the Financial Aid Simplicity and Transparency Act, which was introduced by Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) in June 2014. The act would eliminate the current Free Application for Financial Student Aid by consolidating the application into two questions, notifying families of how much they will receive in financial aid earlier in the loan process and reducing the six different federal loan programs into three.
Schneider said that the group agreed with the decision of condensing and increasing transparency of the act.
“We approve that the FAFSA application form should be shortened,” Schneider said. “We also talked about how the increased transparency part of the act is important.”
Pande noted that the elimination of the FAFSA provision was perhaps the most important point included in the FAST act, as it would allow for greater usage of the federal aid program for countless more citizens.
“Two million people who could have applied for Pell grants last year didn’t,” Pande said. “It’s a hundred question form — there are some redundancies. It needs simplification.”
While the advocacy group agreed that the first two provisions of the FAST act were important, they disagreed with the third part of the act, which would eliminate three of the federal loan programs and limit the amount that students could borrow from $57,000 to $37,000.
“We expressed our concerns with things that FAST doesn’t address or would have negative consequences on students,” Zhang said. “By eliminating a bunch of student loan programs … we actually end up decreasing the borrowing limit for student loans by $20,000.”
According to the students, Evans concurred with many of the points were brought up during the 20-minute interview.
However, the FAST act faces an uphill battle to be passed. The advocacy group suggested that there is a one percent chance of the bill being passed outright.
Schneider said that he was hopeful that elements of the bill could be added to the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act, which provides federal aid, as a compromise.
“While it may not be likely that we get the FAST act passed, the things the FAST act stands for can be put into that reform,” Schneider said. “[They should] incorporate elements of the bill, essentially increased transparency and increased simplification.”
The advocacy group first decided to meet with an aide from Murray’s office, as she is the ranking Democratic member of the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, which oversees the drafting of the bill.
To set up the meeting, Zhang asked a few of her friends, who are Murray’s constituents, to request a conference with an aide.
“We put together a list of democratic senators on the committee who might be interested in hearing what we had to say about the bill,” Lewis said. “Senator Murray was the ranking democratic member of the [HELP] committee, so we reached out to her.”
After arriving at the Hart Building an hour early, the group was able to tour the hallways and take pictures inside. Pande noted that they were impressed by the trip and that more groups should try to talk to their congressmen to make changes.
Pande also said that while most students do not believe they have influence on public policy, they should still reach out to policymakers.
“It’s equivalent to voting. If you think your vote doesn’t make a difference, then nothing will ever change,” Pande said. “So, you should do things that may possibly make a difference.”
Tracey agreed with Pande, explaining that students generally think that major policy decisions happen behind closed doors and out of reach for the typical citizen. However, the group felt that they made a difference by reaching out to Murray’s office.
“This was a really good opportunity for [us] to partake in and we hope to advocate for more national issues,” Tracey said. “Especially considering that we are here in D.C., we have so much access.”

Clarification says 
March 3, 2015 at 12:03 pm
Let the record show that members of GUCD undertook this venture on their own ambition and independent from the club’s official activities and policies. The Georgetown University College Democrats is not a political advocacy organization, and university funds given to the club are not used to engage in lobbying or backing certain political positions or campaigns.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

