
January 3, 2015 by Kshithij Shrinath Leave a Comment 
Muriel Bowser (D) was sworn in as D.C. mayor in a ceremony held at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, the highlight of Friday morning’s inauguration festivities.
Bowser took the oath office shortly before noon, becoming the District’s eighth mayor and its second female leader. She won the November mayoral election with 54 percent of the vote, triumphing over independent candidates David Catania and Carol Schwartz.
In her inaugural address, Bowser noted the renowned history of the District but expressed discontent with the status quo.
“Today, we inherit past successes and failures and overdue promises, but most of all, we inherit the great expectations of a deserving people,” she said. “Today, we cannot and will not be satisfied with where we are.”
Pointing to a sizable budget deficit and alluding to the corruption that has dogged D.C. politics in the past, including former mayor Vincent Gray’s campaign finance scandal, Bowser emphasized ethics and accountability as major goals for her administration.
“I am your voice. I ran for mayor not for the kicks or to see my name in lights but because I understand the great responsibility of leading this city at this time — a time both rich with prosperity and rife with inequality,” Bowser said. “I am elected to lead an ethical government of more than 30,000 hard-working District government employees and to serve with integrity the 660,000 residents of our city.”
Bowser also mentioned education advancements, the closure of the homeless shelter at D.C. General, the streetcar project, affordable housing expansions and safety improvements as immediate projects.
“We will build a city worthy of this occasion and your great expectations. I am ready to get to work,” Bowser said.
The inauguration festivities began Thursday with the Fresh Start 5K starting at Oyster-Adams Bilingual School and continued on Friday with an interfaith service at the First Congregational United Church of Christ. Following the service, the swearing-in ceremony was held.
The Inaugural Ball featured singer and songwriter Sheila E. as the headliner for the event and took place later in the evening. The activities concluded Saturday with an Inaugural Kids Party at the new Southeast Tennis and Learning Center.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

