
February 12, 2015 by Toby Hung Leave a Comment 
Approximately one hundred students gathered at Red Square on Wednesday night for a candlelight vigil organized by the Muslim Students Association in commemoration of the deaths of three Muslim students at the University of North Carolina, who were shot at the university’s Chapel Hill campus on Tuesday over an alleged parking lot dispute.
The vigil, which was attended by members of different religious communities, began with a few moments of silence in remembrance of the lives of the victims Deah Barakat, Yusor Mohammed and Razan Abu-Salha. Afterwards, Muslim Students Association President Zahid Syed (COL ’16) and Imam Yahya Hendi recited Muslim prayers to mourn the deaths.
Hendi then delivered a speech emphasizing the need for the community to unite in the aftermath of such tragic events. Representatives from the Catholic, Protestant and Jewish chaplaincies also offered their respective prayers.
Rep. Keith Ellison (D-Minn), who was the first Muslim elected to Congress, also attended the vigil after he gave a talk at Reiss Science Building on his experiences as a representative.
At the vigil, Ellison delivered a speech honoring the victims and praised the Georgetown community for coming together as one after the tragic incident.
Syed said that he was proud to see members from different religious groups joining together to show their support for the Muslim community.
“I thought that the vigil was very comforting to all those attending,” Syed said. “The event was planned with short notice, yet we had over a hundred attendees … I’m proud to say that I saw so many leaders [of student faith groups] at the vigil, and that the faith community, as well as the broader Georgetown community, really showed their support today.”
Syed also noted that students found the incident to be particularly relatable as the victims were similar-aged students.
“[Students were] shaken. A lot of students came to the realization that this could have very well happened to them,” Syed said. “The nature of this brutal murder … adds to the pain.”
On behalf of the Muslim community on campus, Syed offered his condolences to the families of the victims.
“These three individuals were such amazing people who dedicated their lives to helping others. This is a sad day for the Muslim community, but also for our nation and for humanity, as three great lives were taken,” Syed said. “Our hearts go out to the families of the victims and we pray that God showers their family and friends with the strength, patience and courage to help them deal with this tragedy.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 12, 2015 by Ashwin Puri 3 Comments 
The five Georgetown University Student Association vice presidential candidates participated in Wednesday’s Election Commission-moderated debate, answering questions from campus media, members of the GUSA Finance and Appropriations committee and those posed through Twitter.
The room, as the debate is poised to start. #GUSA2015 pic.twitter.com/AkYI9K3YAr
— The Hoya (@thehoya) February 12, 2015

Candidates expressed opinions and delineated plans for such issues as the expansion of campus free speech zones, dining improvements, additional funding for student organizations and campus planning.
Held in a White-Gravenor Hall classroom, the debate — featuring Meredith Cheney (COL ’16), Connor Rohan (COL ’16), Will Simons (COL ’16), Ryan Shymansky (COL ’16) and Reno Varghese (SFS ’16) — facilitated the discussion of platforms and personal backgrounds and perspectives. The debate was moderated by GUSA Election Commissioners Alden Fletcher (SFS ’17) and Grady Willard (SFS ’18).
Opening Statements
Each candidate began by presenting a five-minute opening statement.
Cheney began by explaining her background as a transfer student from Villanova University with a desire to participate in student advocacy, as well as her and Chris Wadibia’s (COL ’16) passion for connecting with the Georgetown student body through genuine relationships.
“It’s really been the relationships that I have fostered here that has reaffirmed what’s possible,” Cheney said. “We genuinely want to make this place better, because at the end of the day, GUSA is an advocacy body for all of you.”
Rohan opened with a light-hearted approach, mentioning the presence of personal legal counsel in the room stemming from an alleged waffle-iron related incident in a 1999 vice presidential debate of a Denny’s restaurant in Brook Park, Ohio
Rohan of the Luther-Rohan ticket opens by discussing his "upcoming rap album: 'Running GUSA Like I Run The Streets." #GUSA2015
— The Hoya (@thehoya) February 12, 2015

“Before I begin, I would like to inform you that my lawyer is present right there, and that I will be looking to him for approval before answering any questions,” Rohan said. “There are no ifs, ands or buts about this.”
Rohan concluded by explaining his and Joe Luther’s (COL ’16) campaign slogan, “YouTopia,” and outlined their satirical approach to the GUSA executive race.
“We want you to be interested, and yeah we are taking a non-traditional approach — yeah, we are taking it with a bit of a satirical bend — but, ultimately, it makes you want to listen to what we’re saying and we are going to inform you along the way,” Rohan said. “You’re going to want to be a part of it, you’re going to want to fight for what you believe in.”
Simons began by emphasizing his past involvement in the “Students Against Restrictive Housing Policy” social media campaign as the vessel that solidified his passion for advocacy and connecting with students through social media, reinforcing his and Abbey McNaughton’s (COL ’16) intention to reform GUSA to better serve a diverse Georgetown student body.
“We see like many other students not one Georgetown, but two; two Georgetown experiences separated by socioeconomic privilege, by racial inequity, by gender bias, by ableism and by other marginalizing forces,” Simons said. “We will fundamentally reform the way GUSA interacts with the student body, to insure that every community is represented, that the student voice is heard, and that we can shape the future of this university, together.”
If elected, Simons said @abbeyandwill will "craft our opinions based on the knowledge and concrete experiences of others." #GUSA2015
— The Hoya (@thehoya) February 12, 2015

Shymansky began by emphasizing his experience as co-director of the Student Advocacy Office, an arm of the GUSA Executive, as an expression of his passion for personally connecting with and advocating for students, emphasizing his and Sara Margolis’ (COL ’16) desire to make a mark on Georgetown through improving it for future generations.
“I found out quite a bit about who I was — what Georgetown mean to me — by helping other students [in the Student Advocacy Office],” Shymansky said. “GUSA works best as an advocacy body, and that’s what Sara and I are going to channel our administration toward.”
Varghese emphasized the importance of recognizing the shortcomings of GUSA, presenting tangible solutions to such issues, campus plan reform and garnering student input, concluding by explaining his and Tim Rosenberger’s (COL ’16) love for Georgetown.
“It [GUSA] can be a force for good, it can be an advocacy body, and even more so than that, it’s not just an advocacy body, its a body that can actually create change when you have the right people in charge, when you have sustained pressure and a push from the executive and the legislature working in the same direction,” Varghese said.
“I love Georgetown because I see a potential for a better future.”
 
Media Questions
Candidates then answered questions from campus media outlets The Georgetown Voice and The Hoya — the GUTV representative was absent — as well as from members of the GUSA Finance and Appropriations committee and from students via Twitter. Candidates were provided with 30 seconds to answer each question, and faced difficulties completing their statements in the time allotted. Fletcher cut candidates off mid-sentence, deciding to extend discussion for specific questions to two minutes.
Discussion has been extended to two minutes upon the discretion of the moderator, after all candidates were cut off. #GUSA2015
— The Hoya (@thehoya) February 12, 2015

Fletcher: "If anyone wants to allocate @GUSAElections $5 to buy us a timer…" #GUSA2015
— The Hoya (@thehoya) February 12, 2015

Take a shot every time @GUSAElections commissioner Fletcher cuts a candidate off during the media portion. #GUSA2015 #GERMSoncall
— The Fourth Edition (@thehoya4E) February 12, 2015

Communication with the Administration
The first question asked what style of communication each candidate would adopt when interacting with Georgetown administration, and how they would affect change through sustained administrative dialogue.
Rohan emphasized the importance of a collaborative approach through finding a middle ground with administration, citing the 2010 Campus Plan as an example of a failure to effectively mold student input with administrative ideas.
Simons cited his running mate McNaughton’s history and preexisting relationships with administrators as a strength that will allow for easier communication and interaction with administration moving forward. Additionally, Simons emphasized the importance of mass-mobilization of students in order to legitimize student input in the mind of Georgetown administration.
“We need to make sure that the administration sees GUSA as a legitimate source from the student body,” Simons said.
Shymansky also cited he and running mate Margolis’ experience and track-record with administration, using Margolis’ accomplishments in transfer student affairs such as admittance phone calls, as a major strength in communicating with administration.
Varghese expressed the importance of being forceful and collaborative with administration, by presenting a solution initially and working to find an equitable agreement for both parties.
Lastly, Cheney stated that work in communicating with administration does not begin when a GUSA executive takes office, citing her and running mate Wadibia’s prior meetings and dialogue with administration as indication of their readiness and preparation to advocate for change with administration moving forward.
Thoughts on Tezel and Jikaria
The candidates were then asked to name one initiative of current GUSA Executives Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) and Omika Jikaria (SFS ’15) that stood out as the best thing they accomplished in their term so far.
https://twitter.com/man_z_own/status/565679198342508546
Simons emphasized the importance of tiered access to benefits by unrecognized student groups, and confirmed that he and McNaughton would continue the process of increasing benefits for unrecognized groups.
Shymansky cited the recent cost-sharing plan between the Office of Student Affairs and GUSA, providing disability accommodations such as ASL interpreters to student groups for events that they hold, and explained how that initiative is in conjunction with he and Margolis’ plan to make Georgetown events and the Georgetown campus in general more accessible to the disabled.
 
Varghese cited Tezel and Jikaria’s willingness to branch into new territory, with their created multicultural council as an example of new initiatives that have been beneficial to certain student groups.
Cheney applauded Tezel and Jikaria’s collaborative nature when reaching out to underrepresented student groups, but acknowledged that there is a long way to go in order to have a campus with equal opportunities for all communities.
Rohan agreed with Cheney, and proposed a tiered funding plan to allow Student Activities Commission resources to be saved and allow students to participate in clubs they want to regardless of funding.
Allocation of Student Group Funding
The GUSA Finance and Appropriations representatives questioned the candidates on their potential plans for expanding the amount of money allocated for student groups.
Rohan facetiously explained that one practical way to expand the amount of money for student groups would be to raise the student activities fee, in addition to robbing students.
“In addition to raising $120 more dollars per student for student activities fees — which can be allocated to specific organizations of their choice — we do plan on robbing kids who look like yuppies, taking their watches, taking their gold rings and contacting their parents,” Rohan said.
Rohan later proposed a reallocation of funds from the Advisory Board to prevent a raise in the student activities fee.
Simons proposed raising the fee $44 a year that can be allocated to a specific student group, covered by financial aid.
Shymansky, in contrast, proposed starting a student activities capital campaign.
“This really is a new way for GUSA to engage a lot of young alumni that aren’t really committed to donating directly to the university, but would be interested in donating to student groups or to students that they have been involved with,” Shymansky said.
Shymansky says he hopes that GUSA can work with FinApp to fund projects for unrecognized student groups. #GUSA2015
— The Hoya (@thehoya) February 12, 2015

Varghese stated that it would be a mistake to raise already high tuition, and that GUSA should look instead to reallocating other tuition dollars to student groups.
“We need to also take a look at what else we are paying for in our tuition that can be shifted to student activities, which impacts us a lot more,” Varghese said.
Cheney proposed a “Buy a Brick” program she experienced at Villanova, where she previously attended.
“Alumni, current students, faculty and staff can purchase a brick for [$200 to 500] and then that money will go to fund other initiatives that we have, or to the GUSA Finance and Appropriations committee,” Cheney said.
Despite this idea, the Georgetown Alumni Association already provides students and alumni a brick on Georgetown’s campus for $500.
Audience Questions
In the audience-solicited questioning period, candidates were asked by students through Twitter to make the audience laugh by telling a joke.
https://twitter.com/aperiarcam/status/565671712499703812
Cheney does not think of joke, defers to Rohan. #GUSA2015
— The Hoya (@thehoya) February 12, 2015

"What do you call a bird that fought for the south in the Civil War? The con-feather-ate." -Rohan #GUSA2015
— The Hoya (@thehoya) February 12, 2015

"If you see our slogan and logo there's some…I'll leave it at that seeing as I'm already making you laugh"— Simons @abbeyandwill #GUSA2015
— The Hoya (@thehoya) February 12, 2015

"This will probably be the end of my candidacy, but I'm going to say it anyway…" —Varghese, of @timandreno, as his running mate stirs(1/2)
— The Hoya (@thehoya) February 12, 2015

"Some people ask me if I miss my ex-girlfriend, but I said I'll get the sights on my rifle readjusted." —Varghese @timandreno (2/2)#GUSA2015
— The Hoya (@thehoya) February 12, 2015

Students also asked how candidates would work to improve dining spaces for Georgetown students, as well as Tezel and Jikaria’s biggest failure as current GUSA Executives.
Candidates thus far have made it a point to express their love for @TrevorTezel and @OmikaJikaria, before answering. #GUSA2015
— The Hoya (@thehoya) February 12, 2015

Cross-Endorsements
The tickets also released their cross-endorsements, naming the ticket they would encourage supporters to rank second on the ballot. Shymansky endorsed the Wadibia-Cheney ticket, Varghese endorsed McNaughton-Simons, Cheney endorsed Margolis-Shymansky, Simons endorsed Rosenberger-Varghese, and Rohan declined to cross-endorse with a specific pair.
Simons said he wants voters to put Luther-Rohan ticket third while voting. Rohan retorts, "He meant to say first, by the way." #GUSA2015
— The Hoya (@thehoya) February 12, 2015

Allocation of Space
When asked about space for student activities such as performing arts groups and club sports, as well as individual musicians and athletes, Simons advocated for a centralized booking system for existing facilities and for including multi-purpose space in the next campus plan that may be used for music practice and performance.
Shymansky advocated for the re-allocating and repurposing of existing space on campus more effectively such as the underutilized sixth floor of Reiss, as he and Margolis are opposed to new buildings until existing problems are fixed on campus.
Varghese additionally advocated for a centralized booking system, removing booking fees, as well as removing seniority for groups when attempting to reserve space.
Cheney emphasized the importance of meeting with administrative officials such as Vice President for Planning and Facilities Robin Morey, when moving forward with the campus plan.
Rohan expressed he and Luther’s intention to more effectively use current resources as well as proposed a creation of a new building on top of Leo O’Donovan hall.
Candidates ended the debate with 2.5-minute closing statements to end the hour and a half-long event.
The GUSA Presidential debate will be held on Monday, Feb. 16 at 7:30 p.m. in the great room of the Healey Family Student Center.
Is it too early to start talking about #GUSA2015? 
Yes.
— Georgetown Heckler (@GtownHeckler) February 28, 2014

 

Scaevola says 
February 12, 2015 at 11:57 am
I see several issues with this Student Activities Capital Campaign proposed by Sara and Ryan.
First – The Office of Advancement is never going to go for this one.  You can advocate for it all you want, but Advancement has very specific way that it likes to do things.  To raise funds, you need to have a centralized office managing solicitations.  GUSA starting up its own capital campaign would dilute the pool of donors, thus hurting Advancement’s collections for things that may be even more important than student activities – namely scholarships for people who deserve to be here but can’t pay for it.  
The other worrisome thing here is that this policy represents a departure from the expressed wishes of students just 4 years previously.  We used to have a Student Activities Endowment, which was started in 2001 and was supposed to have reached $10 million in 2011.  However, it only got to $1.8 million by that time and would have needed until 2027 to reach the projected $10 million figure.  Instead of waiting around for a few decades for the endowment to mature, students voted to liquidate it, which in turn endowed SIPS and the HFSC terrance.  The point here is that we’ve already tried to build an SA Fee endowment, but it hasn’t worked and was necessarily voted down just 4 years ago.
I’d like to see people actually read up on their GUSA history and have a real knowledge of the implications of their policies before they rush headlong into a campaign with promises emptier than Friday night Leo’s.

Anonymous says 
February 12, 2015 at 1:14 pm
The Student Activities Capital Campaign is completely unrealistic. Scaevola, I agree with you. If Sara and Ryan were to understand funding at this school, they would understand that their proposal is baseless. Raising the Student Activities Fee is the only way to go about what they are proposing. Abbey and Will want to raise the Student Activities Fee, and I think that’s the best option. Vox endorsed Sara and Ryan because of the Capital Campaign. Unfortunately, it’s safe to say Vox doesn’t understand funding at this school.

Concerned says 
February 12, 2015 at 3:55 pm
Agreed – and student government should be spending its time reaching out to students, not reaching out to alumni and donors. Disappointed that Sara and Ryan made this a central part of their platform.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

