
March 6, 2015 by Lucy Pash 2 Comments 
U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder announced his resignation in September after six years in the administration of President Barack Obama, during which time Holder presided over the response to the 2008 financial crisis, the War on Terror and, most recently, the national furor over race relations in the criminal justice system. In an interview with The Hoya, Holder, the first black Attorney General, reflected on his time in the Cabinet.
Of what accomplishments are you most proud?
I think what we’ve done in criminal justice reform, in starting not only the conversation but a substantive change in that area, making the justice system more fair, more economical, more efficient.
The work we’ve done with civil rights, especially with regard to the protection of the right to vote. What we’ve done for our LGBT citizens, trying to make their lives better: marriage equality is obviously something that we are arguing for.
And the way in which we’ve done our national security work. We’ve done work in a way that is consistent with our values. We don’t use enhanced interrogation techniques or torture, something the president said very early on, that we would keep our nation safe but do so in a way that is consistent with our values.
Some have criticized the president’s use of executive power, for example, in immigration. I assume you expect the president’s actions to be upheld in court. But do you think that inaction in Congress is a sufficient basis for action by the president?
I think that the president has a unique responsibility to promote the national welfare, and in the absence of action by Congress, and in the obvious presence of the ability for the president to act, it would almost be irresponsible of him not to use that power to benefit the nation.
If you look at the number of times in which he has used executive power as opposed to, say, Teddy Roosevelt, Roosevelt dwarfed him in terms of the number of executive actions that he used to try to move the nation in a way that a reluctant Congress was, and [Franklin Delano Roosevelt] did the same thing.
One of the major cases during your early years came in response to the financial crisis, and many feel that the Justice Department let brokers and elites on Wall Street off the hook for their involvement in the crisis. Do you agree? Why did you make the decision you did?
I would say I don’t agree with that. If you look at the statistics, we indicted a number of individuals for conduct related to the financial crisis. We extracted record penalties from financial institutions. [On Feb. 17] I directed U.S. attorneys who were involved in the residential mortgage-backed securities to take 90 days to look at all the cases that they had been working on in those institutions to see if they could bring cases against individuals, and I think they will report to my successor whether or not they can make these cases towards individuals.
You are the first black attorney general, and you presided over a time when race relations and law enforcement have emerged in the national consciousness. How can the criminal justice system regain the faith of minorities that are disproportionately arrested? How can you improve the relations between law enforcement and the communities they serve without alienating police officers?
There’s a real desire on the part of everybody for better relationships, and so it’s a question of having some hard conversations, sharing some hard truths, and getting people to just work together.
Police officers go into policing for altruistic reasons, and people in our most blighted communities have the greatest need for police protection. You would think that those two things would marry up, but for some reason that has not been the case, so it is something that we have to focus our attention on. The president has. I would bet that, by the end of his second term, police-community relations will be in a better place. They won’t be perfect, but we’re starting to see the beginnings of a positive change.
During the campaign in 2008, then-Senator Obama gave a speech in Philadelphia about the state of race relations in the United States. You responded saying, “I wish my father had been alive to hear this.” Why was the speech so powerful to you?
I thought it was as clear an explanation of the race problem in the United States as I had ever seen a major figure give, and it was the kind of speech that I thought all Americans needed to hear. It would have been something reaffirming for my father given all the things that he had been through in his life.
First off, to see a major presidential candidate who was African-American giving the speech would have been something he would have thought [was] pretty powerful, but the message itself was extremely positive, frank, balanced, and it would have been something that he would have enjoyed. If he was not before, he would have been converted into an Obama supporter after that speech.
Despite disapproval from certain members of Congress, D.C. just legalized marijuana, primarily because of the disproportionate effect of the War on Drugs on minority populations within the District. What is your assessment of the War on Drugs, and is the country moving towards legalization — or at the very least, decriminalization? What is the relationship of the Justice Department to state legislation?
What we have said with regard to state legislation with what we’ve seen in Colorado and Washington is that we have limited resources: almost every drug case that is made in America can be brought into federal courts, but that is not a good use of our limited resources. So what we’ve done is set up a series of eight or nine factors, and if one of those factors is implicated under a particular fact situation, we will take federal action.
But in the absence of that, we will leave to our state counterparts their ability to enforce their own laws. We have said to Colorado and to Washington to experiment, but we reserve the right to pre-empt those laws if we think they are not being carried out in a way that is consistent with the way that you have set up your regulations.
Whether or not the country ultimately legalizes marijuana, I don’t know. I think there is certainly a generational change that is going on and certainly more study needs to be done so that we base marijuana policy on the best scientific research as opposed to myths about what marijuana does to people. So, hopefully with this better understanding of the impact of marijuana, we can come up with a better law enforcement policy.
Last week, at your departure ceremony, the president highlighted your personal qualities. As a judge and attorney general, how did these qualities of morality come into play when you made the difficult legal decisions that you had to make? 
As you get older, everything that you’ve done before has an impact on how you view the world. I was a judge in the late ’80s and early ’90s when Washington was considered the murder capital, when crack wars were in effect, and became attorney general after that.
I saw young black men who should have been the future of this community going off to jail in record numbers. I saw violence that was racking certain communities. Those experiences were searing ones for me and always led me to believe that we have to protect our citizens from that kind of violence but also from the poise in which we prevent young people from getting involved in the system. And if they do become involved in the system, come up with ways in which we make them productive citizens at the end of the time in the time that they spent incarcerated. So I’ve tried to base Justice Department policy, at least in part, on some of those experiences.
What advice do you have for young people who see conflict and partisanship and wonder if their lives will be as good as the lives of their parents?
With the widening gap that we see in this country of income inequality, there is a legitimate question of whether or not the next generation will have it better. But we have really talented young people who are entrepreneurs and are creative and have great ideas about things that we can’t even begin to imagine will come to exist years from now. The American people are an ingenious group, we are industrious, and if any country has a shot at making it better for the next generation, I think it is true for this country.
But it is important that we remain true to who we are, which means having an immigration system that works, welcoming people from around the world who have great ideas and who constantly revitalize this nation. We’re not a homogenous, closed, old nation. We are young and dynamic, and as long as we continue to be, I think we will increase the chances that we will make things better for the next generation.
What are your expectations for the remainder of President Obama’s term, and how do you think history will evaluate President Obama’s administration?
I expect that he is going to be a very involved and active president. He is not a guy who can coast. I think history is going to be very kind to him. Historians will see that he came into office during a financial crisis the likes of which we had not seen since the Great Depression, and he managed that extremely well. He put in place a healthcare system for the first time. He’s managed our foreign policy extremely well; he’s asked questions about domestic policy; he’s moved the needle on a whole bunch of places, and I think he will be seen as a great president.
Do you expect any openings on the Supreme Court, and would you be interested in an appointment to the Court?
I would bet that over the next presidency, there would be maybe a couple of vacancies on the Supreme Court, which is why I think the 2016 election is so important. That president, I think, will make maybe two selections to the court, which potentially change the court from five to four conservative to five to four progressive.
I absolutely do not want to be a member of the Supreme Court. I was a judge for five years, and there is not enough money in the world for me to want to become a judge again.
What are you most looking forward to as you prepare to return to life as a private citizen?
Trying to reclaim some of my anonymity, just to be regular old Eric again, being able to walk down the street without a security detail, look at stores, drive my car, and just be a regular person. I miss that.
What advice do you have for your successor? [Editor’s Note: U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York Loretta Lynch was nominated as Holder’s successor by President Obama in November. Lynch, who would be the first black woman to be attorney general, was confirmed by the Senate Judiciary Committee Feb. 26. While her confirmation vote in front of the entire Senate has yet to be scheduled, it is expected to occur within the next two weeks.]
Loretta Lynch is a great lawyer, so I would say she needs to base her actions on her experience and worldview, and that she should be unafraid. She’ll anger some people with some of the things she needs to do; she’ll have people who support her, but if she works with the great men and women of this department and focuses on the priorities that I know she has and not get distracted by the noise here in Washington, D.C., she’ll be just fine.

Jiang Zemin says 
March 6, 2015 at 1:57 pm
This is a great piece. The Hoya should be proud.

Patrick Harris says 
March 20, 2015 at 7:01 pm
Why is there no mention of the administration’s opposition to Catholic teaching on marriage or it’s suing of the Little Sisters of the Poor?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 6, 2015 by Kelsey Quackenbush Leave a Comment 
Adjunct professor Ron Klain (CAS ’83) concluded his 130-day appointment as the White House’s Ebola response coordinator Feb. 13, having directed the United States’ reaction to the outbreak both domestically and internationally.
Klain, who was appointed by President Barack Obama as a special government employee on Oct. 17, midway through his fall-semester course, was colloquially known as the “Ebola czar.” After leaving the government position, he returned to investment firm Revolution LLC, where he serves as general counsel, and will resume teaching at Georgetown in the fall.
Obama praised Klain’s leadership over the past five months.
“I chose Ron for a reason: I have known him to be nothing less than an effective, dedicated, and tireless manager and leader,” Obama said in a Feb. 12 statement. “And those traits have been on full display since October, as Ron has helped marshal our whole-of-government approach to tackle Ebola at the source in West Africa and to fortify our preparedness here at home.”
The outbreak, which began in 2014, was the first Ebola crisis to reach epidemic levels. The World Health Organization, as of March 4, has reported over 24,000 confirmed, probable and suspected cases of Ebola around the world, with more than 9,800 deaths. Over 23,900 cases and all but 15 deaths occurred in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.
Klain was appointed to his position after four confirmed cases of Ebola appeared in the United States in the last week of September and the first three weeks of October.
Of the four cases in the United States, one patient died Oct. 8, while the other three were declared Ebola-free by the first week of November. Klain said he was never concerned about the outbreak of a full Ebola epidemic in the United States, focusing instead on improving facilities across the country to handle the magnitude of such diseases.
“We’re very fortunate in America to have a fantastic public health system and fantastic set of private health care providers as well, and that was always our ace in the hole,” Klain said to The Hoya. “We did learn that we didn’t have enough facilities really ready to deal with this kind of infectious, dangerous disease … and we did beef that up over the course of my tenure.”
Obama sent an emergency funding request to Congress Nov. 5 asking for $6.2 billion to fund the international and domestic Ebola response. Within five weeks, a bipartisan majority in both the House and Senate approved an allocation of $5.4 billion.
According to Lawrence Gostin, the director of the O’Neill Institute for National and Global Health Law at the Georgetown University Law Center, Klain was instrumental in serving as a liaison between the White House and Congress. Klain previously served as chief of staff to both Vice President Al Gore and Vice President Joe Biden and directed the implementation of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.
“He was chosen because he has enormous experience in coordinating multiple government activities and is a really good negotiator,” Gostin said. “He built a bridge to the White House and Congress, and he had the ear of the president.”
During the outbreak, the number of hospitals nationwide that could treat an Ebola patient increased from three to 50. Similarly, the United States increased the number of labs that could test for Ebola from 12 to 47.
Klain noted that the improvement in domestic capacity was crucial to contain the epidemic of fear that had threatened to consume the country.
“I don’t think you can talk people out of fear, I don’t think you can persuade people that they are wrong to be fearful,” Klain said. “I think what people have to believe is that you’ve put in the measures to protect them, to the greatest extent possible, and to fight the threat to the greatest extent possible. That’s really what builds confidence and what eases fears.”
Days after Klain assumed his role, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie announced on Oct. 24 that healthcare workers returning to the two states after treating Ebola patients in West Africa would be put under a mandatory quarantine.
Klain vocally opposed these measures and argued the quarantines unnecessarily added to public fear. During his tenure, Klain developed a separate monitoring system.
The policy, adopted by 38 states, included twice-daily temperature checks for the first 21 days the workers were back in the country. Quarantine would only be implemented if they showed signs of being contagious or dangerous, such as an increased temperature.
Despite the improved domestic response, the Ebola crisis showed flaws within the World Health Organization’s abilities to effectively detect and respond to the outbreak internationally.
“Globally we have a big challenge. What Ebola showed is that World Health Organization isn’t really ready to deal with something like this. We need to reform the WHO to improve their ability to detect and respond to outbreaks like the Ebola outbreak before it became an epidemic,” Klain said.
Gostin praised Klain’s attention to the crisis in West Africa in addition to his development of domestic policy.
“The United States and particularly the president, with Ron Klain’s assistance, achieved a great deal in the Ebola response. They deployed military assets to the region, which I think was enormously important and enormously inspirational,” Gostin said.
In 2015, the Ebola rate has declined even in the West African countries hit hardest by the disease; Liberia had no new cases this past week for the first time since May, while the total number of new cases per week globally has fallen to under 100.
O’Neill Institute Associate Ana Ayala (LAW ’10) emphasized the need for continued maintenance of public health systems globally.
“If there is anything that this experience has taught the world is that we are all very much interconnected, as well as the serious economic and social implications it can have on a country,” Ayala said. ”It is critical that the lesson stays with us for as long as it can, so that we do not lose sight of the importance of having strong public health systems across the world.”
When Klain was appointed in October, he drew criticism, primarily from Republicans in Congress, for his lack of scientific background. Professor of Health Systems Administration and Population Health Michael Stoto stated that Klain’s lack of experience allowed him to coordinate effective policy.
“I think it was right to have someone who was not [a scientist or physician],” Stoto said. “What they didn’t need was one more expert. The challenge that they had to deal with was that they had a lot of experts, who all had different views, and what they needed was somebody to coordinate.”
Stoto praised Klain’s attention to quelling public fears, stating that other politicians exploited fear for political gain.
“I really think what some of the politicians have done for political advantage — they said things that are flat out wrong — were really shameful,” Stoto said. “For the country to respond to something like this, what we really need is trust in our system and trust in our elected officials.”
Upon his October appointment, Klain had to leave his government seminar, “Presidential Debates,” which he had taught since spring 2012, in order to assume his duties as Ebola czar.
Klain will return to teaching next fall.
“Part of being back in the private-sector is being able to return to Georgetown to teach. I felt very badly when the call came last fall, I had to leave my class in the middle of the term,” Klain said. “I will be back in the fall teaching again and I’m really looking forward to that, getting back on campus and having the chance to work with [students].”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 6, 2015 by Toby Hung Leave a Comment 
Thirty students from the Georgetown Solidarity Committee participated in a rally at the Georgetown University Hotel and Convention Center on Thursday, in light of recent allegations that members of Aramark’s management have interfered with the hotel workers’ rights to association.
The students marched from Sellinger Lounge to the front desk of the hotel, where a delegation from the committee read a letter to the management staff addressing the allegations, warning that they would notify the university administration and police if such violations continue.
According to GSC member Chris Wager (SFS ’17), committee members met with workers at the hotel over the past several days to discuss the process of unionizing under UNITE HERE, the same labor union that workers at Leo’s, Cosi and Starbucks joined in 2011. Managers of the hotel, which is operated by Aramark, allegedly surveilled the conversations and warned the workers against meeting with the committee at a captive audience meeting Thursday.
“[Workers’ freedom to association] was violated by Aramark managers at the hotel, who surveilled hotel workers while they were having conversations with Georgetown students,” Wager said. “They followed the workers out into the parking lot while they were having conversations, they listened to the conversations, they watched the conversations, all of which counts as surveillance, which is not legal.”
GSC member Vincent DeLaurentis (SFS ’17) said that the managers intimidated the hotel workers at the captive audience meeting into not speaking with the committee.
“The managers called all the workers into a captive audience meeting, which is a meeting in which they call the workers in and close the doors and say, ‘Hey, we can’t tell you not to talk to all of these people, but we would be really cautious about talking to all these people.’ So this is a tactic that the management uses to intimidate workers,” DeLaurentis said.
The alleged violations add to an ongoing series of allegations that university workers have made against Aramark. In February, GSC amassed 2,021 signatures in support of workers at O’Donovan Hall and Hoya Court who spoke out about poor wage and work conditions.
Last week, Associate Vice President for Auxiliary Services Joelle Wiese and Director of Business Policy and Planning J. Callahan Watson sent a letter to Aramark Corporation Chairman Eric J. Foss requesting that Aramark managers respect workers’ rights in negotiating a fair process for unionization.
“As a Catholic and Jesuit institution, Georgetown University is committed to justice and common good, which includes affirming the dignity of human work and respecting the rights of workers,” the letter read. “We strive to uphold these principles and values in our business operations to foster a fair and just workplace for all members of the Georgetown community, including the employees of vendors that provide services on campuses.”
The letter also mentioned that Aramark must respect the rights of its employees as per the Just Employment Policy, which was established as part of Georgetown and Aramark’s contract.
Watson said that the administration is in full support of fair negotiations between Aramark, the union and workers on campus.
“We expect that Aramark and the union will continue to negotiate in good faith to reach agreement on their new contract,” Watson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
During the rally, GSC member Erin Riordan (COL ’15) reiterated the administration’s request in the letter to the hotel management and said that the committee would act upon further violations of workers’ rights to association.
“If you engage in any of this intimidation again, whether it’s monitoring conversations or another captive audience meeting, we will go directly to the administration and see that Aramark is directly removed from this campus,” Riordan said.
When GSC member Julia Hubbell (COL ’15) asked Georgetown University Hotel General Manager Kevin Morris whether or not he plans on respecting workers’ rights to a fair process, Morris declined to commit immediately to any requests made by the committee.
“At this point, I am not in a position to accept or acknowledge anything that is being requested today,” Morris said.
Aramark Corporate Communications Director Karen Cutler said that the company respects its workers’ right to unionize.
“We have a great deal of respect for our employees and we fully support their democratic right to understand all of the issues and choose for themselves on the matter of union representation,” Cutler wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Aramark has a long history of fully supporting union organizing processes based upon the rules and regulations established under the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA) and monitored by the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB).”
However, DeLaurentis said that federal law requires that Morris comply with the committee’s demands for a fair process.
“[Morris] should have been able to say yes because supporting the fair process is required under federal law,” DeLaurentis said. “So what he was saying was that he can’t be sure right now if he’s going to respect workers’ rights to talk to us without intimidation, which is required under federal law.”
Workers at Leo’s, Cosi, Starbucks and the Jesuit Residence construction are the only workers on campus who are represented by UNITE HERE, which Hoya Court and hotel workers wish to join.
Josh Armstead, a worker at Leo’s, said that unionization has protected workers from abuse and workers’ rights violations, which are often experienced by workers at other Aramark vendors on campus.
“I really do think [unionization has helped Leo’s workers] because from the stories I’ve heard from other community members [before unionization] … it was kind of bad,” Armstead said. “Now, if the management has something to say, he or she has to choose their words carefully. … He can’t be vindictive against you for a personal reason. … They can’t target you, they can’t intimidate you.”
DeLaurentis said that the solidarity committee will continue to support workers at Leo’s, Hoya Court and the hotel as they renegotiate terms on their contract with Aramark.
“This is something we’re doing at the workers’ request, with the workers’ support, in solidarity with the workers,” DeLaurentis said. “This is what we truly believe and what workers have told us is what they want for their workplace and their lives, so we’re trying to act in solidarity with that.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 6, 2015 by Matthew Larson Leave a Comment 
From the White House to the Capitol, politicians took to YouTube to offer Georgetown words of congratulations on the 200th anniversary of its federal charter.
The charter, signed into law by President James Madison on March 1, 1815, granted Georgetown federal government recognition and the authority to give academic degrees, which it previously lacked.
University President John J. DeGioia sent out a congratulatory email to the Georgetown commuity to mark the occasion, writing that the celebration was special because of all the people who have been a part of Georgetown over its 225-year history.
“A defining strength of Georgetown has always been and still remains our community — our students, faculty, staff, alumni and friends,” DeGioia wrote in the email. “As we continue forth into the next 200 years, I wish to thank you for your innumerable contributions both on the Hilltop and beyond.”
Professor Emeritus Robert Emmett Curran, author of “A History of Georgetown University,” said that Georgetown received its charter in a unique way. While most other universities date their founding to the year they received their charter, Georgetown received its charter 25 years after its founding in 1789.
“[Georgetown] bases its start on when the first building went up,” Curran said. “Georgetown is the only institution I can think of who gets its charter 25 years after its own beginning.”
Federal charters are important because without them, universities cannot grant degrees to their graduates, which for a time made Georgetown an oddity among peer institutions. Curran noted that at the time, founder John Carroll was extremely reluctant to get a federal charter because of the state interference that would follow in the university’s affairs.
“A charter was considered as something that was a public investment that the state had a great deal of authority over and need to control,” Curran said. “Any institution that had a charter very often found itself under state regulation and interference.”
Curran said that the way Catholics were discriminated against in early America contributed to Carroll’s hesitancy to apply for a federal charter. Carroll feared that the government would interfere in university affairs as a result of the charter, diluting Georgetown’s Catholic identity.
“[Catholics] couldn’t vote, they couldn’t hold arms, they couldn’t hold office, they couldn’t educate their children in a Catholic institution,” Curran said. “So that was the background that Carroll was looking at, where Catholics had historically been in a vulnerable position in American history.”
For its first 25 years, Georgetown had no contact with the federal government as a result of Carroll’s desires to avoid allowing the government to get involved in university affairs. It is unknown whether or not Carroll was involved in the decision to apply.
“Georgetown [was] the most private of private schools in the country,” Curran said. “It [had] no governmental connection.”
But by 1815, the notion of a charter had changed. The courts had ruled that just because the federal government granted charters to an organization did not mean that it could interfere in how that group was run.
“[Charters] had been judged to be a guarantee of independence,” Curran said. “The charter was now not something that inherently weakened an institution but was really a safeguard for its integrity.”
Georgetown President John Grassi, S.J., decided in 1815 that conditions had sufficiently improved to request a charter. He asked Georgetown’s first student, William Gaston, a member of the House of Representatives from North Carolina, to introduce and petition for Georgetown’s charter in Congress, which President James Madison signed into law on March 1.
“[Georgetown’s] the only institution of higher education whose first student was the person responsible for getting its charter,” Curran said. “It’s the first Catholic institution of higher education to get a charter.”
In addition to DeGioia’s congratulatory message, Georgetown received videos from prominent government officials and lawmakers on the 200th anniversary of the federal charter. President Barack Obama recorded a message in which he celebrated Georgetown graduates, who he said have made an extraordinary impact not only on the United States but also the world.
“Simply put, this country and this world benefit from you commitment to Jesuit principles, to being men and women for others,” Obama said. “Here’s to the next 200 years.”
Speaker of the House John Boehner (R-Oh.) applauded the ties between the federal government and Georgetown. He also spoke warmly of the 16 current members of the House of Representatives who are graduates of Georgetown.
“I have great affection for the value and purpose of a Jesuit education,” Boehner said. “It’s my privilege on behalf of the whole House to recognize this bicentennial and congratulate Georgetown on all of its accomplishments.”
Georgetown also received congratulatory remarks from House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Senator Patrick Leahy (L ’64, D-Vt.).
Billy Rydzewski (COL ’15) said the amount of praise Georgetown had received from politicians like Obama and Boehner showed how influential Georgetown remains to this day.
“Georgetown is obviously a great institution,” Rydzewski said. “The fact that we’ve been around and established for that long is just great. … I think it’s definitely an accomplishment for us.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 6, 2015 by Kshithij Shrinath Leave a Comment 
Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (GRD ’86, R-Neb.) and former Senator Sam Nunn (D-Ga.), along with former Sen. Richard Lugar (R-Ind.) and former U.K. Defense Minister Desmond Browne, will discuss nuclear security threats in the 21st century at a March 16 event co-hosted by the Center for Security Studies and the International Relations Club.
Fortenberry, who currently co-chairs the Congressional Nuclear Security Caucus, and Nunn, who is the CEO of the Nuclear Threat Initiative, a nongovernmental organization focused on reducing the risk of the proliferation and use of weapons of mass destruction, each spoke to The Hoya in advance of the event to discuss emerging threats, the ongoing Iranian nuclear negotiations and their desire to involve college students in the issue.
Fortenberry, who co-founded the nuclear security caucus in 2008, noted that advances in technology had made nuclear weapon proliferation even more dangerous, requiring the caucus as a specialized response.
“The technology for nuclear weapons making has spread very rapidly and it will only continue to spread,” Fortenberry said. “And the key here is to develop a heightened awareness and deeper understanding not only in Congress but throughout the world of the great dangers of this so that we can all try to come to some various kinds of agreements that would control particularly the materials that go into nuclear weapons production.”
Of particular concern to Fortenberry was the danger of nuclear material, or even entire weapons, falling into the hands of terrorist organizations.
“The problem in the 21st century is if a non-state actor were to get a hold of a completed nuclear weapon or the materials that could make some sort of rudimentary dirty bomb type element that wouldn’t be destructive as a nuclear weapon itself but nonetheless it could cause widespread damage and panic,” Fortenberry said.
After the September 11 attacks, worries about outdated missile technology and faulty security mechanisms were widespread. Through the efforts of the Nuclear Threat Initiative in setting up the World Institute of Nuclear Security, nuclear material has increasingly been secured around the world.
“The number of states that no longer have any loose fissile material has been cut basically in half,” Fortenberry said.
In addition to the worries over nuclear terrorism, Nunn said that the threat of nuclear war between states still loomed large.
“If you look at it, the old threats haven’t disappeared. … We’re in a new era, but we still have the old ones, so that’s the challenge,” Nunn said. “It’s pretty clear we have significant dangers in terms of possible state conflict.”
Professor of security studies and government Keir Lieber, who will deliver opening remarks at the event, concurred, explaining that the theory of mutually assured destruction, which states that the threat of retaliation would prevent countries from using nuclear weapons, was a false comfort.
“U.S. nuclear policy throughout the Cold War was to escalate conventional war to the nuclear level in order to bring that war to a halt before it was too late,” Lieber said. “Deliberate rational state use of nuclear weapons as part of a coercive escalation strategy is a real danger, and it’s not clear to me that we’ve focused enough attention on this.”
The panel comes in the middle of one such state-centered challenge, the current nuclear negotiations between Iran and the United States, United Kingdom, France, China, Russia and Germany, who are attempting to curtail Iran’s ability to develop nuclear weapons.
“Iran has had the knowledge and technical capability to at least enrich and establish their commodities,” Nunn said. “The question is if we can stop them from converting that technical knowhow into making the bomb.”
Acknowledging that governments had much more sway in diplomatic affairs than nongovernmental organizations such as NTI, Nunn said that the challenge of the negotiations was keeping domestic and foreign interests united.
“If you look at the nature of the challenges here in Iran, it’s having Congress and the president work together, and that’s obviously not happening,” Nunn said. “The second major challenge is having the United States and its key ally of Israel working together, and that’s obviously not happening. And the third challenge is keeping the countries that are engaging in the boycott together, Russia, China and Europe. That’s not an easy group to keep together.”
Fortenberry said that he had no direct involvement with the negotiation but was informally involved in diplomatic discussions around the issue: If an agreement is reached with Iran, Congress will have to vote on whether to lift sanctions on the country. Accordingly, the congressman said that the issue of nuclear weapons must be a bipartisan effort, pointing to his relationship with Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) with whom he co-founded the nuclear security caucus.
“This is a matter of life and death, it’s what we call an existential issue,” Fortenberry said. “It should transcend any kind of partisan divide.”
On March 16, the two will speak at a panel at Georgetown to attempt to convince college students of the importance of nuclear security in coming years.
“It’s a complicated set of issues, and it doesn’t lend itself necessarily to motivating and exciting people,” Fortenberry said. “The tragedy of what could happen is so great that nobody really wants to look at it, think about it, so that’s why [we’re having] this event. … Hopefully, it gains momentum among the next generation for engagement.”
Since many of the goals of the Nuclear Threat Initiative require a long-term focus, such as significantly reducing the nuclear arsenal, Nunn emphasized the necessity of involving students in the issues.
“I would like to see nuclear weapons eliminated ultimately and have a world with tight verifications … but that’s many years down the road,” Nunn said. “The young generation is going to have to live with this for a long time … so having a knowledge about the dangers here and the continuing challenge for the younger generation is very, very important.”
Hoya Staff Writer Katherine Richardson contributed reporting.
This article has been updated.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 6, 2015 by Ashwin Puri Leave a Comment 
A bipartisan coalition of 12 U.S. senators led by Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.) introduced legislation Feb. 26 to reform the way colleges and universities nationwide handle sexual violence on campus, emphasizing the protection and rights of both survivors and students accused of sexual assault.
The proposed bill, titled the Campus Safety and Accountability Act, increases penalties for universities in violation of Title IX, establishes new resources for survivors, adds transparency to disciplinary procedures and mandates campus climate surveys to assess further action.
As the culmination of the efforts of six Democratic and six Republican senators to reform sexual assault response at institutions of higher education, the bill aims to “flip the current incentives of a broken system to provide real accountability and transparency from higher education institutions,” according to a joint press release from all 12 senators.
An enhanced version of an earlier bill proposed in July 2014, the legislation was formed with input from sexual assault survivors, college students, university faculty, law enforcement and sexual violence reform advocates nationwide. The Senate Subcommittee on Financing and Contracting Oversight, chaired by McCaskill, distributed a survey to over 350 public and private colleges and universities in April 2014 in an attempt to discern the current state of sexual assault response on college campuses.
The bill serves to make universities more accountable by enforcing stiffer penalties for violations of Title IX, a 1972 educational amendment that aims to prevent sex-based discrimination in educational programs and activities receiving federal funding.
Georgetown University Women’s Center Director Laura Kovach said that CASA helps to supplement the policies already in place through Title IX at Georgetown.
“The Campus Accountability and Safety Act will enhance the work that is currently happening under Title IX,” Kovach said.
Schools that are not in compliance with the bill may face a financial penalty of up to 1 percent of the school’s operating budget. The funds will go to a competitive grant program, which will fund colleges and universities to apply to research best practices for addressing these issues.
As of January 2015, the Department of Education is investigating 94 postsecondary institutions for Title IX violations, including the Catholic University of America, Harvard College, Dartmouth College and Brown University.
“Right now, some colleges and universities are more inclined to expel a student for cheating on an exam than for committing sexual assault,” Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), a co-sponsor of the bill, said in a press release. “We know this problem is pervasive and too often swept under the rug by institutions that fail students.”
The act also attempts to change campus culture by establishing new support services for survivors, such as designated confidential advisers to assist their interaction with law enforcement.
Jen Schweer, the associate director of sexual assault response and prevention services, emphasized the importance of confidential resources, ensuring that students are able to report sexual assault cases with minimum risk.
“These pieces allow students to learn about and access a system that may have previously felt like too much of a risk for them to enter,” Schweer said.
Take Back the Night President Sarah Rabon (COL ’16) added that additional staff on college campuses to address sexual assault could be key to CASA’s success at Georgetown.
“Georgetown has some truly fantastic resources that assist survivors of assault. However, these staffers tend to have countless responsibilities,” Rabon said. “If Georgetown had more staff to serve survivors, the quality and quantity of programming and education on sexual assault would undoubtedly increase.”
Transparency and fairness in disciplinary processes are another key part of the bill, which mandates a single uniform process for campus student disciplinary proceedings, coordinating with law enforcement and enforcing minimum training standards for campus employees.
Kovach emphasized the need to hold perpetrators of sexual assault accountable for their actions and believes CASA will help ensure universities, including Georgetown, live up to such a standard.
“The statistical reality is that there is a small number of perpetrators who are committing the majority of rapes,” Kovach said. “Accountability is key, and this law wants to reinforce that universities are doing everything within their power to provide a process that is safe for survivors to come forward and seek out the on-campus adjudication process.”
Finally, the bill mandates student campus climate surveys to garner the feedback of students regarding sexual assault on campuses, a potential landmark reform on incident reporting.
The proposed biannual surveys will be standardized, anonymized and published online for students to take into consideration when choosing colleges and universities to attend.
According to GUSA Secretary of Student Safety and Health Nora West (SFS ’15), Georgetown is already in the process of implementing a campus climate survey.
“As of now the survey is scheduled to be distributed in October or November 2015. The process is just beginning: a committee of administrators and students who work on this issue is being created,” West said.
As a sexual assault peer educator, West believes that the release of anonymous survey data would increase student awareness.
“The results of the anonymous survey will give us a better understanding of what’s happening on campus and will allow us to incorporate Georgetown-focused statistics into the workshops we lead,” West said. “Hopefully CASA will also increase student awareness around this issue and perhaps make them more likely to reach out to SAPE for a workshop.”
The Senate bill is an extension of an increased national focus on college sexual assault. The White House created a Task Force to Protect Students from Sexual Assault in January 2014, whose recommendations led to changes in Georgetown’s sexual assault policy in September, including the addition of outside investigators in sexual assault cases.
Sexual Assault Peer Educator Haley Maness (NHS ’15) pointed out that Georgetown is in compliance with many of the policies CASA would mandate.
“Believe it or not, Georgetown is in beyond compliance with a number of initiatives in the act, including allowing survivors to know their rights and employing individuals who can report cases to the Title IX coordinator,” Maness said.
However, Maness stressed that there are many facets of sexual violence still unaddressed.
“Georgetown needs to expand its programming and its focus to include dating violence, stalking and harassment as well as sexual assault, so I’m glad to see that those initiatives are mentioned in the act,” Maness said.
Schweer stressed the importance of continual education on the topic of sexual violence on campus.
“It’s critical that we continue to educate on campus, through programs like ‘I Am Ready’ and ‘Are You Ready?,’ engage with our sexual assault peer educators and create policies on campus that show a commitment to being survivor-centered,” Schweer said.
According to Kovach, the most important shift CASA can make is one of culture, transforming how Georgetown as a community views sexual violence.
“Bottom line: We need rapists to stop raping. We need a culture that supports survivors when they come forward so we can hold rapists accountable for their actions,” Kovach said. “We need everyone on the same page regarding support, resources and roles so that survivors can begin their healing process and navigate either the on- or off-campus judicial systems. Title IX and CASA can help us meet those needs.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 6, 2015 by Deirdre Collins and Sarah Fisher Leave a Comment 
The Office of Global Education received a slightly higher number of study abroad applications for fall 2015 and the full academic year, marking an upward trend in applications since 2011.
The OGE has 499 active study abroad applications for fall 2015 and the full year, and applicants must accept their nominations to study abroad by March 18. Students applied to fall and full-year study abroad programs by Feb. 10 and were notified of their acceptances by Feb. 27. Students studying abroad in this class make up around 30 percent of the total class.
In fall 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011, 444, 411, 370 and 377 students studied abroad, respectively. In the spring semester, the numbers are significantly lower, with 219 applicants for spring 2015, 270 for spring 2014, 230 for spring 2013 and 304 for spring 2012.
This upward trend comes as students express distaste for a housing policy instituted in February 2014 for the Class of 2017, forbidding students from participating in the spring housing lottery if they are studying abroad in the fall.
Upon return, students who study abroad in the fall will be assigned a random roommate or fill the space of a student studying abroad in the spring through a direct swap, and are not guaranteed to receive specific or desired housing on campus.
This policy change was previous scheduled to go into effect for the Class of 2016, but a February 2014 student petition called “Students Against Restrictive Housing Policy,” headed by Will Simons (COL ’16) gained over 500 signatures and caused the housing office to delay the implementation of the policy by one year. Students in the Class of 2016 will also receive priority in housing selections after a separate policy shift last February gave priority to rising seniors over rising juniors to encourage students to pursue on-campus housing.
This year, a similar student petition on Facebook and IdeaScale called “Change the Study Abroad Housing Policy 2015,” created by Simons, Declan Kelly (COL ’17) and Ken Nunnenkamp (MSB ’16), has amassed over 530 signatures since its creation on Feb. 2. The trio aim to ensure that students are not penalized for studying abroad, and they met with Executive Director of Residential Services Patrick Killilee to discuss altering the policy Feb. 25. The group resolved to create a housing working group, currently in its nascent stages.
A definitive list of names for the working committee has not yet been released, but Kelly, Simons, Nunnenkamp and Killilee will be involved. In addition, Simons and Nunnemkamp will be members of the cabinet of the incoming Georgetown University Student Association executive team. Assistant Director for Assignment Krista Haxton and Assignment Specialist Darnell Hammock from the Office of Residential Living will most likely also be involved in the working group.
“The working group we are forming will bring students and administrators together to devise creative solutions for the housing selection process that will ensure students who study abroad can receive desirable housing with their friends. The group will meet regularly and hopes to quickly solve the issue for the class of 2017,” Simons, Kelly and Nunnenkamp collectively wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Killilee said he is open to student suggestions within the working group but will not allow students studying abroad in the fall to participate in the spring lottery.
“The only topic that is not on the table is allowing students going abroad in the fall to select housing, only to be dropped from that process the very next day,” Killilee said. “Students accepted to study abroad will not be able to participate in the 2015-16 room selection process. They will be able to request housing for the spring semester. We are open to discuss ways to house students upon their return from abroad.”
Housing selection begins Feb. 23 with single room selection sign-ups and ends April 18 with male and female residence hall selections. If a student decides against studying abroad March 18, they will be eligible to enter the lottery for apartment, suite and townhouse selections that begin March 24 in addition to triple and residence hall selections that begin April 7 and April 18, respectively.
Simons said he is hopeful that the working group can work with Killilee before March 18.
“Killilee agreed with us on some of the principles behind the campaign: that students should be able to live with their friends and live in desirable housing — especially juniors and seniors coming back and living in apartments, even though they studied abroad in the fall,” Simons said. “We will have to put in the time to work and develop a creative solution over the next two and a half weeks because that nomination deadline is coming up. … I don’t want to lie and say it’s going to be easy, but I think we still can do it.”
Simons also said that he is not discouraged by the high number of active applicants for study abroad in the fall, since his petition does not aim to deter students from fall study abroad.
“The first thing I want to stress is that our students against restrictive housing campaign is in no way wanted to dissuade students from studying abroad. Actually it was the opposite; we wanted to ensure that students weren’t dissuaded from studying abroad despite the new housing selection process,” Simons said.
According to Office of Global Education Director Craig Rinker, despite the new housing policy, students still showed high interest in study abroad.
“I truly believe most students believe that study abroad is an investment in their undergraduate academic experience and don’t view their time away from campus as an opportunity cost, ” Rinker said.
The Office of Global Education participated in the decisions regarding the new housing policy, maintaining their priority of providing students with the best possible experiences.
“The Office of Global Education had continuous dialogue with the Division of Student Affairs and Office of Residential Living related to changes in the housing lottery process,” Rinker said. “I don’t find the change in the housing lottery process to be prohibitive, but simply another consideration for students to weigh. … I believe students will continue to see it as an investment in their education.”
Rinker expressed that while the housing policy may not affect student interest to study abroad, there are other reasons why Georgetown students decide not to study overseas.
“I truly believe that there is a study abroad opportunity for any student who wants to have one,” Rinker said. “Often, it is simply a matter of whether a student places study abroad as a higher priority.”
Adrienne Taylor (COL ’17) plans to study abroad in either Florence, Italy at Georgetown’s Villa Le Balze or at the McGhee Center in Alanya, Turkey to experience another culture and develop her major, art history.
“I’m going abroad because I feel as though this time in our lives is a really unique point where we are both flexible and supported,” Taylor said.
Taylor said that the changes in the housing policy did not affect her decision to study abroad.
“The housing policy hasn’t really affected my decision but it is definitely an added stress and a real disappointment,” Taylor said. “When we were all shopping for schools, Georgetown in all of their promotional material and information sessions is proud of their commitment to supporting students decisions to study abroad and the new housing policy seems to go against that.”
Christy Leonhardt (COL ’17), who will study abroad at the Danish Institute for Study Abroad in Copenhagen, plans to learn more about European health care systems and mental health in different countries.
Leonhardt said that she was disappointed by the new policy, but decided to go abroad regardless.
“While I ultimately decided to go abroad anyways, the new housing policy definitely influenced my decision,” Leonhardt said. “I do not think that it’s fair that I should be penalized for choosing to do something that Georgetown largely encourages. If this policy continues, I would not be surprised if Georgetown saw a drop in applications.”
Hoya Staff Writer Katherine Richardson contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 6, 2015 by Andrew Wallender Leave a Comment 
At 4 a.m. Thursday, three Georgetown administrators convened on a conference call to decide whether thousands of university students and faculty would have class.
Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Christopher Augostini, Executive Vice President for Health Sciences and School of Medicine Executive Dean Howard Federoff and Provost Robert Groves are delegated with the task of deciding university operating status. If the call is particularly early in the morning, this group is replaced by representatives from each department, including Medical Center Senior Associate Dean Elliot Crook, Registrar and Assistant Provost John Q. Pierce, and Associate Vice President for Human Resources John Greeno.
The forecast called for a heavy day of snow, possibly up to 10 inches, but as the call began, there was only rain. Around 15 minutes prior, the federal government had announced its closing as well as numerous school districts the evening before. But the storm was coming in the midst of midterms, two days before Georgetown’s spring break.
“I kept hoping there would be some maneuvering room to start late because I had heard from faculty members who were very worried about their students having to miss the exam,” Pierce said.
Eventually the group decided to close Georgetown University for the duration of the day. The information was posted on the university website at 4:35 am. Students received texts and emails shortly after that.
Every time a major weather event is expected for D.C., the Council of Governments, an association consisting of all the local governments as well as Metro and the federal government, convenes via conference call. The group conferences at 9 p.m. or 3 a.m., depending on the timing of the weather event, and receives a briefing from the National Weather Service.
After the Council of Government’s teleconference, Georgetown’s administrators convene at 10 p.m. or 4 a.m. Students can expect word from the university shortly thereafter.
A number of factors go into deciding whether Georgetown remains open or closed, according to Associate Vice President for Risk Management Joseph Yohe.
“The university utilizes a ‘risk-based’ decision-making process for making operational status decisions related to inclement weather,” Yohe wrote in an email.
The university pays attention to what service disruptions Metro will be running, as many faculty members rely on public transportation to commute to campus. Georgetown also closely watches the actions of the federal government and area schools. But the final deciding factor is how well the Office of Facilities can clear the campus for student safety, according to Pierce.
During weather emergencies, the Office of Facilities asks for volunteers to work extra hours, preparing the campus for snow and clearing the snow after it begins to fall. Wednesday night into Thursday, about half a dozen facilities workers stayed at the Georgetown University Hotel and Conference Center, according to Vice President for Planning and Facilities Management Robin Morey.
“It’s one team, one mission,” Morey said. “Part of that is that you don’t necessarily want to send people away. The first reason is, in a snow like this, you don’t want your people out, driving on the street. Secondarily, if they go, they might get stuck and not be able to come back.”
Snow removal involves the efforts of approximately 100 to 150 staff members working at various times of the day and night to ensure the university is safe to navigate.
In addition to snow plows and salt, the university utilizes its snow melter machine, which uses steam to heat and melt large snow piles brought in by front loaders.
“Instead of pushing that snow around, you’ve got to put it somewhere,” Morey said. “We probably wouldn’t necessarily need it in a snow storm of this size [referring to Thursday’s storm], but, boy, it sure makes it easier to do that. And then those piles don’t sit around for so long.”
Pierce and Morey both said that having an instructional continuity system eases the burden of snow days.
“I think that the instructional continuity policy opens up a whole other set of options for us,” Pierce said.
The instructional continuity system, which allows professors to still hold classes remotely during snow days, was implemented during the 2013-2014 academic school year.
But Pierce said that instructional continuity plans are never a proper substitute for in-person class time.
“It’s my sense that switching to an instructional continuity plan is two or three times harder on the faculty member than going to class,” Pierce said. “And our programs are planned as face-to-face programs so we try to make sure that they can continue that way.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 6, 2015 by Toby Hung 1 Comment 
The community met yesterday to discuss free speech on campus at a forum hosted by the Georgetown University Student Association and the Speech and Expression Committee.
The Foundation for Individual Rights in Education recently ranked Georgetown among the top 10 worst colleges for free speech. The panel and this placement were not directly related, since the panel was scheduled before the ranking’s release.
The panel featured government professor Fr. Matthew Carnes, S.J., Director of Protestant Chaplaincy Rev. Bryant Oskvig, Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson, Sam Kleinman (COL ’16) and Chandini Jha (COL ’16), all members of the Speech and Expression Committee. GUSA hosted a similar panel in January 2014. GUSA President Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) moderated the panel and said he wanted to encourage honest and open discussion.
Tezel then introduced associate professor of theology Rev. James Walsh, S.J., who authored the first speech and expression policy in 1989. The policy was created after students protesting for divestment from South Africa’s apartheid regime were arrested by the Metropolitan Police Department.
Walsh said that the ideal free speech policy should encourage students to engage in respectful, intellectual dialogue, referencing John Henry Newman’s writings.
“Suppose you have a position that I disagree with. What I have to do is articulate your position and give the strongest possible case for what you hold, so that when you hear it, you say, ‘I’ve never been able to put that so well myself, that’s wonderful. That’s exactly what I think.’ Then I would say, ‘I’ll tell you why I disagree with that.’ It is intellectually generous and in the spirit of friendship,” Walsh said.
The panelists discussed the Speech and Expression Committee’s role educating the community on free speech policies.
“I think that the strength of the committee is not [being centrist], but rather, to [serve as] a way of clarifying policies,” Jha said.
Oskvig said that it is vital for the committee to maintain free speech policies when tackling incidents of hate speech.
“[We] find a lot of our deliberations centering around hate speech,” Oskvig said. “How do we move it into spaces to create and foster conversation where the speech itself is sort of cutting that conversation off? We want to create a robust conversation and dialogue in which ideas can be exchanged and we can all grow together.”
Kleinman said that the committee has improved from previous years by thoroughly examining complaints issued by students on free speech policy.
Kleinman also said that he wants the Free Speech and Expression Committee to begin developing an open, public case log so that students can see the way that the committee works and processes each case to create a precedent for the future.
In Olson’s opening remarks, he addressed Georgetown’s placement on FIRE’s list. While Olson acknowledged violations of free speech in the past, including the two instances in which pro-choice student group H*yas for Choice was removed by the Georgetown University Police Department, he said that those instances misrepresented how the university addressed such issues.
“I do want to say that our place on this year’s top 10 list doesn’t cause me to stay up all night worrying,” Olson said. “They also misrepresented the process that we followed over the last year when we committed with GUSA to working out this memorandum of understanding. … What FIRE reports is that it took me months to say something, which is just not true.”
In FIRE’s list this year, Georgetown was included for the lack of official recognition for H*yas for Choice. In September 2014, members of the group were removed from its previously approved tabling location outside of the front gates, and in January 2014, the group was forced to relocate after distributing condoms outside a pro-life conference on campus.
FIRE Program Officer Susan Kruth, who was not present at the panel, said that this treatment shows that Georgetown does not uphold its values of free speech.
“While the revised policies are better, Georgetown still won’t recognize H*yas for Choice, and its officers still seem confused about what the rules are,” Kruth wrote in an email.
Kruth also said that the administration’s disagreement with student groups over certain issues should not interfere with free speech policies.
“FIRE acknowledges that private universities have the right to prioritize other values over freedom of expression — they just have to be upfront about it,” Kruth wrote. “However, Georgetown states in written policies: ‘[A]ll members of the Georgetown University academic community … enjoy the right to freedom of speech and expression.’ … If it’s going to limit speech that conflicts with Catholic values, it must make that disclaimer here.”
FIRE also considered the recent criticism of the Georgetown Voice’s cartoon that was interpreted by many students as racist and misogynist. The Speech and Expression Committee received a complaint regarding the cartoon, prompting the dialogue about the free speech policy.
Kruth said that the publication of the cartoon is protected by Georgetown’s free speech policy as well as the First Amendment.
“The committee’s response should have simply cited Georgetown’s promise of freedom of expression and clearly stated that the students involved may not be sanctioned by the university for creating or publishing the cartoon,” Kruth wrote.
Olson said that he was encouraged to see students engaging in thoughtful discussions following the incident.
“The response to the Voice editorial cartoon was a really encouraging response because it was students saying to other students, ‘Here’s the impact of that. Do you understand what that meant?’ And students really engaging in conversation,” Olson said.
H*yas for Choice President Abby Grace (COL ’16) said that she agreed with Georgetown’s placement on FIRE’s list and that the administration could improve its free speech policy by clarifying and correctly implementing its tabling policies.
“Given the overwhelming frequency at which Georgetown students utilize tabling as a form of speech in protected zones, the administration should recognize this as one of students’ preferred methods of expression,” Grace said.

Arafat says 
March 17, 2015 at 9:25 am
Based on my experience, i.e., where my comments are deleted by the elitist PC editorial board it’s hard to argue with the fact that Georgetown spits in the face of free speech.
++
Of course they do so while pretending to embrace liberalism. What a perverted joke.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 6, 2015 by Jack Bennett Leave a Comment 
A microcosm of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict reached the Georgetown campus this week as the Georgetown branch of Students for Justice in Palestine hosted events for Israeli Apartheid Week.
The week, which is taking place this year at universities in over 55 cities and 19 countries, includes events that protest the Israeli occupation of Gaza and support the Boycotts, Divestments and Sanctions movement. According to the event’s Facebook, the week is meant “to spark reflection on the injustices inflicted upon Palestinians, raise awareness about the historical and ongoing causes of injustice and promote dialogue about these issues in a respectful … manner.”
The week included a Monday screening of “Roadmap to Apartheid,” a documentary film produced by a Jewish Israeli and a white South African. Students participated in a protest of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s Tuesday speech to the United States Congress. Wednesday featured a screening of “The Promise,” a film series that compares current Israel to 1940s Palestine.
“I’m excited about Wednesday’s event because I think something that often gets overlooked is the historical reality of the issue,” SJP President Leila Shebaro (SFS ’15) said. “I think it helps to frame the modern Israeli state, the Zionist project, the Palestinian experience, all of it, in the context of the different structural controls that have existed since the opening of the century, and I think it helps people understand where Palestinians are coming from.”
On Thursday, the group hosted a discussion about the BDS movement, which advocates for the boycott of and divestment from Israeli businesses, cultural and academic institutions and sanctions on the Israeli government.
SJP contends that Israel is an apartheid state discriminates against Palestinians by limiting civil rights, restricting access to roads and water and demolishing homes. The organization constructed a wall representing the Israeli West Bank Barrier in the Intercultural Center Galleria.
“We mean a lot more than the wall,” Shebaro said. “There are a lot of structural aspects of Israeli policies and institutions that are even more the reality of apartheid than the wall itself.”
Due to its national policy of anti-normalization, SJP does not collaborate or co-sponsor events with any campus group that supports Israel.
“The policy of anti-normalization is that we’ll only engage with organizations that essentially come at the situation recognizing explicitly that Israel is an occupying state and that occupation is the cause of the conflict and the violence,” Shebaro said. “We’re not going to work with an organization that is not committed to justice for all people including Palestinians.”
In response to this policy, student groups including the Georgetown Israel Alliance and J Street U Georgetown hosted their own events to share varying perspectives.
GIA created a discussion table in the ICC on Thursday to speak to students with questions about Israeli Apartheid Week. GIA President Harper Weissburg (SFS ’17) said that she would have liked to work with SJP to encourage discussion.
“We are not in a position to co-sponsor with SJP, which kills us,” Weissburg said. “We’d love to have that discussion, but because of this [anti-normalization] policy that is not in the cards.”
GIA disagrees with SJP’s claim that Israel is an apartheid state and adamantly opposes BDS.
“Israel is not an apartheid state, blanket statement,” Weissburg said. “It is a misrepresentation of the horrific apartheid in South Africa and although GIA is first to admit that Israel, like all states, is not a perfect state and yes, racism exists in Israel as it exists in all states, apartheid is the de jure institutionalization of racism, the creation of a second-class citizenry if you will. And that is not the case in Israel.”
Also due to its anti-normalization policy, SJP has refused to work with J Street U, although the organization does acknowledge Palestinian oppression and Israeli human rights violations.
“We get a lot of questions about why we don’t work with J Street in particular, because they are the more moderate organization,” Shebaro said. “I think my problem, and the institutional problem with J Street, is that they have a tendency to portray the treatment of Palestinians … as unfortunate necessities or consequences of [Palestinians] being violent or [Israelis] being provoked.”
J Street U Co-President Natalie Magioncalda (COL ’16) said that the organization opposes BDS but wants to encourage an open dialogue.
“J Street unequivocally opposes the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement,” Magioncalda said. “We are open to open dialogue around BDS, but we don’t support BDS, because we feel that illustrates the conflict in black-and-white terms.”
Co-President Molly Wartenberg (SFS ’16) agreed with Magioncalda and added that she does not think BDS proposes any viable solution.
“Instead of trying to sit down and have those conversations with people on the other side … it is saying let’s reject Israel, let’s reject their institutions, let’s reject their industries and in doing this, draw attention to it. I think the only way to move forward is to have more conversations between people,” Wartenberg said.
J Street hosted its own discussion on Wednesday to discuss the SJP’s classification of Israel as an apartheid state, and even invited SJP to the event, despite the anti-normalization policy.
Wartenberg explained that J Street U’s more neutral approach to the issue and purpose of its event aimed to stimulate dialogue.
“We got involved in this week because we felt that … the rhetoric surrounding Israeli Apartheid Week hurt our cause to find peace and coexistence between the two peoples and work towards that two state solution. We felt that using words like ‘apartheid’ and ‘genocide’ made it a one-sided conversation, and polarized the conflict, delegitimized Israel in a way,” Wartenberg said. “We wanted to open up a place for discussion rather than leading the week to become more polarizing.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 6, 2015 by Ashley Miller 2 Comments 
Students gathered to discuss the need for a structured diversity course requirement on campus in a conversation hosted by Leaders in Education about Diversity and the Philodemic Society in the Black House on Tuesday. Students continued their discussion on the diversity course requirement at a town hall hosted yesterday by the Georgetown University Student Association Multicultural Council and the Last Campaign for Academic Reform.
The diversity requirement, which will be voted on by the Main Campus Executive Faculty on March 27, will mandate all students to enroll in two courses that are currently part of the core requirements, but will have an additional component in the syllabi about issues of power and privilege.
At the discussion on Tuesday, incoming GUSA Vice President Connor Rohan (COL ’16) said that integrating the diversity requirement with current courses decreases the possible cost to the university.
“Ultimately it just seems like it’s no cost to the university. Nothing new is going to be created from it,” Rohan said. But it just makes sense in that a lot of the classes that the diversity requirement is going to fit is classes where you would expect these issues to come up in the class anyway. … It’s almost like a correction on a lot of the syllabi in that if they aren’t tackling these issues that the diversity requirement requires that they tackle, then they’ve been screwing up up to this point.”
Some students expressed the importance of the diversity requirement in shaping the identities and values of the university as a whole.
“Another reason I think the diversity requirement is so important is because when you take a tour at Georgetown, they tell you about Problem of God and that becomes an expectation. When you come here you know our identity and what we stand for,” Reed Howard (SFS ’17) said. “So to have Georgetown say that as a university we are committed to creating individuals who know about diversity and having that become an anchored identity and have people come to this university expecting to engage in these uncomfortable conversations I think is so important.”
By making this requirement more structured, some students hoped that it could bring together more widespread dialogue than that currently being held, which involves only students who are most interested in these issues.
“My hope is that if this diversity requirement is implemented is that we can take these type of discussions and take them outside the Black House, because a lot of people here right now are here because we have an interest in diversity and multiculturalism and the fact of the matter is that we need to spread that throughout campus to bridge the gaps between people,” Steven Xie (COL ’18) said.
Another attendee, Luke Brown (COL ’17), expressed similar hopes that the requirement would prevent discussion from being limited to a small circle of students on campus.
“[If] you don’t have this requirement, I’m afraid that you’ll have the same small group of students who are happy to engage in these types of conversations and so many members of the student body who don’t,” Brown said.
Some students also believe that the requirement would help make campus conversations related to diversity, such as race issues, become more well-informed.
“Something that really concerns me is political correctness and that’s the thing that this conversation really comes back to, ‘I don’t want to say the wrong thing or offend the wrong person even if my intent isn’t there and isn’t malicious,’” Olivia Holmes (COL ’16) said. “And I think if we have classes that inform students on these issues, you never really have to worry about being politically incorrect because you will be informed.”
Philodemic Society President Michael Whelan said that the lack of formal education on diversity issues currently leads to a lack of awareness in current events related to race issues such as the fatal shooting of unarmed black teenager Michael Brown by a white police officer in August.
“You go up to the average Georgetown student and I think, unlike a lot of colleges across the country, you can ask them ‘What’s your opinion on Vladimir Putin?’ or ‘What’s your opinion on all of these sort of complex international issues or fracking?’” Whelan said. “And I feel like if you know about those issues but then don’t know about [Michael Brown], then there’s a disconnect there.”
To Rohan, this disconnect comes directly from the inability of students to enter into the conversation with any formal instruction on these issues.
“I think it’s the perfect example of why we need a diversity requirement. People are more apt to talk about what they can critically analyze and think about in a nuanced way,” Rohan said.
Hoya Staff Writer

Kevin Magana says 
February 5, 2016 at 2:26 pm
It makes me a VERY proud alumni to see how student leadership at Georgetown sees the diversity requirement as a much needed reform to the core curriculum. Thank you Reed, Olivia, and Conor for these insightful and thoughtful comments you’ve provided. ~ Kevin G. Magaña (COL ’14)
[…] has strived to ensure a broad and inclusive curriculum — exemplified by the implementation of a diversity course requirement in 2015, the creation of the African American studies department and major last February and the […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

