
March 17, 2015 by Kshithij Shrinath Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University Police Department detained a man for trespassing in an attempt to speak to men’s basketball coach John Thompson III at an event at Leo O’Donovan Hall on Sunday.
The man, whose name was not disclosed, was not a member of the Georgetown University community and was well over the age of an undergraduate or graduate student, according to Chief of Police Jay Gruber.
At the event for Selection Sunday, where teams are seeded into the NCAA men’s basketball tournament, the man, who was intent on meeting and talking to Thompson III, ignored instructions from police officers that refused him entry into the private event.
“He was told a couple times that he couldn’t get into the event. It was a private event,” Gruber said. “He tried to go around a police officer, and the police officer stopped him, took him outside and got all his information.”
Gruber said that the man was not classified as a stalker, since the incident appeared to be unique.
“He was somebody who was very intent on meeting the coach. As far as we know, it’s a one-time incident,” Gruber said.
While charges will not pressed, the man was barred from future entry into the university. If he returns at any point, he would subsequently be charged with trespassing, according to Gruber.
Gruber said that the incident was “pretty uncommon,” but noted that high-profile Georgetown officials like Thompson III do receive security plans.
“It’s not like they have 24-hour security coverage,” Gruber said. “We do have security plans in place, but most of the security that we provide, I can’t discuss.”
The men’s basketball team was awarded the No. 4 seed in the South Region and will play its first game Thursday in Portland, Ore., against the No. 13 seed Eastern Washington.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

