
September 25, 2015 by Kristen Fedor Leave a Comment 
Pope Francis began his first trip to the United States with a tour of Washington, D.C., from Sept. 22 to 24, marking the third papal visit in the District’s history.
President Barack Obama and his family greeted the pope as he arrived at Joint Base Andrews on Tuesday afternoon. The papal visit also included a meeting at the White House, a parade, an address to U.S. bishops, a canonization Mass and a historic address to a joint session of Congress.
In preparation for the papal visit, Mayor Muriel Bowser’s office launched pope.dc.gov, a website outlining the pope’s schedule, city road closures and general information regarding security for all events.
Bowser uploaded a brief video to the site Wednesday, highlighting how the visit impacted the D.C. community.
“I am personally inspired by the pope’s words and actions. I believe his visit will serve as an inspiration to people of all ages, of all backgrounds and all cultures,” Bowser said. “We are delighted that the pope has chosen our district as his first official visit in the United States.”
Wednesday’s festivities also marked the height of the frenzy for many Georgetown students, with Pope Francis’ parade around the Ellipse in the morning followed by the Mass of canonization of Blessed Junípero Serra at the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception at 4 p.m.
Pope Francis is the first Jesuit pope in history. He was photographed holding a Georgetown scarf presented to him by six Georgetown students and faculty members who participated in a Religious Freedom Project trip in December 2013. Although the pope did not visit the university during his trip, many members of the campus community attended various papal events.
The parade, which was the first public event, began at 11 a.m., traveling from the White House along 15th Street, Constitution Avenue and 17th Street NW, with people lining the route and cheering as Pope Francis passed by in a Fiat.
Women and gender studies professor Emerald Christopher-Byrd, who lives in the Brookland neighborhood home to the basilica, cancelled classes this week because of transportation challenges, but added that the atmosphere of the area was exciting throughout the papal visit.
She said officials in the region began setting up and closing off streets one week before the visit, making transportation difficult.
“All of our shops and restaurants had pope-themed specials. For those that opted to drive, we had an influx of parked cars in our neighborhoods,” Christopher-Byrd said. “However, despite the traffic and high volumes of people, the energy in Brookland has been wonderful.”
Georgetown students and faculty had the opportunity to enter a raffle for tickets to the Mass that were allocated by the university last week. Winners were notified Monday.
Roopa Mulpuri (SFS ’18) was one student who attended the historic Mass, even though she is not Catholic herself.
“I had never been to Mass before and I think it’s probably one of the coolest things that I’m ever going to get to do to in my entire life,” Mulpuri said.
Hannah Weber (NHS ’17) said she arrived to wait in line around 10 a.m. for the late-afternoon Mass, but enjoyed the long day.
“It was surreal. I had to keep reminding myself that it was the Pope that was giving Mass. Everyone who was there was so excited and floored that he was there,” Weber said.
The pope celebrated Mass in his native language, Spanish, with more than 20,000 people on the Catholic University of America’s campus.
This was also the first canonization in the United States. Screens near the altar projected subtitles in English.
Attendee Lydia Hennessey (COL ’18) said that although she does not speak Spanish, it did not deter from the joyous atmosphere.
“Although I could not understand a lot of what was being said at the Mass, it was really the music and mood that conveyed his message, which was one of universal embrace,” Hennessey said.
Hennessey was also among the students who won university tickets to watch the pope’s address to a joint session of Congress on Thursday at 10 a.m. People gathered on the West Lawn of the Capitol, watching the address projected on screens. Afterward, the pope emerged on a balcony to address the crowd, this time speaking in English.
“Even though English isn’t the pope’s native language, I thought that his line about treating people with passion and compassion showed such beautiful thought,” Hennessey said.
Alec Kingston (SFS ’18) was also outside the Capitol and said he felt emotional seeing the pope speak.
“It was so awe-inspiring. On the lawn you could actually feel and see all the different people from different backgrounds come together for this one person,” Kingston said. “Pope Francis is the only person in the world I know who could unite people in such a way and create such awe. When he first came out I had tears in my eyes and he hadn’t even said anything yet.”
However, Kingston added that while the address was moving, he also wished Pope Francis had added some Spanish.
“In a way, even if you don’t understand the native language, there is an essence that comes from someone’s native language, and when you translate, sometimes part of the message is lost,” Kingston said. “I feel like if it had been fully in Spanish, we could have felt more of what I heard people felt at the mass.”
Glenna Roberts (SFS ’18) also attended and praised how the pope’s address touched on national issues.
“I was astounded by his presence — the grace with which he carries his tremendous responsibility, the mindfulness he expresses in every word and action, and the simplicity with which he unpacks complicated issues,” Roberts said. “I feel so lucky to experience this momentous visit at our nation’s capital and hear such an inspiring man speak on issues that affect us all.”
Following his appearance at Congress, Pope Francis met with Catholic Charities USA at St. Patrick’s Church before departing for the next leg of his trip in New York City, where his schedule includes a speech at the United Nations, service at the 9/11 Memorial and Mass at Madison Square Garden. The pope will conclude his United States tour in Philadelphia and return to Rome the evening of Sept. 27.
Hoya Staff Writers Lucy Prout and Daniel Smith contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 25, 2015 by Charlotte Allen and Matthew Larson Leave a Comment 
Pope Francis delivered the first papal address to a joint meeting of Congress in history Thursday, encouraging bipartisan collaboration on issues ranging from social justice and immigration rights to the environment and traditional American values.
Following the nearly 40-minute address, the pope appeared on the balcony of the Capitol to greet the tens of thousands of onlookers gathered on the West Lawn.
He initially called upon members of Congress to fulfill their duties as representatives of the people, explaining that this entails helping all members of society, especially the poorest.
“Legislative activity is always based on care for the people,” Francis said. “To this you have been invited, called and convened by those who have elected you.”
The pope also spoke about the threat of social and political injustice.
He said that polarization occurs through persecution and violence, which further undermine the system. To meet this challenge, he called for mutual conversation and openness.
“Our response must … be one of hope and healing, of peace and justice,” Francis said. “Our efforts must aim at restoring hope, righting wrongs, maintaining commitments and thus promoting the well-being of individuals and of peoples.”
He added that the “golden rule,” which stipulates that people should treat others with respect, is at the core of these issues.
“Let us treat others with the same passion and compassion with which we want to be treated,” Francis said. “This golden rule also reminds us of our responsibility to protect and defend human life at every stage of its development.”
He declared that his speech was meant to inspire a dialogue within the American people, specifically praising Abraham Lincoln, Martin Luther King Jr., Dorothy Day and Thomas Merton for being Americans who he said best furthered the American dream.
“These men and women, for all their many differences and limitations, were able, by hard work and self-sacrifice … to build a better future,” Francis said. “They shaped fundamental values which will endure forever in the spirit of the American people.”
The pope concluded by returning to these Americans and using each as an example of how the United States is and can continue to be great. He said that the nation must continue its commitment to freedom and equality with the goal of giving as many people, especially those in younger generations, as many opportunities as possible.
“I have sought to present some of the richness of your cultural heritage, of the spirit of the American people,” Francis said. “It is my desire that this spirit continues to develop and grow … God bless America.”
The speech elicited notable reactions from members of Congress, as the pope was interrupted several times by standing ovations. Speaker of the House John Boehner (R-Ohio) was one member of Congress who was also visibly moved to tears during parts of the address. Eighteen House members and seven Senators in the audience were Georgetown alumni.
Government professor Fr. Matthew Carnes, S.J., spoke to the importance of the pope’s presence in D.C. and the message he communicated in his address.
“I was very impressed,” Carnes said. “It is incredible to think about a pope addressing Congress, as it is something the Founding Fathers never envisioned.”
Carnes said he appreciated the pope’s universal message that appealed to both congresspeople and those on the West Lawn.
“In speaking to Congress, he knew he wasn’t just speaking to Congress,” Carnes said. “He was speaking to every American citizen. … He urged us to go beyond rhetoric and political divides and advised that we translate challenges like poverty into faces and not just numbers.”
Carnes said he was particularly moved by the pope’s comments on the poor.
“His whole papacy has been trying to raise our consciousness to those who are on the margins,” Carnes said. “We can easily overlook those who are poorest, not as educated and do not have as many opportunities, and he wants us to remember that our best instincts are to care for those people.”
Fr. Kevin O’Brien, S.J., vice president for mission and ministry, said that the pope effectively touched upon many current global issues, encouraging people to engage in dialogue and hopefully yield solutions.
“This is not a single-issue pope,” O’Brien said. “He usually talks about the ‘seamless garment’ of issues and I think he hit most of the major ones facing this Congress.”
O’Brien said he believed Pope Francis’ speech was well-received due to the bipartisan support it seemed to have in Congress.
“When you think about who was in that chamber, you had very conservative and very liberal members of Congress and he was very well received,” O’Brien said. “I think people respect him not as a political leader but as a leader with moral weight.”
Following a university viewing of the address in the Healey Family Student Center, Associate Vice President for Federal Relations Scott Fleming and Center for Social Justice Research Executive Director Andria Wisler led a brief panel discussion.
Fleming noted that his main takeaway from the address was the pope’s emphasis on dialogue. He alluded to the upcoming potential government shutdown and wondered if the pope’s remarks would help avert it.
“The attention that he put on common dialogue, coming together and solving problems [was encouraging],” Fleming said. “For the most part, even those who did not necessarily agree with what they thought he was pointing to eventually stood up and applauded.”
Wisler said that she appreciated the pope’s comments on how society, economy and politics are directly related to how citizens conduct their daily lives. The point of Pope Francis’ speech, according to Wisler, was to encourage citizens to make the world more just and humane.
“Pope Francis is simply a pope for and about social justice,” Wisler said. “I think his message today to Congress really proved that because he implicates every single person in this work.”
Cameron Bell (COL ’19), who attended the HFSC live stream, also appreciated Pope Francis’ message of dialogue. She said the speech was an example of how the pope’s words can transcend political beliefs.
“I think it was really well done with respect to making his intentions and his beliefs clear,” Bell said. “But [he was] also being mindful of different opinions and making it a discussion that everyone wanted to hear.”
Grace Laria (SFS ’19) also attended the live stream and said that the pope’s speech, while touching on a number of political issues, furthered his message of justice and peace, rather than advocating a specific partisan solution.
“He did cover things really broadly so that he didn’t alienate members of Congress,” Laria said. “I think everyone heard him in their own way and can use that message, which is really fantastic.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 25, 2015 by Katherine Richardson 1 Comment 
Amid the buzz of the papal visit, The Hoya sat down with University President John J. DeGioia Thursday to discuss Georgetown’s Jesuit identity, DeGioia’s personal connection to his faith and a variety of campus issues including construction, sexual assault and sustainability.
How do you feel about Pope Francis’ visit to D.C. and why do you think it’s significant that he chose the District? 
I’ve said in recent conversations with family and friends that in all the years that I’ve been living here in Washington, which goes back to the mid-1970s, there have been incredible things that have unfolded here in Washington. Some of the inaugurations have been historic, and they’ve been extraordinary. Lots of other kinds of events have been incredibly memorable, but I don’t know anything that has galvanized the city quite like the visit of this pope. It has been really extraordinary to see. I think it’s a reflection both of the authenticity of the individual, the sheer quality of his character, what he personally embodies. In our tradition we kind of call this a sacramental quality. He is the embodiment of a set of values in such a profound resonance with our university. You can see them in our efforts to try to live out the integrity of our commitment to the values that have animated this place for 226 years. There’s a lot that resonates with his own personal history as a Jesuit, so it has been a pretty special time. I had the privilege yesterday to attend the welcome at the White House and then to go to the Mass at the shrine and so it was very special for me and for my family to be able to have that opportunity. Today, I had a chance to listen and read his remarks before the joint session of Congress and I think his drawing upon the examples of four Americans: Abraham Lincoln and Martin Luther King Jr. as well as Dorothy Day and Thomas Merton was a perfect way of capturing what I think is so distinctive about this individual. He was able to draw from the best of the American experience and tradition, while at the same time finding moral leaders who are capable of serving as exemplars for the best in ourselves.
Are you disappointed that the pope is not coming to campus? Will you get the chance to meet with him?
Many have asked me, “Is he coming? Will he come? Of course he has to come!” We began conversations with Cardinal Wuerl and the archdiocese nearly a year ago once we knew that it was likely that he was going to be coming here. Most importantly, we wanted to ensure that we could be of support in any way possible to the archdioceses for this extraordinary visit. It also became pretty clear very early on that the logistics of this trip would be very, very difficult for him to make his way on this campus, so I’m not surprised. It would have been extraordinary if he could have come to visit here, but I understand why it didn’t happen. I’m just so pleased though that so many members of our community were able to have a chance to be a part of this visit.
I know that although you are the first layperson president of Georgetown, you are deeply religious. Can you tell me a little bit about how being at Georgetown has deepened or affected your faith?
I grew up in a very solid family deeply committed to the Catholic faith, but it was something taken kind of easily, lightly. We said grace before our meals; we went as a family to church on Sunday. I have an uncle, my mom’s brother, who’s a Jesuit who has taught at Jesuit universities his whole career. When I came to Georgetown though, I think I came like many at 18, because this is a great university and it felt like the right place. It was only after time as an undergraduate, as my time here continues, that I realized that one of the reasons that it felt so right to me was because of the profound respect it had for the faith of each member of our community. We just celebrated the life of Rabbi [Harold] White on Sunday and Rabbi White and I were friends for nearly 40 years. He served this community long before I ever got here and it was beautiful to see the community come together in that moment. I had the privilege just a week earlier to celebrate Rosh Hashana with our Jewish community in our celebration of the High Holy Days. I think in the testimonies offered at Rabbi White’s memorial, two of the most beautiful were offered by our Imam and by a Catholic priest. I think the profound respect this university community has always shown to me personally, but also I think it has shown in the full diversity of our community. It shows the importance of faith as a dimension of our lives, which was something that I began to appreciate very early on. Then, a really interesting thing happened while I was here, beginning in the early to mid-1980s. The resources of the tradition that has animated Georgetown, the Jesuit tradition, began to be available in ways that just weren’t accessible to earlier generations and it was because of the work of extraordinary individuals, some of whom are here. They’ve been doing this for many, many years and they’re in their 80s but John O’Malley wrote some of the most important work about the early Jesuits. Howard Grey and Brian McDermon have done extraordinary work in making this spirituality of St. Ignatius available. What I realized rather early on is that we are part of a living, breathing, dynamic tradition and we’re helping to interpret and develop and extend and explain and make it ever more alive in this moment. For us, it’s really finding that combination. We strive to be one of the great universities in the world and we strive to be authentic Catholic and Jesuit and to do so in a way that acknowledges the tensions between trying to get that balance and a profound respect for engaging those tensions and critiquing ourselves in being able to respond to those tensions. The motto of the university, “both into one,” originally comes from Paul’s letter to the Ephesians. We’ve sort of taken a lot of liberty in explaining what “both into one” really means. I think one of the ways it takes meaning in our lifetime is really finding this balance between being a university and being a place that is authentically Catholic and Jesuit and finding a way to really integrate those in a way that enables us to be true to who we are.
How do you think the Pope’s causes — immigration, environmental issues etc. — align with Georgetown’s values? What can we learn from him?
Well, I would say two things. First, we have found incredible validation for the kinds of approaches we’ve taken to some of these issues and an incredible challenge to take whatever we’ve done and make it even that much stronger. Let me give you a couple of examples. So, the encyclical that came out in June, Laudato Si’, the most anticipated encyclical in our lifetime, and he didn’t fail in any way to meet anyone’s expectations.
For Georgetown, we made a decision in 2005 to cut our carbon footprint by 50 percent by 2020, and we’re at 72 percent today. We’ve exceeded all of our expectations. Until we read the encyclical, and when we read the encyclical we realized that one of the terms of engagement when we launched this in 2005 was you were permitted to use renewable energy credits as part of the tools that would enable you to accomplish your goal. Reading the pope’s encyclical, renewable energy credits, that’s not going to work. While they’ve been perfectly appropriate when we started, it’s not perfectly appropriate in 2015. So we’re no longer at 72 percent; we’re below 50 now. So we’re going to double down on our efforts and move the needle ever further. I had the privilege to engage an incredible architect and visionary, Bill McDonough, who wrote a book in 2002 called “Cradle to Cradle.” I engaged Bill, we met in June, the encyclical came out a couple weeks later and I was glad I had already reached out to Bill because it was clear we were going to need to take this further. The pope, in his letter, talks about the circular economy. “Cradle to Cradle” was an early effort to try to show how you might be able to act more circularity in the way in which you organize your lives together in a community. I wasn’t sure if anybody would come because it was early August, but I invited a hundred members of the community to come together for a two-day workshop led by Bill. We broke down into four team categories. We looked at multiple dimensions of the university; many students came back from all over the place just for those two days. Bill introduced the concepts and we had working groups at each table, trying to unpack everything from water to waste to transportation to energy usage and how we engage that. We’ve been working on a number of important fronts. I had signed an agreement for the university some years back in the context of a group I worked with, the Global Economic Forum, the Global University Leaders Forum, where we signed an agreement that committed us to a compact with other global universities to try to address issues of sustainability. Then, we had a leadership effort here in Washington that we were a part of, where the universities of Washington committed to new levels of sustainability. What we hope we can do from a number of initiatives — from the Georgetown Environment Initiative to our work on sustainability to the circular economy — all of these are an effort on our part to try to respond to this challenge.
Recently, the Association of American Universities found that 23 percent of women reported being sexually assaulted in college. Can you evaluate the problem of sexual assault at Georgetown? 
I would begin with the priorities, which is to ensure that this is the safest possible place for students and that no one be blocked, limited in any way by a fear that this wasn’t a place that provided the strongest possible context for them to live their richest possible life here. The degree to which concerns about sexual assault are blocking, limiting any of our members from being able to realize a full experience here, that is always our first priority. I’ve had an opportunity to work on these questions for nearly a quarter century because at one point in my years here at Georgetown, I was the Chief Student Affairs Officer — the Dean of Students — from ’85 to ’92 and in that context we confronted these dynamics in a very direct way. We established a framework that included a personnel and sexual assault working group. We’ve had a deep history and deep engagement in trying to ensure the safest possible environment for our community. At the same time, we recognize that in any context like this, you have to just stay at it, keep working, try to find the next way we can deepen and engage with our students where they are so that we can be supportive in the most appropriate ways. For structure, we can provide leadership, wherever it’s possible for us to do, and whenever it’s possible to provide, we’re doing it. We share all these responsibilities because all students have to live out their own lives to ensure that they understand both what we expect and what we believe are the appropriate standards for behavior here, and that we’re prepared to provide a framework to support and sustain that. And if there are things that only a university can do, we want to make sure we’re doing those. It’s been about three years now we’ve had the online program that was part of orienting everyone to our community, two years now we’ve been a leader in modeling best practice regarding bystander training and awareness. We just entered into a new agreement with our students. It is great leadership from Georgetown University Student Association and by our colleagues. It’s a terrific piece of work. We added the online app last year, which I think was received well. We’ve developed a new training program for all those who were involved in hearings. We critique and receive critique following some of the hearings. We’ve also been participating in some of the national and local discussion. I was part of a meeting here in Washington in August. We are very aware of how important this issue is right now, what an appropriate kind of understanding and responsibility it entails, and we’re trying to ensure we’re doing everything in our power to respond to those expectations.
We recently completed the capital campaign early. What do you think that says about the university and its alums? Georgetown is still ranked #21 in the U.S. News & World Report rankings, despite our low endowment. What does that mean, to you?
We’re going to work all year to try to achieve even more. We did accomplish the target goal of $1.5 billion, and you’re quite right that the rankings in U.S. News put a disproportionate amount of attention on endowment. And the history for Georgetown is we were actually owned by a religious community, the Jesuits of Georgetown until 1969, and we didn’t begin fundraising like traditional universities until the early 1980s. We’ve done four campaigns in our modern history. We’ve raised roughly $2 billion since I took on this role. My experience has been with incredibly broad and deep generosity in our community. I think, relative to our peers, we’re doing relatively well. In terms of the growth rate, to raise $2 billion in this last decade, that’s a pretty good tribute to this community. It is completely predicated on generosity. We wanted to raise $1.5 billion; we wanted $100 million for financial aid. This is a deeply committed community, and for me it’s a privilege to engage with it in this way. These are folks who believe in us; they believe in our values, they believe in our mission, they believe in our history, and most importantly, they believe in our future.
There’s always things you are raising for: financial aid, faculty and infrastructure. In this case, we organized the campaign around four priorities: financial aid, faculty, infrastructure and what we call transformative opportunities. If you think about the first one, scholarship support, I would say that that enables us to ensure that the next generation of the best students will always be able to consider Georgetown as a realistic opportunity. Our way of ensuring the future of the institution and the quality of the student body is to ensure our affordability. The way we ensure affordability is through two policies: need-blind in admission and we meet full need of all of our students. What does that mean? We don’t believe that your ability to pay is a relevant factor in our decision to admit you. When we construct a class, when Charlie Deacon and our committees on admissions construct a class, we think they should look at a number of things about you, in determining admission. We don’t think one of them is your ability to pay.
Number two, when we say faculty, it is normally the programs faculty are interested in. Right now, there are number of issues that are of real concern from a faculty perspective that need to be a part of our agenda. The campaign enables us to ensure we have the resources to adapt accordingly. For example in the last decade, China has emerged as more important. How have we responded? Victor Cha created an incredible program in the School of Foreign Service around Asian studies. We’ve put an office in Beijing. We’ve facilitated a lot more flow of ideas and talent between and China and Georgetown. We wouldn’t have been able to do that without philanthropy. We’ve launched some really exciting and incredible projects, the most important I think in this context being Designing the Future(s). Designing the Future(s) is identifying a number of ways in which we might be able to adapt and move forward as an institution. But we need to be able to do so in a way in which we’re very cognizant of the cost. So if cost weren’t an object, we’d be doing all sorts of other things around here, but we want to always try to ensure affordability. So finding that right balance, and what Designing the Future(s) is doing is looking at both exciting new adventures for us in learning, and how might we able to restrain, constrain the growth in cost.
How is current campus construction going, and how does it fit in to your future vision for the university?
We’ve done one billion over the last 14 years here on campus. We needed to, in terms of the constraints of the neighborhood community, in order to move forward in the growth and development that we needed to, and when we launched the Southwest Quadrangle project, that was a prerequisite for us to do the things we needed to do, which was we needed a new home for business, for performing arts, for science. We were able to ultimately get that done. What enabled us to do the billion plus was the great generosity of our community. The really annoying stuff, I think will be done by Thanksgiving; the library walk, the Quadrangle, the new bus turnaround facility down near McDonough Gym, these have been the most annoying of the projects and I think we’re going to have those finished this fall. That leaves the two big projects, which is the Thompson Center and the new residence hall next to Reiss. I think those are on track to be finished by early summer of next year. We may get a window there where there won’t be a towering crane on campus for the first time in 15 or 16 years. We’ll miss the towering crane, but we won’t miss the disruptions.
I know that you’re in the process of developing the newest campus plan with the neighborhood – how are the deliberations going and how much is the university willing to compromise with students and the neighborhood?
Our goal is always to just stay at the table, and keep working until we get an alignment between what we need. “We” is a complicated “we”. Our faculty have interests, our students have interests, our alumni have interests, and as an administration we seek to create the best possible balance for our own perspective. And then we bring it out to the public, and we have multiple neighborhoods. When we established the Georgetown Community Partnership, that gave us the most stable and consistent way of providing continuity over time in this conversation. We don’t have a lot more that we can do on this campus, we know our limits, there aren’t that many more places that we can build. Our ambition for this campus is not unreasonable. I think we’re realistic about what more can be done here. I think we’re going to have the ability to get alignment with our students, our faculty and our alumni in terms of this campus. I don’t think people want to see a whole lot more construction around here; we know we can do some work. Lauinger, I think would be well-received by many, a bit next to Regents Hall. And the long-range dream of flipping the Yates Field and Shaw Field, where Shaw Field could go on Yates and Yates could go on Shaw Field. That’s probably the longest-range. And the most immediate issue is really around academic medicine. MedStar Health is ready to build a new hospital, and we are ready to support them and the site for that is the parking lot between Darnall and the existing hospital. That would be worth taking a look at, a very exciting project, we’re very supportive of MedStar’s interest in getting that done. I think that will help our medical students and our residents really be able to move forward in this new way. That one is ambitious, a big, big project that we all need to get everybody in alignment regarding that. I’m pretty confident we’re going to be able to get alignment between all of the parties, because I think our expectations are reasonable and modest, and I think we just need to make sure that everybody is a part of it.
The construction going on around campus has made it quite difficult for disabled students to navigate campus? Do you plan to address their needs in the future?
I think truly it’s unintentional; there’s no excuse for not being able to accommodate. We know what our responsibilities are to respect a number of our community, ensure we are attentive to that.
 
Correction: Both DeGioia and the pope spoke about Dorothy Day, not Doris Day.
Hoya Staff Writer

Alumna says 
September 25, 2015 at 9:49 pm
So much respect for the way DeGioia’s leads. Georgetown is in good hands.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 25, 2015 by Margaret Heftler 1 Comment 
Former Secretary of Defense and School of Foreign Service professor Chuck Hagel will return to Georgetown as a distinguished executive-in-residence this academic year.
In his new position, Hagel will provide support and expertise to all four schools of the university and give guest lectures.
In a statement on the university website released last Thursday, Hagel said he is excited to become involved in education again after two years as secretary of defense.
“I’m looking forward to renewing my association with Georgetown and helping a great institution continue its important work preparing our next generation of leaders,” Hagel wrote.
According to Office of the President Chief of Staff Joe Ferrara, Hagel has visited campus and is in the process of meeting with deans, administrators and professors, including SFS Dean Joel Hellman and McCourt School of Public Policy Dean Edward Montgomery, to determine the best ways to address their schools’ specific needs.
“What he’s doing now as the semester is getting underway is he’s talking to deans … and saying … ‘Tell me what you’ve got going; where could I be helpful?’” Ferrara said.
Although no events or guest lectures have yet been planned, Hellman said he hopes that Hagel will be a valuable resource for students and faculty in a variety of ways.
“Our hope from the SFS side is to use Secretary Hagel across the program,” Hellman said. “He’s going to be providing guest lectures and engaging across our program where his experience is going to be most useful. He’ll also help us [think] through how to establish practical engagement exercises for our students and bringing his experience into some of that practical experience.”
Prior to his nomination as secretary of defense, Hagel taught several courses on geopolitics, such as a course called “Redefining Geopolitical Relationships,” in the SFS from 2009 to 2013.
Michael Podberezin (GRD ’14), who took Hagel’s course, “21st Century Geopolitical Realities,” said in a statement on the Georgetown website that Hagel incorporated his practical experience into his courses.
“The fact that Sen. Hagel was in the room when many of the decisions were made really creates a unique learning opportunity,” Podberezin said.
Hagel served as the secretary of defense under President Barack Obama from February 2013 to this February, when he resigned under pressure from the administration.
Under his term as secretary of defense, Hagel was faced with multiple international conflicts, including the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the increasing territorial gain of the Islamic State and a continued delay in closing the Guantanamo Bay detention camp.
He previously represented Nebraska as the state’s first Republican senator in 24 years from 1997 to 2009, and is noted as the first veteran of the Vietnam War to serve as secretary of defense. He received two Purple Hearts for his service.
During his term as senator, Hagel served as a senior member of the Senate Foreign Relations, Banking and Intelligence Committees. He also chaired the Senate Global Climate Change Observer Group and the Congressional-Executive Commission on China.
Hellman said that he hopes Hagel will be an accessible resource for a wide range of interested students.
“We’d really like to keep the maximum flexibility for him as a resource, so he’s someone who is available to meet with faculty [and] students [and] engage with them on their classes rather than target one audience or one group of students,” Hellman said.
Previous executives in residence include former Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation Robert Mueller, who took on the position in late 2013 a week after he resigned from the FBI.
Ferrara said that Hagel’s renewed involvement will be beneficial to the Georgetown community.
“He very much enjoys being part of the Georgetown community. He was very interested in having an affiliation here after stepping down as Secretary of Defense, and so he plans to be on campus as much as he possibly can,” Ferrara said. “He’s someone who feels an attachment to the Georgetown community and wants to contribute.”
Halle Hagan (SFS ’18) said that she looks forward to broadening her understanding of international affairs from attending Hagel’s lectures.
“I’m sure that Secretary Hagel’s guest lectures will add fresh insight into international affairs today,” Hagan said. “I hope that I will have the opportunity to attend one of his lectures in my remaining years at Georgetown.”
The Hoya has reached out to Hagel for a Q&A.
 
 

Salim M Hammoud (SAM) says 
March 5, 2016 at 2:13 pm
“Hagel Returns to University”
SEPTEMBER 25, 2015; BY MARGARET HEFTLER; HOYA STAFF WRITER
By way of introduction, I am Dr. Salim M. Hammoud (SAM), a 1980 Graduate from the George Washington University, with great affinity to the Washington and its highly impressive and influence Communities, not only in politics but in all businesses and walks of like. I have spent several years advocating and sharing my insights and forward looking aspirations to the local, regional and international communities.
Yes Indeed, thanks for your write-up on Sen Hagel and his return to the University, whereby it will be mutually rewarding for both (University & Sen Hagel) by sharing his highly impressive regarded Executive knowledge & experiences to impact positively on many areas of Global Concerns & Interests.
My utmost regards to all for such well planned Strategy & Efforts; and my sincere regards to a friend that goes back to the eighties that is the Hon Sen Chuck Hagel. I have been trying to connect with him since long time…Hope you can manage and help in this…
Currently I am away from the USA…
The Best is Yest to Come…
Hope together as one team, we can make the difference…
Thanks and best regards,
Dr Salim M Hammoud
Cell #: +966 50 620 1723
Email: [email protected]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 25, 2015 by Alicia Che Leave a Comment 
The Bank of America Charitable Foundation announced a $1 million gift to the Georgetown Global Social Enterprise Initiative and the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security last Wednesday to establish a fellowship on women in the economy and to support programming on corporate responsibility.
A portion of the donation will create a BOA Fellowship on and Women and the Economy at GIWPS, which will offer qualified recent graduates the opportunity to research topics related to women’s empowerment and economic development.
In a statement on the university website, President of the BOA Charitable Foundation Kerry Sullivan said that she is excited to continue the partnership with Georgetown through this donation.
“Georgetown’s tradition of service closely aligns with our commitment to making corporate social responsibility the core of our business, and both of these programs support our efforts to foster economic empowerment around the world,” Sullivan wrote.
According to GIWPS Executive Director Melanne Verveer, the gift shows BOA’s dedication to empowering women in the economy.
“They understand that women’s economic participation is critical to growing economies at home and around the world. They also recognize that women entrepreneurs and the small and medium size businesses they create are growth accelerators,” Verveer wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Verveer said that the donation will be important in furthering the institute’s outreach and programming.
“BOA has been committed to growing women’s economic participation through a range of initiatives relating to access to capital for women, entrepreneurs, mentoring programs, leadership and related commitments,” Verveer wrote.
Verveer also said that the fellowship will help create a cadre of young talent for women’s issues.
The inaugural fellowship recipient this year, Tricia Correia (MSB ’15), plans to engage in a number of research projects related to various cutting-edge topics in women’s economic participation.
“It will cover my research expenses to a reasonable level, and I am currently working with a professor in the [McDonough School of Business] to design one of my projects,” Correia said. “Just being able to focus on conducting research and not having to apply for separate grants is a great thing for me.”
The donation will also be used to fund the GSEI to deliver programming on corporate responsibility. The GSEI was originally launched within the MSB in 2011 using a $1 million gift from the BOA Charitable Foundation.
GSEI plans to put the grant to use by proposing a new Corporate Social Responsibility series, which will start Sept. 30. The series, which will be open to students, will look at the evolution of the concept of corporate social responsibility, using BOA and other companies as examples. Later this fall, GSEI also plans to organize a discussion on green investment.
In addition, GSEI plans to use the funding to expand its existing internship program in order to connect more students to career opportunities, including a summer internship with the World Business Council on sustainable development.
A portion of the gift will also fund the work of author Leslie Crutchfield, who is currently writing her next book on social innovation as a senior fellow at GSEI.
The initial donation from BOA in 2011 has allowed GSEI to offer a range of different programs over the past four years. According to GSEI Executive Director Ladan Manteghi, the $1 million were awarded over three years for an array of programming events.
With the funding, GSEI has invited a number of speakers to campus, including Bono and Warren Buffett. GSEI has also supported and funded internship opportunities for students interested in pursuing studies in social entrepreneurship, including two Masters of Business Administration students who worked with the State Department’s Global Partnership Initiative office.
In addition, the endowment has provided operational support to other activities, such as supporting student leadership, developing program marketing, funding new student initiatives and inviting experienced business professionals who connect MSB students to real business experience.
Manteghi said that the additional funding will help GSEI enhance its mission.
“From what I learned, BOA believes in helping to support a new generation of leaders to view the approach to business and how it can contribute to society in a meaningful way,” Manteghi said. “We are growing, and we are utilizing the fund to enhance those programs as well as enhance the experience of our students.”
With regards to how the partnership between GSEI and BOA will continue to evolve in the future, Manteghi said that she is positive about its potential.
“I think we will continue to grow together, grow the practice of social enterprise and the mindset of being able to take on challenges of being catalysts and leaders in social enterprises,” Manteghi said. 
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 25, 2015 by Patricja Okuniewska 1 Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association established the Student Leadership Fund on Sunday as a resource to support students with demonstrated financial need who are interested in participating in campus elections.
Applicants who meet the fund’s qualifications will be granted up to $25 to use for reimbursable expenses, in addition to funding for print cards and candy in campaigning.
The SLF, which aims to make student leadership more accessible to students of all socioeconomic backgrounds, will go into effect starting this election cycle with the GUSA senate elections. Students who are running for senate, Academic Councils, Hall Councils or any other student office will be able to apply for the fund.
Students can request access to campaign funding anonymously through HoyaLink after indicating which office they would like to run for. Applications will be processed by the Center for Student Engagement, which will also handle the distribution of the funds.
GUSA Deputy Chief of Staff Reed Howard (SFS ’17) said that he started the SLF to address a perceived lack of awareness of socioeconomic issues on campus. Last semester, Howard led a series of conversations on ways to increase diversity within GUSA and other leadership positions on campus.
“One issue raised during this time was that of socioeconomic diversity,” Howard wrote in an email to The Hoya. “There is no doubt that a student’s socioeconomic status can be a barrier to getting involved with student activities on campus, whether it is in elected or non-elected positions.”
Howard said that although the SLF is a promising first step in increasing the diversity of student leaders at Georgetown, there is a lot of work left to do.
“My hope is that as a result of this Fund, it is easier for students of all socio-economic backgrounds to run for office on campus,” Howard wrote. “While the Student Leadership Fund will likely be appreciated assistance for some, I cannot stress enough how inadequate the Fund is in addressing the true issues of socio-economic diversity among student life on the Hilltop.”
According to GUSA Vice President Connor Rohan (COL ’16), the SLF can help to correct assumptions that many students make about the socioeconomic classes of other students.
“People assume a lot of the time that those around them are of higher socioeconomic status when that is not the case,” Rohan said.
GUSA President Joe Luther (COL ’16) agreed that students are often unaware of their peers’ backgrounds.
“Socioeconomic status is something people do not talk about very much here, [and] I think there is the unfortunate assumption that everybody comes from a wealthy or privileged background,” Luther said.
Rohan also said that students currently do not know the socioeconomic diversity of Georgetown and do not realize the difficulty that some students may have with participation in certain activities on campus.
“This is a step toward being cognizant of that socioeconomic diversity that we have here, and making sure that everyone is granted an opportunity when they come to Georgetown,” Rohan said.
Luther said it is important that students do not feel excluded from campus elections on the basis of their socioeconomic status. Instead, he said that they should feel free to showcase their leadership skills and qualifications regardless of their background.
“I think that in some ways this will move the conversation in a positive direction,” Luther said. “I hope that the fund serves as a message to the student body that we are only interested in peoples’ potentials to lead, not what their wallets say.”
More than 55 percent of Georgetown students applied for need-based aid in 2014, and more than 38 percent received aid.
Howard said that GUSA has more plans to address the barriers of socioeconomic status this year. The Student Leadership Fund is the first initiative of #InclusiveLeadership, a project addressing diversity in student leadership that will kick off next month.
After that, Reed said he hopes to create a student leadership fellowship, which will aid students who wish to make voluntary contributions to the school but do not have the financial resources to do so.
Howard encouraged all who are interested in addressing the issues of economic diversity on campus to participate in these initiatives.
“I invite all Hoyas who are interested in this initiative or have ideas of their own to reach out and help bring about change,” Howard wrote. “This is a time for creativity and a time for action.”
 

Missy Foy, GSP Office says 
September 29, 2015 at 8:02 pm
Great work, guys!!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 25, 2015 by Paul Tsavoussis Leave a Comment 
The Institute of Politics and Public Service hosted Independent Journal Review Executive Editor Michelle Jaconi (SFS ’96, GRD ’97), who discussed her careers at Georgetown and in the media in Old North on Tuesday.
The event was the second talk in IPPS’s Hoyas in Politics and Public Service series, which IPPS Executive Director Mo Elleithee described while moderating the discussion.
“The purpose of our HIPPSter series is to pull back the curtain a little bit and show you all that there are a lot of career paths in the public and private space,” Elleithee said. “Also to figure out the hows and the whys [alumni] got to where they are.”
Jaconi explained that her passion for journalism was sparked at a young age after her school in Los Angeles closed due to a lack of funding. She wrote a letter to her local paper, which gained traction and landed her in the state capital, where she confronted local lawmakers about the school’s closing.
She also said her time at Georgetown catalyzed her journalistic career, specifically highlighting the benefits of her multiple internships and writing for The Georgetown Voice.
“It is the one time in your life that you can dabble … and find out what you are supposed to do,” Jaconi said.
After graduation, Jaconi worked as a producer and political analyst at NBC’s “Meet the Press.” She spoke fondly of her time at the show under the program’s longest-serving moderator, Tim Russert, who died in 2008.
“What was so neat about Tim is that every newspaper and news entity had the same adjective to describe him after he died: beloved,” Jaconi said. “Who would get that today?”
She also credited her ascension in NBC to her motivation to contribute to Russert’s success.
“I think D.C. is such a meritocracy where if you work your butt off and never claim credit for anything when you need it, there is a lot of capital in the bank,” Jaconi said. “I am [a] helper. I like helping people, and I loved helping Tim.”
After 12 years at NBC, Jaconi moved to CNN to become executive producer of the cross-platform programming unit, which coordinates news coverage across all media platforms.
She said her specific interest in television journalism stems from the candid nature of live interviews.
“I love getting to know a candidate through the television,” Jaconi said. “They can’t hide behind anything like in print. …Live TV has this rawness and if you write the right question you get that chuckle or that thing.”
However, Jaconi left conventional television journalism because she believes it no longer carries the weight and influence it once did with the American public.
“If most people are getting their news through social media and most of the impact is through social media, how are the journalists not in social media?” Jaconi said. “That really bothered me.”
Following this revelation, Jaconi decided to join a venture that differed considerably from her last two positions at the Independent Journal Review.
IJ Review is a mobile news company that has 35 million unique viewers each month and is now one of the top 50 websites in the United States.
Jaconi attributed the success of the company to its ability to identify and hold an audience, filling a demand for moderate, fun and informative news, which has solidified its presence in the media world.
“[Founder and President of IJ Review] Alex Skatell wanted to find those commonsense people that want to vote and really wanted to find out information and weren’t crazy,” Jaconi said.
After the event, Jaconi spoke with students individually and said that her success in journalism is tied closely to the Jesuit education she received at Georgetown.
“I love that insatiable curiosity of the Jesuits and the fact that to be a Jesuit you actually have to master another faith,” Jaconi said. “A ‘Russert rule’ was to learn everything about the person who was coming on and then take the opposite side — and frankly that’s a lot like Jesuit education in a political concept.”
Scott Syroka (COL ’16) attended the event and said he found Jaconi to be a quintessential Hoya alumna.
“I think she is a great example of what a Georgetown education can provide, and she is a great example of living up to Jesuit values,” Syroka said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 25, 2015 by Gaia Mattiace Leave a Comment 
The Green Revolving Loan Fund installed a series of motion detection-operated lights in the common rooms of Darnall Hall last week to reduce the university’s energy usage and carbon footprint.
The installation was the first project financed by the Green Fund, which was founded last spring as an independent branch of the Social Innovation and Public Service Fund. The fund chose the light installation as its first project in March, collaborating with various organizations including Georgetown Energy and the Georgetown University Student Association in the process.
Under the new system, the lights will automatically shut off 30 minutes after a room has been left vacant.
Green Fund Director Daniel Watson said that the project will save the university a great deal of energy and money in years to come.
“The project was to install occupancy sensors throughout Darnall Hall’s common areas — spaces that had previously been left fully lit despite no one occupying the room,” Watson said. “We estimate that the sensors will pay for themselves within just seven years through energy savings, and our loan term with the university reflects that.”
According to SIPS Board of Trustees Executive Director Naman Trivedi (SFS ’16), the pilot project originated from Georgetown Energy, a student group dedicated to reducing the university’s carbon footprint.
Trivedi said that the team chose Darnall as a testing ground to check the viability of launching the project in other dorms on campus.
“If the pilot ran well, the idea would be to calculate potential savings from installing motion-detection lights in other dorms on campus. With Darnall as a success, the team is now looking to install in other underclassmen dorms,” Trivedi said.
Trivedi praised the installation as an effective and financially sound project.
“The finished result of the project is a student-led, energy-efficient and cost-saving mechanism that promotes sustainability at Georgetown,” Trivedi said. “Over time, this will result in substantial energy savings for the building.”
The establishment of the Green Fund was the result of a referendum by the Student Activities Fund Endowment in 2012, which also allocated financial resources for the installation of solar panels on townhouses in the Georgetown area.
Watson said the fund was formed due to demand from student groups to finance necessary and innovative green technologies.
“The founders of this organization had so much foresight in predicting the need and usefulness of a fund like this,” Watson said.
SIPS Board of Trustees Operations Director Allie Heymann (SFS ’16) said that other branches of SIPS could evolve from the sustainable model of the Green Fund.
“In essence, the Green Fund is a more sustainable and more green-oriented manifestation of the greater SIPS mission. In the very long term, SIPS could potentially develop more independent branches that follow the GRLF model,” Heymann said.
Heymann also praised the Darnall project and emphasized how much hard work went into its completion.
“I think that the occupancy sensors were a great first project for the Green Fund, and a major personal victory for all members of the team,” Heymann said. “This project was a huge success and an incredible first step.”
Trivedi said SIPS’s next step is to publicize the Green Fund’s first finalized project, so that other student groups are encouraged to propose sustainable projects to the fund.
“The Green Fund will work on marketing the success of this first project soon. The goal is not so much to laud the brilliance of installing motion-detection lights, but rather to inspire the 300-plus students that live in Darnall to apply for a Green Fund grant to work on a sustainability project of their own,” Trivedi said.
According to Watson, the Green Fund has already begun plans for another sustainable project.
“For our next project, we are planning to renovate another residence hall, this time with LED lighting. We are working with EcoAction and Georgetown Energy on that project, and are hoping the Darnall project proves that the university is willing to continue working with us,” Watson said.
Hanh Nguyen (SFS ’19), a resident of Darnall, said that the installation will be an exciting addition to the hall.
“I think it’s a pretty good idea because, myself especially, I always go to the common room in the middle of the night for food or a midnight snack, and sometimes I have to locate the switch, so with the motion sensor light I don’t have to do that,” Nguyen said. “At the same time, everything in Darnall is pretty old, so it’s nice to have something new around here.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 25, 2015 by Eunsun Cho Leave a Comment 
Around 30 students gathered at a roundtable discussion on faith and environmental sustainability led by Director of the Science, Technology and International Affairs Program Mark Giordano and Vice President for Mission and Ministry Rev. Kevin O’Brien, S.J., in McShain Lounge on Monday in light of the papal visit.
The discussion, titled “Pope Francis’ Environmental Challenge,” centered on the pope’s encyclical on the environment from late May, which called for greater harmony between humans and nature. The encyclical, called “Praise Be to You,” also critiqued consumerism and unsustainable development while drawing attention to global warming and other environmental issues.
O’Brien began the discussion by explaining the historic significance of the encyclical, which has elicited a wide range of responses from world leaders, the scientific community and environmental activists due to the pope’s firm stance on climate change.
“While popes had talked about the environment for many decades, never has the environment been treated in such a systematic way, in such an authoritative way by popes,” O’Brien said.
According to O’Brien, the encyclical addresses practical problems caused by rapid technological development and economic growth, such as unequal access to clean water and healthy food. In the document, Pope Francis calls sustainability a means of redemption from the sin of environmental destruction.
“Anything that touches the human touches the church,” O’Brien said. “That human being is the child of God.”
After O’Brien offered his introductory remarks, he and Giordano shared their interpretations of the encyclical. O’Brien pointed out the interplay between the concepts of integral ecology, solidarity and the humanitarian interest of the Catholic Church.
Giordano discussed the social and scientific contributions that have been made since the encyclical was published. He said that the encyclical shifted the conversation  on environmental protection from the wealthy, who often seem to value nature aesthetically or recreationally, to the most vulnerable parts of the population whose survival is directly threatened by environmental anomalies.
Giordano said that by providing a bridge between the scientific and religious communities, the encyclical promotes an interdisciplinary dialogue on social justice and the environment.
“I see the intersection [between religion and science] all the time,” Giordano said. “The connection between religion and science is what the pope said in the encyclical, and I think it brought together things in a way that haven’t been for a long time.” O’Brien said that it is important to hold discussions about environmental issues and sustainability on campus.
“[Georgetown has] been in a multiyear conversation about environmental sustainability and how we can be better protectors of the environment,” O’Brien said. “This event deepens the conversation that we have had as a campus …  and our commitment to care for the earth.”
After the panel discussion, audience members talked about how they could contribute to environmental sustainability. Divided into groups under the categories of prayer, service  and action, each table reflected on the encyclical’s message and came up with ideas for possible initiatives to promote sustainability.
Students who participated in the discussion suggested that the university community should begin contributing to sustainability with simple approaches, such as recycling.
Hadley Masiel (COL ’19), who attended the event and is involved in an initiative called Campus Kitchens that shares unused food from O’Donovan Hall with nearby neighborhoods, emphasized the need for greater awareness of the changes that individuals can make on the environment.
“If [people] are not understanding what they are doing every time they don’t recycle, there’s no incentive to change their ways,” Masiel said. “I think there should be more understanding of how much of an impact just a simple thing can make.”
Emma Berg (COL ’19), who attended the event, said that she hopes to see tangible outcomes through engaging in conversations about the community’s responsibility to protect the environment.
“People need to know how their choices [are] actually impacting the community and the environment,” Berg said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 25, 2015 by Lucy Pash Leave a Comment 
Director of the Executive Master’s Program in Health Systems Administration Robert Carr was recently appointed president of the American College of Preventive Medicine, effective in 2017.
The university announced Carr’s selection on its website last Tuesday.
In his role, Carr will guide ACPM, an organization of more than 2,700 members from academia and government who aim to promote preventive medicine in order to improve the health of individuals and communities.
School of Nursing and Health Studies Interim Dean Patricia Cloonan said that Carr’s selection is a testament to his influence in the field of health sciences.
“He has brought great energy and enthusiasm to his role as director of our new Executive Master’s in Health Administration Program. His recent election to this significant leadership position at ACPM truly reflects his prominence in the field,” Cloonan wrote in an email to The Hoya.
After he graduated from medical school, Carr joined the preventive medicine field of the United States Air Force and participated in preventive medicine training, gaining his master’s of public health at Johns Hopkins University. Afterward, he spent 18 years at health care company GlaxoSmithKline, where he became senior vice president and chief medical director.
Carr joined the NHS earlier this year in a new role created for the Executive Master’s Program in Health Systems Administration.
At ACPM, Carr said that he would like to create partnerships between professionals in different sectors.
“As president, I intend to drive greater collaboration across multiple disciplines and areas toward the collective goal of improving the health of the patient through the levers of policy, practice, capability and innovation,” Carr wrote in a statement on the university website.
In his previous work, Carr has focused on the health risks that college students face, such as alcohol poisoning, eating disorders, smoking, sleep deprivation and the excessive use of technology.
Carr said that it was important for youths to pay attention to potential health issues at an early age.
“The challenge for the youth is that they feel invincible. The issue is to really identify what kind of life they want to lead and what kind of person they want to become, and therefore begin building those good habits and not starting bad habits while they’re in this state of formation in their adulthood,” Carr wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Interim Chair of the Department of Health Systems Administration Ryung Suh praised Carr for his leadership and dedication to the field of medicine.
“Bob brings a focus on leadership and innovation, distilled from decades of executive experience,” Suh wrote in an email to The Hoya. “He will bring the same energy and commitment to ACPM that he has brought to the Executive Master of Science in Health Systems Administration Program.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 25, 2015 by Caroline Welch Leave a Comment 
Since its inception in 2007, the compliance helpline in the Office of Compliance and Ethics has served as a simple, confidential and largely underutilized reporting service that offers students and faculty an alternative channel to bring compliance-related concerns to light.
As parts of Georgetown’s Institutional Compliance and Ethics Program, the 24/7, multilingual telephone hotline and the online report service have fielded over 90 reports over the past eight years concerning compliance in a variety of university issues, including human resources, athletics, safety and research.
Associate Vice President for Compliance and Ethics Jim Ward said that the helpline provides guidance for students or faculty who would like to report compliance or ethical violations.
“The compliance helpline is confidential and anonymous if you want to address problems or concerns, if someone believes that there’s a violation of the law or policy being violated,” Ward said. “If someone feels uncomfortable asking a question through regular channels at the university, they can do so through the compliance helpline.”
Over the past few years, students have begun to use the service more frequently, increasing from 11 reports in 2009 to 31 in 2014.
While the service is available to all university and nonuniversity members, it is primarily used by faculty and staff to report human resources concerns. Over 80 percent of the reports have come from university employees.
Ward said that this positive trend is likely due to growing student awareness about the service and not necessarily an increase in the overall number of incidents.
“When we first established the helpline, not many people knew about it, so I see the upward trend as indicative of a greater saturation of awareness,” Ward said. “Generally, people report that they feel comfortable reporting through the helpline.”
The service allows members of the community to file confidential reports, which can be used in situations in which a superior is implicated or a department only has a few employees.
The main online server and reception services for the compliance helpline are operated by EthicsPoint, a third-party organization. Reports are filed and redistributed within the hour to the OCE, which ensures that the university abides by federal laws, regulations and policies.
Ward said that one of the most important functions of EthicsPoint is ensuring that the reports remain private.
“The helpline exists on an external server that doesn’t belong to Georgetown University to give another level of confidentiality and anonymity if you were worried that our university servers could reverse-engineer your report,” Ward said.
According to Ward, the university has also instituted a whistleblower policy to afford further protection to those who use the helpline system in good faith.
“You’re protected by the whistleblower policy, which says that your report is a service to the university and it is to its benefit to know that this problem exists,” Ward said. “If you are not trying to be vindictive or abusive of the system … then [reporters] are protected from retaliation.”
Once the report is filed, the OCE reaches out to the department in question for a more thorough investigation of the claim.
“Once we receive the report … we’ll triage it,” Ward said. “We determine what the report is alleging, what component of the university is involved, how serious is the allegation and [if] it immediately need to be addressed.”
Ward said that in the majority of cases, the office in question is already aware of the issue and has begun to address it.
Director of Affirmative Action Programs in the Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity and Affirmative Action Michael Smith is responsible for compliance helpline reports specific to human resources, sexual misconduct and discrimination.
Smith said that the IDEAA works closely with the OCE to keep the confidentiality of the reports made through the helpline.
“Jim Ward assigns those reports to the IDEAA and depending on the details of the report … we might get back to [OCE] to offer individuals confidential resources within the university,” Smith said. “Some students or faculty may identify themselves and we will reach out to the individual to see how we can support you and describe our IDEAA process.”
Ward said that the OCE receives two times as many direct reports by email, office visit or phone call than through the helpline.
“We attribute this to the maturity of our program and to the fact that Georgetown employees are generally more familiar with the Compliance and Ethics Program and feel more comfortable reaching out to us,” Ward said.
While the OCE cannot guarantee that reporters will be notified of the full effects of their reports, they can receive progress reports from the online system using a designated report number and passcode.
“What we will guarantee is that we take your complaint seriously, we will investigate with due diligence and we will make sure that it’s resolved within accordance with university policies,” Ward said.
Gina Kim (SFS ’18) said that although the helpline is a useful resource, it will remain underutilized if the lack of marketing persists.
“I think the hotline will be very useful, particularly for international students, because it is multilingual,” Kim said. “But considering I had no idea what it was, and I like to consider myself at least somewhat aware of resources on campus, that might be a problem.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

