
April 24, 2015 by Molly Simio 52 Comments 
The Main Campus Executive Faculty voted today in favor of adding a diversity requirement to the core curriculum.
“The requirement passed with overwhelming support,” MCEF Chair Ian Gale, a professor of economics, wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Beginning with the Class of 2020, students from all four schools will be required to take two courses cross-listed under the category “Engaging Differences.” An estimated 240 courses will fulfill the requirement, with more accurate numbers to follow once departments finalize their syllabi. Students will not have to take additional courses to fulfill the requirement, which is satisfied through overlay courses.
According to Gale, the members of the MCEF discussed how the requirement would help students develop an understanding of different perspectives.
“The meaning of ‘non-Western perspectives’ was debated at length. Several faculty members and students offered their understanding of the term while others offered alternatives to the wording,” Gale wrote. “The debate was Georgetown at its best.”
The MCEF consists of 57 faculty members and two students, and the proposal needed at least 29 votes to pass. Gale was not able to provide the exact tally of votes at press time.
The requirement will need to be approved by the board of directors before it is instated.
LCAR member Khadija Khan (COL ’17) said that the vote is a victory for many students who have worked towards the approval of the requirement.
“Generations of students have been fighting for this movement. We are a part of history today,” Khan said. “This requirement means so much to so many students’ lives. We’ve been envisioning a better Georgetown for years, and this is a real step towards that vision.”
LCAR member Esther Owolabi (COL ’15) said that the requirement should serve to continue efforts in making Georgetown students more aware about issues related to diversity.
“After years of tireless student activism, I am proud of Georgetown for taking this monumental step to creating a more inclusive and aware community. This is big, but it is only the beginning,” Owolabi said.
Hoya Staff Writer Toby Hung contributed reporting.
 
Correction: An earlier version of this post stated the requirement would go into effect for the Class of 2019. It will begin with the Class of 2020. Additionally, more than 200 courses meet the overlay requirement, as opposed to the 80 initially cited, and the course category has been renamed “Engaging Differences” earlier in the academic year, as opposed to the name used earlier in the article, “Diversity, Power and Privilege.”
Hoya Staff Writer

a student says 
April 24, 2015 at 8:25 pm
The faculty of this school embarrassed themselves today by passing a feel good but utterly useless requirement that will harm Georgetown for decades to come. Not only only does this increase spending on smaller, less popular majors (what a surprise they voted for.it), it also prevents students from taking  classes that they actually want to be in and prevents experimentation. Now it becomes even harder to.become a science student at Georgetown, ensures the SFS will never have a science requirement, and adds another undue burden onto.incoming students. Attracting the best and the brightest will be even harder when they figure out that they will be taking gen eds till senior year and making.g it harder for students to graduate early. The secrecy involved was disgraceful, no one knows what classes are acceptable and no.student who is not in GUSA or is trying very hard to.appear “diverse” or get elected actually wants to take these classes

Antwan Robinson says 
April 25, 2015 at 12:41 pm
Sorry bro,  but this is not a feel good matter. Students have been working on this for 25 years, and since you’ve posted anonymously, you too have limited an open discussion. Also, this is not any more money out of the Univesity’s pocket, these are courses available to every student that most ‘stereotypical Georgetown students’ have avoided, because they can. And this requirement is about being culturally competent, which every future  leader of the world should be well versed in. If not in college, how is one supposed to be in that Office meeting not knowing how to  engage with their first transgender person? How about this is my first Black person I’ve met because I’m from a mostly white suburb of  New Jersey and I don’t know of the microaggressions I’m using? If you’re not culturally competent after college, you’ll be an ignorant world leader unaware of “the others” you’re working for.

A Student says 
April 25, 2015 at 1:14 pm
Antwan, I’m on a chat forum and I don’t hold the position of Race Leader on the cabinet. My input, and from what it looks like, the input of the majority of students on campus, was not solicited on this matter and I don’t recall any open student forums for this requirement. All there was this year was a misleading petition that I’m pretty sure a lot of people have buyer’s remorse about and an article written the day of the vote. And there is a reason why students don’t take these courses: Because no one wants to. They serve no real purpose outside of the confines of this zone and probably don’t even do that very well. As I’m sure we will hear many times, you cannot force people to learn about diversity and to be diverse and in any case I’m pretty sure most students here will be able to handle themselves in the real world better than people protesting about micro-aggressions. In fact, I can’t say I would learn anything in these requirements about micro-aggressions or transgenderism or anything else because the course listings and nothing else about this movement have been made public.

Antwan Robinson says 
April 25, 2015 at 6:08 pm
My friend, whoever you are posting anonymously, why don’t you stop repressing what you don’t want to hear? There’s inequality in this world wherever you may end up. And as an educated person, you need not walk blind through it.   There have been at least 5 events on campus in which there’s been both discussion for and against a diversity requirement,as well as open forums on how this will effect students with respect to requirements period. I didn’t give you title of any leader on any type of issue. I simply stated that we as Hoyas must know about one another. One of the biggest premises of Georgetown is to educate the entire person as well as becoming men and women for OTHERS. And it’s clear that you don’t want to be recognized by being anonymous, but if you’re a Hoya,and a future leader, you’ve proven that you have no competency on my previous  examples. They are the type of people that you will meet in the future, and you have them here right now. The ideal that Georgetown has placed as a tenant is Pluralism in Action, and that ideal hasn’t been met simply on the premise that if we accept more students of color, LGBTQIA, people of lower SES, we would come together and sing cumbaya hasn’t been true. Pluralism in Action starts by equipping Hoyas with the necessary language, and skills to sit down in the Jesuit ideal and reflect on how we’re showing up as people to reflect on our own identities.

Clarification says 
April 26, 2015 at 3:31 pm
>I didn’t give you title of any leader on any type of issue.
The student you responded to was referring to the fact that you are the Undersecretary for Race Affairs, according to the GUSA website.
Aside from that, I have yet to hear how an academic classroom environment is the right approach to fostering a sense of “pluralism in action.”

Antwan Robinson says 
April 27, 2015 at 12:11 am
Clarification person, you would not have known that fact, if you weren’t in fact from GUSA, so I’m assuming you’re in opposition and are in fact part of GUSA and chose not to participate in training on 4/26.

SFS*2016 says 
April 29, 2015 at 8:27 pm
Antwan, the fact that you are the US for Race Affairs is public knowledge available to everyone:
https://www.gustudentassociation.org/executive/cabinet/

SFS 2016 says 
April 25, 2015 at 5:32 pm
It’s laughable to suggest that any class can teach students “how to engage with their first transgender person” or Black person (and yes, those of us from the suburbs still know how to interact with a Black person…). You don’t learn those things by being sat down in a classroom and lectured to, or by writing a couple of papers and taking a final. You learn those things from organic interpersonal interactions, whether on your freshman floor or in clubs and student groups. 
And your suggestion that this kind of education can only happen in college is pretty elitist, don’t you think?

SFS*2016 says 
April 26, 2015 at 3:35 pm
You are going to be deeply disappointed if you think that forcing people to sit through a class that they don’t want to take is going to teach them “how to interact with Black people,” something that many of us from the suburbs (btw far more Americans live in suburbs than cities) learned how to do perfectly well, thank you very much.

Antwan Robinson says 
April 26, 2015 at 10:32 pm
Again, you all are posting anonymously, and are really constricting who I am interacting with. It’s extremely annoying arguing with nameless peers! Also, I’m from the suburbs as well, but that doesn’t mean I wasn’t raised in the same sexist, racist, hetero-normative American society that you were, person. And yes, that’s my official title in this administration, however, if you believe that I am pigeonholed into ONE social identity, please x person, take a nap. So you wanna know how we do foster this? Dang, I love those Jesuits. The Jesuit ideal of “Contemplation in Action,” where we actually sit down as Hoyas and REFLECT on our own identities and how in turn that affects out interactions with others fosters the Jesuit ideal of “Pluralism in Action.” Pluralism is the act of identities being present and in unison; I believe that’s called coexisting. The point here is to turn an ideal into an actual reality.

Antwan Robinson says 
April 26, 2015 at 11:49 pm
Also, I didn’t say that the only place that these can happen is college. I’m saying that “American Apartheid” exists, check out that book on Amazon. But the sparknotes version basically explains that racial relations, in particular are very stagnant because of the homogeneity of how America is segregated both by the social identities of socio-economic strata and race. How many people from your local high school shared your same race? How about socioeconomic status? What about cis-gendered? Do you believe that that experience is representative of the world you’re about to go out into? Google cis-gendered too, yay! privileged people get to thrive in their own ignorance. Anyway, point in case, college, in particularly Georgetown is a great opportunity for us to elicit, and exploit this type of education to create an actually inclusive environment, one that is embedded into the nature of the Jesuit values, got it, anon?

Also Class of 2016 says 
May 1, 2015 at 12:29 pm
> Also, I’m from the suburbs as well, but that doesn’t mean I wasn’t raised in the same sexist, racist, hetero-normative American society that you were, person.
What are you talking about? Are you saying that American society as a whole is all of those bad things (so I guess you’re an international student?), or just that the guy you responded to was raised in such an area? I don’t know where you’re from and neither of us know where he’s from, but there’s no need to make assumptions or to chastise people for where they happened to be born.

anonymous says 
April 24, 2015 at 8:41 pm
I think the problem with this, as stated above, is that there really are too many core requirements as it is. There’s no way to land an internship in the first two years of college if it depends on applying what you learn in class because the first two years of college is about taking intro level courses on subject irrelevant to the skill set needed for a job. Sure, these things might be worth discussing, but not worth adding an entire year of coursework for every student. Rather it should be incorporated into some of these core requirements that we’re already taking as it is. The discussion about switching to a four-course semester is completely off the table now because there won’t be any room in our four year plans with this new requirement. Idealism versus practicality at its best

Jack says 
April 24, 2015 at 8:48 pm
The inmates have seized control of the asylum. Normally I am inclined to believe students in their arguments against the neighbors, but if the same people who believe in this nonsense also are the people talking to the neighbors, I can see why the neighbors want to walk off the university

another student says 
April 24, 2015 at 8:49 pm
Georgetown is focused on cultivating the entire individual so it passes requirements that it believes will do so. If you want to just focus on becoming a doctor, lawyer, or some other professional then there are plenty of schools that primarily focus on that. Georgetown is about building individuals, not just careers. I agree that it’s just a “feel good” thing for now but it’s better than nothing.

Student who knows what they're talking about says 
April 24, 2015 at 9:42 pm
To all of you who think this is a bad idea because, “there really are too many core requirements as is” please do your research. The requirement does not ask for students to take an extra class, but rather requires that one of the other classes they enroll in also fulfills this requirement. For example, students could use their HALC, history, or theology course to fulfill the requirement and grow up to be the practical STEM or business they (or possibly their parents want them) to be without any less trouble than they would have now.
Regardless, the purpose of this requirement is not to liven up smaller majors or cut down on students’ choices, but rather to open their eyes to perspectives that they have been conditioned to not pay attention to. For a school of the white, privileged, and wealthy we have a responsibility to understand perspectives that are all to often seen as “the other”. The amount of ignorance and insensitivity I have seen on this campus is astonishing, and I don’t think we can truly say that Georgetown is truly educating the whole person if it does not ask students to step out of their comfort zone and listen to people of diverse and marginalized backgrounds.
Furthermore, this is hardly unprecedented. The majority of Georgetown’s peer schools have similar requirements and have had them for decades, so it’s embarrassing that a school that prides itself on its “diversity” as much as Georgetown has taken so long to enact this.

A Student says 
April 25, 2015 at 1:08 pm
Yeah no. The very nature of a requirement inherently means that it is limiting and requires extra classes. Just because they are cross listed doesn’t mean a whole lot, as I’m willing to bet substantial sums of money that courses like “existentialism” and such are not cross-;listed. As a result, we will see a crowding out effect for those courses that fill other requirements, such as random Theology and Philosophy courses that are cross listed, and everyone else who doesn’t get into these select few will be forced to take new classes. 
Next, our peer institutions don’t waste their time with pointless things like this. 2 Ivy League schools have somewhat similar requirements, both of which are not taken seriously by their student bodies, and neither UPenn nor Dartmouth have as extensive a core curriculum as Georgetown does. 
Finally, as someone who is neither white nor wealthy, I have seen large displays of ignorance on this campus as well. While I would argue most of that ignorance has been shown in the idiotic protests against that cartoon that was supporting Chris and Meredith, the truth is that you cannot force people to try and be more diverse and you cannot teach diversity, you have to experience it. Forcing people to be in classes they don’t want to take, which serve 0 purposes toward their goals, and which are seen as detriments to learning help no one.

SFS*2016 says 
April 26, 2015 at 3:29 pm
Sure they CAN use those slots to fulfill this requirement, but what if they don’t WANT to? Georgetown is billed as a place where you can pursue a variety of interests or “take that fun class,” but the organizers of this campaign just can’t abide by people wanting to take a different approach to their education, so they went over students’ heads to force this requirement upon them.
And miss me with the snide remarks about “their parents want.” Again, we see that you cannot possibly imagine for a second that anybody would actually have different interests and passions than you do, so you feel the need to force them into your field.

SFS'15 says 
April 27, 2015 at 8:35 pm
Agree generally with what’s already been said, but just an additional note:
You call yourself “Student who knows what they’re talking about.” Please get off your high horse of superiority over your fellow students. We don’t have to have written the proposal itself to understand diversity and have informed, reasonable opinions about encouraging an understanding of and culture of diversity on campus. Students don’t disagree with stepping out of comfort zones; we disagree with forcing it as a course requirement that has a grade and professor biases associated with it, among other problems. Additionally, your fellow students aren’t dumber or less moral than you; they have real concerns and your haughtiness to engaging belies an unwillingness to face conflicting opinions. Perhaps you should get out of your comfort zone?
And we don’t have these opinions as white privileged people. I have this opinion as a minority racially and definitely socioeconomically.

An SFSer says 
April 25, 2015 at 1:55 am
While I understand that there might be a need for people to open up to different perspectives and cultures, this also limits them in choosing courses (HIST, THEO, what have you) that also fulfill this requirement and pidgeon holes them into taking whatever core class fulfills that requirement, instead of branching out and learning something new or interesting. I have several who took a class on the Italian Renaissance to fulfill a HIST requirement, a class none of them would have otherwise taken, that they enjoyed and would probably not be considered a part of this diversity requirement.
Furthermore, the core classes, even for the SFS which does not as of yet have a “hard science” requirement, do tend to be somewhat burdensome. For instance, the NHS students have a ridiculous amount of lab work and core classes added to their schedules, crippling their chance to take any electives that might be meaningful for them. College students find themselves forced into taking a math classes that the vast majority, who haven’t been mathematically inclined going in the first place, will forget within a year and certainly by the time they graduate. MSB students perhaps are the most career oriented, but even then they have theology requirements which tend to be ignored; one MSB student in a theology class was willing to pay someone to write an essay in “the B range” because it wouldn’t matter for her anyways and just gets in the way of her actual major. I leave out my own school to prevent any accusations of bias, but the requirement to take four economics courses is certainly criticized by SFSers who do not intend to pursue an International Political Economy or International Economics major, and even those students confirm that the intro level classes are relatively useless and worlds apart from the more realistic and interesting, higher level economics courses offered. 
Long story short, by enforcing these core requirements, we are requiring somewhat watered down courses that, by covering a wide base, end up covering nothing at all and that prevent students from more serious scholarship. This diversity requirement doesn’t add much to the problem, but further limits the options of students who do not have as much room to experiment with course selections already and essentially makes them tailor their class selection away from other courses that may have been outside their comfort zone, which, for many, defeats the very purpose of the program. The idea of widening students’ perspectives and understanding of diversity and power dynamics is incredibly important; the new requirement is just not a good way of implementing that.

SFS'15 says 
April 27, 2015 at 8:28 pm
Generally agree with your sentiments (the idea that there will have to be a list of “diversity” classes is ludicrous, everything teaches something interesting that relates to diversity), but just two corrections:
1) “Furthermore, the core classes, even for the SFS which does not as of yet have a “hard science” requirement, do tend to be somewhat burdensome.”
I (as required) had hard science courses as a STIA major, but that proved useful because my studies require me to understand the science, and I’m of the belief there shouldn’t be a hard science req unless you’re going into a science-related field
2) One MSB student in a theology class was willing to pay someone to write an essay in “the B range” because it wouldn’t matter for her anyways and just gets in the way of her actual major.
I think that has less to do with the class and more to do with the MSB student and MSB culture in general…

Student says 
April 25, 2015 at 12:36 pm
This is awful, I respected taking theology classes, even the philosophy requirements, it was a bit much but a solid amount to get the “well rounded” aspect I expected to be given. But by adding another Gen Ed requirement you are HARMING students that are on the science professional career path that want have to not only take their own major requirements but also the science classes and lab work as well. No respect these students, basically the school is saying if you want to go to Med School, Dental School, PA school, PT school, Pharmacy School, do it somewhere else. What a way to turn off great prospective students who want to pursue these career paths at this university. 
Sure this might sound great to the students who take idealistic majors in the SFS or in the college and have much room for more electives. Waking up from a great Georgetown Day and seeing this news was a huge disappointment. I expected better from the Hoya Saxa.

Not Another Sudent! says 
April 25, 2015 at 12:50 pm
Y’all who are honestly complaining about this are just salty over nothing. Like, what, you gotta take two classes that will also count for other requirements anyway? Take a history class that’s not about Europe and some literature or government course that talks about black people and you’re set – you can finish this by the end of your Freshman year and not be slowed down at all. As if you were going to do anything better with those slots.

SFS*2016 says 
April 26, 2015 at 2:02 pm
The complaint is that it will force people to choose between (A) using their core classes on diversity-approved courses that they might not be interested in and might not double-count towards their major/minor (B) using elective course slots for diversity-approved courses instead of electives they want to take. That’s not “nothing.”
Also what on Earth gives you the power to make that assumption that people weren’t “going to do anything better with those slots”?

Young Alum says 
April 26, 2015 at 2:09 pm
Saying “as if you were going to do anything better with those slots” reveals that you don’t consider any field/subject worthy of inquiry besides your own incredibly narrow niche. News flash: it’s not a bad thing that the entire world doesn’t think the way you do, want to focus on the same thing you do, take the same classes you do, etc

Not Another Sudent! says 
April 26, 2015 at 11:36 pm
I hardly expect anyone to take the same classes as I do, or to take classes that interest me specifically (I’ve tended to shoot for classes about languages and film, myself), but in my time at Georgetown I have met more people who have cynically tried to pass through their gen-eds as effortlessly and thoughtlessly as possible than people who cared to craft them to fit their interests as closely as possible. This  kind of complaint assumes a very optimistic take on how the average college student engages with required coursework.

Class of 2016 says 
April 26, 2015 at 3:39 pm
>As if you were going to do anything better with those slots.
I don’t know about you, but I’m paying thousands of dollars that I can barely afford for the privilege of taking classes here. To the extent that it’s possible, I’d like to explore areas of interest that I can’t learn about from just reading Wikipedia articles (and especially not Tumblr posts) at home. When you take away my freedom to choose two of those courses, yes it is frustrating and yes I was actually going to do better things with those slots.
And on the flip side, if you think it’s so easy to fulfill and it just requires taking slightly different courses, what happened to the justification that this is supposed to make me “engage with diverse perspectives” and “immerse myself in pluralism”? A generic non-Western history course and “a government course that talks about black people” don’t sound like they’re going to do much.

Not Another Sudent! says 
April 26, 2015 at 11:51 pm
I suppose the latter half of your comment is a valid enough criticism. It is absolutely an easy requirement to fulfill (I’m sure there are many already-popular courses that will count for it), but for many people who will view this requirement as a serious burden, you’re probably right, two random courses they’re not going to take seriously anyway are hardly going to do anyone any good. However, if Georgetown wants to take seriously its mission of Cura Personalis, teaching people to engage with unfamiliar perspectives is an important part of that, and this is a way to go about doing that. I suppose we’ll see whether or not it’s effective as time goes on.

Niko Kostas says 
April 25, 2015 at 2:24 pm
How much do you want to bet that even requiring two courses on this garbage will not stop the race-baiting agitators from continuing to act like victims?

Sam says 
April 25, 2015 at 3:36 pm
Niko, this sounds like a great question for you to bring up in your new MANDATORY diversity class. It desperately seems like you need this class. Enjoy.

Alum says 
April 25, 2015 at 9:15 pm
You seem pretty giddy about forcing your views on other people

Niko Kostas says 
April 26, 2015 at 12:37 pm
haha I graduated years ago, when the school had crazy policies like actually teaching Geography in Map, not allowing students to disrupt invited speakers, and allowing folks to earn a degree without taking classes on how to feel guilty for being white. It’s very telling that this requirement was imposed without an actual open forum for students. The school is becoming increasingly hostile to kids who just want to get an education and a degree to prepare them for the real world and I mention this to anyone I know who considers applying.

Alum says 
April 25, 2015 at 4:35 pm
How ridiculous. “Diversity, power, and privilege”? You already know from the name alone that this class is going to be heavily pushing one particular political point of view. The people approving of this class don’t want dialogue, they want their left wing perspective to be required teaching. 
This tells me that Georgetown has become more concerned about feel good, biased indoctrination rather than being a place for serious and mature perspectives on the world. I can tell you it is embarrassing to see Georgetown become a laughing stock in the media in the past year, with speakers being protested by know nothing activists and articles being written WELCOMING being mugged. But now it seems the administration has bought into it (or has been bullied into it). Neither bode well for the school’s image, which will now be that of another garden variety left wing enclave.

anonymous says 
April 26, 2015 at 8:31 am
While I don’t think anyone is against appreciating other viewpoints, these courses are going to be taught all through the lens of one very specific political ideology. I highly doubt any of the courses will focus on the PRIVILEGE of all of us who were lucky enough not have been among the thousands of the unborn who die each year or the POWER of religion to change lives and inspire. This requirement flies in the face of the importance of having a DIVERSITY of political viewpoints on campus. Slowly but surely, it becomes even more difficult to be a social conservative on a college campus.

Perspectives says 
April 26, 2015 at 10:13 am
Actually, these are EXACTLY the kinds of conversations that will be happening in a classroom. I took a class that debated abortion one day and it was one of the most enlightening conversations of my college experience. While I am pro-choice, I appreciated the opportunity to hear a different perspective. That’s what the requirement is all about. The requirement will create a space in the classroom for (yes uncomfortable and challenging) but necessary conversations about a variety of topics.
I think it’s also unfair to assume that all faculty share the same political ideologies.

Not Another Sudent! says 
April 26, 2015 at 11:07 am
Georgetown already requires its students to take a minimum of two Theology courses, pretty much all of which will speak very highly of the power of religion to change lives and inspire. I don’t understand where that particular gripe comes from.

concerned scientist says 
April 26, 2015 at 1:37 pm
If the requirement weren’t asking students to take extra classes or restricting the classes they take for other requirements – which many of you are arguing on here –  there would be no need for adding the requirement in the first place, and we’d already be getting the “diversity education” we apparently need so badly. By arguing that we really do need this, either you’re saying that it *will* limit people’s course choices or, in the case that students already take these courses, that teaching diversity in a classroom just doesn’t work – and apparently your solution is to force it some more?
A lot of you are also confused as to how majoring in a science works here at Georgetown. Science majors are already exempted from the College’s social science requirement because they have more major requirements, many of which are labs, take at least 4 hours out of the day, and still only count for 2 credits. On top of that, most of the science courses are only offered at one time during the semester. This means that science students already have a limited range of schedule choices for their Gen Eds, on top of a more strenuous (major) course load, which makes it harder to find courses that fulfill non-major requirements. Adding the diversity requirement, under the stipulation that courses can be cross-listed, still makes it harder for science majors to complete it – besides the lucky few who make it into courses which fulfill other requirements, science majors will end up needing to take social science courses they didn’t have to take. If Georgetown wants to strengthen their science department (which they do), then they’re shooting themselves in the foot by adding this.

a response says 
April 26, 2015 at 10:59 pm
Hi concerned scientist, this proposal has been years in the making, and science majors were certainly considered when thinking about implementation. Over the next year as the requirement is unveiled, more research and litmus tests will be conducted to ensure that all Hoyas can fulfill this requirement and graduate on time within their desired major. As it stands, all students can fulfill this requirement, regardless of school or major.
To your point: “in the case that students already take these courses, that teaching diversity in a classroom just doesn’t work” — it’s actually the opposite. Students who have engaged in these classes already see the added benefit to their Georgetown experience and want to ensure that all Hoyas have the chance to think critically about these issues in an academic setting.

Not Another Sudent! says 
April 27, 2015 at 12:13 am
You’re claiming two different things here. It absolutely does not require you to take extra classes, nor does it “restrict” the classes you take for other requirements in any meaningful way. If you’re in the College, you have to take, what, sixteen gen-ed courses, usually? That number doesn’t go up with this new requirement, unless you forget about it until your senior year or something. Furthermore, given the very broad language of the requirement itself, I can only assume that there will be classes that fulfill this requirement in all kinds of departments so it’s not as if you’re pushed into using a given gen-ed slot for a given course. Like everyone assumes that under this requirement you’ll be forced to take like a psych class about racism or something, when it’s more likely that you’ll be able to go for a class on Buddhism (already everyone’s favorite blow-off religion class) to complete it. If the necessity and usefulness of the requirement are being overstated, then the people complaining about how it’s an unreasonable burden are just as bad.

SFS*2016 says 
April 26, 2015 at 2:06 pm
It’s well-known in certain circles on campus that the people organizing the campaign deliberately chose not to have “too much publicity” or “too much student input” as a way to streamline the process.

Not SFS16 says 
April 26, 2015 at 11:02 pm
I wasn’t involved in the planning, but I distinctly remember seeing at least 3 townhalls about this requirement, put on by GUSA and the student campaign. Also, all MCEF meeting notes are public, so all the meeting notes are accessible to you, if you feel like the process was so “shady”

Dizzy says 
April 26, 2015 at 4:50 pm
Honestly, I don’t think it’s even remotely debatable that an understanding of “Diversity, Power and Privilege” is critical to being a well-rounded, mature, and critically thinking person.  Given how many existing courses would meet this requirement, I don’t think it’s going to pose much of an inconvenience to anyone’s schedule.  It might pose an inconvenience to people’s preconceived notions, though (which is kinda the point).
One comes to college to have one’s beliefs challenged, shaped, and sharpened.  A mature thinker is always accepting new evidence and knowledge, challenging their own beliefs, and thereby arriving at a deeper understanding.  That is the goal – not indoctrination, but deeper and better reasoning.  This requirement is a small but valuable means to that end.

SFS*2016 says 
April 26, 2015 at 7:57 pm
“One comes to college to have one’s beliefs challenged” unless, of course, this process proves to be too “unsafe” and “triggering,” in which case you come to college to be coddled and reassured that there’s no need to consider any other beliefs.

Dizzy says 
April 27, 2015 at 2:59 pm
I can’t speak for others, but personally, I do not support attempts to suppress speech or arguments on such grounds.  In my experience, very few people either require or want this sort of emotional shielding – it’s a very difficult way to go through life, since ‘the real world’ outside the college gates is not liable to be so obliging.
Besides, triggering doesn’t usually work this way; people are much more likely to be triggered by things (whether normally innocuous or potentially sensitive) that remind them or something else (e.g. cars backfiring sounding like gunshots, bells or chimes sounding like ambulance sirens, scenes of destruction) than by oral or written arguments with which they disagree. 
Taking coursework on diversity, power, and privilege would also be beneficial for those who lean to the left of the political spectrum whose understandings of those topics are simplistic and immature.  Again, the point is to develop one’s critical thinking skills.

SFS*2016 says 
April 29, 2015 at 8:34 pm
Maybe triggering doesn’t work that way IDEALLY. But the recent protests at the What’s Right/Wrong With Feminism event showed us how a certain segment of students use these concepts. “Trigger Warning: Anti-Feminist”; quite literally a warning to people that they might be triggered by different ideas.
Also, not to toss aside your experience, but I feel like quite a lot of people want this kind of shielding. How else do you explain the freakout over speakers that “create unsafe spaces” or the editorial in this very paper saying that we should stop scrutinizing people’s claims in the name of not upsetting them?

MSB 2016 says 
April 29, 2015 at 10:04 pm
We already have enough liberal arts classes to take in the MSB, adding 2 more classes just means we can’t take the ones that actually matter (finance, accounting, management, etc.). News flash for all the social justice warriors – business school students are here to get a jobs, not ponder ‘differences’ and try to remedy the world’s social problems.

Xram says 
April 29, 2015 at 10:22 pm
So this push for diversity of views means that conservative political positions are now going to get equal and fair treatment at Georgetown?  Nah.

An Alumnus says 
May 1, 2015 at 1:25 pm
This is EXACTLY why I do not donate to Georgetown.  This has nothing to do with bettering the university or the student body.  It is a waste of money/resources and time in order to cater to a singular point of view.
The only way individuals will truly learn of the value of diversity is through the real world.  Forcing a requirement in an academic bubble will only further divide.
For shame, Georgetown.

johnk says 
May 8, 2015 at 7:36 am
What are the actual courses on the list.  Long thread without actually seeing what we are asking the students to do-how much of a burden is it and impact on the students +/-

A student says 
May 8, 2015 at 8:31 pm
The proposed course list was kept secret between the people behind the campaign and the university – students were not allowed to know the details of the proposal, and it’s not even clear that the university knows exactly what was decided in this vote. For one thing, supposedly more than 280 courses would count, but this article now says 240. By the time it’s implemented, maybe that number will shrink further.
[…] common at the undergraduate level – the main campus passed a similar requirement last fall https://www.thehoya.com/mcef-votes-in-favor-of-diversity-requirement/ – but it would be unprecedented among law schools.   Other students pushed back on the idea,  […]
[…] taking this monumental step to creating a more inclusive and aware community,” said Owolabi in an April 2015 article in Georgetown’s student newspaper, The […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 24, 2015 by Gaia Mattiace Leave a Comment 
When Leila Zucker (MED ’07) received an email from her husband about a possible trip to Mars, she did not think twice as she filled out an application.
The program Zucker applied for, Mars One, is a Dutch nonprofit organization founded in 2011 that aims to create a human colony on the barren planet. The organization’s website lists 31 small businesses that are current investors. After a rigorous application and selection process, Zucker, 47, was selected as one of 100 finalists undergoing training to possibly live on Mars by 2026.
The Mars One staff will select 24 people from the 100 finalists for a series of seven-month-long one-way trips to Mars in hopes of colonizing the planet, beginning in 2026. Leading up to this goal, they will run eight trial cargo missions.
There were an estimated 10,000 initial applicants for the program from all over the world, ranging in age from 18 to 71. From this group, 1,058 individuals moved on to the second round of physical examinations, after which 660 people were then selected for final interviews with Mars One Chief Medical Officer Norbert Kraft. While the entertainment company Endemol had been in talks to produce a reality television program following the selection process, it announced it was cancelling the project in February.
Zucker, an emergency medical physician at Howard University Hospital, compared her passion for space to her dedication to her profession.
“It’s kind of like asking why I wanted to be a doctor. I’ve always wanted to be a doctor,” Zucker said. “I’ve always wanted to go into space. I think humans must go into space.”
The next round, in which Zucker will participate sometime next year, will last two weeks, and will include physical, intellectual and psychological testing and competitions to determine the final 24 individuals who will become permanent Mars One employees. The final 24 will then be divided into six groups of four, which will compete to decide which group will be the first to leave for Mars. A second group will follow after 26 months, and if each mission succeeds, all 24 people will be on Mars within a decade.
Zucker said she believes establishing a human colony on Mars will be a safeguard for the human race.
“If the human is going to survive and prosper, we are going to have to leave the planet,” Zucker said. “We are going to run out of resources, or we’re going to have a plague or an asteroid is going to hit us. The planet can’t last forever and we don’t know how long it will sustain us, so we need to move.”
According to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 and the U.S. National Space Policy, NASA outlines the goal of sending humans to Mars in the 2030s. However, Zucker emphasized her desires to go to Mars sooner and alluded to the successful 1969 landing on the moon.
“Every decade NASA has said, ‘We’ll go in 20 years,’ it’s 42 years later,” Zucker said. “When are we going? The time is now. There’s no more waiting. Let’s just go.”
However, members of the scientific community doubt the feasibility of the Mars One program. Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology released a comprehensive analysis of the program in September 2014 that concluded life on Mars is not yet possible, given current technologies.
Zucker said that she has always dreamed of going to space and has not questioned her decision to apply to leave Earth without guaranteed return. The initial application included a brief letter and one-minute video explaining why she was a suitable candidate to go to Mars.
“There’s just certain things where if given the opportunity to go, many of us don’t even have to think about it,” Zucker said. “It’s not really a decision point. So when he sent the email, I had the application done as quickly as I could complete it.”
If Zucker is selected as one of the final 24 future astronauts, she will spend a decade in training, learning skills such as repairing components of the habitat and rover and medical procedures. The training will take place in a remote location with conditions similar to those on Mars, which include a limited diet, constant noise and a mandatory daily workout.
Zucker said that if she gets the opportunity to live on Mars, she anticipates most of her time would be spent on developing basic survival skills, but added she hopes her life on Mars would include leisure time as well.
“I suspect we would be spending most of our time staying alive. It’s going to take a lot of effort to keep the habitat running. Any spare time would be spent on research,” Zucker said. “Assuming there’s any free time besides that, I think sleeping would be pretty high on my list and of course you can take a tablet with you. … I also recently bought a ukulele. A lifetime on Mars is plenty of time to learn a musical instrument.”
Zucker added that she is aware of the severe risks of the mission, but she is willing to make the sacrifice for what she believes is necessary scientific progress. Risks include osteoporosis, complications arising from increased radiation exposure, psychological issues and death.
“I don’t think that we are going to last more than a year or two, the first group, and my husband and I have talked about this,” Zucker said. “The second group, when they arrive, is unlikely to find the first group alive. But if they even last a day it’s already a success and we should keep sending further missions.”
Her husband, Ron Zucker, added that he is supportive of her mission, even though they are both aware of the difficulties she will face should she be selected to travel to Mars.
“We’re not immortal. We have one life, and it doesn’t last forever; an opportunity like this comes along once,” Zucker said. “I would send her away to live that opportunity and I would have no qualms about it. It’s not that I wouldn’t miss her. Of course I would.”
Georgetown Univerisity Medical Center professor Susan Mulroney, one of Zucker’s former professors, said she is happy for her and is not surprised that she was selected as a finalist.
“This is so right for Leila. She’s always been a forward thinker, has been enthralled with space exploration, and is one of the most positive people I know,” Mulroney said. “She’s smart, a great doctor, and works well with others. And the Star Trek fan in me is rooting for her.”
Zucker is optimistic about the potential effects of the Mars One program and said one of the most important results of the program’s establishment is the discussion it has initiated about travel to Mars.
“I just think it’s exciting that people are talking about it,” Zucker said, “Prior to Mars One announcing, there was virtually no actual rational discussion of going to Mars, and since Mars One announced … the number of people talking about it has skyrocketed.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 24, 2015 by Charlotte Allen Leave a Comment 
The Main Campus Executive Faculty will vote today on the addition of a diversity requirement to the core curriculum that would apply to the Class of 2019.
The vote follows months of campaigning by the Last Campaign for Academic Reform and the Provost’s Committee for Diversity to add a diversity requirement to the curriculum. If the MCEF votes in favor of the requirement, students from all four schools will be required to take two overlay courses cross-listed under the category “Diversity, Power and Privilege.”
The requirement, which was unanimously approved by the Core Curriculum Committee, will need 29 votes from the MCEF to become part of the curriculum. The CCC consists of 15 faculty members who determine the core requirements for all four schools, while the MCEF, which consists of a body of 57 faculty members from each Georgetown school and two student representatives, votes on decisions related to all aspects of academic life.
LCAR will host a rally today at 2:45 p.m. in Dahlgren Quadrangle in support of the requirement vote, which it calls a “crucial moment in campus history” that Georgetown students have fought for since 1991. Over 320 students have confirmed their attendance on the event’s Facebook page.
The diversity requirement was first introduced in May 2010 by the Main Campus Initiative on Diversity and Inclusiveness but was rejected by the university. In the past few years, various campaigns, including LCAR, have aimed to reintroduce the diversity requirement.
Last Tuesday, 60 members from both the Latino Leadership Forum and LCAR participated in a sit-in to present a petition signed by 1,200 students in support of the diversity requirement to the office of University President John J. DeGioia.
MCEF Chair Ian Gale, a professor of economics, said that he is optimistic that the proposal for the requirement will pass, but that external factors are involved in the decision-making.
“There is broad support within the MCEF for a diversity requirement,” Gale wrote in an email to the hoya. “Whether the MCEF votes to support the proposal on Friday will depend on the details. For instance, members must be confident that there is enough space in the classes that satisfy the requirement so that every student can fulfill the requirement.”
Provost Committee’s Academic Sub-Committee Co-Chair and LCAR member Esiwahomi Ozemebhoya (COL ’15) emphasized the importance of diversity comprehension at Georgetown and the responsibility of the school as a Jesuit university to encourage discussions about diversity.
“A deep understanding [of diversity] is definitely missing,” Esiwahomi said. “People that are part of marginalized identities feel like they are being tolerated on this campus and not accepted.”
As the requirement will be in the form of an overlay course, under which approximately 80 current courses have been identified to fulfill the requirement, students will not have to take additional classes to fulfill it.
Ozemebhoya said that the requirement would help students develop a sense of empathy.
“If you have a lack of understanding of another person it’s on your onus,” Ozemebhoya said. “The university should take this up in a serious matter.”
KC Crewdson (SFS ’15), a student representative on the MCEF, said that the diversity requirement will encourage students to discuss critical issues related to identity and diversity.
“The diversity requirement is designed to encourage students to discuss and think critically about identity and diversity issues in our community, and to give them the theoretical tools and practical knowledge they need to do so,” Crewdson wrote in an email to the hoya.
Crewdson said that she is optimistic about the requirement passing, and that since many students already take classes that fulfill the requirement, the change on campus would be more cultural than curricular.
“This change will affect every [undergraduate], but it will have more of an effect on students who don’t take many classes in the humanities or social sciences,” Crewdson wrote
First Vice-Chair of the MCEF and Chair of the Department of Spanish and Portuguese Gwen Kirkpatrick said while she cannot predict the outcome of the vote, faculty members seemed to be supportive of the initiative in previous meetings.
Kirkpatrick said that most of the objections raised against the requirement concern administrative details, including the addition of more requirements to an already requirement-heavy system, the length needed to fulfill the requirement and the place of study abroad in the requirement.
Kirkpatrick also said that the diversity requirement would encourage faculty to develop new ideas for research and curricula.
“With time, however, it may have a greater effect on the curriculum overall,” Kirkpatrick said. “Faculty research interests continue to evolve, and thus they offer new or revised courses.  For some faculty this proposal may be a research and curricular stimulus.”
Gale said that the requirement will enable Georgetown to better educate students about the importance of empathy and other principles.
“The core curriculum is one way that Georgetown communicates its institutional values,” Gale said. “As the proposal notes, ‘Georgetown is responsible for educating students about the realities of those outside of their lived experiences.’”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 24, 2015 by Owen Eagan Leave a Comment 
When Luke Gile (SFS ’18) was deciding on college last year, Georgetown seemed to have everything he wanted. Everything, that is, but an engineering program.
“I’ve wanted to go to Georgetown ever since I was little and it was kind of a deal breaker for me when they didn’t offer engineering. Every other school that I applied to was an engineering school,” Gile said.
Georgetown has never offered its own engineering program. The closest thing it offers is a dual-degree engineering program, in which participants spend three or four years at Georgetown College pursuing a Bachelor of Arts degree, then two years at the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science at Columbia University pursuing a Bachelor of Science degree.
This program was the deciding factor that brought Gile, who is interested in mechanical engineering, to Georgetown.
“When I found out that Georgetown had this Columbia program, I was set on Georgetown,” Giles said.
The Fate of Engineering
The lack of an engineering school at Georgetown is not surprising considering the university’s tradition in liberal arts education, according to associate professor of physics Mak Paranjape, who is a founder and current advisor of the dual-degree program.
“Historically speaking, this is a liberal arts education institution. It’s not a technical institution,” Paranjape said.
College Dean Chester Gillis said the liberal arts tradition is not a mark against Georgetown as an institution of higher education.
“People will come to Georgetown [because] we have strengths in [certain areas],” Gillis said. “Every university has their niche. You can’t do everything for everybody at every university.”
According to Gillis, the university has no current plans to create an engineering program outside of the dual-degree option.
“It’s a very significant investment to build an engineering school financially,” Gillis said. “The labs and facilities are very costly. Hiring the faculty is costly. And where would we put it? Where is the space? Where would we put an engineering school?”
However, many faculty members yearn for an engineering school at Georgetown.
“It’s a glimmer in our eye,” Science Interdisciplinary Chair Jeffrey Urbach said of a future engineering school at Georgetown. “It’s a challenge to do that in a time of constrained resources. We would need a major initiative and a lot of support, so it’s not something that could happen easily and quickly.”
The Dual Degree Program
The engineering dual-degree program is not unique to Georgetown. One hundred and three universities across the country collaborate with Columbia to offer such a program, which is the first of its kind in the country.
In the past three years, only seven students have fulfilled the program’s requirements at Georgetown. Currently, an average of one or two students matriculate to Columbia through the program per year. Students apply to the program in their junior or senior year. To fulfill the Georgetown academic requirements, students must complete all general education requirements and nine pre-engineering courses, in addition to requirements within their specific intended engineering major at Columbia.
Gillis said that the program is a unique combination of liberal arts education and engineering skills.
“It gives them the benefit of a Georgetown education … in our strengths in the humanities and the liberal arts and the social sciences, then Columbia’s expertise in the engineering piece,” Gillis said.
College Assistant Dean Edward Meyertholen, who is the dual-degree program’s curriculum liaison, said most students  who initially express interest in the program do not sustain their interest.
Anneke Von Seeger (COL ’17) decided against the program because of the difficulty of transferring to a new school.
“[The prospect of] leaving Georgetown after three years [turned me away],” Von Seeger said. “You’d be going to Columbia basically as a junior transfer, which … would be kind of a rough transition.”
Physics major and dual-degree candidate Ryan Eagan (COL ’15) — no relation to the author — is currently a computer engineering major at Columbia.
“I think you have to be very sure that engineering is for you because you will certainly miss Georgetown when you leave,” Eagan wrote in an email to The Hoya.
All seven students who enrolled in the program in the past three years chose to pursue the 3-2 combined program, receiving a B.A. at Georgetown after three years of study, then a B.S. at Columbia after two, as opposed to completing four years at Georgetown before attending Columbia.
Martha Koroshetz (COL ’10), who graduated the program with a B.S. degree from Columbia in 2011, said that the program offered a variety of courses.
“I believe my 3-2 [program] made sure the classes I took were interesting but varied, which was ideal for me in order to know what I was capable of and what I liked best about my major,” Koroshetz wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Rankings and Post-Graduate Destinations
Although the dual-degree program provides participants with a holistic education, the absence of an engineering department at Georgetown may affect the university’s reputation and post-graduation destinations.
Of the U.S. News and World Report’s 2015 list of the top 20 universities in the country, which considers 16 different indicators of academic excellence, all schools have full-fledged engineering programs.
Georgetown, tied at number 21 with Emory University, is the highest-ranked university without its own engineering program.
U.S. News and World Report Data Research Director Robert Morse said that while the presence of an engineering school could affect a university’s ranking in a number of ways, it is not a determining factor.
“If a [university] … [has] an engineering school and it is successful, it could impact their ranking because of their reputation or other student body issues,” Morse said. “But the simple fact of having an engineering school is [not] the reason why these schools are in the top 20.”
In addition, Morse said an engineering program could negatively affect a school’s ranking.
“Engineering is a more rigorous curriculum and it may impact the graduation and retention rates, which could have a negative factor in the ranking,” Morse said.
The lack of an engineering school also explains the low number of Georgetown graduates entering engineering jobs.
A 2013 study by the Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce revealed that eight of the top 10 highest-paid college majors are in engineering.
In the Cawley Career Center’s annual post-graduation report for the Class of 2014, two of the 1,257 total respondents reported jobs in engineering or architecture, while four reported jobs in manufacturing or production and one in biotechnology.
Applied Sciences at Georgetown
Although Georgetown lacks an engineering degree, it offers opportunities in applied sciences, similar to those in an engineering school, through classroom experiences and research.
The university houses the Georgetown Nanoscience and Microtechnology Lab, a clean-room facility located on the ground level of Regents Hall with specialized equipment for undergraduate, graduate and professional research.
GNuLab Director Makarand Paranjape said the lab is similar to those in engineering schools, and that its presence reflects Georgetown’s commitment to applied science.
“This type of lab is commonly seen in an engineering school,” Paranjape said. “Georgetown made an investment [for this lab] even though we don’t have an engineering school because the things we do here are very application-related.”
However, Arjun Gupta (COL ’17), a candidate for the dual degree, said Georgetown should have more engineering options.
“When it comes to the engineering and building and creating … I don’t think that it necessarily needs to change, I just think that it needs to give students the option of exploring some of these things,” Gupta said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 24, 2015 by Kristen Fedor Leave a Comment 
Former Prime Minister of Great Britain and Northern Ireland Tony Blair discussed the importance of implementing effective governance and the role of the international community in African development in Gaston Hall on Thursday.
The event, which was called “A Conversation on Governance, Development and Africa,” was moderated by Steven Radelet, director of the School of Foreign Service’s Global Human Development Program and part of this semester’s Global Futures Initiative, a series of conversations aimed at engaging the campus community in conversations regarding different aspects of global progress.
University President John J. DeGioia introduced Blair, speaking about the focus of the initiative and the greater conversation the series hopes to spark.
“The moment we are living in is unlike any moment we have known,” DeGioia said. “The challenges of this moment will not be met alone – they cannot be met alone. In fact, they can only be met by all of us working together in ways that were not possible before. Only through coming together will we be able to get closer to a deeper understanding of the dynamics, the contexts, the needs of our world.”
To begin the discussion, Blair detailed his African Governance Initiative, founded in 2008. Currently, the initiative is in place in Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Guinea, Nigeria and Ethiopia and aims to create stronger governments with greater abilities to create infrastructure and other forms of economic development.
“How do we get the right systems of governance in African countries that allow those countries to move forward and prosper?” Blair asked. “I think that issue of the quality of governance today is as important as any other single issue.”
To implement that change, Blair emphasized his three main goals: prioritizing the most important issues, developing policy solutions and focusing on performance management.
He integrated anecdotes of his time as prime minister to highlight different challenges the AGI addresses, especially those about his adjustment during his first few days in office. Blair spoke about his first night at Downing Street and the difficulty of organizing how he would proceed as real governing began.
“The ‘now what’ is what is tough about government,” Blair said. “The purpose of our team is to try and answer that question.”
Blair also spoke about the importance of collaboration in achieving progress in governance and said this is one of the difficulties of establishing new political systems.
“Government finds it very hard to be creative. There is a natural desire in government to push away outsiders,” Blair said. “If you live and work alongside people, over time, the process is established.”
Blair also discussed collaboration and warned against partisan governments becoming a distraction in domestic politics.
“Many of the problems we face in the world today, the left-right thing can get in the way of the solution, rather than be the basis of the solution,” Blair said. “If you focus on improving the lives of your people, rather than getting the applause for your next speech line, you’ll do a lot more for the people of your country.”
Another theme of the event was the Ebola outbreak in West Africa and its implications for the future of African development. Blair emphasized carrying over the successful methods of swift international response to other areas of globalization in the region.
“When the crisis hit, we had to change the whole way of working,” Blair said. “We need to learn the lessons of not just why the crisis happened and how it happened, and all of that of course, but actually in terms of governance, when we had to deal with this problem, government had to organize itself differently. It had to respond differently. It had to make sure that it operated in a far more effective way.”
Moving forward, Blair said he hopes foreign aid will prioritize long-term development over short-term goals, citing the Obama administration’s 2013 Power Africa initiative committing to $7 billion in investments to Africa over five years.
“Look at what helps the long-term development of the country, rather than what I would say are the short-term projects that get you a round of applause in your Parliament,” Blair said.
Blair concluded with advice to students to find their passion and pursue it.
“The single best thing in life is to wake up in the morning with a sense of purpose,” Blair said. “The best sense of purpose in my experience is when you are going out and using the talent and the opportunity that you’ve been given and the education you get at a wonderful institution like this, is to go and see how you can use it to help change the lives of other people.
Claire Derriennic (COL ’17) attended the event and said Blair’s remarks were engaging.
“I would say that he was very engaging and humorous, and I found his speech to be entertaining and he definitely kept my attention,” Derriennic said.
Max Dvorak (SFS ’17) added that he attended to listen to a world leader and came away with a greater understanding of the issues Blair spoke about.
“I was very interested to hear his take on the importance of rule of law and building towns in Africa,” Dvorak said. “I think that these are very important issues and it’s piqued my interest. I’m excited to learn more about it.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 24, 2015 by Toby Hung 1 Comment 
GU Fossil Free submitted an open letter signed by 97 faculty members calling for the university to divest from the top 200 fossil fuel companies to the Office of the President on Wednesday.
The letter, which was released on GU Fossil Free’s website, circulated among faculty last Wednesday after it was drafted by assistant professor of English Nathan Hensley. At press time, it has amassed 97 signatories, including professors, lecturers and program directors such as Director of the Program for Justice and Peace Randall Amster, Kathleen Scanlon Endowed Chair in Values Based Health Care Laura Anderko and Chair of the Department of Anthropology Denise Brennan.
The faculty letter comes after months of negotiations between GU Fossil Free, the Committee for Investments and Social Responsibility and the university’s board of directors. In January, CISR rejected GU Fossil Free’s divestment proposal and recommended an alternative plan of targeted divestment. Recently, GU Fossil Free met with the newly formed working group for divestment under the board of directors to discuss its proposal. The board of directors will vote on the divestment proposal in June.
In an email to The Hoya, Hensley said that he decided to write the letter to help push the divestment movement forward on campus.
“There’s a vast and gathering movement for divestment happening across the world,” Hensley said. “The motivation [behind the letter] was to bring our own practice here at Georgetown in line with a growing change in the common sense that says this is a social justice problem and it’s an urgent one.”
Hensley also said that he hopes the support for divestment from academics will convince the university to recognize it as a viable option.
“[The letter] shows that divestment is urgently supported by a group of people who have dedicated their entire careers – in many cases incredibly distinguished ones – to articulating the relationship between knowledge and justice and who care deeply about the integrity of this institution,” Hensley wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Several other universities have also seen faculty support for divestment. In April 2014, approximately 100 professors at Harvard University signed an open letter to the university in support of fossil fuel divestment. However, Harvard has continued to reject divestment initiatives.
According to GU Fossil Free member Caroline James (COL ’16), GU Fossil Free has been in contact with faculty throughout the past year to gather support for divestment. It started a separate faculty petition one year ago, which has gathered approximately 120 signatures to date.
“It’s been in the back of our minds for a while. … We thought the week of Earth Day would be a relevant time [to release the letter] especially to lead up to the [board of directors’] vote [on divestment] in June,” James said.
University President John J. DeGioia’s Chief of Staff Joe Ferrara said that the letter adds an additional perspective to the case for divestment, of which the Office of the President has been aware for the past year.
“We view this as sort of another piece of the puzzle as we review this issue in trying to take in all the different perspectives and so we now have some of our faculty who are weighing in … their perspectives,” Ferrara said.
Director of the Center for the Environment Edward Barrows, who signed the letter individually, said that he signed because of the gravity of environmental issues caused by fossil fuels.
“I signed because global change, including climate change and the biodiversity crisis, is now the largest problem of humanity,” Barrows said. “All of us should do what we can to help solve the problem.”
Barrows said that he hopes the letter will convince the university not only to divest but also to transition toward using alternative energy.
“I hope that the letter would help [Georgetown] to decide to divest from fossil fuel companies and also move toward using sun and wind power as much as possible as soon as possible,” Barrows said.
Director of the Mortara Center Kathleen McNamara, who also signed the letter, said that divestment should be the university’s next step in promoting sustainability.
“I signed the letter in support of fossil fuel divestment because I want a healthy planet,” McNamara wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Fighting climate change requires action on all fronts. … We Hoyas need to divest from fossil fuel companies that are at the center of climate change.”
Chair of the Department of Chemistry YuYe Tong, who also signed the letter, said that from a scientific perspective, it is important to recognize fossil fuels as a factor behind climate change.
“It’s just common sense. Most scientists including myself believe that carbon emission is the main reason for climate change and global warming, so this is one way that you can push society to realize that this is a very urgent issue for us and the whole planet,” Tong said.
However, Tong said that he does not expect the university to completely divest from the top 200 fossil fuel companies immediately, reflecting CISR’s recommendation for targeted divestment.
“I don’t think that it is reasonable and realistically doable to divest [completely and] immediately but it would be good for Georgetown to start thinking about a strategy to do so over a reasonable period of time,” Tong said.
In addition, Tong noted that some of the larger fossil fuel companies invest in research for alternative energy.
“Actually, some of [the top 200 fossil fuel companies] invest pretty heavily in alternative energy research and development right now,” Tong said. “Whether this is driven by their true care about the environment or by a political posture … is not really important. What is important is the investment in alternative energy research and development [that] can lead to economically viable clean, alternative energy.”
 Correction: An earlier version of the article stated that the letter had circulated among faculty members for months. Faculty began signing it on Wednesday, April 15.

Nathan Hensley says 
April 24, 2015 at 10:17 am
Since the article does not link to the letter itself or mention any of its rationales, I link to it here: https://georgetownfossilfree.wordpress.com/faculty-1/faculty-letter/
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 24, 2015 by Lucy Prout Leave a Comment 
Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter discussed the importance of eliminating sexual assault in the military in Gaston Hall on Wednesday.
The audience was filled with over 250 Reserve Officers’ Training Corps cadets from several universities in the Washington area.
The event, which was held in honor of Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month, was attended by ROTC cadets from Georgetown University, the University of Maryland, Howard University, George Mason University and George Washington University.
Although the Department of Defense estimates that the number of sexual assaults within the military has decreased over the past fiscal year, at least 18,900 service members were estimated to have experienced unwanted sexual contact in the past year.
According to Carter, the high number of sexual assault cases in the military fractures the ethos of the armed forces, as it undermines the military’s ability to perform by violating principles of trust.
“We’re based on trust. We have to trust,” Carter said. “You have to trust in the soldier in the foxhole next to you. You have to trust in the sailor you’re underway with. You have to trust in the airmen on your wing. And you have to trust in the marine on your flank. And these violations and these assaults are not just violations of the law, they are violations of that trust, which is essential to our mission.”
To remain a strong military presence in an increasingly combative world, Carter stressed the importance of eliminating sexual assault. According to Carter, servicemen and women are often put in dangerous environments, which can present opportunities for sexual assault.
Carter also said that the successful future of military recruiting depends upon the method by which the military deals with the issue of sexual assault. As such, Carter said that the military should view the Department of Defense’s strategy in dealing with sexual assault as a benchmark.
“Now, our nation is looking to the Defense Department to lead boldly on sexual assault because they admire our institution and its values and its culture of learning,” Carter said.
Carter noted several major lessons that the military has learned in combatting sexual assault.
For instance, Carter suggested prevention as the most important way to eradicate sexual assault, and warned that inappropriate behavior and degrading language often lead to sexual assaults.
Additionally, Carter stressed that further military resources and time will be used to understand how to deal with sexual assault.
“Stopping sexual assault will be a focus of my time as secretary of defense. But as leaders of the future force, I ask that you too make eradicating these crimes on of your personal missions.”
Carter’s speech was followed by a question-and-answer period in which most of the questions concerned foreign intervention.
Howard University freshman cadet Michael Thompson said he appreciated the opportunity to interact with Carter, as it allowed him to learn about a topic vital to the future of the military.
“I thought it was really insightful,” Thompson said. “It was nice to hear from the secretary of defense and get some sort of interaction with him, especially on such a relevant topic for the military today.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 24, 2015 by Matthew Larson Leave a Comment 
Members of the D.C. Council introduced the LGBTQ Cultural Competency Continuing Education Amendment Act on April 14 – a bill that would require all health care professionals to receive additional cultural competency training, with the aim of improving care for the LGBTQ community.
The legislation proposes that all health care professionals be required to take two credits worth of cultural competency training, which consists of an hour-long course of continuing medical education. Sponsored by D.C. Councilmembers David Grosso (I-At Large) and Yvette Alexander (D-Ward 7) and co-sponsored by the other nine members of the D.C. Council, the bill will attempt to reduce alleged disparities between the professional health care treatment of LGBTQ community members and the non-LGBTQ population.
In a statement on his website, Grosso said that the bill is a necessity since more than 66,000 members of the D.C. LGBTQ community receive medical treatment. A 2011 study from the Joint Commission, a company that accredits and certifies health care organizations, postulated that citizens identifying as LGBTQ face issues like refusal or delay of care, mistreatment and inappropriate visitation limits by health care providers.
“[LGBTQ citizens] deserve access to medical professionals who are sensitive to and knowledgeable about the unique health needs of the LGBTQ community,” Grosso said in the statement. “LGBTQ health disparities are real and this is a contribution to our efforts to narrow those disparities in the District of Columbia.”
Neither Grosso nor Alexander responded to requests for comment.
Dr. Andrea Singer, a faculty member at the Georgetown University School of Medicine, said that the LGBTQ community faces poor access to care in addition to bias and discrimination while attempting to receive medical care.
“I think there is pretty strong evidence that has been published and that demonstrates that LGBTQ people are disadvantaged by our current health care system,” Singer said. “The LGBTQ patient is more reluctant to seek care if they think they may be in a situation which would be uncomfortable for them or the provider.”
GU Pride President Campbell James (SFS ’17) said that he was afraid to tell his doctor that he was gay, since some LGBTQ patients are discriminated against in medical settings.
“I remember when I first told my doctor I was gay, I was terrified that he would tell my parents, and that I would be treated differently,” James wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Luckily, in my case, my doctor did not. That being said, many LGBTQ folk may not trust their doctors and may still fear social stigma.”
Dr. Ranit Mishori, a family medicine physician at the Georgetown University Medical Center, agreed that cultural competency training is a necessity for health care providers. However, she also voiced concerns that increasing cultural competency training for doctors may not solve the physical and mental health issues faced by the LGBTQ population.
“Studies have not necessarily shown in general that cultural competency enhances the health of populations,” Mishori said. “It may enhance what physicians know about certain groups, but it doesn’t necessarily show outcomes and changes in mortalities or deaths and diseases.”
Mishori also emphasized the need to recognize differences in the issues faced by members of the LGBTQ community, stating that any bill that addresses the LGBTQ community should avoid acting as a blanket response.
“The one thing that is very important to remember is that the LGBTQ community is not one cohesive community,” Mishori said. “Within this community there are different sections, different aspects … as a result, there are multiple disparities on many levels.”
Singer noted that the GUMC educates its future doctors regarding cultural competency issues in the second year of its program. She explained that the curriculum includes different classes on human sexuality as well as access to academic panels and small group sessions.Other medical schools, such as those at Stanford University and Michigan State University, have also examined teaching cultural competency components to their students.
“I think we have realized at Georgetown that these are very important issues [and] that the foundation needs to be started in medical school,” Singer said. “That’s an important part of our curriculum.”
Singer added that new methods for teaching cultural competency for the LGBTQ community are introduced every year.
“There are always updates and new information that comes along both on the level of lectures or individual teachers who are involved as well as the course directors,” Singer said. “We are continually looking at what is new in these topic areas.”
James applauded the D.C. Council’s efforts, and while he stressed that different segments of the LGBTQ community face dissimilar problems, he said that the Council is taking a step in the right direction.
“Starting the conversation and awareness to the differences in health in the LGBTQ community … is incredibly important,” James wrote in an e-mail. “[The bill] shows that the D.C. government is trying to care for its LGBTQ population and make D.C. a great place to be LGBTQ.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 24, 2015 by Emma Rizk Leave a Comment 
March2Justice, a 250-mile march that began in New York City on April 13 campaigning for criminal justice legislation reform in the United States, culminated in a rally on the National Mall Tuesday, April 21.
Hundreds of marchers delivered a “Justice Package” to Congress containing three pieces of legislation to encourage an end to racial profiling, police force militarization and child incarceration.
March Director Carmen Perez spoke and said that the march served to honor the lives of many people affected by such issues.
“We are marching for those who have lost their lives, we are marching for those who cannot march because they are incarcerated, we are marching in the spirit of our elders who have marched before us,” Perez said. “We are marching with so many people in our hearts.”
Perez serves as the executive director of The Gathering For Justice, an umbrella organization that oversees Justice League NYC, a task force of criminal justice advocates, artists, experts and formerly incarcerated individuals who planned March2Justice.
The march began in Staten Island as a tribute to Eric Garner, a black man who was choked to death by police last July. From there, it traveled to Newark, Trenton, Philadelphia and Baltimore, crossing through five states over nine days to reach Washington.
“We could have flown to D.C., but for us it was about building with communities, registering voters along the way and making sure we have a human connection to those that are impacted by these issues,” Perez said.
According to Perez, there was a sense of urgency during the march due to news of three different individuals killed by police across the country while on the road.
Specifically, Perez spoke about when the group was worshiping at Empowerment Temple in Baltimore on Saturday and received the news that Freddie Gray had died from a spinal cord injury while in police custody. Six officers were suspended in the wake of the tragedy as protests broke out in Baltimore. The marchers altered their route to meet up with Gray’s community, and several of Gray’s family members joined the march.
“It’s been a powerful journey, it’s been a transformational journey, it’s been a spiritual journey for us,” Perez said.
Aside from the physical toll of marching hundreds of miles, Perez said the group required mental discipline to overcome emotional challenges from the racism she said it experienced.
“We’ve gone through communities and towns where we’ve been cursed at or we’ve been the targets of racial slurs, but it’s made us stronger,” Perez said. “We understand that this is bigger than us, this is about shedding light on the families and the victims of police brutality.”
After the culminating D.C. rally, the group met with members of the congressional black caucus, the congressional Latino caucus and the congressional Asian caucus. Perez added that it also hoped to meet with politicians who might oppose the legislation it proposed, but could not confirm any official meetings at the time.
“The work really begins after this march,” Perez said. “When we hold our elected officials accountable, when we hold Congress accountable, when we really demand justice.”
Perez emphasized that the marchers are not just protesters and that protesting is just one of the tactics in their larger strategy.
“We need new policy, we need a cultural shift, we need to change the hearts and minds of individuals,” Perez said.
The group also joined with other unaffiliated organizations over the course of the march. At the rally Tuesday in Trenton, N.J., it stood with members of the Fight for 15 campaign, a movement by the Workers Organizing Committee of Chicago seeking a $15 an hour living wage and the right to form unions without retaliation.
“We support them in solidarity, especially understanding the intersectionality between economic justice and criminal justice,” Perez said. “If people don’t get paid a living wage then oftentimes they are stuck in poverty, which can lead to other things.”
About 50 to 60 individuals began the march in New York City and were joined by more people at each stop, some from as far away as North Carolina. The marchers included justice champions from New York City, justice seekers who met up with the march on route, and justice supporters who came to rallies, donated or spread the word on social media.
Leading up to the march, the organizing team drove the route several times in advance and created host committees in each city to provide a place to sleep, coordinate meals and organize rallies. Among these organizers were the honorary co-chairs of March2Justice, founder of The Gathering for Justice Harry Belafonte and George Gresham, president of 1199SEIU, a local union of the Service Employees International Union.
Actor and activist Danny Glover, Congresswomen Yvette Clarke of New York and families of police brutality victims all attended the rally at the Capitol on Tuesday.
Heaven Gross, the daughter of Bobby Gross, who was shot and killed March 13 by the Metro Transit police, also delivered a speech.
“I want justice for my dad, my unborn brother, my mom and my family,” Gross said. “I am asking for prayers and peace. The police are supposed to protect us, but instead they are killing our people.”
Several Georgetown students attended the rally, though no campus organizations planned official trips as a group. Zack Abu-Akeel (SFS ’18) was among the attendees and expressed his admiration for the marchers.
“It interested me personally because I thought of what they had to sacrifice to march 250 miles, and I wondered if I would ever be able to do something like that,” Abu – Akeel said. “We talk about the same messages they do every day, but they walked the walk, literally.”
Anthony Saadipour (COL ’18) also attended and commented on the issues this movement brings to the forefront of the nation’s discourse.
“These issues are very prevalent in today’s society, but I think it’s easy to forget the lives that are lost to police brutality,” Saadipour said. “It’s easy to forget the subtleties of racism that we experience every day. And it’s extremely easy to give up on our youth rather than put effort into helping those without the same resources and opportunities to be successful.”
Saadipour said he was particularly moved by the speeches from families of the victims of police violence.
“It was a very empowering and moving experience,” Saadipour said. “We heard politicians, we heard activists, and we heard from the families of victims. But the lines were blurred; it didn’t feel like we were listening to people who belong to different societal categories. We were all part of a community, rallying behind this important cause.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 24, 2015 by Owen Eagan Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Sustainable Oceans Alliance will host its first summit, entitled “#ChangingTheTide,” this Saturday in Lohrfink Auditorium with the aim of educating students about the dire state of global ocean health.
The event, which is co-sponsored by the Global Social Enterprise Initiative and the Lecture Fund, will feature a series of guest speakers from the fields of science, policy and business, including National Geographic CEO Gary Knell, Undersecretary of State for Economic Growth, Energy and the Environment Catherine Novelli and Mission Blue Founder Sylvia Earle.
The summit, which will run from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., will center its major themes around the fate of global fisheries and considerations of the world’s ocean economy. In addition to keynote speeches, the summit will also feature panel discussions and networking opportunities.
An estimated 200 students from over 30 universities will attend the summit, in addition to approximately 1,000 students worldwide who will view the summit via live broadcast.
GUSOA was founded in August 2014 as an advocacy group in response to alarming factors regarding the state of the global ocean. For instance, United Nations experts predict that all of the ocean’s fish could disappear by 2050 if current commercial fishing practices continue, leading to the loss of the main protein source for approximately one billion people worldwide.
GUSOA President and Founder Daniela Fernandez (COL ’16) said that such predictions have dangerous implications for the future.
“When you put that [prediction] into context, that means that when our kids are our age, we won’t have [the ocean as we know it] anymore,” Fernandez said.
In addition, Fernandez said that many students are unaware of the fact that air quality is tied to ocean health, as phytoplankton produce half of the world’s oxygen via photosynthesis.
“Most people don’t know that,” Fernandez said. “They think [that air quality is only tied to] trees.”
In light of these issues, GUSOA plans to unveil a letter it wrote to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon and the UN General Assembly, “Make Ocean Sustainability a Sustainable Development Goal,” at the event.
The online petition encourages the UN to adopt ocean sustainability as a goal for its development agenda at its upcoming conference in September 2015.
According to Fernandez, one of the goals of the summit is to give students at other universities the opportunity to support ocean sustainability by creating their own SOA chapters.
GUSOA, which currently has 37 active student members, has helped to establish five chapters at other universities around the country, including Columbia University and Wesleyan University. Other universities such as American University and George Washington University have expressed interest in starting their own chapter.
Executive Director of Global Social Enterprise Initiative Ladan Manteghi, who serves on the advisory board for GUSOA, said that she believes the summit will serve to encourage the millennial generation to take action in protecting the world’s oceans.
“The summit is not the culmination of anything,” Manteghi said. “The summit is the start of something.”
GUSOA Communications Director Mary Troxel (COL ’17) said that she aligns herself with the goal of the summit to inspire the millennial generation to take action regarding ocean sustainability out of necessity for its future survival.
“The oceans are one of the most important resources for us in the world, if not the most important [resource],” Troxel said. “I think that students should care about this because someone has to take action to preserve the ocean, and someone has to be us.”
Sebastian Velastegui (MSB ’18), who plans to attend the summit, said that millennials have a responsibility to support ocean sustainability.
“Our oceans are one of the biggest components of our natural environment, and if we don’t find some cause to protect them, then we are going to suffer, if not in this generation, then definitely in the next,” Velastegui said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 24, 2015 by Emily Tu Leave a Comment 
Five students in the Masters of Arab Studies program course “Refugees in the Arab World” began a fundraiser for Syrian and Iraqi refugees in coordination with the Collateral Repair Project this month.
The students, with help from a program graduate, are raising money by selling T-shirts featuring calligraphy designed by Syrian artist Mouneer Alshaarani. Each shirt, priced at $20, reads, “Love is my Religion.”
The group has raised $2,200 since beginning sales in Red Square April 18, and will continue to sell shirts until it reach es its goal of $6,000.
Associate Professor of cultural anthropology Rochelle Davis began teaching “Refugees in the Arab World” in 2006. The course focuses on displaced communities in the Arab world, using Sudan, Palestine and Iraq as case studies. It covers issues of humanitarianism, agency, citizenship, rights and history, with the aim of furthering an understanding of the experiences of displaced peoples.
CRP is a nonprofit based in Amman, Jordan, where thousands of Iraqi and Syrian refugees have relocated. The grassroots organization seeks to assist refugees and other victims of conflict through community-building workshops and the provision of emergency services including food vouchers, medical support and clothing.
Davis has conducted research with refugees in Jordan in conjunction with students, including Will Todman (SFS ’16). After visiting CRP, Todman decided to fundraise for the organization as a part of the course requirement to complete an action-based project.
“What we’re doing is relatively small scale,” Todman said. “But we’ve added two extra families to our food voucher scheme as a part of this fundraising, so we’re making an impact already.”
The fundraiser is also a component of CRP’s campaign “Community Grows Here,” which began April 14 and aims to raise $20,000 to support the organization’s emergency assistance and community programs.
Todman emphasized the community-based work of CRP as a component of the nonprofit that sets it apart from other organizations seeking to assist refugees.
“They’re nearly entirely operated by refugees now,” Todman said. “They’re really trying to create a sense of community within the refugee population, and they’re training refugees to be able to teach these classes themselves. So they’re not only recipients of aid, they’re also giving back to their own communities.”
Abbie Taylor (SFS ’12), another participant and former student in Davis’s course, currently works at the university’s Institute for the Study of International Migration and serves on the CRP board. Taylor highlighted the CRP’s work in assisting communities that can often be overlooked by larger non-governmental organizations.
“CRP aims to serve people who often fall through the cracks in terms of assistance, to provide the basics they need to carry on and survive,” Taylor said. “I think for this particular organization the emphasis is really on refugees as the ones who should really take the lead. It’s very much a way for them to find a new sense of community while living in a country that’s foreign to them.”
Casey Bahr (SFS ’15), one of the core fundraiser group members, stressed the pressing nature of the Syrian and Iraqi refugee crisis and the urgent need to alleviate it.
“The conflict has been going on for longer and longer, and there’s been a huge increase in donor apathy, especially in the United States,” Bahr said.
“You have a lot of these organizations that are really trying to provide assistance to these communities and unfortunately there’s been such a lack of funding. So this is really just trying to help bring these issues back to light and do what we can.”
Taylor added that in the face of the numerous ongoing crises around the world, including those in Libya, Yemen, Iraq and the Central African Republic, the situation of refugees in Jordan is often neglected.
“It’s important not to forget people who have been living as refugees for many years,” Taylor said. “A lot of the people that CRP serves have been living as refugees in Amman since 2006 and 2007, so it’s really important to remember that these people’s lives are still in such limbo.”
Additionally, Todman spoke about how the CRP is attempting to take a different approach to refugee assistance by placing a larger focus on community building.
“I think people view refugees through a humanitarian lens, that they need to be sent aid and given shelter, which is true,” Todman said. “But I also think that we need to appreciate that people want to be part of a community and rebuild social ties, to feel like they’re important and have a purpose.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 24, 2015 by Ashley Miller Leave a Comment 
Aramark launched a new composting program in collaboration with the Office of Facilities Management and the Office of Sustainability, that will divert over 25 tons of food waste per month from O’Donovan Hall and Epicurean and Company from being sent straight to the landfill.
The initiative was launched in early April, after the previous composting facility in Delaware that Aramark had partnered with closed down. From now on, a large portion of organic kitchen waste and post-consumer waste will be sent to the Maryland Environmental Service, where it will be converted into a compost product for organic agriculture, gardening and landscaping.
According to a press release from Georgetown Dining, the product of the composting process will be converted into usable soil fertilizer.
“Organic materials are mixed together and, with the help of earthworms and microorganisms, the materials decompose into nutrient-rich soil. The final compost product from [Georgetown’s] food scraps, called ‘LeafGro,’ is used in Washington, D.C. and surrounding states. … Each year, more than 300 tons of food scraps from campus will be transformed into high-quality soil fertilizer,” the press release read.
Director of the Office of Sustainability Audrey Stewart said that the composting program will help reduce the negative impact of food waste on campus.
“By composting Georgetown’s organic food waste at an off-site facility, our waste will ultimately be made useful again, contributing to activities such as food production in our local region,” Stewart said.
Currently, Leo’s serves more than 5,000 students a day, combining with Epicurean and Company to accumulate over 25 tons of organic waste per month.
Aramark Marketing Manager Adam Solloway said that the new program also requires changes in the daily operations at Leo’s.
“Employees and kitchen staff have gone through extensive training to accommodate the new composting system and maintain the success of this program by separating food waste and paper into designated composting bins lined with compostable bags,” Solloway said.
Solloway also said that a wide variety of materials can be composted in the new program.
“The materials composted include produce and meat scraps, egg shells, coffee filters, dairy products, bones and paper towels from kitchen prep stations and waste left on the dish carousel.” Solloway said.
According to Solloway, the composting initiative is part of a larger plan to make Leo’s and the greater campus more sustainable.
“In addition to the composting program, we recycle 100 percent of used fryer oil, purchase recycled napkins, installed automatic sinks and lights in restrooms and by eliminating trays from Leo’s, we conserve more than three million cups of water annually.  In this year alone, our six water filtration systems have diverted almost 350,000 water bottles from landfills,” Solloway said.
The initiative has received a considerable amount of input from interns working in the Office of Sustainability who recognized how important composting waste from Leo’s is in increasing sustainability efforts across campus.
“Composting also raises awareness about waste reduction. Food production requires lots of energy, land and water, yet more than a third of all food is thrown away in the U.S. every year,” Office of Sustainability Ambassador Mandy Lee (SFS ’17) said.
Other students also pointed to the importance of making the food system on campus more sustainable.
“Food plays a huge part in environmental sustainability, and I support any step that Georgetown can make towards a less wasteful food system,” Casey Nolan (COL ’17) said.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 24, 2015 by Tom Garzillo Leave a Comment 
This year’s Georgetown Day will continue the event’s fifteen-year tradition of celebrating the campus community with a larger variety of events for both students and faculty.
Activities today will officially begin at 6 a.m. with the faculty and staff appreciation breakfast in the Copley Formal Lounge. One professor will be presented with the Dorothy M. Brown Award, a faculty appreciation award voted on by students and a Georgetown Day tradition.
This will be followed by the blessing of the Jesuit graves at 10 a.m., before the day’s events on Copley and Healy Lawns begin at 12:30 p.m. and last until 5 p.m.
For faculty and staff, there will be a wine tasting in Dahlgren Quadrangle at 4:30 p.m. and a “grad bash” for seniors from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. in the Healey Family Student Center.
From 6:30 p.m. to 9 p.m., there will also be a free outdoor concert on Copley Lawn featuring Hellogoodbye, a pop band from California, and Stone Cold Fox, an indie rock group from Brooklyn, N.Y.
Other student musical acts set to perform on Georgetown Day include Faces for Radio, Tigers Are Bad For Horses, the Saxatones, Georgetown Superfood, the Phantoms, Georgetown Gracenotes, GU Jawani and several others.
In addition to inflatables, performances, interactive sponsors and giveaways, food will be served from Swizzler Gourmet Hotdogs, Spoon University Georgetown, Astro Doughnuts and Fried Chicken, Chik-Fil-A and Epicurean and Company.
Late-night events will begin at 10 p.m. and last until 1 a.m. in the HFSC. These include free pizza and wings, an all-night happy hour in Bulldog Tavern, video games and a showing of “The Wedding Ringer.”
In addition, Georgetown Day serves as an art showcase, with students’ art pieces shown throughout the day. The grand opening of the Senior Art Showcase will be held at 6 p.m. in Walsh.
This year will also see the first annual Georgetown Day Cup, an initiative funded by Students of Georgetown, Inc. that will award prize money to the groups or individuals that bring the largest number of red Solo cups and aluminum cans to a variety of stations across campus.
Chair of the Georgetown University Student Association Senate Sustainability Subcommittee Theodore Montgomery (SFS ’18) said that he hopes this event will not only minimize the amount of recyclables thrown out but also serve as an educational opportunity.
“There isn’t on campus right now any sort of real sustainable party scene,” Montgomery said. “That is what we are trying to hit on with this event: make people think about this [and] make it part of the party scene.”
From 12 p.m. to 4 p.m. on Saturday, organizers will man stations at Henle Village, the Village B quadrangle and in front of the community room at Village A.
The Corp and the Corp Green Team worked together to provide the prize money and organize the event. The first-place prize is $300, and the first 200 participants will receive water bottles from PNC Bank.
Some students said that they think the initiative will be a positive way to combat the amount of waste created from the day’s events.
“I think it’s smart,” Audrey Imbs (COL ’16) said. “I think any little thing helps. I work at [Vital] Vittles and we triple up on solo cups [on Georgetown Day].”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 24, 2015 by Lucy Pash Leave a Comment 
On Thursday morning, University President John J. DeGioia honored dozens of Georgetown employees for over 20 years of service at Georgetown at the Annual Service Awards Ceremony in Lohrfink Auditorium.
“These colleagues, with their dedicated years of service, help to animate our mission and enrich our community in countless ways,” DeGioia said.
Janette E. Radosh has worked at the Office of Admissions as a records manager for 45 years. The Hoya interviewed Radosh to gain her perspective on how Georgetown has changed since she first arrived on the Hilltop.
This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity.
Q: What would you like applicants, parents and high school counselors to know about your office? 
A: In my opinion, for the 45 years that I’ve been here, this office always goes the extra mile to get everything that they need to make a decision for the students. They call if there are missing credentials and keep calling until the very last day that they can’t any longer. They email [the students] all the time. They’re very good about doing that so the kids have every chance to get in.
Q: What would students or applicants be surprised to know about your office?
A: [They would be surprised by] how much work we have with the paperwork that goes through the office.
Q: How has the number of Georgetown applicants changed over the years? 
A: Over 45 years, the applicant pool has grown from around 3,000 to 20,000, increasing the filing from 30,000 to 200,000 pieces of credentials per year.
Q: What has kept you excited and energized for 45 years? 
A: I would say the students. I love my work-study students; they’re just great. And I’ve probably had 500 work-study students over the last 45 years.
Q: What would you miss most about your job if you were to stop working? 
A: Most definitely the students. And I love my job, there’s no getting around it, so it’s kind of a hard call. And they always turn over because they graduate, and I start a new group again. So, I just love the job. I’ve been with the dean ever since I’ve started here, and he’s always been great. Georgetown has been like family to me, because I’ve had 17 members of my family that have worked here besides myself.
Q: Do you do anything outside of Georgetown?
A: No, I’ve only worked at Georgetown, never anywhere else.
Q: How has technology changed your work? Has it made it easier, more difficult, or just different?
A: Oh my god, yes. We used to have about 10 labels per folder that we used, and I would have to put a label in the folder at the tracer card so we know where the file is going. And this office used to do financial aid, so we had to have labels for that, and we had to have labels for what at that point was called early decision. Now we don’t do any of that; the folder runs through a machine, and it prints their name and address and what school they’re applying to right on the folder, and the tracer card is also printed, so I don’t have any labels I have to worry with anymore. That was a big timesaver right there when they changed that. The work is much faster; we still get over 20,000 applicants though, with about 10 credentials per applicant, so that’s a lot of paper.
Q: Why did you stay at Georgetown for so long?
A: Over the years of working here, most of my family has worked at Georgetown. That is one of the many reasons it was easy to stay here for 45 years.
Q: How has Georgetown changed over 45 years?
A: Georgetown has changed from a university that had lots of open grassy areas to mostly buildings now, but I still love it.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

