
February 6, 2015 by Katherine Richardson 1 Comment 
The 2015 Georgetown University Student Association executive race began at the stroke of midnight yesterday, as five campaigns vied for advertising space in Red Square at the start of the official campaign period. A sixth was not present at the campaign starting line, but has nonetheless tossed its hat in the ring, making this year’s race the most crowded since 2012.
The presidential and vice presidential tickets consist of Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Connor Rohan (COL ’16), Sara Margolis (COL ’16) and Ryan Shymansky (COL ’16), Abbey McNaughton (COL ’16) and Will Simons (COL ’16), Tim Rosenberger (COL ’16) and Reno Varghese (SFS ’16), Mike Minahan (COL ’16) and Stephen Paduano (COL ’16), and Chris Wadibia (COL ’16) and Meredith Cheney (COL ’16).
At 11:45 p.m. three groups of campaign staffers were in the square, waiting to unfurl their campaign posters and fliers. Groups included those of McNaughton and Simons, Rosenberger and Varghese, and Margolis and Shymansky. McNaughton, Simons, Rosenberger and Varghese were present, while Margolis and Shymansky did not appear in the square.
At 11:58 p.m., the three groups began to sing “There Goes Old Georgetown,” the fight song, in unison as a fourth group, led by Luther and Rohan, arrived with staff.
GUSA Election Commissioner Alden Fletcher (SFS ’17) was on hand to oversee the adherence to campaign rules. While the Healy Clock did not chime, the four teams began to hang their posters high in Red Square after agreeing it was midnight, with the help of ladders and duct tape. Luther and Rohan failed to bring a ladder, and borrowed a ladder from McNaughton and Simons’ team.
McNaughton and Simons’ poster, which went up first, featured a colorful painting of Healy Hall and read “Rise Together.”
“[The energy] has been awesome,” McNaughton said. “It’s been a lot of fun. People seem really excited. … I think this year is a great opportunity for some really good policy discussions and I’m really looking forward to that. We’re happy that it’s not snowing this year.”
McNaughton-Simons staffer Alex Bobroske (SFS ’17), who helped put up flyers, said that he joined the team because of McNaughton’s experience and accomplishments. McNaughton has served as the vice speaker for the GUSA senate and as a member of GUSA’s Finance and Appropriations Committee.
“The reason I decided to join Abbey and Will was because I worked with Abbey before in advocacy for issues, especially opposing the consolidation at [the Center for Multicultural Equity & Access], [the] LGBTQ Center and the Women’s Center,” Bobroske said. “I know she has great relationships with the administrators. She knows how to get things done.”
Rosenberger and Varghese put up their poster second, with the help of Thomas Lloyd (SFS ’15), a former GUSA presidential candidate. The poster read “For the Love of Georgetown.”
“You have to be excited,” Rosenberger said. “No matter what happens in this campaign, we have a lot of issues we’re bringing that haven’t been discussed at Georgetown, and we’re going to really reshape the way this conversation is happening on campus.”
Rosenberger said that before the race to Red Square, his team gathered in Lauinger Library to discuss the platform and prepare for the night.
“We’ve been in Lau for the last couple of hours,” Rosenberger said. “We got a bunch of people from our staff together and got a bunch of Wisey’s cookies and have been meeting with people. Up to the last minute we want to know as many things as we can from students about the issues they care about.”
The staff of Margolis and Shymansky affixed their poster, reading “Believe in Georgetown,” third. According to campaign staffer Reed Howard (SFS ’17), the candidates were in Nevils with the rest of their staff.
“Tonight’s a great celebration,” Howard said. “It’s a very exciting season for Georgetown. All of these candidates put out so many good ideas for how to make Georgetown a better place and I’m excited for what’s going to unfold. I know Sara and Ryan have the best vision for what Georgetown can be and I believe they’re the people to make that happen.”
Luther and Rohan’s poster, which went up fourth, featured a graphic of Darnall Hall and read “YouTopia.”
“We’re running on YouTopia,” Rohan said. “We’re essentially going to make everything perfect and there are never going to be problems again. We have SportsTopia, ArtsTopia. Our slogan is Blank-Topia, because you fill in the blank.”
Rohan said that his staffers are excited to begin the campaign.
“We’re excited and optimistic for the future,” Rohan said. “We definitely recommend you check out our platform. It’s good satire.”
At 12:20 a.m. a group of around 30 staffers ran from the doors of White-Gravenor Hall whooping and yelling, led by candidates Chris Wadibia (COL ’16) and Meredith Cheney (COL ’16). The group gathered around its candidates, chanting, “Hang that sign!” Cheney helped nail the poster, which featured graphics of the candidates’ profiles and read “Dignity,” onto the wood of the right front-facing wall in Red Square.
“For the Chris and Meredith 2015 campaign, the atmosphere could not have been any better,” Wadibia said. “It was fully passionate. … Everyone was so excited, the energy couldn’t have been higher and we’re full of passion and excitement moving forward.”
The campaign’s Head of Social Media Natalia Peña (COL ’17) said the group was late because of the excitement.
“We were upstairs in a room all together, and we were just cheering on inside,” Peña said. “We forgot that we had to flier. We were just so excited because we love each other so much. We’d like to think that we’re a family, and I think everything here’s really shown that. I mean look at all these people who came out at midnight as a force.”
The group also formed a dance circle, chanting the names of staffers who danced for a few seconds each.
The sixth candidate pair of Minahan and Paduano are also officially in the executive race but were not present in Red Square because of a prior commitment at a friend’s birthday party.
“We want to reach out [to clubs] about a lot of things they know better than we know about, then hear what they have to say,” Minahan said. “It’s kind of just about bringing everyone into the conversation, like people who might not normally be interested in GUSA. … We want to bring people in who don’t get involved in student government.”
The official campaign period will feature two debates Feb. 11 and Feb. 16 and will culminate in a vote Feb. 19. This year, 11 out of 12 students vying for the executive spots are in the College, with the exception of Varghese, who is in the School of Foreign Service.
The 2014 race, with four tickets, featured five SFS students and three College students, the 2013 race, with five tickets, featured four College students, five SFS students and one McDonough School of Business student and the 2012 race, with seven tickets, featured eleven College students, one MSB student and two SFS students. The past three winning tickets have featured two SFS students.
With the executive vote coming up in less than two weeks, Sage Sarason (COL ‘17) said that she does not plan to heavily research or develop opinions about the campaigns.
“I don’t know a lot about GUSA or the campaigns happening, and I attribute this more to my own busy life at Georgetown than any apathy toward GUSA and campaigns,” Sarason said. “I am personally not annoyed at the campaigns, because I think it is cool that students are actively involved with organizations like GUSA that can actually make tangible changes at this school.”
Michaela Lewis (COL’ 18), who is unaffiliated with GUSA and experiencing her first campaign season, said that she does not expect to be impressed by the executive hopefuls.
“I would be more excited about it if there were more divisive issues at hand. GUSA is more about budgeting or things that most students aren’t really involved with unless they are in a position of power in a club or working with [the Student Activities Commission] or dealing with administrative issues, which a lot of freshman really aren’t,” Lewis said. “I’m not particularly persuaded by all the campaigning: all the door-knocking, baby-kissing, mobilization, canvassing.”
Hoya Staff Writers Tom Garzillo and Andrew Wallender contributed reporting.
Hoya Staff Writer

Box says 
February 7, 2015 at 11:57 pm
Fifteen of the 16 candidates are from the College. Not exactly representative of the University, no?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 6, 2015 by Patricja Okuniewska Leave a Comment 
Georgetown ranked 93 out of 140 college campuses on Trojan Brand Condoms’ 2014 Sexual Health Report Card and was the highest ranked Catholic university on the list.
It was placed above Boston College and the University of Notre Dame, which ranked 108 and 127, respectively.
The report card, which comes out annually, ranked Georgetown 103 in 2011, 95 in 2012 and 96 in 2013.
Trojan commissioned the research to Sperling’s BestPlaces, an independent research company located in Portland, Ore. Its findings were released Oct. 20 and evaluated the sexual health information and resources available on college campuses nationwide.
Student health centers were scored based on 11 categories: hours of operation, allowance of drop-ins, quality and accessibility of the student health website, contraceptive availability, condom availability, HIV testing, sexually transmitted infections testing, lecture and outreach programs and peer groups, sexual assault resources and services, overall website usability and extra credit programs, which entail any additional sexual health information service the university provides.
Sperling’s BestPlaces, created and run by Bert Sperling, a software developer and researcher, collects the extensive data using scoring sheets and scoring grids. Since 2006, the firm has worked alongside Trojan Brand Condoms to release the Campus Sexual Health Report Card.
“This is the ninth year. Trojan Brand Condoms asked us to devise some sort of program to measure the resources,” Sperling said. “It has been really successful, and I would imagine that’s why they decide to continue to enable it. It’s been a very successful partnership, and has been great for the students.”
The 140 colleges were selected to cover “major campuses” from all 50 states, out of the 2,500 four year colleges in the U.S. today.
“We chose the largest colleges, and we chose their peer groups. We did that through athletic conferences,” Sperling said. “Then we looked at schools like Georgetown, which sort of have an outsized influence. By choosing the largest schools, what we are able to do is, even though it is 140 schools out of 2,500 schools, we cover 30 percent of undergraduates in the United States.”
Sperling said that in order to improve its poor ranking, Georgetown must provide more sexual health resources to students.
“Georgetown, as number 93 out of 140, could do a better job,” Sperling said. “There is not very much information when it comes to sexual health provided to students, at least on their website. The HTI and STI testing is certainly very good. But as far as the information provided to the students, there is not a lot. It is up to the students to find their own information. There is not a focus on sexual health.”
The Student Health Center is open for eight hours on Mondays and Fridays, 9.5 hours on Tuesdays and Thursdays, eight hours on Wednesdays and three hours on Saturdays. Georgetown Health Education Services provides HIV and STI testing through the Student Health Center and outreach programs and sexual assault resources through crisis counseling and Sexual Assault Peer Educators. The university does not provide contraceptives of any kind, including condoms, to students.
In a 2010 letter from Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson to unaffiliated student group H*yas for Choice, Olson explained that the university could not support the distribution of condoms because of its religious affiliation.
“Georgetown’s policies and practices rest on the strong underpinning of Catholic social and moral teaching and its affirmation of the dignity of all persons from the beginning of life to its natural end,” Olson wrote. “… As a Catholic and Jesuit university our policies must reflect our identity and our values.”
Administrators from Health Education Services and the Student Health Center did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
Student groups provide a variety of sexual health services. The Georgetown administration, along with student representatives, instituted “I Am Ready,” a mandatory sexual assault training program for the first time at this year’s New Student Orientation. Since Georgetown policy bans the sale of condoms on university property, H*yas for Choice provides free condoms and sexual health resources for students. Student representatives from the club hand out condoms in free speech zones on campus, put condom envelopes on their dorm room doors and developed a free condom delivery service in October. Students with a desire to purchase condoms must buy them off campus, with the closest destination, CVS Pharmacy, over half a mile away.
Take Back the Night board member and SAPE member Haley Maness (NHS ’15) said that she is surprised by the mid-level ranking.
“I think it’s admirable that we were not dead last considering the only sexual health information comes from H*yas for Choice,” Maness wrote in an email. “It is difficult for students to get contraception prescribed to them at the Student Health Center, and I worry that not all options are explored with patients that come in. Some physicians will not prescribe birth control unless it is for acne or PMDD [premenstrual dysphoric disorder] — and will not prescribe for actual contraceptive reasons.”
Maness said that student services like SAPE provide information that the university does not.
“Luckily, organizations like SAPE can talk about consent and healthy relationships, which means that even though there are problems with contraception, we can still encourage students to pursue healthy and respectful relationships,” Maness said.
Trojan Vice President of Marketing Bruce Weiss noted the importance of the Sexual Health Report Card in encouraging student health centers to make necessary changes.
“The makers of Trojan Brand Condoms believe colleges and universities have a responsibility to help students develop sexually healthy attitudes and behaviors by providing unfettered access to information, services and products,” Weiss said. “By calling attention to the state of sexual health on campus, we hope to get people talking about the issues, initiating change and making smart decisions about their sexual health.”
In fact, Weiss noted that the report card has encouraged change within colleges already.
“Over the years the Report Card has served as a catalyst for many schools to take a closer look at how students are being equipped with the tools needed to stay informed on sexual health,” Weiss said. “Whether it’s via a new sex week, increased peer-to-peer programing or ‘Free Condom Fridays,’ we’ve seen schools from all regions and a variety of affiliations use the rankings to spark positive conversations and change.”
The university health center was criticized in late September during a campus-wide health scare after Andrea Jaime (NHS ’17) died of bacterial meningitis Sept. 16.
Students cited displeasure with their difficulties scheduling last-minute appointments, and many said they utilized other off-campus health services, such as the CVS Minute Clinic, when sick or in need of care.
Grace Smith (COL ’18) is a member of H*yas for Choice and said that she is disappointed in the university’s lack of sexual health resources.
“I think that as a Catholic institution, sometimes the university might run into conflicts when its duties to students and its religious identity intersect in challenging ways, but I think the university has to understand that sexual health education is a topic that cannot go undiscussed,” Smith said. “The university has a responsibility to provide the appropriate resources and educational outlets to the students, and I think that the ranking may allude to the fact that the university could be doing a better job.”
Gabriella Munoz (COL ’18) of Vita Saxa, a pro-life student group, said that she does not believe Georgetown is obligated to provide students with contraception.
“I see a shift in the Catholic Church, in that it is being more youth-focused, and, therefore, understanding that conversations about sexual health and activities are necessary, especially for older teens,” Munoz said. “However, as a Catholic campus, I don’t think Georgetown should be expected to provide or sell contraceptives of any kind on campus simply because it goes against Catholic morals. I think that should be respected. As for sexual assault, I believe there can be more publication of resources available for people.”
Monica Nolasco (COL ’16) said that the low ranking reveals the work that Georgetown must do to improve.
“I know students on campus have been doing a lot lately to raise awareness about what the campus has to offer and what, perhaps, it’s lacking,” Nolasco said. “So that’s really good to see, in my opinion. … I’m hoping this helps the university realize, along with the numbers that were published, what it needs to do, and even though it is Jesuit, that shouldn’t stop it from helping students — mostly female students. That’s something that we really need.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 6, 2015 by Tom Garzillo 1 Comment 
The six tickets in this year’s Georgetown University Student Association executive race have fielded a mixture of GUSA insiders and outsiders, a marked change from last year’s insider-dominated race.
Of the 12 candidates in this year’s GUSA executive elections, three presidential candidates and three vice presidential candidates have served in GUSA while the rest of the field has no prior affiliation. During last year’s executive race, five of the eight candidates had previous GUSA experience, with none of the tickets containing outsiders. In addition, a quarter of the candidates are transfer students.
GUSA-affiliated presidential candidates include Sara Margolis (COL ’16), Abbey McNaughton (COL ’16) and Tim Rosenberger (COL ’16). On the vice presidential side of the ticket, GUSA-affiliated candidates include Meredith Cheney (COL ’16), Ryan Shymansky (COL ’16) and Reno Varghese (SFS ’16).
The presidential candidates unaffiliated with GUSA are Chris Wadibia (COL ’16), Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Mike Minahan (COL ’16). Non-GUSA-affiliated vice presidential candidates include Connor Rohan (COL ’16), Will Simons (COL ’16) and Stephen Paduano (COL ’16). Both candidates of the Luther-Rohan and Minahan-Paduano tickets are entirely unaffiliated with GUSA.
On campus, Luther is editor-in-chief of The Georgetown Heckler, a member of the Georgetown Improv Association, an employee at Students of Georgetown, Inc. storefront Vital Vittles, a tour guide with Blue and Gray and a New Student Orientation captain, according to his campaign bio. Rohan, who transferred from George Mason before his sophomore year, is involved with the Heckler and the Improv Association, as well. He also serves as a transfer mentor and writes for The Georgetown Voice, according to his bio.
Luther said that he does not see their lack of affiliation with GUSA as a disadvantage.
“We feel to be successful GUSA executives we don’t need to have experience with GUSA, but we do feel that you do have to have experience with the different areas of the Georgetown community,” Luther said. “We are tackling the issues in a non-traditional light. I’m confident that this is an approach that Georgetown students will be receptive to.”
In contrast to Luther and Rohan, Margolis and Shymanksy are both involved with GUSA. They are the only ticket in which both the presidential and vice presidential candidates are currently involved in GUSA.
Margolis, who transferred from The George Washington University her sophomore year, is the GUSA secretary of transfer affairs, and previously served as director of advancement and alumni for the Georgetown University College Democrats. She is also a Georgetown dance company member and a transfer peer adviser (full disclosure: Margolis was previously an associate in The Hoya’s Sales Department).
Shymanksy is the co-director of the Student Advocacy Office — a GUSA institution — a Blue & Gray tour guide and a student representative to the Alumni Board of Governors, in addition to previously serving on The Georgetown Voice’s editorial board. Margolis said that she and Shymanksy are not typical GUSA candidates.
“Neither of us have ever run for senate, we’re both in the executive,” Margolis said. “It’s definitely a different perspective just as students who don’t come from GUSA have.”
McNaughton and Simons are a mixed ticket in terms of their affiliations with GUSA.
McNaughton has been a GUSA senator since her sophomore year and currently serves as senate vice speaker. She is also a member of the Finance and Appropriations Committee and a student representative on the board of directors. In the past, she served as the vice chair of the Georgetown University College Republicans (full disclosure: McNaughton is a former staff writer with The Hoya).
Simons helped found and served as president of the Georgetown Speechwriting Advisory Group, GU Golf Club and the U.S.-Middle East Youth Network. He also led last year’s Students Against Restrictive Housing Policy social media campaign, in addition to co-leading this year’s, and worked with the administration to push the implementation of the policy back one year.
Simons said his ticket’s mix of GUSA and non-GUSA experience is ultimately an asset.
“Coming from this outside perspective, it helps me analyze GUSA more objectively,” Simons said. “However, the disadvantages are that you don’t have the personal relationships with administrators. I don’t have the relationships that Abbey does, which is why I think we’re a great team.”
Rosenberger and Varghese are another pair hoping to capitalize on their shared GUSA experiences.
Rosenberger, who is a former GUSA senator, currently serves as policy chair of the Honor Council and philanthropy chair for the 1634 Society and was a former two-time columnist for The Hoya.
Varghese is currently a GUSA at-large senator and chair of the Campus Plan Subcommittee in the Student Life Committee. He is also a commissioner on the Student Activities Commission and has served on the International Relations Club Board, the International Relations Association board and the Model United Nations team. In addition, he served as a coordinator of the Georgetown Diplomacy and International Securities conference last year.
Varghese said that he and Rosenberger make for a potent combination.
“I think that it really just shows people that not only can we work within GUSA, we know the administrators,” Varghese said. “We know how things operate at basically every level of the university.”
Wadibia and Cheney combine non-GUSA and GUSA backgrounds as well.
Wadibia is a member of the Lecture Fund and was a speaker at Georgetown’s TedX last semester. He is also a residential assistant and a former community member of The Hoya’s editorial board.
Cheney, who transferred to Georgetown as a sophomore from Villanova after two years, is a GUSA senator and works in the Office of Sustainability. She has previously served on the Finance and Appropriations Committee, and is also a member of the Lecture Fund and the Global Social Enterprise Initiative.
Cheney said that integrating her experiences in GUSA with Wadibia’s experiences elsewhere is one of their biggest assets.
“You don’t have to have GUSA experience in order to be the voice of the student body,” Cheney said. “I believe that you can be a stronger representative of our peers if we have that balance … we’re uniting this campus with the breadth of experience we have.”
Both members of the Minahan-Paduano campaign are both unaffiliated with GUSA, but declined to comment on this particular topic.
Current GUSA President Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) said that although past experience is just one component of the campaign, GUSA insight might help the incoming administration. His ticket partner, current GUSA Vice President Omika Jikaria (SFS ’15) did not have GUSA experience, mirroring the combination of 2013-2014 GUSA President and insider Nate Tisa (SFS ’14) and Vice President and outsider Adam Ramadan (SFS ’14).
“I don’t think there is one formula for success, whether that be two people involved in GUSA or one person who isn’t or both who are,” Tezel said. “I think coming at it with the perspective of being in the GUSA executive I was able to see how the cabinet works, how the staff works, how the communications are and how GUSA operates.”

Alex says 
February 6, 2015 at 5:28 pm
How about “Half of Executive Candidates Previously Involved in GUSA” rather than “…Previously Linked to GUSA”? I would say that someone was “linked to” terrorist groups, but I would say that they were “involved in” philanthropy or Boy Scouts or whatever. “Linked to” seems like such an accusatory phrase (though perhaps one that you should save for the “X Candidates Linked to Stewards” article you’ll inevitably publish a day before the election, as usual).
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 6, 2015 by Emily Tu Leave a Comment 
The District of Columbia ended the fiscal year with a budget surplus for the fourth consecutive time, revealing excess revenue of $203 million that sparked debates over potential uses for the money.
The 2014 surplus brought the balance of the general fund — where the excess revenues are stored — to a record of $1.87 billion. This year’s surplus was slightly smaller than that of previous years. The D.C. budget had a surplus of $321 million in fiscal year 2013 and $417 million in FY 2012.
The Comprehensive Annual Financial Report, an annual report of the District’s financial affairs released Jan. 28, outlined the city’s financial situation as of Sept. 30, the end of FY 2014. A private, independent auditing firm compiles the report.
Mayor Muriel Bowser said in the report that the District’s financial strength will allow the city to invest in important services for D.C. residents.
“The District’s finances are among the strongest of any jurisdiction in the nation, and the strongest they have been in our history,” Bowser wrote in a statement. “Our growing prosperity will allow us to ensure financial stability in the years to come while also making important investments in the safety, health, education and quality of life of all of our residents.”
The District’s financial position earned it strong bond ratings for FY 2014, which allowed it to borrow money at record low interest rates and increase available funding for public programs and services.
As mandated by the current laws, around $72 million of the surplus has already been saved in the District’s federal and local reserves, though officials are still determining the best course of action for the rest of the surplus.
In contrast to previous years, the budget for the current year, FY 2015, is already operating at an $82 million deficit, leading the mayor’s office to consider using the surplus to fill the gap.
D.C. Council Chairman Phil Mendelson (D) discouraged this stopgap use, emphasizing the importance of building the city’s reserves.
“There are also funds available to cover that spending pressure,” Mendelson said. “Building up our reserves is important in maintaining our stability: it reduces borrowing pressure for next year and makes our financial situation more stable.”
The city’s surpluses have gone into its reserves for the past four years under the direction of previous Mayor Vincent C. Gray.
Committee on Finance and Revenue Chair Jack Evans (D-Ward 2) encouraged the mayor to follow this precedent and refrain from using the surplus to cover the budget gap.
“The deficit we’re dealing with this year is manageable, and using our reserves or the Fiscal Year 2014 surplus wouldn’t be a good strategy at all,” Evans said in a statement to The Hoya.
According to Evans’ Director of Communications Tom Lipinsky, saving the surplus is crucial for the city to reach its goal of maintaining enough money in reserves to fund the operation of the government for 60 days in order to cover catastrophes and improve the District’s fiscal standing.
“The District’s reserves would currently cover about 45 days of operation for the government,” Lipinsky wrote in an email. “Building our reserve balance to the level of spending for 60 days is an important threshold to further improve our credit rating and make it easier for the District to borrow money for schools, infrastructure and other capital projects.”
However, other policy advocates are urging the mayor and council to spend the surplus on funding public initiatives and improving existing programs.
According to D.C. Fiscal Policy Institute Executive Director Ed Lazere, whose organization focuses on researching the needs of low- and moderate-income residents, it would be prudent to prioritize community requirements, particularly those related to housing issues.
“The city has a lot of pressing needs, like improving the present family homeless shelters or building more affordable housing,” Lazere said. “Right now that’s more important than building up our fund balance, which is already at a record high level.”
Councilmember Elissa Silverman (I-At Large) highlighted the difficulty of deciding what to do with the surplus.
“Given that we already have congressionally mandated funds that are socked away, do we need to keep stockpiling dollars when we have certain immediate needs that should be met?” Silverman said.
On April 2, the mayor’s office will present a FY 2016 budget, including the proposed allocation of the surplus, to the council for review and will review expenses with government agencies. Each committee will have the opportunity to recommend amendments to the proposed budget before a council review on June 16.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 6, 2015 by Sarah Fisher Leave a Comment 
In efforts to curb student misconduct because of excessive drinking, Dartmouth College announced a campus-wide ban on hard liquor Jan. 29 to take effect March 30, which prompted a national discussion regarding university alcohol policies, though no similar action will come from Georgetown.
Dartmouth President Philip Hanlon announced the policy change in a speech to faculty and students, citing a decision by the board of trustees of the New Hampshire university. The university is under investigation by the Department of Education for apparent mishandling of sexual assault cases and has been scrutinized for harsh hazing by its Greek organizations.
Kevin Kruger, president of NASPA, an organization of 14,000 student affairs administrators in higher education, expressed doubt at the effectiveness of Dartmouth’s approach in a statement released by the organization, expressing his belief that the issue of underage drinking is more worrisome than excessive alcohol consumption.
“[Students are] under 21 and it’s illegal to drink, period,” Kruger said in a statement.
Kruger also expressed doubt that city schools, like Georgetown and unlike Dartmouth, have much control over student alcohol use anyway.
“On an urban campus, it’s impossible,” Kruger said.
Dartmouth is not alone in its increasingly restrictive alcohol policy. Brown University issued a ban against alcohol at fraternities in January, the University of Virginia restricted hard alcohol at fraternity parties in November and Swarthmore College banned hard alcohol and drinking games at the beginning of this academic year, all for similar reasons.
In contrast to these tightening policies, recent changes at Georgetown reflect a liberalization in alcohol policy around campus.
In August 2013, the university launched the Outdoor Student Living Pilot Program, allowing students of age to drink in designated open spaces on campus.
The original pilot allowed students to drink beer or wine in the barbeque areas of Village A and Henle Village. In order to deter full parties from moving outdoors, the policy restricted groups to fewer than 15 students and prohibited kegs or hard liquor outside.
In November 2014, after GUPD and the Office of Residential Living cited minimal violations of the pilot program, the designated outdoor areas extended to Nevils, LXR, the Leavey Esplanade and the Alumni Square Courtyard.
Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson explained the reasons behind Georgetown’s policy.
“Georgetown takes a balanced approach to alcohol policies and student alcohol use.  We acknowledge the realities of student social life, and take seriously our obligations to follow the law,” he wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Olson said emphasized a concern for safety as the top priority for university administrators.
“As we review and update our policies, we always begin with student safety and well-being as the top priorities. In recent years, we have adapted certain policies to allow students to socialize safely on campus,” Olson said.
He added that these decisions incorporate safety, laws and student input.
“Student input is taken seriously, and the concerns about legal compliance and student well-being are vital in those discussions as well,” Olson said.
Accordingly, Student Advocacy Office Co-Director Benjamin Manzione (SFS ’15) said that he did not expect a similar policy to be implemented at Georgetown.
“I’m not too familiar with the reasons behind the ban on hard alcohol at Dartmouth, but I am very confident that this change will not occur at Georgetown,” Manzione said.
SAO Co-Director Ryan Shymansky (COL ’16), a Georgetown University Student Association vice presidential candidate, added that he believes Georgetown policy changes align with 2010 Campus Plan requirements to encourage more social life on campus.
“These 180-degree alcohol policy changes were made to fulfill 2010 Campus Plan requirements, and really nothing more,” Shymanksy said. ”Party equity provisions in the 2010 Campus Plan actually required the University to liberalize on campus social policies to better align with off campus policies.”
Because of the domination of Dartmouth’s social scene by Greek life, hazing issues likely contributed to the administration’s strict bans. According to The Wall Street Journal, Hanlon created a task force to address the issue after a series of sexual assault accusations resulted in a 14 percent drop in applications.
Caroline Hughes (COL ’18) said she thinks Georgetown’s lack of Greek organizations makes alcohol abuse less of a campus issue.
“I think not having Greek life makes our alcohol consumption on campus much lower because there isn’t hazing and as much pressure to drink as much and as often,” she said.
Hughes added that she does not think Dartmouth’s policy will be effective in curbing student alcohol use.
“I don’t think banning hard alcohol will do anything for Dartmouth except possibly increase people’s amount of binge drinking and make the relationship between students and administration less transparent,” she said.
This article has been updated.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 6, 2015 by Kshithij Shrinath Leave a Comment 
Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg reflected on her career in law, focusing primarily on her advocacy for gender equality, in the second annual Dean’s Lecture Wednesday in the Hart Auditorium at the Georgetown University Law Center.
The Dean’s Lecture is given to third-year law students. Ginsburg’s colleague Justice Elena Kagan spoke last year in the inaugural event.
In an approximately 350-seat auditorium filled to capacity, Ginsburg spoke with GULC Dean William Treanor in a conversation format.
As in a courtroom, Ginsburg’s entry was marked by the audience standing in silence before she, laughing, asked them to be seated.
Treanor introduced Ginsburg, noting the fandom that surrounds the oldest justice on the Supreme Court and the close relationship between the law center and the Ginsburg family, where the justice’s late husband, Martin Ginsburg, taught for 30 years until his death in 2010.
“We have people in the front row wearing Notorious R.B.G. T-shirts,” Treanor said. “It’s particularly wonderful to have you here, Justice Ginsburg, not only because you’re a great justice, but also because you’d be a historic figure even if you’d never been a judge because of your work for gender equity as an advocate, and also because you’re such a great member of this community.”
The conversation began with Ginsburg reflecting on her first interests in law. The justice grew up in Brooklyn and attended Cornell University as an undergraduate. While she had no interest in being a lawyer before her time at college, the then-rampant McCarthyism and its infringements on free speech made the profession more attractive.
“Being a lawyer is a pretty good thing because in addition to practicing the profession, you could do some good for your society, make things a little better for other people,” Ginsburg said.
Ginsburg noted her interest in an alternate career path, drawing one of many long spells of laughter from the audience.
“If I could have any talent that God would give me, I would be a diva,” Ginsburg said. “Sadly I’m a monotone.”
During the conversation, the justice drew attention to her fight for gender equality throughout her career. Attending Harvard Law School just six years after the school began admitting women, Ginsburg said that the nine women in her class felt as if they were constantly being judged by their 500 male classmates to see if they were fit.
The discrimination continued upon Ginsburg’s graduation from Columbia Law School, where she transferred prior to her final year at Harvard in order to be with her ill husband in New York. Despite graduating at the top of her class, no firm chose to hire her, and even attempts by the hiring officer to help her obtain a clerkship were primarily in vain.
“They were reticent, and the reason was some of them could overcome the fact that I was a women, but none of them that I was the mother of a four-year-old. The fear was that I wouldn’t be able to come in on the weekend, to stay late,” Ginsburg said. “The result was that I overcompensated and worked harder than any clerk.”
Eventually hired as a clerk and then later as a professor at Rutgers Law School, Ginsburg experienced a substantial pay difference between women and men. This, combined with an increased number of female students in her classes and discrimination cases on which she worked for the American Civil Liberties Union, led naturally to her focus on women’s rights.
“I didn’t set my own agenda,” Ginsburg said. “I was fantastically lucky to be born when I was and to be a lawyer.”
The justice discussed cases she brought before the Supreme Court as a lawyer, pointing to one in particular where a single male parent was denied the same Social Security benefits as a female parent, encouraging women to stay at home as evidence of the universal perils of discrimination.
“Gender discrimination was bad for everyone. It was bad for women, it was bad for men, it was bad for the children,” Ginsburg said.
Ginsburg then spoke about her experience on the Supreme Court, referencing how, initially, lawyers would confuse her with Sandra Day O’Connor, the only other woman on the court at the time. However, she noted that the increased presence of women on the court, with the recent additions of Kagan and Justice Sonia Sotomayor, had strengthened the female presence.
“People ask me sometimes, when will there be enough women on the court?” Ginsburg said. “And my answer is, when there are nine. Some people are taken aback. But for most of our history, there were only men on the high court bench.”
Ginsburg concluded by offering advice to the graduating students, imploring them to use their degree in the service of their communities.
“If all I was in the law profession to do was to turn over a buck, I don’t think I would have had nearly the satisfaction that I had. Yes, you need a job, but if you don’t do something outside yourselves, something to repair the tears in your communities, something that will make life a little better for other people, you’re not going to be a true professional,” Ginsburg said.
Madeline Waseel (LAW ’15) said that Ginsburg was inspirational in her fight for gender equality.
“I’m an Afghan-American. For those women who have been inspired by Justice Ginsburg for opening the doors of women in this country, there are a group of us who are inspired to do work for women overseas, whether it’s in Afghanistan or the Middle East,” Waseel said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 6, 2015 by Matthew Larson Leave a Comment 
Renowned Iranian journalist Masih Alinejad participated in a discussion Thursday night about the lack of political freedoms in Iran at an event co-sponsored by the Georgetown University Lecture Fund and the GU Arab Society.
Hamad Bin Khalifa Al-Thani Professor in the History of Islam Tamara Sonn moderated the discussion, which was followed by a question and answer session.
The event began with Alinejad speaking about “My Stealthy Freedom,” a Facebook page she created that encourages women in Iran to post pictures of themselves without a hijab. Alinejad insists that the project allows Iranian women to demonstrate their rejection of social norms rather than protest against the government.
“Some people think that by creating this website, I’m just trying to protest against the government of Iran,” Alinejad said. “[But] this website is a platform … to criticize not only the government, but to criticize the traditional society.”
Alinejad believes that the first step to securing greater freedoms for the Iranian people is not necessarily a governmental change, but instead a cultural one.
“Iran has got a lot of problems,” Alinejad said. “And we have a long, long way to go, but this is a first step.”
Alinejad told the story of how she first began to question the mandatory wearing of the hijab. While she was a child in a rural Iranian village, she noticed that her brother was allowed to have more freedom than her simply because of his gender.
“At the age of seven I didn’t want democracy. I didn’t want to have freedom of speech or freedom of expression,” Alinejad said. “I wanted to just enjoy the wind through my hair.”
However, Alinejad said that she does not support the complete eradication of the hijab. Rather, she believes that women should have the freedom to choose whether or not to wear it. Alinejad said that she opposed people in traditional countries who would not speak out against the compulsory wearing of the hijab because it is viewed as a cultural norm.
“Some people think that just because it’s a law we shouldn’t object,” Alinejad said. “Slavery used to be law as well. If no one objected, nowadays slavery would exist.”
Alinejad then spoke about her experiences as a journalist in the Iranian parliament in her gradual involvement in political advocacy.
“Being a female journalist in parliament, it was not easy,” Alinejad said. “My main focus was criticizing the [members of the parliament] and politicians inside Iran. I started to expose their salary and pay and they started to hate me from that time.”
After publishing the controversial article “The Song of Dolphins” in 2008, in which Alinejad criticized former Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmedinijad, she received national criticism and international attention, causing her to leave the country.
“I wanted to speak out. I wanted to be loud,” Alinejad said. “I thought, I have to get out of here to be loud again. And that’s why I’m here.”
After Alinejad left Iran, the Green Movement erupted to combat the government fraud and authoritarianism that resulted from the 2009 presidential election. However, the movement failed to inspire substantial change, which Alinejad attributes to the government’s crackdown on the people’s freedoms.
“Their weapon was just their voice,” Alinejad said of the protestors. “And when they saw this barbarity, what happened in Iranian prisons, they couldn’t go further. The brutality of the Iranian government showed they can control their own people.”
Alinejad noted that while current Iranian president Hassan Rouhani is viewed as a moderate by the international community, she is not hopeful for the future of political freedom under him.
“I can see there is an inch of hope there,” Alinejad said. “But on the other hand, I see a lot of newspaper shutdowns and the number of people that got executed, more than the time when Ahmadinejad was in power.”
Sinead Carolan (SFS ’17) attended the event and said she particularly liked Alinejad’s discussion on the cultural implications surrounding the hijab.
“I think that a lot of Westerners, Americans, politicians and scholars are hesitant to talk about some of the cultural restrictions against women in Iran because [they think] it’s not their place to judge,” Carolan said. “I think it’s important to talk about it.”
Ben Forestier (MSB ’16) also enjoyed Alinejad’s thoughts on the current political climate in Iran.
“I thought it was really cool,” Forestier said. “I think [the discussion’s] important because even though very few of us here are affected by the hijab, it shows us that there are frontiers in the world, even if they’re far from home, where there’s still work to be done.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 6, 2015 by Kristen Fedor Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown Business Improvement District announced updates on the progress of its 2028 Action Plan during a meeting with local business owners, residents and property owners held at the House of Sweden Tuesday.
The plan, a list of 75 action items to modernize the Georgetown neighborhood, was revealed at the end of 2013 after months of planning. Georgetown University Assistant Director of Community Engagement Jamie Scott, who attended the meeting, said that the university has been involved in discussions about the plan since the early stages.
Work has commenced on 43 items. BID CEO and President Joe Sternlieb outlined three guidelines for the plan: preserve, fix and maintain.
The action plan was conceived after local Georgetown business leaders noticed that other D.C. neighborhoods were rapidly progressing, while Georgetown remained stagnant.
“Georgetown was getting left behind a little bit,” Sternlieb said. “People weren’t talking about it as much as they had. It wasn’t the only place to go on a Saturday night anymore.”
The meeting, which was attended by roughly 100 community members, focused on providing updates and soliciting feedback related to four main topic areas: transportation, public space, economic development and restoration of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal.
Among the transportation advancements in the last year was the introduction of an idea to make D.C. Circulator rides along Wisconsin Avenue free from K Street to Whitehaven Street, allowing visitors to park in garages near the waterfront without facing the steep hill along that stretch.
Sternlieb also mentioned the D.C. Streetcar project. Although the project expected to open its first line in the northeast quadrant of D.C. in 2013, the line still has not opened.
Accordingly, Sternlieb expressed his desire to improve the Streetcar, which has a planned extension to Georgetown; he wants a car to run every 10 minutes from Georgetown to Union Station.
Scott said that the university is involved in talks to push for the streetcar to expand all the way to Georgetown’s main campus to link it with the School of Continuing Studies and the Georgetown University Law Center downtown.
The BID has raised $150,000 in private funds for a feasibility study about installing an aerial gondola to run from Rosslyn to Georgetown. While the funds are sufficient to begin the study, the BID is waiting for the city.
“We’re working with the city and with Arlington County … so that they’ll develop the feasibility study with us,” Sternlieb said. “If the feasibility study proves that this would be a really good idea, they will be ready to take it to the next step, and we won’t be on the outside trying to sell them.”
Scott said Georgetown would be an “institutional stakeholder” in the gondola project, determining whether it could extend to the university. The Georgetown University Transportation Shuttle buses currently have issues with congestion that could be alleviated by the gondola. The goal is for gondolas to run every 10 seconds, eliminating wait times.
The plan also calls for the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority to bring a Metro station to Georgetown. The addition of the silver line created a bottleneck in the tunnel between Rosslyn and Foggy Bottom, with three lines using one tunnel. BID is pushing for the separation of the blue line and the creation of a Georgetown station. Sternlieb estimated that a Metro stop in Georgetown would only be feasible by 2040. The total project is estimated to cost $3.5 billion.
BID Transportation Director Will Handsfield echoed Sternlieb’s emphasis on the collaborative aspects of the plan.
“It was a tremendous amount of effort by a lot of different people working on this project to really develop a consensus plan,” Handsfield said.
The second focus of the plan includes the BID examining ways to enhance the use of existing public spaces.
Over parents’ weekend in October, the BID ran the first trial of widening sidewalks on M Street, which Sternlieb considered a success for visiting families. Three more trials are scheduled throughout the spring and summer.
Regarding the restoration of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal, which will mark its 200th anniversary in 2028, Sternlieb said that a new dock near the 34th Street Bridge would be unveiled to allow boats to travel up and down the waterway.
Finally, Sternlieb discussed economic development. He announced that Palantir Technologies, a software company with 300 employees, would move from its current location in Tysons Corner to an disclosed location in Georgetown.
“We have to stay relevant. We have to stay sustainable. We have to stay economically strong, and so we need a strategic plan,” Sternlieb said.
Correction: A previous version of this post misidentified the name of the BID CEO and President. The article has been updated.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 6, 2015 by Owen Eagan Leave a Comment 
As the Georgetown community buzzed with anticipation for Super Bowl XLIX last Sunday, Georgetown Dining launched Punt, Pass and Pizza — Game Day To-Go, a new meal exchange program that allowed students to exchange one meal swipe for a full take-out pizza during the day of the game.
300 students submitted electronic orders for either a cheese or pepperoni pizza before the Jan. 28 deadline, with 291 of the students picking up their orders the next day at O’Donovan Hall. The nine unclaimed pizzas were sold to walk-in students. Snack options were also available for sale.
Additionally, one of the pizza boxes contained a golden ticket which could be used to claim an iPad Mini. Jonah Birnberg (COL ’17) won the iPad.
According to Aramark Marketing Manager Adam Solloway, the program was driven by Aramark’s gratitude to its customers rather than profit.
“This wasn’t profit driven, but more importantly customer driven,” Solloway wrote in an email to THE HOYA. “We do these events to thank our meal plan holders for their patronage … We wanted to provide an opportunity for students to use their meal plans as a fun carry-out option on their way to Super Bowl parties.”
Solloway said that Georgetown Dining is pleased with the program’s results.
“We’re constantly looking to be innovative and provide a value-driven dining program, especially with the desire to have more flexibility in a meal plan,” Solloway wrote. “Based on feedback we received, the carry-out pizza proved to be a pleasing ‘out-of-the-box’ meal option.”
Georgetown Dining organized the event as a part of its yearly marketing plan and promotional calendar, which they review on a weekly basis. Punt, Pass and Pizza was conceived during one of these weekly meetings.
Associate Vice President of Auxiliary Services Joelle Wiese suggested the possibility of continuing Punt, Pass and Pizza for similar events occurring at Georgetown in the future.
“We are always looking at fun and exciting promotions for dining on campus,” Wiese said.
Solloway agreed that the event could be continued in the future based on the positive feedback that it has received.
“We will continue to explore options like these in the future,” Solloway wrote.
Kristofer Muzzi (COL ’18) said that the program was particularly convenient for students watching the Super Bowl on campus.
“It was nice to be on campus and still in a relaxed setting, but to be around people and watch [the Super Bowl],” Muzzi said. “It was just a really nice setup, and it got people together and the food was good … I think that they should just do it more often.”
Claire Jaffee (MSB ’18) agreed that the program complemented the game watching well.
“I thought it was a great idea. We could walk right down the steps and pick up our pizza,” Jaffee said. “It enhanced my experience immensely … it was a just a stress-free experience and it allowed us to fully enjoy the game.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 6, 2015 by Emma Rizk Leave a Comment 
Courtney’s House Survivors Services Coordinator Ta’Quilla Spaine discussed human trafficking in the United States Tuesday in McShain Lounge. The event, titled “Human Trafficking in Our Backyard,” was co-hosted by Students Stopping the Trafficking of People and Campus Renew.
Courtney’s House was founded in 2008 by Tina Frundt, a survivor of domestic sex trafficking, with the goals of searching for and supporting child victims of sex trafficking.
The organization focuses on raising awareness of the widespread sex trafficking industry, reaching out to suspected or potential victims to provide them with information, and eventually assessing and fulfilling the needs of each victim through holistic healing, which involves counseling and care.
According to the U.S. National Report, 286,506 children are at risk of sexual exploitation, 2.8 million children are currently living on the streets and 1 out of every 3 of those vulnerable children will be lured into prostitution within 48 hours of leaving home. Spaine, in her role as Survivors Services Coordinator, serves as a case manager, a mentor, a social worker, a court companion and a friend to survivors.
Spaine began by promising to be completely honest with the audience, even if that meant delving into disturbing topics. She shared stories of cases during her career, like a church-going grandmother who sold her own grandchildren into slavery, a father who sodomized his sons and drug addict parents who traded their children for a few dollars. Spaine emphasized that there is not just one definition of human trafficking.
“You could be trafficked from anywhere,” Spaine said. “Trafficking does not mean that I am taking you from D.C. and shipping you to Korea. Trafficking is simple: force, fraud, coercion —movement from one place to the next for something of monetary value.”
Courtney’s House is the only organization in the D.C. area that works with boys and transgender individuals who often face additional challenges because they are not considered victims, but rather labeled as participants in survival sex.
“[T]hey are not being treated as fairly as a female that’s being trafficked. And somehow the laws aren’t protecting the boys as much as they should, which is something we push for,” Spaine said.
Spaine also spoke about how American culture idolizes pimps, men who speak openly about selling girls. Disturbingly, these types of men appear in commercials, movies and music. The culmination of this glorification is in the annual Pimp Ball, also known as the Players Ball, which occurs every December in a different city.
“D.C. hosted it a couple years ago,” Spaine said. “All the pimps come to one city and have a big party. And they bring all their girls and turn them loose on the city. It’s a big party. Look it up on YouTube. They have videos, interviews, contests…it’s a multibillion dollar industry and where there is demand, there will always be supply.”
The goal of Courtney’s House is to address the needs of each individual victim, regardless of his or her current lifestyle. Spaine has traveled across the country to rescues her clients from traffickers and place them in safe residential treatment facilities.
“We meet them where they are,” said Spaine. “I have clients that have been out of the life for a long time…I have clients that are still in the life. For those that are in the life, we are working on an exit plan.”
Spaine ended the evening with a call to action, encouraging the audience to look at their local laws and advocate for change and to take action if they felt as though they were witnessing a victim of sex trafficking. She was adamant that simply paying attention is imperative to helping fight the battle against this injustice.
“We are on the ground — we are on the ground working every day to help someone’s child return home and stay home, to do something different with their life and overcome their trauma,” Spaine said.
After the talk, a number of audience members thanked Spaine for her service to the community and asked how to become more involved in her cause.
Wendy Hamilton, Village C West Chaplain-in-Residence, said she was incredibly moved by Spaine’s discussion.
“Tonight’s speaker really brought some additional light to me,” Hamilton said. “I want to go out there and start looking for some of these missing kids myself, but I understand I’m only one person. What I’m thinking about tonight is what can I do? I may not be able to save them all, but how can I contribute?”
Travis Richardson (COL ’15), Vice President of SSTOP, expressed a desire to heighten awareness on Georgetown’s campus of sex trafficking.
“A lot of Hoyas don’t realize that D.C. is the largest port of entry for slaves and trafficked people in the nation,” Richardson said. “I know we are on our Hilltop, but that doesn’t exclude us from looking out and being aware of what’s going on around us.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

