
February 20, 2015 by Katherine Richardson 4 Comments 
Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Connor Rohan (COL ’16) won the Georgetown University Student Association executive election Thursday night in an unprecedented fashion, having executed an unorthodox, satirical campaign.
“I’m very surprised with how the election turned out. I always considered the possibility that this campaign, which started as pure satire, could win, but I have to say I was very blown away by the results,” Luther said
“I have many thanks to give the Georgetown community for all the faith they put in me and I will do everything I can to advocate for their interests in the coming year.”
The pair received 29.7 percent of the votes in the first round of the instant runoff and 54.1 percent in the fourth and final round, leaving them with 1,693 votes. Abbey McNaughton (COL ’16) and Will Simons (COL ’16), placed second with 1,434 votes in the final round.
Over 51 percent of the student body voted in the election, with a voter turnout of 3,637, surpassing the 3,517 votes in 2014; the all-time election record is 3,733 voters, from the 2013 election.
The results, which were tweeted round-by-round over the course of 21 minutes by the GUSA Election Commission, partially match the results of The Hoya’s door-to-door poll, which predicted Luther-Rohan as the winners with the support of 23 percent of likely voters.
The ticket, which received endorsements from the editorial boards of The Hoya, the Georgetown Voice and the Georgetown Improv Association, ran on a satirical platform of “Youtopia,” promising to obliterate any student issues or concerns. Although almost entirely satirical, the platform is serious about its health and safety tenets, which push for the expansion of and increased accessibility to the Counseling and Psychiatric Services, improved disability access and increased attention to sexual assault and Title IX regulations.

Luther expressed commitment to creating a comprehensive list of serious goals, but plans to engage the student body through humor.
“It was pure satire before, but you have my explicit word that we will, in the coming days, begin a real administration,” Luther said.
Rohan said that he did not expect to win and congratulated the other four tickets for well-thought-out platforms.
“All the campaigns have been wonderful,” Rohan said. “Ultimately they had a lot of experience. I guess I’m just surprised by the weight of our message in that we want to bring transparency and we want to bring the student voice back. We want to advocate on behalf of the student body — that’s what we’ve been running on.”

McNaughton and Simons received the most endorsements of any ticket, with support from H*yas for Choice and Hoyas for Immigrant Rights, among others.
“We’re definitely disappointed but we are incredibly grateful for the 1,400 students that believed in us,” McNaughton said. “We’re incredibly grateful for our team, and we know that this shows how hard we worked, and we know that Georgetown saw that.”
Simons said that he hopes he and McNaughton can work with the Luther-Rohan team in the upcoming months.
“They clearly showed that GUSA fails to engage students in the correct way and in the right manner,” Simons said. “We’re going to work with them and we look forward to working with them in the next year.”
Chris Wadibia (COL ’16) and Meredith Cheney (COL ’16) came third with 1,049 votes in round three.
The campaign faced negative press and attention in the past two weeks; Wadibia was accused of ignorance of sexual assault and homophobia, and criticism intensified after his performance at the presidential debate seemed to target other candidates.
“I would say this campaign has been a blessing to my life,” Wadibia said. “I’m not a perfect individual. I never will be perfect. … You know, it’s no secret that my campaign underwent a lot of negative quotes and things, and we stayed true to our dignity. Does that mean that we were perfect? No. But we strove to be perfect by being our best at all times.”
Wadibia said he will consider working in the Luther-Rohan administration, suggesting a possible post as the undersecretary for mission and ministry.
Sara Margolis (COL ’16) and Ryan Shymansky (COL ’16) came in fourth place with 717 votes in the second round. The ticket, conversely, came in second place in The Hoya’s poll, trailing behind Luther-Rohan by only six votes.
“I am not really upset because we lost. I am really upset because you guys put so much work into this and it meant so much to me,” Margolis said, through tears, to her supporters.
Margolis encouraged her campaign staff to get involved in the Luther-Rohan cabinet.
“They’re going to need a lot of coaching and a lot of training and a lot of help, a lot of help,” Margolis said. “But I mean, there are four other tickets of people who are willing to help them, who share at least a vision that is good for Georgetown.”
Tim Rosenberger (COL ’16) and Reno Varghese (SFS ’16) came in last place with 154 votes in first-round voting. Rosenberger said that he does not have plans to continue work in GUSA but will provide help if Luther and Rohan request it.
“Good luck to Joe and Connor,” Rosenberger said. “I think we were ready for something different and the race showed us that.”
Per custom, current GUSA President Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) called Luther to inform him of the results of the election. Immediately afterward, Tezel and GUSA Vice President Omika Jikaria (SFS ’15) arrived at the Luther-Rohan campaign party in Luther’s West Georgetown townhouse.
“Trevor, I have bad news for you,” Luther said on the phone to Tezel. “I’m replacing you.”
Tezel said that he is hopeful that Luther and Rohan can bring a new approach and perspective to GUSA.
“I think it says a lot about Georgetown students,” Tezel said. “We are constantly engaged in what’s going on on campus and what Joe and Connor were able to bring to the race was a genuine desire to shake up how GUSA works. Any organization, including GUSA, needs that every once in a while.”
Hoya Staff Writers Kristen Fedor, Tom Garzillo, Toby Hung, Molly Simio and Andrew Wallender contributed reporting.
Hoya Staff Writer

Alex says 
February 20, 2015 at 5:36 pm
The graphic is wrong in at least two ways. Firstly, AW-WS had 815 in the second round (not 692 – that was how many SM-RS had in the first round). Secondly, CW-MC look like they had about 1500 (perhaps 1409 or 1490?) votes in the third round, when they should have had 1049.

Correction says 
February 21, 2015 at 2:42 pm
The graph is incorrect. McNaughton-Simons received 815 votes in the second round, not 692.

Cult of Personality says 
February 21, 2015 at 6:09 pm
Okay I am tired of the hypocrisy and lies that has characterized the Wadibia and Cheney campaign. No Chris, you did not act at your best at all times. You insulted other candidates, not to mention generalized an entire group of students as elitist. You claim to be inclusive, to represent the entire Georgetown community, and yet you ostracize, lambaste a group of students just because they are a part of a certain organization? It’s mean, and it’s unfair. Moreover, the attacks against your campaign were based on policy. Yes, your sexual assault platform sucks. Yes, your buy-a-brick program sucks. That doesn’t mean people were saying you were pro-sexual assault. Instead, you took these legitimate policy concerns as an attack on your personality and responded in turn. Moreover, not all of the candidates engaged in “mudslinging” against you, notably Sara and Ryan and Abbey and Will.
I’ve always been convinced of your kindness before this campaign, but since I have seen the egotistical nature with which you hold yourself, especially when asked the question of what would happen if you lost. Frankly, it scares me that such a large group of people would ignore serious faults with your platform merely because they find you friendly. There is a difference between a friend and a leader. 
P.S.- No one ripped down your banner. You can’t nail up a banner in Red Square without permission from facilities.

Hey man, says 
February 22, 2015 at 3:17 pm
We contacted facilities and GUPD. Both times, no info. At least the second time they had the courtesy of leaving it in the trash! I’d also like to know who’s been reporting us to Facebook and ripping our flyers off so poorly off the walls. But I’m just glad that the politics are done and everyone’s exhausted.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 20, 2015 by Toby Hung Leave a Comment 
Approximately 30 Aramark workers and 100 students marched from Sellinger Lounge to Aramark’s management office in Hoya Court on Wednesday to deliver two petitions seeking better work and wage conditions for workers at O’Donovan Hall.
The second petition demands union representation for workers at Hoya Court in light of the expiration of their three-year contract with Aramark in March.
The student petition, which received 2,021 signatures from students and other community members, supports the renegotiation of work conditions for workers at Leo’s, which includes a 40-hour paid work week, an increase in health care benefits, the protection of immigrant workers, anti-discrimination rules and greater involvement in food sustainability discussions on campus. The workers presented their demands to Aramark at a march on Jan. 23.
In addition, a petition drafted by Aramark workers, which was signed by 83 percent of the workers, demands the unionization of Aramark workers at Hoya Court under UNITE HERE, the same labor union that Aramark workers from Leo’s, Cosi and Starbucks joined in March 2011. Negotiations regarding the workers’ demands will begin at a meeting between the workers and Aramark’s management on Friday.
The rally, organized by the Georgetown Solidarity Committee, began with Leo’s workers and students congregating at Sellinger Lounge. The students and workers then marched to Hoya Court while delivering chants in unison demanding justice and respect for Aramark workers on campus.
The workers then delivered the petitions to the Aramark management office, which was met with cheers and applause from the rallying students.
GSC member Erin Riordan (COL ’15) addressed the rally attendees at Hoya Court by expressing the committee’s determination to ensure the just treatment of the workers.
“Today is the first time that retail workers at Aramark are standing up and demanding respect and just treatment in the workplace,” Riordan said. “And this Friday … we hope that Aramark will stand up and honor the respect and dignity these workers deserve and honor our Jesuit values, and give these workers what they need. If Aramark doesn’t honor the respect of these workers … we’ll be back.”
Under the current contract, workers at Hoya Court claimed to have experienced inconsistent wage payments, racial discrimination and verbal abuse.
Erenia Pacheco, who has been a sandwich artist at Subway at Hoya Court for two years, said she hopes the petition will end the unfair treatment that workers experience from their managers.
“We just [don’t] want to get … disrespected. We want respect, we want to stop discrimination, being racist, having favoritism,” Pacheco said. “Hours-wise, people need more hours.”
According to Pacheco, there are frequent disputes between workers and managers at Hoya Court over operational duties and wages.
“[In] less than a one-month period, [the management] fired five people because [the workers] talked back to them. There was an incident when a manager was about to slap a worker’s hand. They just be calling out names like ‘stupid.’ Who wants to come to work knowing that you’re going to come to a place where nobody respects you?” Pacheco said.
Pacheco recounted an incident in which she was not given sick leave despite providing proper documentation.
“There was an incident when I was sick, and I brought in my note, and [my manager] just threw it in my face like ‘Here, I don’t care about your note. How do I know you didn’t make that letter up yourself?’ And I came back to work the day before the doctor said to come back to work. He didn’t accept my letter, but two weeks after, he was like ‘Do you still have your letter?’ So he’s gonna ask for it back after two weeks when he threw it in my face saying he didn’t care about it,” Pacheco said. “It’s not fair. We’re all sick of that. They [are] playing with our hours, disrespecting and all that. We’re just fed up.”
Francisco Lopez, a worker at Elevation Burger at Hoya Court, said that the daily tasks given to him by his manager are too demanding for an understaffed establishment.
“Sometimes you close with just one more person, it’s just two people closing tonight. … That’s a lot of work because you have to wash the dishes, wash the grill and the grill takes about 20 minutes and on top of that they want it all done in an hour because if you go over they yell at you because you went over,” Lopez said. “I’m just one person, I’m not a machine, but they don’t want to hear all that.”
However, under the current contract with Aramark, Lopez said that there are no opportunities for workers to voice their complaints.
“All they tell us to do is call that hotline that’s in the back, the Aramark corporate, they tell us just call the hotline,” Lopez said. “[Our manager’s] telling us go call corporate because he knows it’s going to take them a week to get back to us. That’s not how you deal with stuff. We just have to deal with it and move on, [not] brush it under the rug.”
According to GSC member Clare Kelly (COL ’17), the petition would be effective in demonstrating to the Aramark management that there is community support for the workers.
“[Companies] are usually scared of students especially on university campuses. So that means we hold a lot of power. Since we hold a lot of power, we should be using it,” Kelly said. “[We need to] show that students really do support the workers here on campus. … If [workers] feel that support, they are able to be stronger and speak up for themselves. … We’re going to keep pushing and maintain that support to show that we care and to make it matter.”
GSC member Lily Ryan (COL ’18) said that many community members expressed interest in signing the petition.
“One of the ways [of garnering support] was just going around campus to Red Square, Leo’s, talking to people, engaging people in discussions about workers’ rights on campus,” Ryan said. “I think other ways was how we reached out to an incredibly diverse group of clubs and try to engage clubs, classes, just really engage people about what was going on and ask people if they were interested in supporting workers.”
Pacheco said she is grateful for the support for Aramark workers from students and the community.
“I feel so grateful [about the student support]. When I first heard about it, I thought about how crazy it is that students care more about our work than our own managers,” Pacheco said. “It feels good knowing that we have support from the outside that sees how hard we work.”
Aramark’s Director of Corporate Communications Karen Cutler said that Aramark will bargain in “good faith” with the workers in the upcoming weeks.
“Negotiating union collective bargaining agreements are a routine part of business,” Cutler wrote in an email in January. “At Georgetown, we are committed to bargaining in good faith and are working hard with union representatives to come to an agreement that works for everyone. We had a productive meeting this week and hope to have a new agreement soon.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 20, 2015 by Emma Rizk Leave a Comment 
The District of Columbia experienced 62 reported cases of human trafficking in 2014, a similar number to that of previous years, while there was a 26 percent national increase in calls to the National Human Trafficking Resource Center hotline, according to an annual report published by the National Human Trafficking Resource Center and national advocacy organization Polaris.
Of the 62 tips reported to the NHRTC hotline in the District, there were 36 cases of sex trafficking and 21 cases of labor trafficking, a decline from 2013, which saw 78 cases. Sixty-seven cases were reported in 2012.
According to Polaris Media Relations Officer Brandon Bouchard, it is unlikely that the prevalence of human trafficking has changed as the statistics simply reflect increased reports. However, he admitted that little is known about human trafficking in the United States.
“It’s challenging to say whether or not there is an increase in human trafficking because there hasn’t been a prevalent study that’s been conducted for the United States or for D.C. specifically,” Bouchard said. “But without a prevalent study like that, we don’t have that baseline number for actual human trafficking victims to compare to. That’s one area in which we definitely want to see some action.”
A possible reason for the national increase in reported cases of human trafficking is increased awareness of the issue. Austin Naughton, a communications team volunteer at D.C. Stop Modern Slavery, said that this awareness extends beyond the general public to law enforcement.
“I think now that there is greater sensitivity among law enforcement [as] they try and look below the surface about what’s really going on with the person,” Naughton said. “There are people who are trained to look for [whether this might] be an incident of trafficking and if so, how do they then connect that person … with the different service providers that can support them.”
Despite this increased awareness, Washington, D.C., remains a hub of human trafficking activity according to activists, primarily due to its location on the coast and popularity as a tourist destination.
“There is a corridor, it goes from one big city to another, up and down Interstate 95,” Naughton said. “So cities that are like hubs, let’s say New York or D.C. or Atlanta, these are places where there is a lot of tourism or conventions. There are people who are coming here who have free time and money to spend.”
Deborah Sigmund, founder of Innocents at Risk, another D.C. organization that fights human trafficking, explained how widespread trafficking is in the District.
“Unfortunately we have people in Congress, doctors, lawyers, all walks of life. There is no field that is not participating in buying children,” Sigmund said. “You can call up and order a child the same way you can call up and order a pizza.”
This year, Washington, D.C., received a D grade from the Protected Innocence Challenge, a comprehensive study of existing state laws that evaluates each state and gives it a grade. This grade is based on 41 key legislative components that must be addressed in a state’s laws in order to effectively respond to the crime of domestic minor sex trafficking.
The report card pointed out several flaws, including that D.C. has not statutorily mandated the reporting of mission or rescued children. Training on human trafficking and minor domestic sex trafficking is neither mandated nor authorized by law.
“Sex trafficking of a minor under 18 without regard to force, fraud, or coercion is a crime. Nonetheless, juveniles are subject to arrest for prostitution in the District of Columbia in conflict with their status as sex trafficking victims. Critical investigative tools to combat the growing use of the Internet to commit sex trafficking are not provided by law,” the report reads.
However, there is some movement toward improvement. On Dec. 2, the D.C. Council passed a law that increased law enforcement training and provided safe harbor to child victims of sex trafficking, preventing the prosecution of underage persons who engage in sex acts in exchange for money.
In addition, Naughton explained that D.C. Stop Modern Slavery has introduced a bill to the D.C. Council, attempting to decrease demand for prostitution by raising the consequences for people caught trying to purchase sex services.
“Historically, the people that get busted tend to be the prostitutes and not so much the person buying the services. So there are efforts being made to raise the stakes higher so that people will feel deterred from seeking sex,” Naughton said. “It’s taking away the consequences for people that are caught selling sex services as a way to try and put pressure on the networks that are behind the trafficking, as a way to try and reduce the incentives that go along with trafficking.”
Bouchard echoed Naughton, noting that advocating for legislative reform is a key method to working towards ending human trafficking.
“We really want people to reach out to their lawmakers, the key stakeholders in whatever community they are from, and encourage them to focus on human trafficking … [and] focus on passing laws and working on initiatives that [combat] all forms of human trafficking,” Bouchard said.
Despite the recent legislative advancements, Bouchard indicated that efforts to campaign against human trafficking are limited by financing.
“We see across the country that law makers are taking very important steps to criminalize human trafficking, [to] provide additional training [and] create additional resources, but every bill doesn’t necessarily come with additional funding,” Bouchard said.
According to Bouchard, part of the reason the campaign lacks support is because the issue of human trafficking extends far beyond the crime itself and the existing model allows traffickers to reap high rewards at low risk.
“We don’t have enough resources to investigate or prosecute [human trafficking],” Bouchard said. “We’re not getting to the root causes that enable victims of human trafficking to be victimized like poverty, unemployment, runaway and homeless youth issues.”
Students Stopping the Trafficking of People, a Georgetown student organization, focuses on raising awareness among students. SSTOP President Clare Murphy (SFS ’15) noted the current system lacks adequate support for victims.
“There is a lack of resources, specifically a lack of shelters and a lack of beds,” Murphy said. “Organizations have trouble going out to find and rescue more victims because they don’t actually have the capacity to house them.”
Murphy added that Georgetown students can bring more attention to this issue on campus.
“Especially at Georgetown, we have students here who are going to be going into the top levels of government and business and that’s really where we need to put the pressure on to address this issue,” she said. “Raising up future leaders who are aware of this issue is the focus of our group: just educating students on trafficking and modern day slavery, making them aware that this problem still exists, that there [are] still 27 million people in slavery and even in our own backyard of D.C., this is a huge issue.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 20, 2015 by Andrew Wallender 1 Comment 
Fr. Patrick Heelan, S.J., loved to smile. In the midst of any disagreement or serious discussion, Heelan’s smile refused to fade.
Heelan was the William A. Gaston professor of philosophy at Georgetown as well as a Jesuit priest, a university administrator and an esteemed philosopher and physicist. Heelan always had open ears and a large grin. He died Feb. 1 in his native Ireland. He was 88.
“Can you imagine a guy, vice president of the university, who does not at all become hostile when contradicted, smiles, and then settles down to an extremely pleasant discussion of the question?” professor of German and friend of Heelan Fr. G. Ronald Murphy, S.J., asked. “To me that just showed you how deeply gracious he was — deeply gracious. It overcame hostility and fostered friendship in the midst of disagreement.”
Friend and associate professor of theology Fr. Stephen Fields, S.J., said that Heelan’s smile was an essential part of who he was.
“I would say he had a delightful Irish sense of humor,” Fields said. “He was consistently smiling. He would come across many times as the absent minded professor — there was a certain charm in that.”
Heelan originally came to Georgetown University in 1992 and, in his more than 20 years at the university, served as vice president for the main campus and oversaw academic and administrative affairs, as well as being the William H. Gaston professor of philosophy.
Heelan, during his tenure as vice president, oversaw drastic change to the university in the merging of the Faculty of Languages and Linguistics into the College in the early 1990s under the direction of university president Fr. Leo O’Donovan, S.J. A significant number of faculty and students resisted the merger, which made Heelan’s task especially challenging.
“Once it’s done, it’s likely to seem obvious to people,” colleague and philosophy professor Fr. John Langan, S.J., said of the merger. “But when it’s still in the stage of negotiating, it’s quite difficult. And that stirred up quite a bit of anxiety.”
Fields said that overseeing the merger was the most difficult task Heelan took on in his role as university administrator.
“He met a great deal of resistance,” Fields said. “And that took its toll on him. So he really had to step down because he met so much resistance. I think it took him a while to recover from that.”
University President John J. DeGioia sent a campus-wide email Feb. 11 announcing Heelan’s passing and paying tribute to the work that the former provost and philosophy professor did for Georgetown.
“Fr. Heelan’s leadership strengthened our community in so many ways and was integral to bringing us to where we are now,” DeGioia wrote in the email.
Before arriving at Georgetown University, Heelan served as vice president at the State University of New York at Stony Brook during the ’70s and ’80s, a time when public higher education was experiencing rapid growth.
“When he was working in Stony Brook, there was a sense that this might be a new wave connected with an increasingly leftward movement in American society, preferring public institutions as more egalitarian than private institutions,” Langan said. “So, he had done pretty well as an administrator and that was in a politically charged environment.”
Aside from his duties as an administrator, Heelan was a renowned scholar of philosophy and physics. His interests encompassed a wide breadth of subjects ranging from quantum theory to music to Islam. Heelan was educated by three Nobel Prize winners, including the Austrian physicist Erwin Schrödinger, one of the founders of quantum physics, at his alma mater, the University of Vienna.
Heelan published dozens of articles and multiple books throughout his lifetime.
Langan said that Heelan was not only interested in philosophy but in Catholic and Jesuit traditions. Heelan was especially skilled at bridging the gap between science and religion.
“When you talk about relating science and religion, he had a foot in each camp,” Langan said. “Very frequently in those discussions, the people who are comfortable in one camp are quite uncomfortable in another camp. … He was able to be comfortable on both sides of that and to encourage the science people to take religion seriously and to encourage the religious folks not to simply deny the results of modern science.”
Heelan will long be remembered for his contributions to the world of academia, but to those who knew him, he will also be especially remembered for his uniquely Irish disposition in life. Heelan, whose birthday was St. Patrick’s Day, was born in Dublin in 1926.
“To me what’s most memorable and what I will always carry is when he and I would talk about Ireland — Ireland’s history and its history of troubles, which he lived through, so I could always talk to him about [them],” Fields said.
Murphy said he would also regularly talk with Heelan about Ireland and Heelan’s Irish heritage.
“I felt I could always talk to him,” Murphy said. “I could always joke to him about Irish things. Maybe being a Murphy, that gives me the right. Even if I hadn’t been, he always thought it was funny to hear things like that.”
During Heelan’s last few years, he fought a long and difficult struggle against dementia, which forced him to leave Georgetown in 2013 and return to Ireland, where he lived out the remainder of his life surrounded by loved ones.
Notes of condolence can be sent to Jesuit Provincialate, Milltown Park, Sandford Road, Dublin 6, Ireland.

Ryan Severino says 
February 20, 2015 at 10:32 am
Thing I will always remember about him – at freshman orientation in Gaston Hall he told us to look around. He said that some of us wouldn’t still be there in four years, intimating how difficult things would be. At first, I was taken aback. However, I kept that in my mind for the four years I was there and used it as motivation to succeed. RIP.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 20, 2015 by Mallika Sen Leave a Comment 
Sunday night finds the Healey Family Student Center nearly exceeding capacity and Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Connor Rohan (COL ’16) on a quest to find a private space to conduct an interview for this article.
Frustrated in this endeavor, their offer to perform an interpretive dance in lieu of a traditional sit-down interview is cut short by a passerby: “Luther-Rohan, big fan!”
“I had random people taking pictures with me last night,” Rohan said later. “Quoting our campaign, you walk down the street and you hear it from the windows, like a musical.”
Each year, the Georgetown University Student Association executive race produces candidates proudly touting their extensive experience within the organization, or emphasizing their fresh perspective. This year, the annual clash between the GUSA insider and the GUSA outsider has been toppled askance by the entrance of a third category — the GUSA iconoclast, who proved to be the eventual victors.
Luther and Rohan won the 2015 executive race, whose results were announced just past 1 a.m. Friday, with 1,693 votes, after leading all rounds in the single-transferable vote system. With a decidedly unorthodox approach, their victory marks a departure for the GUSA executive.
Changetopia
In their bid for the GUSA presidency and vice presidency, Luther and Rohan targeted the apathetic, fatigued and jaded with their satiric promise of a “Youtopia” — interchangeable with “______topia” (pronounced “blanktopia”) — a perfect Georgetown where every whim will be satisfied.
“There are a lot of campaigns that try to make a mockery of the system and the way people treat it, and while we are trying to make a lot of commentary about the GUSA process and the way people approach it and how alienating it is to people, we are also trying to make commentary about Georgetown itself through what we’re doing,” Luther said.
The ticket’s unorthodox approach was a means to an end, but with their triumph, the pair does not plan to make a mockery of GUSA.
“We’re very careful to not have much farce. Farce doesn’t have anything underlying, but the way that I see it is that a lot of people don’t listen to the other candidates. They know of them, and might support them because they know someone in their campaign, but they don’t read their platform,” Rohan said. “We’re presenting issues in such a way where, maybe there’s not as much very clear content but at the same time we’re pressing very important issues … through a medium that makes people want to read it, and they want to think about it and talk about it and want to laugh.”
Nine of the 10 tenets of the published Luther-Rohan platform are, as Rohan put it, “impossible,” with the 10th tenet encompassing health and safety reforms. Now that they have been elected, the pair will assume office, but they face two large obstacles: a failed confirmation by the GUSA Senate and a demonstrated unwillingness of university administrators to work with the pair.
“Just because we have a mandate from the public doesn’t mean that people are willing to work with us, and we want to make sure people are willing to work with us and hear us out before stepping up,” Rohan said.
Luther and Rohan have prepared an alternate agenda for their term as GUSA executive, with a major focus on transparency and mobilization.
“I think GUSA’s biggest failing is that it really does not mobilize the student base well. At the end of the day GUSA’s power really does not lie in one or two individuals and the executive positions and senators,” Luther said. “Its power lies in mobilizing the people and informing them, to [let them] have a say [in] what’s going on in the universe. The only time I’ve seen GUSA mobilize people was last year during the satellite campus debate, and I think that’s in part because people are so turned off by GUSA and how they approach issues.”
Heckling, Reinvigorated
Perhaps nothing has recently captured the fancy of a large swath of the student body as the resurrected Georgetown Heckler. The genesis of the Luther-Rohan campaign lay in the Georgetown Improv Association, which brought the pair together last year upon Rohan’s transfer from George Mason University, and in the satire publication, which gave them the notoriety and push to run. Luther serves as editor-in-chief, while Rohan is a managing editor.
Luther and Rohan both joined the flailing online publication last winter, which began to revive with Twitter coverage of the 2014 GUSA executive election, an achievement entirely orchestrated by Luther. His performance was enough for graduating editor-in-chief Henry Thaler (COL ’14) to eschew the established hierarchy and hand control to the eager upstart.
“I just felt like, with Joe, not only was he enthusiastic, but he was really funny, and he wanted to expand the Heckler and take it to a whole another level,” Thaler said. “Joe understood that a lot of people would love to read funny things about what’s going on in the Georgetown community, and because he’s plugged in he gets it and is able to put a funny spin on it.”
The revitalization, which includes a commitment to posting at least one new piece a day, has caused readership to grow from 100 unique views to 10,000 in a matter of months. Facebook posts easily attain over 100 likes, far exceeding those of traditional campus media.
“[We] heard Connor [at the vice presidential debate] talk a lot about engagement, how powerful our voice can be and kind of re-engage the students, whereas previous GUSA executives have failed at that. Even though what they’re doing is kind of satirical, it is kind of like the proving ground,” Heckler editorial board member Craig Levites (COL ’17), a campaign staffer, said. “If we can get that done during the campaign, if we can engage those people who are traditionally apathetic, I think there’s no reason why we can’t do it when we’re in office because I think we’ve been very successful at that so far.”
This familiarity with the mindset of the Georgetown student body reflects Luther’s background. Besides Improv and the Heckler, Luther has been involved in the Blue and Gray Tour Guide Society, New Student Orientation and Students of Georgetown, Inc. as director of marketing for Vital Vittles.
“Joe, I don’t think people realize, he is as much of a Mr. Georgetown as he is. His sister went here, so it’s all in the family. … He kind of runs this place and people don’t know it,” campaign staffer Emlyn Crenshaw (COL ’15) said. Crenshaw is also the executive producer of Improv and a member of the Heckler editorial board. “And Connor, if you’ve ever talked to Connor, you know he is extremely dynamic and passionate. He’s so driven that it’s almost scary. I think if there was some GUSA initiative that he wanted to get done, or if he had to get into a meeting about Aramark and was advocating for students in a room full of administrators, I know that Connor Rohan would be extremely vocal.”
Verity
In pursuing the GUSA executive positions Luther and Rohan follow in the footsteps of successful, high-profile satirical campaigns at Harvard College and Oxford University.
In 2013, then-juniors Sam Clark and Gus Mayopoulos won their executive race for the Harvard Undergraduate Council, having asserted they would resign if elected; Clark indeed stepped down, but Mayopoulos did not — and he thus ascended to the presidency.
“I think everybody was pretty surprised [when we won]. I think the people that voted for us were happy and I think a mix of that was some people were disillusioned with the student government and wanted to see something new go on,” Mayopoulos, whose term finished at the end of last year, told The Hoya. “I think some people just wanted to see the show go on and wanted to see out of morbid curiosity what would happen if you put a completely untrained person in a position of power, mild power.”
Harvard and its UC were plagued with many of the same problems Georgetown and GUSA faces: apathy, lack of communication and a divide between a largely forward-thinking student body and a conservative administration. Mayopoulos, who wrote for Harvard satire publication Satire V, was not a stranger to the substantive issues, but willingly tackled the UC’s learning curve.
“I think I knew less about the council than any other president before or even after this. I couldn’t micromanage because I had none of the knowledge necessary to do it and so most of my executive board was given pretty free range to do whatever they wanted in their capacities, so I think the different committee chairs appreciated it,” Mayopoulos said. “I don’t think they felt lack of guidance, but I think it was an exciting opportunity for them to take control of their committees in a very whole way.”
To ameliorate communication between the council and the student body, Mayopoulos’ team employed humor to attract the attention of students; in all other cases, UC proceedings continued in a professional and largely serious manner under his leadership, eliciting the respect of students and administrators — with one minor hiccup.
“When we met with [Harvard University President Drew Faust], the first thing she said was, ‘Where is your costume?’ because I had worn a Napoleon costume to all of the council meetings,” Mayopoulos said. “The second time I met with her, I did wear the Napoleon costume — I think there was definitely an association of me being a joke.”
“The weird thing is, I think, in my opinion, [Luther and Rohan] are quite a bit sharper with their criticism and their satire,” Mayopoulos said. “I think we were more weird — we would say things that were just nonsensical — whereas the ‘Youtopia’ idea seems to be taking specific shots at real issues, which frankly seems like a better way to go about it than we did. For a long time, just because it seemed so ridiculous to us, we never planned on being serious contenders.”
As Luther and Rohan prepare to take office, they claim that neither legitimacy nor humor will be sacrificed, but the pair, who can officially claim the titles of iconoclasts, will certainly be a large change for GUSA.
“Satire doesn’t mean that we’re not being serious,” Rohan said.
“I think there’s a very large difference between taking yourself seriously and taking your job seriously,” Luther added. “I think that, for years, people were really alienated by how seriously the GUSA crowd takes themselves, and I think that’s really hindered their ability to do their jobs, so we think, by taking a different approach by how we’re treating ourselves, it has no implication about how we’d treat the job.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 20, 2015 by Mallika Sen Leave a Comment 
The election of Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Connor Rohan (COL ’16) to the Georgetown University Student Association executive elicited comparisons to the 2013 election of Sam Clark and Gus Mayopoulos to the Harvard Undergraduate Council.
Both campaigns wielded satire to highlight deep-seated issues germane to their respective institutions; Clark and Mayopoulos had, however, indicated that they would resign, if elected. Clark did indeed resign, but Mayopoulos chose to stay, becoming president.
He spoke to The Hoya a week before the election, reflecting upon his campaign and presidency, and offered thoughts on the Luther-Rohan ticket.
What are your general thoughts about the ticket? Was there anything that sort of struck your attention, or that you thought was similar to the way you approached your campaign?
I think, as in most cases, it looks like the satire is born out of frustration or discontent with the way things are currently being done. What’s interesting about satire is, well, it’s very useful in pointing out the problems it is less useful in solving the problems.
From what I could tell, the other candidates were all celebrating Georgetown to some extent or at least the student government or the students, and this ticket has decided to take a more critical stance toward the whole situation.
I think that is just something that I’m sure they’re thinking about — me and my partner Sam considered ‘How do you deal with after the election, if you do win? How can you shift your message once pointing out the problems is no longer your job, but providing solutions is?’
How did you go about providing those solutions? What was the transition like for you? It was a last-minute decision for you not to resign. How easy was it to assume power?
I think there were a couple of transitions that had to be made. The most obvious was getting along with the rest of the student government, because in a lot of ways, Sam and I had been some of a destructive force during the election.
We were mostly there to make fun of everyone and everything, and the Undergraduate Council, which is our student government, took the brunt of it, which we maintained wasn’t their fault but was rather the result of sort of having not a lot power when it came to making decisions at the school — mostly, because for all of its liberalness, Harvard is actually a very conservative administration and does not enjoy change. They are hesitant to follow the lead of the students too much and so my first job was to smooth things over with a group of people that I had to work with now.
A lot of that went pretty well, a lot of that I had to credit to my vice president who really took everything in stride. He was elected by the council, because when I became president, we left a vacancy in the vice presidency, and I thought he was really ready to work with me.
I’m curious, if these two candidates won, if they would both stay on or if they have two different opinions between themselves like how Sam and myself did. What it means to run as a joke and if you win what responsibilities do you have.
Both of you had said you would resign. After you decided to stay, was there a confirmation process you had to go through with the council? What was the reaction of both the council and the general student body who voted for you when you had said you would in fact resign?
I think everybody was pretty surprised [when we won]. I think the people that voted for us were happy and I think a mix of that was some people were some people were disillusioned with the student government and wanted to see something new go on. I think some people just wanted to see the show go on and wanted to see, out of morbid curiosity, what would happen if you put a completely untrained person in a position of power, mild power.
And then I think a lot of people were just like ‘Oh, that’s pretty weird,’ and then per usual there were just a lot of people who didn’t care. Within the student government I think there were people who were frustrated or felt betrayed and felt, ‘Oh, you went on record and said you would resign and then changed your mind.’ But it’s actually interesting so we had a resignation letter ready when we found out that we won. But there was no provision in the constitution to allow candidates to resign before they took the office so it was sort of the council’s own mechanisms that forced me to go home and think about this over Thanksgiving break. That’s when I changed my mind, and I was like, maybe something good could come of this. But I think a lot of people in the council were actually very excited and they were curious too and I think a lot of them were looking forward to whatever changed would come to.
The article also describes the debate as a pivot point, where you discussed issues seriously under the guise of humor. How did you balance the humor and seriousness and make people pay attention to you?
The weird thing is, I think, in my opinion, these two candidates are quite a bit sharper with their criticism and their satire. I think we were more weird, we would say things that were just nonsensical, whereas the “Youtopia” idea seems to be taking specific shots at real issues, which frankly seems like a better way to go about it than we did.
For a long time, just because it seemed so ridiculous to us, we never planned on being serious contenders. It wasn’t until the debate that we realized that we had opinions that were just as valid as anyone else’s when it came to this, and that it’s possible for people who don’t really have an experience with student government to have ideas that are valid in those discussions anyway.
We did become more critical over time, but the only thing that turned us into serious candidates was people coming behind the platform saying ‘You know what, I’m going to vote for these guys.’
I think a lot of people did it imagining they would be the only one, and then enough people did it, and it became this bizarre reality. But I don’t think we really ever made the conscious decision to try to push for it to be a more realistic goal.
Did you expect to win at all?
I think it was about two days before the election results came out. Around that time, we talked about what it would mean and how we would deal with [winning]. Sam was involved in far too much to have time for student government, but I thought I could take it on. But it wasn’t until the very end that we were like this might be a thing.
You said you had narrow experience with student government. How much research did you do once you took office, or did you feel like you were fairly familiar with the issues?
I also wrote for a satire publication, Satire V, so I was in touch with most of the issues because I would research them for that purpose, but during the campaign I really didn’t know much about the inner workings about the government. It wasn’t until after I was sworn in that, that whole winter break, I just spent talking with everyone on the council and trying to get as much information about the history of the council, what it had done, what it had tried to do, where it had succeeded and failed, and how it structurally worked.
I think I knew less about the council than any other president before, or even after, this. I couldn’t micromanage because I had none of the knowledge necessary to do it and so most of my executive board was given pretty free range to do whatever they wanted in their capacities, so I think the different committee chairs appreciated it. I don’t think they felt lack of guidance, but I think it was an exciting opportunity for them to take control of their committees in a very whole way.
Did you encounter any problems with having people take you seriously?
When we met with the president of the university, the first thing she said was ‘Where is your costume?’ because I had worn a Napoleon costume to all of the council meetings. At which point, the second time I met with her, I did wear the Napoleon costume. I think there was definitely an association of me being a joke.
In terms of the reason why you ran in the first place, and now looking back on your administration, do you think you managed to address any of the problems that inspired you in the first place?
I think during the campaign, we identified some things the council could work on, and communication was at the top of the list.
My biggest challenge was, Harvard student government has always been effective in some ways, but it’s always had trouble communicating its accomplishments to students, and so I saw my biggest charge as keep the council running effectively — it can do that on their own, it doesn’t really need me to do that.
And my biggest challenge became how to communicate what the council was working on, struggling with and achieving, in a way that students cared about and wanted to learn about, and so I chose to use humor as the means of communication so we would send emails that made fun of student groups and poked fun at issues that were happening, but also tried to convey serious information about the issues that were actually happening. So we included gifs, made jokes, and I think even if people just looked at the pictures they still had to read the subject line to get an idea of what was happening.
I acknowledge that you can’t make jokes forever and eventually people will ask for real change and we delivered as much as we could, but I think it helped a council that was clearly struggling a bit because a joke candidate was able to succeed get back into a position where that couldn’t happen again.
What happened in the election to replace you? What approach did those candidates take, and how did they comment on your leadership?
So we had four tickets run, originally five, but one dropped out. I was lucky enough to be spared some pretty heavy criticism during the debates — I was there. There was some discussion of humor, and there was one ticket that ran using a lot of humor.
But in the end it was a more conservative ticket that won, both of them had been on the UC for years. It was definitely a situation where I think the faith in the council had been restored to an extent, and people were more likely to trust tickets of people who had already served in the student government, as opposed to people with no experience — which you could also totally read as people thinking that people with outside experience do terrible jobs, and I accept that as well.
Based on what people have told you, you would lean toward the former?
I think at the very least people found it [my presidency] amusing and hopefully some of the changes that we made would be sustained.
If you had to do it again, would you have taken office?
Yeah, I think I would do it again.
Having completed your term, would you have any precautions or advice to this ticket if they were to take office?
I think they seem like they can handle it, but if they’re serious they should really go for it and it seems like they really are. It seems like it’s an exciting race.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 20, 2015 by Kelsey Quackenbush Leave a Comment 
The College Academic Council held a town hall meeting with a panel of administrators and professors from Georgetown College on Wednesday to discuss the possibility of changing Georgetown’s standard academic course structure from five three-credit courses per semester to four four-credit courses.
Over 40 students attended the meeting, which included a panel followed by a discussion for students to raise concerns and share their opinions.
Faculty members on the panel included College Dean Chester Gillis, Senior Associate Dean Anne Sullivan, Vice Provost Randy Bass, Government Department Chair Michael Bailey and government professor Andrew Bennett. CAC President Parnia Zahedi (COL ’15) and CAC representative Kennedy Maker (COL ’18) also sat on the panel.
Maker began the meeting by discussing the structure of a Georgetown degree and the implications of restructuring it.
“What really sparked my interest in this whole transition from the 5-3 to the 4-4 was just a little calculation I made out one night,” Maker said. “Basically I just went through and I made a sample four-year plan of someone who’s coming in as a freshman as a government major who wants to be pre-med and has no AP or IB credit or language experience.”
Georgetown University degree requirements mandate that each student earn 120 credits in order to graduate. A student in the College must take a minimum of 38 courses, including core requirements, six additional college-specific requirements and the language requirement.
To highlight the problems with the current course structure, Maker indicated that a government major on the pre-med track would have to take 37 courses and 113 credits, which leaves one course and seven credits available to the student before completing the minimum degree requirements.
According to Maker, the remaining credits do not leave enough room for exploration within other College courses.
“[This was] kind of staggering because I thought ‘Oh wow,’ there’s literally one course of free time and you have seven credits of free time,” Maker said. “So then I did some more research. I looked at peer schools to kind of see what kind of systems they had, and that’s when I really started to notice that Georgetown was more of the exception to the rule rather than the rule itself.”
Several other universities, such as Johns Hopkins University, Washington University in St. Louis and Notre Dame University, have also switched to a 4-4 course structure in order to alleviate students’ academic stress and shift the focus of courses from quantity to the depth of the material.
Afterwards, Maker suggested methods of implementing this new system, including double-counting courses for different requirements, reducing elective requirements and altering core requirements.
As an alternative to a complete restructuring of the College’s standard course structure, Bass proposed a hybrid system of 36 courses that would have a 5-3 course structure when a student begins taking courses required for his or her major. The structure would transition to a 4-4 system later on in order to preserve both breadth and depth.
In addition, Bass introduced the possibility of project-based minors in which some or all of the credits are awarded through projects rather than courses.
“We are trying to look at ways to assign credit to some of the richest experiential learning so it’s credit-bearing for you and load-bearing for faculty,” Bass said.
Zahedi explained that the current 5-3 course structure does not offer equal opportunities to all students.
“One issue surrounding it all that the council discussed … was kind of the equity issue of this all. What if you came in with a lot of AP credit?” Zahedi said. “Someone who doesn’t have that AP exposure in high school and then came in and didn’t have those credits and can really only take their requirements. [They would] never [have] the chance to take that one semester of four courses so they could intern.”
However, several panelists discussed the potential drawbacks of the 4-4 system, including the reduced ability for students to earn more than one major or take additional electives and possible negative effects on less popular departments.
Gillis said that the restructured system may also have negative consequences on a student’s grades.
“There are two consequences you also might think about if you are on a 4-4 versus a 5-3. [In] a 4-4 system, your GPA might be affected more by one class [or] two classes that don’t go as well as it would compared to the [5]-3. It would make a more profound impact up or down,” Gillis said. “And I don’t know what your parent’s reaction would be, say, ‘Am I getting my money’s worth? I’m spending 60-something thousand dollars [for you] to go to Georgetown and you’re only going to four classes.”
Although a straw poll taken at the meeting showed that the majority of attendees supported a change to Georgetown’s degree requirements, students had different reactions to the proposal.
Madeleine Ringwald (COL ’16) said that the 4-4 course structure would have both pedagogical as well as practical benefits, in terms of double-counting course requirements.
“I do think double-counting classes between minors or across majors and minors is a really good way to combat … not having to reduce major requirements drastically,” Ringwald said. “And I also think if a sort of decrease in course requirement or totally eliminating course requirement were accompanied also by a broader consideration of cross-disciplinary learning. … That wouldn’t only benefit professors, that would benefit students.”
Contrarily, Benjamin Lillian (COL ’18) said that the current course structure allows for students to take a larger variety of courses.
“I feel that re-scaling to a 4-4 credit course system would seriously limit our ability as students to get a taste test of a bunch of the huge academic variety of these fields that there are before we choose to specialize in the right one and I feel that that might rush us … into picking something that [we] have not tried,” Lillian said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 20, 2015 by Maureen Tabet Leave a Comment 
Prominent conservative and Catholic groups are urging Congress to overturn a pair of laws passed by the D.C. Council last year that prevent discrimination in the workplace based on contraceptive use or sexual orientation.
The Reproductive Health Non-Discrimination Amendment Act of 2014 prevents employers from taking action against workers, specifically from demoting or firing employees, based on their decision to use birth control or to seek an abortion, while the Human Rights Amendment Act of 2014 prevents religious educational institutions from discriminating against those who identify as LGBTQ.
Both unanimously passed by the Council and signed by Mayor Muriel Bowser, the laws are currently under congressional review. Fifteen conservative and Catholic groups sent a letter to Congress on Feb. 5 urging them to overturn the laws, claiming that they violate freedom of religion, freedom of speech and freedom of association under the First Amendment and other federal legislation.
D.C. Councilmember David Grosso (I-At Large) defended the Reproductive Health Non-Discrimination Amendment Act, saying that it would prevent mistreatment of workers who have used contraception or had an abortion.
“This protects the everyday workers that are working in these institutions. When somebody may get wind that a worker went out and used contraception or had an abortion and that doesn’t give with the employer, that doesn’t mean that they can fire the person,” Grosso said.
Republican leaders of Congress, including Speaker of the House John Boehner (R-Oh.), who met with Mayor Bowser regarding the issue, wanted to amend the act to include that employers do not have to provide insurance for contraception.
Grosso said he believes these demands are irrelevant to the main ideas behind the legislation.
“We were like, this is ridiculous. It has nothing to do with the law that we passed,” Grosso said. “I think it would just codify something that we don’t want codified in our laws in the District of Columbia. It may still come up in March, but I’m going to probably work against it at that time and I think that my colleagues would support me.”
Grosso also introduced the Human Rights Amendment Act to repeal the Armstrong Amendment of 1989, which created an exemption allowing religious educational institutions ways to avoid following the gay non-discrimination law in the District.
The Armstrong Amendment was first passed after a case filed under the D.C. Human Rights Act forced Georgetown University to recognize a gay student organization. Although the D.C. Council and the court supported the student group, Congress passed the Armstrong Amendment, siding with Georgetown.
Despite Georgetown’s original involvement with the Armstrong Amendment, the university has not signed this repeal.
Director of Media Relations Rachel Pugh expressed the university’s compliance with D.C. laws, specifically highlighting the Human Rights Amendment Act.
“The Catholic and Jesuit tradition that animates our university emphasizes the inherent dignity and worth of all persons and calls us each to do our part to foster well-being, civility and respect for all members of our community. We thoughtfully comply with local D.C. laws and will continue to do so,” Pugh wrote in an email.
Despite Georgetown’s abstention from signing the repeal, it still denies certain student groups affiliation with and benefits from the university based on its Catholic principles.
“We have held to the principle of not granting access to benefits to student groups whose core mission is directly contrary to Catholic teaching. As a Catholic and Jesuit institution, Georgetown cannot support organizations whose stated purpose conflicts with Catholic moral teaching,” Pugh wrote. “For that reason, H*yas for Choice, a group whose constitution espouses ‘advocating for reproductive choice,’ is not eligible for access to university benefits.”
Grosso said that the potential denial of the Human Rights Amendment Act would exacerbate discrimination against the LBGTQ community.
“Unfortunately, like every other law in the District of Columbia that law had to go up for congressional review so it’s up for review now, but these conservative groups who I think just want to discriminate against the LGBTQ community decided that they were going to propose it,” Grosso said.
The backlash against the two laws originated from the disapproval of local Catholic and conservative groups but spread to national organizations. Among the 15 groups who signed the letter were Heritage Action for America, the Family Research Council and the National Organization for Marriage, representatives from the Catholic University of America, the Archdiocese of Washington and the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops.
Lawrence Morris, General Counsel of The Catholic University of America, said that repealing the Human Right Act would force universities to change their approach to student life and education.
“Regarding the Human Rights Amendment Act, the original bill recognized the freedom of religious universities such as The Catholic University of America to shape their educational environments in ways that are consistent with the teaching of the church.  Repeal of this protection could force us into decisions regarding personnel or student life that would contradict such teaching,” Morris said.
Morris confirmed that, while they will not file a lawsuit, they will defend themselves against the new legislation.
“We do not expect to initiate a lawsuit over the new legislation, as we do not consider the laws to require us to do anything that contravenes our First Amendment freedoms.  But we will vigorously defend ourselves, relying both on the First Amendment and the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, in the event that a party brings an action against us grounded on the council’s legislation,” Morris said.
In order to overturn these two bills in Congress, the House and Senate would have to pass a resolution of disapproval, which would also have to be signed by President Barack Obama. Grosso said this sequence of events is unlikely.
Even if no resolution is passed, the groups aiming to repeal the bills could attach a rider to another piece of legislation, which they have done with other controversial issues in the past, including marijuana. The appeal for congressional intervention has provoked criticism from D.C. home rule advocates.
“I just find it bizarre that there is so much attention being paid for amendments that were trying to make to our Human Rights Act that we believe are just and right for the people of the District of Columbia, but that’s the way it goes,” Grosso said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 20, 2015 by Lucy Prout Leave a Comment 
Although HIV rates in Washington, D.C., have steadily declined since 2008, above-average rates continue to persist throughout the District, leading to renewed efforts by city officials and organizations to fight the disease.
According to the most recent survey conducted by the D.C. Department of Health, new diagnoses fell to 497 in 2013 from 680 new cases in 2012. There were 722 reported incidents in 2011 and 1,180 in 2008.
Jeffrey Crowley, Program Director of the National HIV/AIDS Initiative at the O’Neill Institute for National and Global Health Law, attributed the decline in new diagnoses to the D.C. government’s efforts to promote HIV testing and screening. He explained that the government has also taken extra steps to make insurance available, even before the Affordable Care Act went into effect.
“This is a moment of opportunity for making major progress in responding to HIV,” Crowley wrote in an email. “We have been following a national strategy that calls for collective action to more effectively deploy a variety of prevention approaches, building on the Affordable Care Act to get all people with HIV in care and on treatment and working to ensure that harmful laws that criminalize HIV are eliminated and that we remove barriers that keep people from accessing prevention and care services. We are making real progress, but we need all Americans to remain actively engaged in this effort.”
The National Institute of Health’s “Test and Treat” model has further shown the effectiveness of the current technologies existing to treat HIV.
However, the most recent D.C. Department of Health reports estimate the number of D.C. citizens living with HIV to be 16,594 people, 72.9 percent of them male and 27.1 percent female. The most recent data from summer 2014 indicates 2.5 percent of the city’s population living with HIV, a rate that falls within the World Health Organization’s definition of a “severe epidemic.”
To lower these rates, city organizations have forged new programs. The most prominent development was the Feb. 2 announcement of a partnership between the Whitman-Walker Health Center, a community health center in Ward 2 that served 1,800 youths in 2014, and Metro TeenAIDS, the only nonprofit organization in the District focusing on combating the disease in the youth population.
The partnership aims to tackle the root of the HIV epidemic in youth and provide treatment that ranges from mental health counseling to a larger scope of testing services.
“We know that nationally, the only group that has seen an actual increase in HIV is young gay and bisexual men. Therefore, we know that addressing HIV among youth is critically important and is going to be a main focus. We are going to continue to have that focus,” Whitman-Walker spokesperson Shawn Jain said.
Jain explained that the organizations will target the most marginalized communities in D.C. by combining the broad base of health care from Whitman-Walker Health Center with the youth focus of Metro TeenAIDS.
“Now that Metro TeenAIDS programs will continue under Whitman-Walker, we will be able to add wrap-around services and greater offerings to youth including medical care, substance abuse services and mental health services,” Jain said. “We know that you can’t just address HIV with condoms and testing. It requires a full-throttled effort that addresses issues in various areas of people’s lives.”
MTA Executive Director Adam Tenner echoed Jain, noting the well-rounded health care that the partnership will be able to provide.
“Over the last several years we have been developing a broader agenda to address the health and wellness needs for young people in our community,” Tenner said in a press release. “HIV continues to be a critical health issue for teens. But the epidemic has evolved and we believe that we need a more holistic approach.”
A primary focus of the partnership will be fighting the persistent negative perceptions surrounding the disease.
“Addressing stigma is going to be a huge part of it — the stigma around testing, around disclosing one’s HIV status, around seeking out treatment. This continues to be a barrier. The development of new biomedical interventions that can help prevent HIV is going to become critically important but we need to get people there,” Jain said.
While the Whitman-Walker Institute has not set any particular goals, such as New York’s plan to end HIV by 2020, they welcome concrete plans from the government, though Jain acknowledged that eradication will be difficult.
“We know that if everyone were to get into treatment, who are HIV positive and know their status, we would be able to stop the epidemic,” Jain said. “We also know that is incredibly hard if not impossible to achieve so we keep that as a goal, but at the same time we really hope to find other interventions that will help bring down the rate of new diagnoses.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 20, 2015 by Sarah Fisher Leave a Comment 
The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority is currently considering both raising fares and altering several transportation schedules in order to cut back its projected $919 million budget proposal for next year.
Proposals include increasing all rail and bus fares by 10 cents, ending service at midnight on weekends and cutting shuttles to Dulles International Airport completely.
On Saturdays and during non-peak hours on weekdays, trains would run every 15 minutes instead of every 12 minutes. On Sundays, trains would run every 20 minutes instead of every 15 minutes.
Currently, eight local jurisdictions fund the Metro. There was a public hearing Thursday to discuss these proposals.
More than a dozen people testified against the new proposals, and no one spoke in favor of them.
In response, the Metro board decided to table a decision for two weeks.
WMATA spokesperson Michael Tolbert maintained that no final decisions have been made.
“At this point, no decision has been made … and the issue has been tabled. All options remain on the table,” Tolbert said.
The Metro board of directors approved a 3 percent fare increase last March.
Georgetown students expressed dismay at the service cuts, believing that they would exacerbate existing inadequacies in the Metro’s service, such as early shutdowns on weeknights.
“I don’t like how it stops running relatively early on weeknights, runs very irregularly on weekends and is so much more infrequent on the Red Line than the Orange/Blue/Silver corridor through downtown,” Jonathan Doernhofer (SFS ’18) said.
Noah Nelson (COL ’18), who grew up in the D.C. area, said he has had these issues with the Metro for years.
“I have taken the Metro for as long as I can remember. My biggest concern with the Metro system is that the Metro only stays open until midnight Sunday through Thursday,” Nelson said. “For those who take public transportation to work … a serious problem arises with such an early closure time during the week.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 20, 2015 by Emily Tu Leave a Comment 
A team of Georgetown students will compete in this year’s third annual Up to Us competition, a nationwide campus program with 44 participating universities and colleges that aims to increase student engagement with the country’s fiscal issues beginning Jan. 26.
The team, led by Erica Tsai (MSB ’17) and composed of members Charles Evain (SFS ’17), Elizabeth Tse (SFS ’17), Nicholas Werner (MSB ’17) and Karl Yee (MSB ’17), is one of 44 groups selected from across the U.S. to implement campaigns that inspire action on the nation’s rising long-term debt.
At the end of the four-week campaigns, a judging panel will assess each team on its effectiveness in increasing student involvement and promoting action. This year’s panel of judges incorporates leaders in government, media, issue advocacy and policy, including Vice Chair of the Clinton Foundation Chelsea Clinton.
The winning team will be awarded a $10,000 cash prize and receive recognition from former President Bill Clinton at the upcoming Clinton Global Initiative University 2015 meeting at the University of Miami in Coral Gables, Fla., which will take place from March 6 to 8.
Up to Us is essential in developing an understanding of fiscal problems as multifaceted issues, Tsai said.
“The national debt exists; that cannot be disputed,” Tsai wrote in an email to The Hoya. “But there are so many ways of viewing the national debt. Some see it as a burden and a problem that needs to be fixed, but cannot be fixed, while others view it as something that’s actually helped our nation and is an integral part of our economy.”
Tsai emphasized the opportunity that the competition provides for students to have a voice in the fiscal and economic future of the country.
“Here at Georgetown, we have such an educated and active student body,” Tsai wrote. “This competition is really a chance for all these students to pool together their ideas, whether they are conflicting or complimentary.”
Up to Us is organized by the non-profits Net Impact and the Peter G. Peterson Foundation in partnership with the CGI University.
Since the competition’s establishment, the size of the field has doubled each year, from 10 colleges participating in 2013 to 22 in 2014 and finally this year’s 44, according to a press release from the Peter G. Peterson Foundation. This is the first year that Georgetown students have participated in the competition.
“Net Impact believes this competition is important because it is much more than just a competition,” Net Impact Program Associate Samantha Ethridge wrote in an email. “It is a high-touch, holistic leadership program where students gain 21st-century skills that empower them to be highly impactful leaders on any issue area they tackle.”
Student teams that represented different universities applied to the competition as a group. Once selected to represent the university, Georgetown’s Up to Us team members received training in campaign management at Net Impact’s November 2014 conference in Minneapolis, Minn. The team members attended brainstorming and speaker sessions as well as met their competitors, according to Tse.
“They [Net Impact] embedded a lot of the training in that conference,” Tse said. “They brought in PR specialists to teach us how to effectively market our campaign. They gave us a lot of ideas about how to run a fun campaign, not just one that’s serious, or political, but one that is educational; and we thought that people at Georgetown would respond well.”
The Georgetown team’s campaign will incorporate giveaways — including a $500 Amazon gift card — informational pamphlets and a pledge signifying awareness of the issue to encourage community engagement. The pledge has acquired 20 signatures out of the desired 1,000 as of press time since its Jan. 26 posting on the team’s Facebook page, according to Tsai.
All teams will take part in My Two Cents Day on Feb. 12, a national day of action aiming to engage a significant proportion of university student bodies in underscoring the urgency of the country’s fiscal problems. The day’s events will include graffiti walls, photo booths, social media posts and further promotion of the pledge.
Net Impact has high expectations for this year’s participating teams, according to Ethridge.
“Ultimately, what we hope to see from this year’s competition is a cohort of students who have a thorough understanding of how their generation can really be a true catalyst for change,” Ethridge wrote. “I hope to see a group of empowered student leaders who will continue to innovate, plan strategically and act collectively to create positive social change on their campus and beyond.”
Tse highlighted the personal benefits the Up to Us competition will bring to the team members and their excitement at participating.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 20, 2015 by Kristen Fedor Leave a Comment 
The School of Nursing and Health Studies was chosen to be the academic home for the Mid-Atlantic Center for Children’s Health and the Environment by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, earlier this month.
The center will act as a Pediatric Environmental Health Specialty Unit for Washington, D.C., Delaware, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia and West Virginia. These units address environmentally related pediatric health issues using a variety of methods, including increased education and consultations for professionals and the public. The units were created in response to events in the 1990s when physicians around the country were unable to diagnose poisoning from mercury vapor and pesticide exposure.
The new PEHSU at Georgetown is one of 10 centers across the country. Additionally, there are two PEHSUs in Canada and Mexico.
Before its relocation to Georgetown, the region’s PEHSU was housed at the Children’s National Medical Center, which is affiliated with The George Washington University.
NHS associate professor Laura Anderko, who serves as the Robert and Kathleen Scanlon Chair in Values-Based Health Care, will act as the head of the pediatric center and has received $700,000 in funding from the CDC to be used over the next five years.
Anderko explained the types of pediatric health issues that the Mid-Atlantic Center will deal with, including several harmful environmental factors that affect children in the area.
“There are thousands of chemicals and other environmental exposures that can be harmful to children, but some of the more common exposures in the Region 3 area include lead poisoning from exposures within homes and schools, pesticide poisoning and environmental health impacts as a result of climate change, such as poor air quality and asthma,” Anderko wrote in an email.
Anderko currently serves as an associate professor in epidemiology and public and environmental health. She was also named a White House Champion of Change in 2013 for her work regarding climate-related health effects and has served on the Environmental Protection Agency’s federal advisory committee.
Georgetown University Medical Center Executive Vice President Howard J. Federoff said that the NHS is well equipped to handle the program.
“This is a critical program designed to protect the health of our children. The School of Nursing and Health Studies and Dr. Anderko have a successful track record of taking the latest scientific knowledge to the community to protect those who are most vulnerable,” Federoff wrote in an email. “The CDC has recognized that and has selected Georgetown to lead this important regional effort.”
In recent years, the NHS has made several additions to expand its offerings regarding environmental health. The undergraduate minor in environmental and occupational health was introduced a few years ago, and this fall, the NHS launched a graduate-level certificate in the field.
Additionally, the university has made the issue a campus-wide priority with the launch of the Georgetown Environment Initiative after receiving an anonymous $20 million donation in 2012, which the school used to hire new faculty members.
Interim NHS Dean Patricia Cloonan commented on how the Georgetown PEHSU provides NHS students with new opportunities to explore environmental health issues.
“We have been creating meaningful inter-professional educational opportunities for our students at NHS and medical students. An environmental effort focused on children’s health seems like a good place to expand this collaborative work and engage students across the health professions,” Cloonan wrote in an email.
According to Cloonan, the PEHSU will contribute to the university’s Jesuit values.
“The School of Nursing and Health Studies has a long tradition, reflecting this university’s Catholic, Jesuit identity, of advancing the health and well-being of individuals and communities with a special emphasis on the underserved and vulnerable. Having a center that seeks to minimize the health burden kids face due to environmental risks is a perfect fit for this longstanding commitment,” Cloonan wrote.
Hoya Staff Writer Lucy Pash contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 20, 2015 by Alicia Che Leave a Comment 
This year marks the 25th year of the publication of Asubuhi, the semi-annual newsletter from the African Studies Program of Georgetown University’s Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service.
The newsletter varies in length from 5 to 20 pages and is published at the beginning of each semester. Staffers include a variety of students and professors, who work in tandem to publish a physical and online version of the newsletter for consumption. The work is distributed throughout campus in a paper copy, sent via email to alumni and students and is also available on the African Studies Program website.
The newsletter has recorded the collective journey of the students, faculty and alumni involved in the program and will continue to serve as an important communication channel for those interested in African affairs in the Georgetown community.
Asubuhi, whose name was derived from the Swahili word meaning “morning,” published its first issue April 1990. It corresponded to the changes in the university during the decade, which included a rising interest in African affairs among the student body and increasing opportunities for students to be directly engaged in Africa-related programs. In addition, events in Africa, such as the apartheid in South Africa and the growing condemnation from the international community, also attracted Georgetown’s attention.
“Georgetown’s African Studies was increasing in size — both enrollments and course offerings — in the mid-1980s. I hoped that Asubuhi would help to publicize the program’s offerings and to link faculty and students together,” former African Studies program director Herbert M. Howe wrote in an email. “Students increasingly were studying in Africa during their junior year, and Asubuhi could keep them linked to the African Studies program while helping to publicize the study abroad programs.”
The newsletter’s regular features include the coverage of available Africa-related programs, past and upcoming events, notable activities in the African Studies Program and studying and working opportunities in Africa. It also profiles some of the students and alumni engaged in works related to African development.
“Its role is to provide current events cataloging and updates our various constituencies — current and former students, faculties and colleagues,” Associate Professor and African Studies Program Director Scott D. Taylor said. “[Asubuhi is] a good communication tool and a good benchmark of how well we are doing in terms of our activities and outreach.”
Currently, Asubuhi is available both in the online version and in paper copies around campus.
Among many changes concerning Asubuhi that happened over the years, the shift in audience has been one of the defining trends. From a largely internal and program-centric publication at the beginning, Asubuhi has slowly expanded to acquire a wider audience outside of the program and the School of Foreign Service, reaching the entire Georgetown community, as reflected in the diverse range of content it now covers.
“It has evolved into as much an internal as an external publication,” Taylor said. “Someone who is not necessarily an alumnus of African Studies Program or is not related to the program might also be interested in seeing what’s happening out there.”
The students and staff members working on the publication have also made conscious efforts to stay up-to-date with current events and address the key issues happening in the continent. For instance, Taylor discussed the Ebola outbreak and the significant challenge it presents to Africa in the Director’s Message for the last Asubuhi issue.
Esiwahomi Ozemebhoya (COL ’15), a co-editor of Asubuhi who has been involved in the newsletter for four years, believes that Asubuhi will continue to play an important role in promoting interests and awareness in African affairs among members of the Georgetown community, particularly in view of the rise of the African economy, which demonstrates its huge growth potential.
“There has been a time of history when Africa has been mostly ignored. However, now with the emerging markets in several countries of Africa, people start to notice that Africa is growing at a rapid rate, and they want to be a part of this,” Ozemebhoya said.
Overall, Taylor believes that 25 years is an important milestone as Asubuhi seeks to reinvent itself and adapt to new changes.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 20, 2015 by Matthew Larson Leave a Comment 
Despite a disturbance involving the intoxication of two high school delegates, The Georgetown International Relations Association’s 52nd North American Invitational Model United Nations Conference, which took place from Feb. 12 to 15, succeeded as the largest in history.
The alleged incident took place on the night of Feb. 14 before the start of the planned two-and-a-half-hour delegate dance. When NAIMUN staff discovered the issue, they immediately ended the dance at around 11 p.m., one-and-a-half hours into the event. Secretary General Andrew Lyu (SFS ’16) and Executive Director Aaron Lewis (MSB ’16) decided to stop the proceedings to ensure the safety of the other delegates.
“This was an isolated incident of two delegates who were severely intoxicated,” GIRA Chairman and CEO Pavan Rajgopal (SFS ’14) wrote in an email. “The safety of other participants was never at risk.”
Lyu and Lewis both declined to comment on the specifics of the situation, including possible punishments, due to privacy and health concerns for those affected. In addition, neither would identify the names or delegation of the intoxicated persons.
“Thank you NAIMUN attendees for your patience and understanding tonight. On the evening of Feb. 14, 2015, there was an isolated incident of intoxication,” Lyu wrote in a statement posted on NAIMUN’s website that night. “Here at NAIMUN, our top priority is to ensure the safety of all delegates; therefore, the executive decision was made to end the delegate dance early. We apologize for any confusion this may have caused. The situation has since been under control, and there are no further safety concerns. We thank you again for your patience.”
NAIMUN Director of Programming Cheryl Lau (SFS ’16) would not go into detail about the incident. She did, however, emphasize that the attendees were never in harm’s way and were not affected by what occurred.
“The measures we took to cut short the dance and implement curfew right away was done smoothly,” Lau wrote. “Moderators and delegates understood the necessity of the measures we took and were pleased with the overall quality of the conference.”
Lewis said that the conference was a success despite the setback due to the hard work put in by Georgetown staffers, who numbered around 200.
“We have good conferences and bad conferences,” Lewis said. “That usually correlates to the staff that we have. This year, we were fortunate enough to have an amazing staff who was diligent and on top of their game and I think that’s reflected in the quality of the conference.”
This year, staffers organized visits to various government agencies and local landmarks around the city for delegates to attend as a bonus for attending the conference. They included tours of the White House, Pentagon, Capital, Supreme Court and Smithsonian Museums.
“A year’s worth of time goes into preparing for the whole [conference],” Lewis said. “[And] all of our programming went really well, that was a huge point for us.”
NAIMUN’s organizers ran a program to collect money for Doctors Without Borders, which raised over $15,000 for the charity. Merchandising sales, which help fund the conference, were over $18,000. Lewis credits these to the large number of delegates that were able to attend NAIMUN.
In recent years, the conference had not reached its full capacity because of weather-related events. The 2014 conference faced heavy snowstorms, which caused one-third of the 150 attending delegations to arrive late, missing the first committee session.
This year, the Washington Hilton on Connecticut Avenue filled with 3,000 students and teachers.
“Past years have been difficult because there have been snowstorms and that hindered us,” Lewis said. “But this year, everyone who signed up for the conference attended the conference, literally every single person.”
The planning for NAIMUN next year will begin in early March after new elections for the secretary general and executive director. However, Lewis does not expect many changes, as the format of the conference will not change.
“I have ideas on what to do differently, what to improve, what to change, so that’s all in my head,” Lewis said. “[But] year over year, the conference is always very similar.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

