
February 13, 2015 by Gaia Mattiace Leave a Comment 
A student-run organization and a local non-profit are collaborating to install solar panels on homes throughout Ward 2, which includes the Georgetown neighborhood.
The Feb. 2 meeting of the Advisory Neighborhood Commission featured the proposal from Georgetown Energy, an independent student-run organization that promotes solar energy and sustainability, and D.C. Solar United Neighborhoods, a non-profit volunteer organization focused on helping neighborhoods set up solar co-ops.
The project includes bulk purchases of solar panels, which aim to decrease costs of installing renewable energy. Bulk purchases involve entire neighborhoods signing up to start a solar co-op, which usually requires a minimum of 20 households, and have reached up to hundreds of homes in one co-op.
On average, D.C. SUN looks at bids ranging from 40 to 50 households, allowing D.C. SUN to request competitive rates from solar panel providers and installers. D.C. SUN Representative Grant Klein estimated that co-ops save homeowners 20 to 30 percent of the market price for solar panels. After the initial costs of purchase and installation, solar panels will provide energy that can power the entire house.
While D.C. SUN provides expertise and connections in regards to the solar co-op project, Georgetown Energy has helped the organization by organizing meetings and outreach.
At the ANC meeting, student representatives introduced the program, discussed possible opportunities for residents and provided them with more detailed information regarding bulk purchases and going solar.
Additionally, Georgetown Energy promoted the project by canvassing and researching area newsletters and homeowner listservs.
Klein said the collaboration with Georgetown Energy has been helpful both with outreach and permitting issues.
“Georgetown Energy has been helpful getting the word out,” Klein said.  “It’s great that Georgetown Energy, through the alumni of Georgetown Energy, has experience with solar installation specifically in the Georgetown neighborhood.”
Patrick MacDonald (SFS ’17), a Georgetown Energy member who is heading this project, also spoke to benefits of the partnership, noting that it was centered around the Georgetown community.
“It’s about just engaging as much of the community as possible,” MacDonald said. “Just as many people interested and thinking about renewable energy in the Georgetown community and Ward 2 in general as possible.”
Although discussions at the ANC meeting applied solely to Ward 2, the co-op will be open to any D.C. homeowner who would like to participate in the project, an unusually far reach for D.C. SUN.
“We’ve actually had so much interest from those outside of Ward 2 throughout D.C. that this co-op will be open to anybody in D.C., which is a departure from what we have done in the past,” Klein said.
Klein added that even with the larger radius of this project, the number of participants will not affect the relative price of the project.
“D.C. is a small enough geographic area that the prices local contractors offer haven’t changed over time if there are people from outside of that specific neighborhood, and so we think it’s alright if those outside of Ward 2 or even Georgetown join the group,” Klein said.
If approved, the project should be completed in the next six months.
ANC Commissioner Reed Howard (SFS ’17), who represents District 8, said he felt that this proposal could bring the university community and the Georgetown neighborhood closer together.
“I am pleased that Georgetown students feel comfortable attending ANC meetings to share their work and interests with the neighbors,” Howard said. “I think [MacDonald’s] and GU Energy’s proposal is a great way to further enhance relationships while working towards an issue we can all agree upon.”
Don Soffer (COL ’18), who attended the ANC meeting, added that he was pleased to see Georgetown Energy’s input.
“Georgetown Energy’s proposal for 2E seemed to me to be in the best interest of the community. It was refreshing to see college students our age making their voices heard in a public setting,” Soffer said.
Klein said a more detailed meeting for interested participants is being held Feb. 26 at 7 p.m. at the Georgetown Neighborhood Public Library.
“The meeting will be educating homeowners about solar panels and systems, educating them about how a solar cooperative works in the neighborhood and inviting them to join the Ward 2 Georgetown neighborhood solar co-op,” Klein said.
MacDonald added that the co-sponsored event should help to engage community members and determine public interest in the project.
“That will be a real chance for us to connect with community members and, you know, see what sort of questions and concerns they have and sort of gauge the interest level of the community,” MacDonald said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 13, 2015 by Emma Gross Leave a Comment 
An increased amount of college freshmen reported feelings of depression in 2014, according to a study released Feb. 5 by the University of California in Los Angeles.
The Cooperative Research Program at UCLA’s Higher Education Research Institute surveyed more than 150,000 students at 343 four-year colleges and universities as part of the study, inviting any of 1,583 institutions in the U.S. Department of Education’s Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System to submit their data.  The results showed that in the past five years, respondents who reported feeling depressed rose from 6.1 to 9.5 percent. Those who felt overwhelmed with schoolwork and extracurricular commitments jumped from 27.1 percent to 34.6 percent.
Kevin Eagan, the lead author of the study, said that the increased stress while applying to colleges often spills over into anxiety during the first year of college.
“Students may be getting the message that they have to take the last year of high school more serious to get into college, so they’re coming in with greater levels of anxiety,” Eagan told The New York Times. “There may need to be a balance that students need to have at some point.”
Georgetown was not one of the schools included in the study, and Counseling and Psychiatric Services Director Phil Meilman could not provide data related to depression for freshmen on campus.
Meilman explained, however, that the results are still relevant to the mental health of Georgetown students, who experience similar trials in their freshman year.
“Georgetown did not participate in the study you cite, and so there is no data for comparison,” Meilman wrote in an email. “However, we know from that study’s result and also from the National College Health Assessment nationwide survey that many students may experience significant periods of distress during their college careers.”
According to the National College Health Assessment in the fall of 2011, in which Georgetown participated, 30.3 percent of college students reported that they “felt so depressed that it was difficult to function.”
Meilman added that adjusting to the college life is a challenge for many freshmen.
“Fitting in, making friends, learning how to navigate the social environment and learning how to take tests and write papers on the collegiate level are just a few of the significant challenges first year students face,” he wrote.
Libbi Ethier (COL ’16), a 2015 New Student Orientation Coordinator, echoed Meilman, explaining that the first six weeks during a first year student’s time at college are crucial to their mental health.
“This is the time when students are most vulnerable to the challenges associated with college life such as mental illness, academic pressure and anxiety, sexual assault, alcohol abuse, among other college stressors,” she wrote in an email.
Ben Saunders (SFS ’15), a cofounder of Active Minds, an organization on campus that fights the stigma surrounding mental health, believes that college has become extremely competitive, contributing to mental health issues.
“It’s very easy to fall into feeling that you’re not as good as others, that you’re not worth the school,” he said. “I’m sure everyone at Georgetown’s had that at some point.”
Meilman pointed to Georgetown’s range of mental health resources, citing chaplains-in-residence, the Academic Resource Center and CAPS among them, adding that CAPS sees over 10,000 student visits every year.
“At CAPS, we can help students look at their personal issues and how those may be interfering with academics,” Meilman wrote. “We see close to ten percent of the student body each year, and we have after-hours emergency consultation available, if needed.”
However, student experiences with CAPS have been mixed.
Saunders had a positive experience with CAPS when he sought help from the organization during fall of his junior year after feeling depressive symptoms. He began regular treatment and eventually met with psychiatrist Dr. Jonathan Dela Luna.
“I honestly credit [him] probably with me being able to stay at Georgetown,” he said. “A lot of people benefit from CAPS. It’s a service that offered and is really useful. It was to me.”
Though his experience was positive, Saunders recognized areas where CAPS needs improvement, such as with follow-up appointments, the financial misconceptions of students and understaffing.
Regarding these bad experiences, Saunders said that sometimes students do not find the right practitioner to meet their needs and become discouraged with CAPS as a whole.
Ethier also noted this miscommunication as a place for improvement with CAPS, particularly related to first years.
“It is crucial to have one professional that you can trust who is willing to help you the whole way through; therefore, without that long-term relationship with someone from CAPS, it is significantly more difficult to recover your own mental health at Georgetown,” she wrote. “Having CAPS play an active role in making sure students who are struggling have a resource to help them would make Georgetown a less overwhelming and safer place for our new students.”
Saunders said he is not surprised with UCLA’s findings but sees it as a sign that maybe more students are seeking help.
“It’s unfortunate,” he said. “I want to think that what we’re doing, as far as trying to spread the conversation, trying to create a more open campus to seeking help, is benefitting freshmen. The fact that probably more freshmen are reaching out – I think that’s good.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 13, 2015 by Molly Simio Leave a Comment 
Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey spoke about the subconscious racial biases present in law enforcement officers, disproportionate challenges faced by young men of color and other issues in the intersection of race and law enforcement Thursday morning in a lecture co-hosted by the McCourt School of Public Policy and the Office of the President in Gaston Hall.
Comey’s remarks were unusual for an FBI director, with previous directors only publicly discussing race in the context of civil rights issues such as investigations into murders committed by the Ku Klux Klan. No other FBI director has publicly analyzed racial tensions between black communities and law enforcement.
University President John J. DeGioia welcomed Comey and offered opening remarks stressing the importance of engaging in thoughtful conversations about race and law enforcement.
“This is a topic whose importance and urgency have been exemplified in the events in Ferguson, Mo., Cleveland, Oh., and in Staten Island, N.Y., and in communities across our country,” DeGioia said. “At this current moment, when our country seeks a greater understanding, a renewed of sense of responsibility for one another and a stronger mutual trust, we’re grateful for this opportunity to provide a venue for dialogue on these matters.”
After remarking on the appropriateness of his lecture, titled “Hard Truths: Law Enforcement and Race,” being held in Healy Hall, a building named for former University President Fr. Patrick Healy, S.J. — born into slavery and the first black man in America to earn a Ph.D., to join the Jesuit order and to become the president of a predominately white university — Comey went on to discuss the “hard truths” that he said must be acknowledged in conversations about law enforcement and race.
“All of us in law enforcement must be honest enough to acknowledge that much of our history is not pretty,” Comey said. “At many points in American history, law enforcement enforced the status quo — a status quo that was often brutally unfair to disfavored groups.”
Citing his own Irish heritage, Comey discussed how law enforcement treated the Irish unfairly and often regarded them as drunks and criminals in the early 20th century.
“The Irish had some tough times, but little compares to the experience on our soil of black Americans,” Comey said. “That experience should be part of every American’s consciousness, and law enforcement’s role in that experience, including in recent times, must be remembered. It is our cultural inheritance.”
Comey said that he believes that now most police officers enter law enforcement with a genuine desire to serve others, regardless of race, but are eventually swayed by subconscious biases and cynicism.
“Police officers on patrol in our nation’s cities often work in environments where a hugely disproportionate percentage of street crime is committed by young men of color,” Comey said. “Something happens to people of good will working in that environment. After years of police work, officers often can’t help be influenced by the cynicism they feel. A mental shortcut becomes almost irresistible.”
Comey, who, according to DeGioia, expanded new FBI agents’ training to include a mandatory visit to the Martin Luther King Jr. memorial, stressed the importance of law enforcement officers making a conscious effort to resist acting on racial biases, which are often subconscious.
Comey also proposed increased outreach in order to lessen the level of distrust that is often present between police officers and the communities they serve.
“We simply must see the people we serve,” Comey said. “But the seeing needs to flow in both directions. Citizens also need to really see the men and women in law enforcement.”
Deep-rooted societal problems also often lead young black men to crime and create tensions with law enforcement, Comey said.
“So many boys and young men grow up in environments lacking role models, adequate education, and decent employment. They lack all sorts of opportunities that most of us take for granted. … Young people in those neighborhoods too often inherit a legacy of crime and prison,” Comey said.
Comey cited data that indicates that the percentage of young black men who are not working or not enrolled in school is nearly double than that of young white men.
He then praised President Barack Obama’s “My Brother’s Keeper” initiative, which aims to close opportunity gaps experienced by young men of color and help these young men find good jobs or go to college by offering them mentoring and support networks.
In August, the Beeck Center for Social Impact and Innovation collaborated with the U.S. Department of Education on the initiative by hosting a data jam examining the educational outcomes for minority students.
Comey said that the initiative is an important effort in solving some of the deep-rooted problems that cause young black men to turn to crime.
“Law enforcement is not the root cause of the problems in our hardest hit neighborhoods,” Comey said. “Police officers, people of enormous courage and integrity … are in those neighborhoods risking their lives to protect folks from offenders who are a product of problems that will not be solved by body cameras. We simply must speak to each other honestly about all these hard truths.”
Comey’s remarks were followed by a question-and-answer session moderated by McCourt School Dean Edward Montgomery.
Some of the students in attendance noted that Comey’s speech was unique.
“I thought he gave a really well-balanced presentation of what’s been going on lately,” Samantha Foggan (MSB ’15) said.
Nick Manley (SCS ’17), who attended the lecture, said he thought that Comey’s frankness was rare among government officials.
“He’s definitely shown a genuine effort, which is rare among government appointees. … He actually seemed to have a genuine concern for these events that are happening and [wanted to] make a genuine effort to change,” Manley said.
Vice President for Mission and Ministry Fr. Kevin O’Brien, S.J., invited students to continue the conversation about law enforcement and race in a lunch this afternoon in the Healey Family Student Center.
“We would like to provide our students an opportunity to discuss the issues raised by Director Comey at greater length and in a conversational setting,” O’Brien wrote.
Thursday’s speech was not the first time that Comey spoke publicly about the fatal shooting of unarmed black teenager Michael Brown by white police officer Darren Wilson and the protests that followed in Ferguson, Mo., and across the country. Comey briefly discussed Ferguson at an event in Salt Lake City, Utah, in mid-August.
However, Thursday’s talk was the first time he spoke candidly about race and law enforcement.
His frank discussion of the matter has garnered national attention, with many news sources, including The New York Times, The Washington Post and The Wall Street Journal, covering his speech.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 13, 2015 by Kristen Fedor Leave a Comment 
In response to an IdeaScale petition filed in 2013, the Georgetown University Transportation Shuttle buses will link the main campus with Capitol Hill beginning Feb. 17. The three office buildings of the House of Representatives, which are located adjacent to one another, will be an additional stop on the route that runs from the main campus to the Georgetown University Law Center.
Vice President for Planning and Facilities Management Robin Morey will officially announce the additional bus stop today.
“Simply, the change was in response to student demand to improve the GUTS services and we were able to accommodate the request,” Morey wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Morey said that no additional cost was anticipated for the new stop. However, the new stop created logistical difficulties that took time to negotiate.
“Adding the stops had to be done in a way that was not going to interfere with schedules of the shuttles that run between Main Campus and the Law Center, involved specific on Capitol Hill where buses are allowed to embark and disembark passengers, and to keep in mind budgetary demands,” Associate Vice President for Federal Relations Scott Fleming (SFS ’72) wrote in an email.
Fleming explained that the schedule had been designed to accommodate student interns who would be disembarking at specific locations on Capitol Hill.
“The schedule includes peak times in the morning, midday and the end of the typical workday. It would be impossible to fit everyone’s internship schedules, but we are optimistic, with some flexibility on students’ parts, many will be able to take advantage of this service,” Fleming wrote.
Anebi Adoga (COL ’16) submitted a proposal for a GUTS stop on Capitol Hill to IdeaScale in fall 2013, receiving 656 upvotes and 5 downvotes. He said he initially thought of the proposal while riding the GULC shuttle.
“I remember thinking, ‘Wouldn’t it be neat if it just made stops at a few of those places,’” Adoga said.
The additional stop provides students with internships on the Hill a more direct connection from campus to their jobs. Most student interns currently take the GUTS bus to either the Dupont or Rosslyn Metro and then take the Metro to Capitol Hill.
Adoga estimated that a student who has an internship on the Hill three days a week spends roughly $18 per week on the Metro.
In addition to making transportation more convenient for student interns, Adoga said he hopes the added stop will make internships more popular throughout the Georgetown community.
“It’s going to encourage more students to pursue Hill internships because it will be logistically easier to do so,” Adoga said.
The Georgetown University Student Association followed the IdeaScale petition with a survey in the spring to gauge the support of student interns.
Although GUSA is no longer involved, with Adoga having taken the lead, Adoga said the survey demonstrated the extent of the demand for the additional stop and brought the issue to the administration’s attention.
“I really want this to be a grassroots bottom-up thing, so getting that support took some time. And once I was able to do that, we had to go through and see which of these ideas is the most feasible,” Adoga said. “That was just a step to show that there is tangible popular support for this initiative.”
Adoga said that final approval was needed from GULC before the project could become reality, adding that administrators were helpful and open to student input throughout the process.
“There were approvals that needed to happen from the Law Center, from the city, you know, so many moving parts,” Adoga said. “I’m very appreciative of the fact that they … listened on this. This was one of the things where it was student input that prompted administrative action.”
Fleming, a former Georgetown student intern, also said he hopes more students will take advantage of the opportunity to work on the Hill now that transportation is easier.
“Having interned for my home-state senator when I was a Georgetown student before the GUTS bus system even existed, I think it is great that the university has been able to make this work. Now, I hope we will see strong ridership taking advantage of the service,” Fleming wrote.
John Reilly (COL ’17) currently interns three days a week for Rep. Paul Tonko (D-N.Y.). He elaborated on the costs of transportation and said it takes him about two hours round trip to get to work by taking both the GUTS bus and the Metro.
“I was surprised by the costs. It’s surprising how quickly it adds up. You feel like you’re putting more money on your Metro card every other day,” Reilly said.
Reilly said he is excited about the new GUTS stop and thinks it will be a positive change for Georgetown students.
“It would make it a lot easier for students who already have internships and it’s also a great incentive for students who are on the fence about interning because it makes it so much easier,” Reilly said. “It lowers the transaction cost, you probably wouldn’t have to pay as much, and it makes it quicker to get there.”
Hoya Staff Writer Suzanne Monyak contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 13, 2015 by Ashwin Puri 1 Comment 
The Georgetown Israel Alliance presented endorsement criteria to the Georgetown University Student Association executive candidates over the past few weeks, including language that advocated for Israel’s right to exist as a Jewish democratic state and the opposition of any Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions resolution at Georgetown.
Although all candidates eventually refused to sign an agreement, Tim Rosenberger (COL ’16) and Reno Varghese (SFS ’16) agreed to revised criteria supporting free and open discussion, a decision which received GIA’s endorsement yesterday.
At midnight today, Rosenberger and Varghese, Chris Wadibia (COL ’16) and Meredith Cheney (COL ’16), and Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Connor Rohan (COL ’16) signed a different petition written by Elijah Jatovsky (SFS ’16), co-founder and former co-president of J Street U Georgetown, which encourages campus-wide debate and discussion.
The BDS movement, which advocates for the boycott of and divestment from Israeli businesses internationally, as well as the sanctioning of the Israeli government for alleged human rights violations against Palestinians, serves as a major point of contention between Israeli and Palestinian advocacy groups on college campuses nationwide, including at Georgetown.
GIA’s initial endorsement criteria, reformulated in January, asked candidates to agree to oppose any BDS resolution.
“We affirm our support for students and student groups that advocate for Israel’s right to exist as a Jewish and democratic state,” the endorsement criteria read. “We will firmly oppose any Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) resolution at Georgetown University, standing instead for positive campus dialogue that brings different Georgetown communities together around a peaceful resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.”
GIA Marketing and External Secretary Ari Goldstein (COL ’18) and GIA President Harper Weissburg emphasized the need to make certain student groups on campus feel intellectually and emotionally safe and secure as justification for including BDS language in the original criteria.
“We need to keep in mind those students whose intellectual and emotional security are jeopardized every time an inflammatory, degrading and anti-Israel symbol, comment or activity comes to campus,” Weissburg said.
Weissburg also emphasized when speaking to GUSA candidates that it is every student’s right to talk about BDS on campus and that it is the obligation of GUSA to always allow the conversation to occur.
“We prefaced [talks with GUSA candidates] by saying it is every students right, if they so wish, to bring BDS to campus; obviously, we are a pro-Israel organization so we don’t want it to pass, but it is every student’s right to bring it if they so wish,” Weissburg said.
Weissburg said that the GIA reached out to GUSA candidates because they want to support an open dialogue on campus. Weissburg cited Students for Justice in Palestine’s policy of anti-normalization, which prevents the group from collaborating or co-sponsoring with any campus group that support Israel.
“Thus, moving forward the possibility of co-sponsorships on an organizational level is no longer a possibility, and as a consequence of that fact, Georgetown Israel Alliance felt the only way to continue fostering a safe space for open dialogue on campus, in light of anti-normalization, was to ask for help,” Weissburg wrote in an email. “We, as GIA, can no longer ask SJP to work with us in any official capacity, therefore, we needed GUSA’s help to broker dialogue moving forward because we are no longer in a position to do so.”
The revised statement, agreed to by Rosenberger and Varghese, encourages campus dialogue and a push toward ending conflict but does not include mention of BDS.
“We affirm our support for students and student groups that advocate for Israel’s right to exist as a Jewish and democratic state. We will always stand for positive campus dialogue that brings different Georgetown communities together around a peaceful resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict,” the GIA statement signed by the Rosenberger-Varghese campaign reads.
Students for Justice in Palestine President Leila Shebaro (SFS ’15) said that BDS serves to support the rights of those in Palestine.
“The BDS call is fundamentally about supporting human rights,” Shebaro wrote in an email. “Specifically, it delineates the non-violent tactics of boycott, divestment and sanctions designed to hold governments and corporations accountable for their roles in human rights violations against Palestinians.”
However, according to the GIA, BDS movements across the country serve as hate speech, stifling the conversation of Israeli-Palestinian peace on college campuses nationwide.
“We originally chose to include language opposing a BDS resolution in the firm belief that, as hate speech, BDS has no place at Georgetown,” GIA wrote in a statement endorsing Rosenberger and Varghese. “On every campus at which a BDS resolution has been presented to student government, it has ultimately served to shut down dialogue and divide the very communities that need to come together.”
GIA presented their initial endorsement criteria to four campaigns: Sara Margolis (COL ’16) and Ryan Shymansky (COL ’16), Abbey McNaughton (COL ’16) and Will Simons (COL ’16), Wadibia and Cheney, and Rosenberger and Varghese. Margolis and Shymansky, Wadibia and Cheney, and Rosenberger and Varghese agreed to the initial wording of the group’s endorsement request, citing the inclusion of preemptively opposing a BDS resolution as stifling free expression on campus, as well as overstepping GUSA’s jurisdictional boundaries. Both tickets later retracted their support, citing initial confusion and later realization of possible repercussions of signing the statement.
“We firmly believe in the rights of all students and student groups to advocate for their beliefs in a respectful manner; however, we do not believe it is appropriate for GUSA to take a stance on international issues,” Margolis and Shymansky wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The Wadibia-Cheney ticket agreed and said that GUSA was not a platform for such political agreements.
“GUSA isn’t the platform to express political views and we condemn behavior of student groups on campus attempting to corner and politicize GUSA campaigns,” Wadibia and Cheney wrote in a public statement.
The McNaughton-Simons campaign, which initially discussed supporting the leadership resolution with GIA, came to an eventual decision to not support the endorsement criteria. According to Weissburg, GIA leadership approached McNaughton and Simons three weeks ago, and their campaign manager affirmed their agreement to GIA’s original petition Jan. 22. Weissburg said that last week, McNaughton and Simons spoke with her and denied ever agreeing to the statement.
“I began the conversation by thanking them for being the first to affirm our leadership statement,” Weissburg wrote in an email. “To the shock of both Ari and I, Abbey claimed she had never actually read the leadership statement, and Will  in response looked incredulous because he as well though this had become a moot point weeks ago. The Abbey/Will campaign only came out saying they had never explicitly affirmed the statement after rumors were circulating about the possibility of other campaigns pulling out as well. Regardless of their motivation, GIA firmly believes the Abbey/Will campaign was the first to affirm our statement with its original wording. In short, this was a horrible miscommunication.”
McNaughton and Simons deny that they ever reached a full consensus on the issue, although they did participate in discussions with GIA.
“Our staff was engaged in supportive conversations with GIA leadership regarding the language for the past few weeks. In our continued conversations with GIA we did not explicitly sign on to the agreement,” McNaughton and Simons wrote in an email to The Hoya.
GUSA executive candidates Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Connor Rohan (COL ’16), who were not approached initially, as GIA assumed they were a joke ticket, affirmed in Wednesday’s vice presidential debate that they met with the GIA this week and decided against signing on to the leadership statement.
“As soon as we found out that the Joe and Connor ticket was a serious ticket, we went to them straight away,” Weissburg said.
“We received an email, we asked them to elaborate — we decided to go against it — then we met with them and we still decided to go against it,” Rohan said.
In a statement sent to candidates and campus media on Wednesday, Jatovsky called upon GUSA campaigns to sign a new leadership statement as a first step to reconciling differences and moving forward in confronting divisive issues. The Rosenberger-Varghese, Wadibia-Cheney and Luther-Rohan tickets signed this petition today at midnight. Margolis and Shymansky decided to remain in agreement with their original statement.
Jatovsky’s statement reads: “We affirm our support for students and student groups that advocate for what they believe is a constructive resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. We will always stand for positive, safe and constructive campus conversations and activism that brings different Georgetown communities together around a peaceful and just resolution to this conflict.”
McNaughton and Simons did not sign Jatovsky’s petition, but instead released a statement stating their support of free discussion.
“In light of recent events, we would like to affirm our complete support for free expression and open dialogue regarding any issue on campus,” McNaughton and Simons wrote. “As individuals, we will always support positive, safe and constructive conversations and activism at Georgetown. Furthermore, we support constructive dialogue between all students and student groups that seek a peaceful and just solutions to current local, national and international issues.”
Jatovsky said he is pleased that all candidates, regardless of their decision to sign any petitions, have stated a desire to encourage free and open speech on campus.
“I believe all the candidates have addressed the issues I raised in my essay head on and have demonstrated leadership in building a campus environment that fosters constructive dialogue,” Jatovsky wrote in an email to The Hoya.
When the language of the GIA’s initial endorsement criteria was leaked to the Georgetown student body early this week, including their opposition of any BDS resolution, students turned to social media platforms and other facets of mass mobilization in opposition.
Nabeel Zewail (SFS ’15), Ziad Saqr (NHS ’15) and Aziz Saqr (NHS ’16) co-wrote an opinion piece on Facebook titled “GIA silences transparency on Israeli-Palestinian Issue in GUSA Campaign” and created a Facebook event encouraging students to attend Wednesday’s GUSA vice presidential debate to ask candidates about this particular issue.
According to Zewail, opposing the GIA endorsement criteria was fundamentally important as including a provision on preemptively opposing a BDS resolution suppressed free expression on campus.
“When I heard about this, we realized this is no way for Georgetown to operate in terms of restricting free speech on an important issue,” Zewail said.
Zewail also emphasized the need for GUSA executives to distance themselves from taking sides on international political issues. However, he advocated for GUSA executives to focus on how such issues are relevant to tangible Georgetown institutions.
“Our position is not that we want the GUSA executive to be involved in international political issues, but rather the very narrow issue of how Georgetown spends its endowment and whether it is consistent with our social justice mission,” Zewail said.
Goldstein and Weissburg said that including BDS dialogue in their endorsement statement did not serve the purpose they intended.
“We came to the realization in conversations with the campaigns and with community members, that despite our inclusion of BDS in the name of dialogue and free speech, it ended up alienating many students, alienating many students that we are hopeful to engage in dialogue with,” Goldstein said.
Jatovsky cited the BDS movement as extremely contentious, a movement that needs to be addressed cautiously because of its polarizing nature.
“What is viewed by many in the Jewish community as a movement that undermines dialogue and establishes insecurity is viewed by many in the Arab-American community as a legitimate — even necessary — political expression that addresses their frustration over the continued Israeli occupation of the West Bank and lack of diplomatic successes in resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict,” Jatovsky said.
Shebaro also emphasized the importance of GUSA serving as a venue where free speech can be expressed on campus without repercussion.
“We believe that it is GUSA’s responsibility to protect and encourage free speech, particularly about politically charged and sometimes confusing issues such as BDS, which often make for the most productive discussions,” Shebaro said. “Without creating a space to discuss BDS, we make it impossible for us as a community to educate ourselves and take an informed stance on the subject.”
While both students for and against the GIA’s endorsement criteria acknowledge that there is a ways to go in regards to fostering greater communication between groups on campus, Goldstein acknowledged that this conflict serves as a foundation to inspire future conversation and to improve Israeli-Palestinian dialogue at Georgetown in the future.
“I hope that the Palestinian and Arab community on campus can take our efforts over the past few days in good faith and the goals that we share of promoting dialogue and coming together on this issue,” Goldstein said. “I hope that the negative and positive experiences this week will build more of a ground for engagement and communication in the future.”
 
Correction: An original article stated that Margolis and Shymansky and Wadibia and Cheney agreed to the initial wording of the group’s endorsement request. In fact, Rosenberger and Varghese also agreed to the initial wording. All groups later retracted their support.

A. Wilson says 
February 13, 2015 at 9:38 am
Mr. Goldstein hopes that other communities on campus will believe that GIA’s efforts were in good faith? Well, they probably won’t. Not when GIA wants to limit free debate on campus. Not when their argument is that they might feel  intellectually and emotionally insecure if someone takes a different stance and approach than theirs. Political debate is always contentious and usually rancorous. That’s a good thing; rigorous debate is the anvil on which policy is tested and refined. When the leaders of a political club try to exempt their pet cause from that process by pretending emotional fragility, it’s difficult to believe they are acting in good faith.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 13, 2015 by Amy Char Leave a Comment 
Washington, D.C.’s pervasive inequality manifests itself primarily in income and educational gaps, according to a series of reports released over the past few weeks.
A report analyzing the financial recovery since the recession released by the Fiscal Policy Institute Jan. 29 found that the wage gap in D.C. is at a 35-year high. Low-wage earners in the District earn an average of $12.62 per hour, a stagnant figure since the 1970s, while high-wage workers’ earnings averaged $45.30 per hour, a $6 increase since 2007 and a steady growth from the $30 average in the 1970s, a reflection of national trends.
“Wage disparity in D.C. is an extreme version of what’s happening in the country as a whole,” FPI Executive Director Ed Lazere said.
The report also noticed the unemployment rate in D.C., which, according to a report by Politico Magazine, is the highest in the country at 7.4 percent in 2014: the national rate was 5.6 percent in December 2014. The rate is particularly pronounced for specific groups, with a 16 percent unemployment rate among the black population in the District.
A study conducted by Wallethub on Feb. 3 corroborated the racial disparity in the District, noting a 64.71 percent median household income gap and a 72.76 percent educational achievement gap between whites and blacks. Ranked among the 50 states, the District has the seventh-highest financial gap by race.
A list of rankings of the 50 states and the District of Columbia by Politico Magazine starkly portrayed the inequalities in the District. Although D.C. was home to the highest per capita income, lowest obesity rate and highest percentage employed in computer, engineering and science industries, it also housed the highest violent crime rate, highest GINI index for income inequality, lowest average math and reading scores in the eighth grade and the lowest home ownership rate.
This lack of affordable housing, which was a focal point of the 2014 mayoral election and continues to be a problem with the inadequacy of homeless shelters this winter, cements the reality of inequality, according to Georgetown Center on Poverty and Inequality Senior Fellow Indivar Dutta-Gupta.
“Housing prices are a major challenge, especially in the rental market, for low, moderate and frankly, even middle-income families who have a tough time finding housing in areas that are affordable and also convenient for school and work,” Dutta-Gupta said.
The Office of the D.C. Chief Financial Officer revealed in a Jan. 28 study that low-income residents were more likely to leave the city; only 20 percent of people in the lowest quintile of income remained in the city from 2004 to 2012. According to Dutta-Gupta, low-income residents move from D.C. to suburbs like Prince George’s County in Maryland to reduce the housing expenditure, but this concurrently increases their transportation costs.
Inequality in the District, which houses both powerful politicians near Capitol Hill and people living in extreme poverty east of the Anacostia River, has long been an issue. McCourt School of Public Policy professor Harry Holzer pointed to the disparity between the growing wealthy population in northwest D.C. and a large low-income populace.
“People with law degrees and M.B.A.s flock to Washington because there’s a lot of well-paid work for them,” Holzer said. “Not necessarily in the government as much as all the law firms and the other businesses that have contracting relationships with the government.”
Holzer added that he believes the city’s inequality problems could possibly be worse than what is reported.
“If anything the official data might even understate how bad it is,” Holzer said. “Men with criminal records … don’t even show up in the data. If they were included, things might look even worse.”
Lazere concurred, noting that D.C. has a unique economy with few middle-paying, blue-collar jobs, creating a disparity between the large wealthy population and those in low-paying jobs.
“Because it’s a place where a lot of people come to visit or come for their work, it’s got a lot of hospitality jobs, a lot of food service, a lot of office maintenance jobs, and those tend to be low-paying and part-time. Those are the jobs where the wages aren’t going,” Lazere said. “At the same time, you’ve got a lot of people who are in the knowledge business, related to the federal government, lawyers … and those are the kinds of jobs where wages are growing.”
In inequality, however, D.C. is not alone among large American cities. Atlanta, San Francisco, Miami, Boston and New York City all have analogous or greater levels of income inequality.
Lazere attributed this nationwide trend to factors such as declining union power, growing globalization and the outsourcing of jobs to countries with comparably lower wages.
“Really, for the past 40 years, the economy has failed to provide broad prosperity,” Lazere said. “It’s not about workers being less productive or less educated. Workers are more educated than they were 40 years ago. Productivity continues to grow. It’s just that the basic connection between more productive workers [and] better pay just isn’t happening.”
In an attempt to address the issue, the District voted in 2013 to increase its minimum wage to $11.50 over a three-year period despite the federal minimum wage remaining stagnant at $7.25. Holzer was skeptical that the minimum wage hike would cure the inequalities.
“If you force them to pay $10 … or $12 for a product that right now costs $7.25, which was the federal minimum wage before it started going up, there’s a decent chance that some employers are going to hire fewer people,” Holzer said. “I don’t think that effect will be enormous. … But you’ve got to wonder about that risk about employment loss.”
Still, the flood of reports over the last few weeks expressing the magnitude of the inequality demonstrates the increased attention recently given to the issue.
“Inequality is a big American problem,” Holzer said. “It’s magnified in D.C. because of the extremes of both ends. The whole country is wrestling with what to do about this.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 13, 2015 by Eitan Sayag Leave a Comment 
The Office of Student Affairs will provide the majority of funding for disability accommodations at student-sponsored campus events by the 2017-2018 academic year in accordance with an agreement reached with the Georgetown University Student Association on Tuesday.
The funding will cover American Sign Language interpreters and other disability-related accommodations including Communication Access Realtime Translation, services that previously had no central funding source for student groups.
As part of the agreement, GUSA will allocate $15,000 from the Student Activities Fee Reserve Account to create the GUSA Access Fund, which will be operated by the GUSA Fund, for the 2015-2016 academic year.
If 25 percent — or $3,750 — of the fund is utilized during the 2015-2016 academic year, 80 percent of the cost of disability accommodations will be contributed, while GUSA will fund only the remaining 20 percent. If this criteria is not met, the sharing agreement will not take place until the 2017-2018 academic year.
“It was really an ad hoc system that didn’t work for student groups right now,” GUSA President Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) said. “This just takes us one step closer to making the fiscal process easier for students.”
Tezel added that he expects to see an uptick in disability accommodation at student events now that there will be a centralized system to fund the service.
The GUSA Finance and Appropriations committee met Wednesday and passed proposed changes to the GUSA Senate bylaws that will create the GUSA Access Fund if passed by the full Senate. The amendment to the bylaws outlines the agreement that GUSA reached with university administrators.
“Our goal in putting it in the bylaws is continuity,” Fin/App Chairman Robert Shepherd (MSB ’15) said. “It’s a solution that spans several years so we wanted to make sure that people down the road still had access to this.”
GUSA Undersecretary of Disability Affairs Lydia Brown (COL ’15), one of the primary advocates of the new policy, praised Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson and Director of Student Engagement Erika Cohen Derr.
“This is a major step in the right direction, and a concrete result of years of advocacy by numerous students for improved disability policies on campus,” Brown wrote in an email.
However, she also expressed disappointment that disability accommodations have not been provided through a centralized system until now.
“Georgetown has always lagged behind on disability issues, and this is no different,” Brown wrote. “Disabled people are not considered a priority. We are told that we are too expensive, too needy, and too burdensome, and that anything we ask for and receive we should be grateful that someone went out of their way to provide.”
Olson said that Georgetown is currently engaged in a variety of discussions on disability and accessibility issues and that the agreement his office reached with GUSA will have a positive impact on student programing.
“This issue of providing interpretation for events is something that has recently become a higher-profile issue on most campuses, including Georgetown,” Olson wrote in an email. “There is a larger conversation on disability and accessibility issues happening now through the Disability Justice Working Group.”
Director of Media Relations Rachel Pugh said that Georgetown has always complied with the American Disabilities Act of 1990 and has always provided disability accommodations for students for classes and related academic activities.
“Georgetown has been and continues to be committed to meeting the diverse needs of students with disabilities,” Pugh wrote in an email. “This new agreement on student organization events is a helpful addition, and makes our current practice more predictable.”
Providing American Sign Language interpreters at a one- to a one-and-a-half-hour event costs approximately $500, according to Georgetown University Lecture Fund Chair Marcus Stromeyer (SFS ’15).
“One of the main differences in the current system is that somebody who really needs these types of accommodations doesn’t have the privilege to just go to an event on a whim,” Stromeyer said.
The Lecture Fund has previously covered the cost of disability accommodations out of its own pocket. Stromeyer praised the new development and said that the policy would provide the Lecture Fund with greater flexibility in terms of its budget and accommodating disabled students.
“Everybody knew this was a big issue and at the end of the day, when someone requested accommodations we always met them. It was just very unpractical and very expensive for us,” Stromeyer said. “I think it’s very cool to see the whole university moving in coordination. … We’re really excited about it.”
Tezel said that the necessity for improved access to disability accommodations and the difficulty student groups face in providing these accommodations came to his attention during a GUSA event last semester when a student requested an American Sign Language interpreter prior to an LSAT prep course and GUSA had trouble securing the funding for such an accommodation.
“That was the point where we kind of realized that this was something that we needed to do,” Tezel said.
Brown and Tezel both highlighted the need to hire an access coordinator at Georgetown. Tezel plans to engage the Office of Student Affairs in serious discussions during the remainder of his term and expressed hopes that the university would recognize the necessity of an administrator to coordinate non-academic disability services.
“It is now more critical than ever to commit to hiring an access/ADA coordinator to manage the funds, handle requests, and provide technical assistance on accessible programming,” Brown wrote.
Heather Artinian (COL ’15), who was born deaf and received cochlear implants when she was nine, said that she sees this agreement as a step in the right direction.
“Before this arrangement, students may have been hesitant to request accommodations and attend events due to lack of funding or statement of accessibility requests in the event promotions,” Artinian wrote in an email. “The new funding arrangement in addition to required flyer statements will reassure incoming and current students who may need accommodations (and hopefully increase participation).”
Artinian said that Georgetown still has many steps to take toward accessibility.
“However, this does not necessarily mean that efforts should stop there,” Artinian wrote. “There is always room for improvement and we, as a community, should work toward increasing accessibility on campus as a whole. One example would be hiring a disability coordinator.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 13, 2015 by Jack Bennett and Toby Hung Leave a Comment 
After representatives from GU Fossil Free met with five members of the university board of directors Wednesday night to discuss complete fossil fuel divestment, six members of the group attempted to walk into the full-body meeting of the board of directors Thursday afternoon, where they were denied entry by Georgetown University Police Department officers.
As per University President John J. DeGioia’s agreement with GU Fossil Free in November to allow the group to meet with the board of directors on the issue of divestment, GU Fossil Free met with five members of the board on Wednesday, including William Berkley, Maurice B.W. Brenninkmeijer (GSB ’86), William J. Doyle (CAS ’72), Carol Keehan and Rev. Joseph P. Parkes, S.J.
During the meeting on Wednesday, members of the board informed the group that they would vote on divestment during their board meeting in May or June. In addition, board members requested the group to potentially reformulate its proposal to include partial divestment.
The meeting between GU Fossil Free and the board members came after the Committee on Investments and Social Responsibility’s rejection of GU Fossil Free’s original proposal two weeks ago. CISR offered an alternative proposal of targeted divestment.
After the meeting, GU Fossil Free released an open letter to the board of directors expressing its gratitude to the board for its consideration.
“We sincerely thank [the members of the board] for listening to our presentation and responding with thoughtful questions,” the letter read. “Your attention and presence were deeply appreciated.”
However, the letter also expressed the group’s dissatisfaction with the CISR’s suggestions, as they defended their proposal for full divestment.
“[V]arious board members [requested] us to ‘make a list of priorities’ regarding divestment. In their words, asking for full divestment from the top-200 fossil fuel companies is a large step,” the letter read. “GU Fossil Free will not provide the board with a ‘list of priorities’ … because full divestment is about integrity at its core. … If our university opposes any of the practices of any of the top 200 companies, based on human rights abuses or global climate change, Georgetown University therefore equally opposes all companies.”
At the same time of the meeting, GU Fossil Free organized a rally in which around 30 students marched from Red Square to McShain Lounge, where the meeting was being held.
Sam Kleinman (COL ’16), an attendee at the rally, said that he was excited to participate in a student movement for justice.
“This is a symbolic movement to move us away from the violence and murder that goes along with fossil fuels and toward a more sustainable future,” Kleinman said. “I’m really happy to be here and this is just the kind of movement Georgetown needs.”
Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson was also present at the rally. Olson said that he appreciates GU Fossil Free’s efforts in expressing its beliefs.
“It wouldn’t be appropriate for me to share my personal opinion on GU Fossil Free, [but] we appreciate and value the rights of students to express their views,” Olson said. “We know this is an important issue for many students.”
In a statement issued to The Hoya by University Director of Media Relations Rachel Pugh, GU Fossil Free was granted the meeting with the five board members because of its contributions to raising awareness on divestment.
“While the GU Fossil Free proposal is not being considered by our board of directors, the GU Fossil Free students have made significant contributions to the alternative proposal,” the statement read. “Because of this and in light of GU Fossil Free’s contributions to the conversation on campus, it seemed appropriate to have [them] meet with some of our board members to discuss these contributions while the board is here on campus this week.”
On the following day, six members from GU Fossil Free, including Caroline James (COL ’16), Patricia Cippolitti (COL ’15), Grady Willard (SFS ’18), Christina Libre (COL ’17), Daniel Dyelewski (COL ’15) and Elaine Colligan (SFS ’15), attempted to gain access into the full board meeting at the Georgetown University Hotel and Conference Center.
Although GUPD officers denied the group entry into the meeting, the group read out a letter addressed to the board at the door of the conference room.
In the statement read out at the board meeting, GU Fossil Free members further stressed the moral importance of divestment.
“By continuing to profit from an industry so implicated in systemic injustice, we are not only condoning death and destruction — we are enabling and perpetuating it,” the group read out in unison. “Moral consistency demands that we pull our financial and political support from all of these companies.”
James said that the walk-in was necessary in order for board members to fully understand the urgency of divestment.
“After the meeting [on Wednesday], even though we felt pretty much heard, we wanted to take that one last step since we were not allowed to come into [Thursday’s] board meeting to reiterate that this was an urgent and crucial matter,” James said. “So we decided to try to walk into the board meeting and if that was not allowed then to do what we called a ‘mic check.’”
James also said that she thought GU Fossil Free conducted the walk-in respectfully.
“The [walk-in] was done completely because we respect the board of directors. … We respect the board and their decision-making power too much to only be heard by five members of what’s a 30-to-40-person body,” James said. “We thought that everyone deserves to be on the same page about who the faces were behind this proposal. We were very polite and tried not to cause any trouble. We were refusing not to be heard.”
According to the GU Fossil Free Facebook page, the group will be hosting a teach-in entitled “Divestment and Collective Liberation” today, in which it will facilitate short workshops for students on environmental racism, worker struggles in the fossil fuel industry and the role of capitalism in undermining popular democracy.
James said that the teach-in will make students even more aware of the issue of divestment.
“I think the [teach-in] is going to go well,” James said. “We’re continuing to assert our presence through all of the days of the board meeting.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 13, 2015 by Patricja Okuniewska Leave a Comment 
Georgetown ranked number one out of 65 colleges in USA Today’s list of the best English programs in universities across the nation.
The list, which was generated by college data site College Factual, ranked English major programs according to various criteria, including the salaries earned by graduates in the early and middle stages of their career, the percentage of students with the major at the university across bachelor, masters and doctorate degrees, and a measure of how the major incorporates interdisciplinary studies into its curriculum.
The English program offered by Georgetown was credited with offering a particularly multidisciplinary education that encourages graduates to go into successful, high-paying careers in a variety of fields.
Associate professor of English Nathan Hensley said that the program is successful in providing students with the opportunity to succeed in any profession.
“Increasingly we are seeing that employers from all different disciplines and fields are looking to the liberal arts, and to English in particular, as providing skills that can be transferrable across all different professions,” Hensley said. “What will certainly be needed are people who can approach complex problems creatively and who can write with vividness and clarity and who can think in autonomous and exciting ways.”
Associate professor of English Jennifer Fink agreed that the English program teaches students a series of skills in preparation for a variety of jobs in the future.
“Most of the careers that exist now did not exist when I was in college. The idea that college is going to prepare you for a career is to prepare you for the past; a true education prepares you for an unknown future,” Fink said. “I think English is the best major for this, in that you are gaining rhetorical, critical thinking and writing skills that are applicable to almost any profession. …You are gaining an understanding of history, culture and art — of what it means to be human.”
The ranking also noted the close relationships formed between the students and professors as one of the greatest contributing factors to their later success in respective careers and professions.
Fink noted the multitude of careers her students have pursued after graduating with an English degree from Georgetown.
“An English degree from Georgetown gives you the kind of writing and critical thinking skills at the very highest level that employers today are looking for,” Fink said. “Majors not only pursue a vast array of fields, but they’ve been phenomenally successful in these fields. The major prepares them to be truly great communicators, critical thinkers and innovators.”
Furthermore, the program gives English majors a great deal of flexibility to focus on various different projects.
Kayla Corcoran (COL ’15) said that she is able to pursue many topics she finds interesting as an English major. Her thesis, in particular, mixes elements from multiple subjects, including history, economics and politics.
“The English program at Georgetown lets students run with their ideas. As a student myself, I have been able to pursue many projects, including my thesis, which is interdisciplinary within the English department,” Corcoran said. “I feel very encouraged to push myself and challenge myself, and if there’s something I want to do to enrich my experience, the English department has been very supportive of that.”
In addition, the English program provides students with many opportunities to attend community-building events. Three English majors recently created the English Majors Association and Friends of Majors to form a closer community among students in the program.
Kayla Corcoran (COL ’15), Mary Zost (COL ’15) and Will Fonseca (COL ’16) created the English Majors Association and Friends of Majors group last year.
“It’s a nice place to get to take your interests out of the classroom and connect on a deeper level with people who are just as interested in English. It’s been something that helps bring together a community,” Zost said.
However, students and faculty of the English department recognize the dedication and efforts of the English professors as the main reason behind the ranking.
English Department Chair and associate professor Kathryn Temple noted the effort and talent needed to make the department as successful as it is.
“Our department is excited by this recognition of our commitment to undergraduate study. It truly does take a village,” Temple said. “All of us work hard and work together to be sure our majors and all of our undergraduate students have a great experience.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 13, 2015 by Daniel Silbert Leave a Comment 
Funk is ready to take over U Street in May.
After the first annual D.C. Funk Parade was forced to inhabit V Street last year after the city government would not grant the parade permission to close U Street, the organizers are petitioning the new administration vigorously to move the second edition of the parade onto the larger neighborhood.
The event is an all-day, non-stop music festival and includes a day fair, a parade and musical performances. It will be followed by events at bars and music venues along the U Street corridor.
“We don’t want this to be an event where you have a stage with a bunch of people watching,” Funk Parade Co-Founder Justin Rood said. “It’s open for everyone to come be a part of it; to come dressed as you want with whatever noisemaker and be a part of the fun.”
The idea for the parade, which was first held last May, came to Rood in a dream.
“One night I went to sleep and I had this amazing dream about a funk parade and I woke up and thought this was something that needed to happen,” he said.
Lacking experience in organizing musical events, Rood partnered with Chris Naoum, who had experience in the D.C. music industry through his organization Listen Local First.
Rood, a D.C. native who lives on U Street, envisions the event as an expression of the U Street neighborhood. The area is a cultural hub of the District, with numerous music venues and D.C. landmarks like Ben’s Chili Bowl.
Historically a predominately African-American neighborhood, U Street has been the site of triumphant moments such as Marion Barry’s first inaugural parade, as well as turbulent times during the 1968 riots.
However, without the full support of the administration of former Mayor Vincent Gray, last year’s Funk Parade, which was attended by around 30,000 people, was forced to relocate to V Street which, according to Rood, could not accommodate the size of the event.
“I think that last year was a phenomenal event. The only low point was that the parade was the best part of the day but the route that the city required us to use was simply too small,” Rood said. “It was inadequate and the crowd ended up spilling onto U Street spontaneously.”
In the past, the U Street corridor was routinely shut down, both officially for parades and spontaneously by people celebrating in the streets. That trend, however, has declined over the past 20 years. The city has not shut down U Street since 2008, when it held an event honoring landmark restaurant Ben’s Chili Bowl.
This year, Funk Parade organizers are confident that they will be able to move the festival to its original intended location along U Street.
“I think we’re optimistic that, given the success of last year’s event, and how well we’ve worked with city officials to ensure that their concerns were taken into account, I’m hoping that there will be greater understanding from the new administration,” Rood said.
Though the administration of newly inaugurated Mayor Muriel Bowser has not yet granted the parade the right to shut down U Street, the mayor has been supportive of the parade.
“We are a pro-funk administration,” Michael Czin, communications director for Mayor Bowser, said in a January interview with radio station WAMU.
There is also widespread support for the parade in the community. In addition to securing the support from over 100 local businesses, the organizers of the Funk Parade have created a petition on Change.org to help secure the closure of U Street for the parade. The petition has nearly 1,300 signatures, but needs a minimum of 5,000 to be sent to the city government.
Councilmember Brianne Nadeau (D-Ward 1) said that the parade has garnered the support of the local government.
“The Funk Parade is put on by a collaborative group broadly supported by the community and their effort last year was a success that celebrated our local culture and brought an economic boost to surrounding small businesses,” Nadeau wrote in an email to The Hoya. “As they go through the permitting process, I look forward to working with the organizers and the relevant District agencies to ensure this year’s parade can safely proceed down U Street.”
Rood plans for 50 extra hours of music programming this year and expects the event to outdo the success of last year.
Although the parade is still months away, the event already has some Georgetown students excited.
“I’m a pro-funk individual,” Emily D’Arco (COL ’18) said. “It sounds like a really fun idea and I hope they’re able to parade down U Street.”
Funk Parade organizers will also host a kickoff fundraiser on March 12 at the Howard Theater.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 13, 2015 by Emily Tu Leave a Comment 
Fr. David Collins, S.J., professor Anthony DelDonna and professor Cristina Sanz received the 2014 Dean’s Award for Excellence in Teaching and were recognized Jan. 27 at the 2014-15 Convocation of the College Faculty.
The College Dean’s Award is designed to honor excellence in the teaching of undergraduate students and was presented to its first recipients in 1996. The awards have remained competitive, with about 10 nominees submitted by departments each year, according to Dean of Georgetown College Chester Gillis.
“All of the nominees were outstanding and an inspiration,” Gillis wrote in an email.
In the selection process, dossiers were compiled of each nominated professor’s past teaching evaluations, a statement outlining his or her teaching philosophy and accounts from past and present students about their experiences in each professor’s classes.
The final dossiers were then submitted to a selection committee composed of three previous awardees. This year’s committee included professor Angel de Dios, professor Joseph Murphy and professor Nicoletta Pireddu.
DelDonna, a professor in the department of performing arts, expressed how it felt to receive the award.
“It means a great deal,” DelDonna said. “I have very talented, dedicated and deserving colleagues, and so for them to put forward my name and then to actually be recognized by the award was very humbling.”
DelDonna began teaching at Georgetown in 2003 and specializes in 18th-century Neapolitan music and culture. His previous research on opera, performance practice, ballet and archival studies has been published in a range of scholarly volumes. At Georgetown, DelDonna teaches courses on topics such as the history of opera and Baroque-era music.
Of the 57 total recipients in the award’s history, DelDonna is the fifth performing arts faculty member to be recognized, and this is the first nomination he has received. It is common for professors to be nominated several times before they receive the award. Last year, Maya Roth, an professor and chair of the department of performing arts, won the Dean’s Award.
DelDonna emphasized the creation of dialogue between professor and students as an integral component of his teaching style.
“I don’t think of it as teaching; I think of it as sharing,” DelDonna said. “It’s about seeing my students as individuals. I’m not looking at it from the perspective of a grade necessarily, or whether you’re right or wrong, but what you’re bringing to the discussion. For me, that’s where I place the premium — in the act of learning itself and sharing.”
Collins joined Georgetown’s department of history in 2004 after 20 years of Jesuit training and doctoral studies. He has published extensively on the cultural history of the late Middle Ages with focus on the cult of the saints, Renaissance humanism and learned magic. Collins teaches courses including “Saints and Society” and “Europe from the Millennium to the Black Death.”
Collins highlighted teaching as a way to bridge his passion for his subject and his students.
“Teaching is all about human engagement,” Collins said. “The students here are so bright, and so curious, that its fun to be able to brainstorm with them. Even if it’s brainstorming with them over a document I’ve read a hundred times before, the perspectives they come to it with, the questions they pose, their willingness to disagree — it’s all engaging, thrilling and beneficial.”
When asked about his teaching style, Collins explained the lessons he learned from teaching at high school as a component of his Jesuit training.
“It was ingrained in me, from the very beginning, how to read certain signs,” Collins said. “The ability to read the effectiveness of how you’re engaging students with the material, how you’re communicating — that’s something that a college professor has to do.”
Collins also emphasized the atmosphere created by his fellow Jesuits and his colleagues in the history department.
“We’re constantly sharing ideas,” Collins said. “I’ve very much benefitted from the two groups of people around me who have created a culture of undergraduate teaching as very important.”
Sanz has been teaching for over 20 years, and is a professor in the department of Spanish and Portuguese. Her areas of focus are second-language acquisition, bilingualism and Spanish linguistics, and her volume “Mind and Context in Adult Second Language Acquisition” received the 2006 MLA’s Mildenberger Prize for an Outstanding Research Publication. Sanz teaches intensive-track Spanish courses and classes on bilingualism.
Both Collins and Sanz have been nominated for the Dean’s Award before.
Sanz expressed her devotion to teaching and what has driven this dedication for so long.
“I can’t imagine doing anything else,” Sanz said. “I like that I can make a difference; that I can have a student in front of me who is an ‘empty bag’ at the beginning of the semester, a ‘bag’ that leaves my classroom at the end of the course with knowledge that it didn’t contain before.”
Sanz explained the holistic approach she takes to education and compared it to her previous experiences in Spain.
“In Spain, like in many parts of the world, teaching is very teacher-directed,” Sanz said. “Knowledge comes from the teacher and students do not contribute; I don’t believe that’s the best way to teach. I think that to learn you have to be involved — learning is active, and learning happens through the exchange of ideas.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 13, 2015 by Matthew Larson Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown section of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal will be undergoing extensive renovations over the next few years to fix lingering issues under the Georgetown Business Improvement District’s 2028 Action Plan.
The historic site, which is located between M Street and K Street parallel to the waterfront, became a national park in 1971 and will celebrate its 200th anniversary in 2028. Significant portions of the waterway have fallen into disrepair after years of neglect.
To coincide with the anniversary, the 2028 Action Plan, a set of 75 action items to improve the Georgetown neighborhood, proposed by Georgetown business leaders and community members in 2013, focuses on repairing and beautifying the Georgetown section of the canal.
Future action will include a new dock near 34th Street, fixing Lock 3 of the canal, repaving the path that runs parallel to the canal and improving numerous safety features. A partnership between Georgetown BID, the National Parks Service and Georgetown Heritage, a nonprofit organization founded in 2014 to oversee the renewal of the C&O Canal, will pay for the improvements.
Advisory Neighborhood Commissioner Bill Starrels, who represents Single Member District 5 in the Georgetown region, said he believes that the plan will create a drastically better environment in the canal area for residents, businesses and visitors.
“Quite frankly, the agenda we have in Georgetown is we want to make sure the people were able to appreciate and use that area,” he said. “It seems like something worth trying.”
Georgetown Heritage Director and BID Destination Manager Maggie Downing said the 34th Street dock will open by summer, having recently received approval from the Old Georgetown Board.
The dock will serve as a launching point for paddleboats, motorized boats and barges that could be used for educational tours.
Downing explained that the decision to build the dock as the first phase of the plan was made to generate more interest and capital for the rest of the project.
“We want to provide people more opportunities and reasons to come out and enjoy the C&O Canal,” she said. “[The dock] was selected in part because it was easier to do quickly than a lot of the other projects.”
Starrels added that the original location of the dock, located further east along the canal, had generated backlash from residents. After hearing complaints, the original design was changed to reflect their feedback and the dock was moved west.
“Initially there were some concerns about it,” he said. “It would be a little too intrusive in the heavy residential areas. [But] when they moved it a little further downstream, it placated people.”
After construction of the dock, Georgetown BID will hold a pilot program for other initiatives that are part of the 2028 Action Plan to gauge the general public’s interest.
“We’re thinking of having a pilot project,” Downing said. “What we’re doing right now are short-term solutions that we can enact as we begin to plan for the longer-term solutions.”
One focus outlined at a community meeting held by BID last Tuesday was the restoration of Lock 3, which is located near 30th Street and in danger of collapsing. BID CEO and President Joe Sternlieb said at the meeting that the damage from the overflow from a potential failure would be greater than the cost to proactively repair the lock.
The BID will also open a visitor center in the Georgetown Park complex this summer to help tourists navigate the area and explore the canal region. The center will be staffed entirely by volunteers.
Starrels said he wants to see how the community embraces opportunities the dock provides during the summer before following through on other plans.
“[We need to] get some more activity down by the canal, which overall will increase the activity on the business side of things,” he said. “[The canal] needs a lot of money for rehabbing the walls and other aspects of the locks which need work.”
Georgetown University, which has been involved with the entire 2028 Action Plan since the outset, has participated in brainstorming ideas to improve the atmosphere around the canal, though the university is not physically located along the canal. Assistant Director of Community Engagement Jamie Scott endorsed the renovations.
“[We] actively participated in discussions about plans for the C&O Canal and other ideas in the 2028 plan,” he said. “The university was very supportive of the Georgetown 2028 process.”
Starrels was appreciative of the community’s embrace of the improvements included in the 2028 Action Plan for the canal.
“I’m happy with how the neighbors and companies [over] that way liked the idea,” Starrels said. “It seemed like a very nice idea for the canal that will work very well.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 13, 2015 by Emily Tu Leave a Comment 
The National Science Foundation awarded a team of Georgetown and University of Texas at Austin geoscience and history researchers a $25,000 rapid response research (RAPID) grant to travel to Iceland to study a glacial outburst flood.
The team won the grant in November 2014 and will travel to Iceland when the flood occurs, although the timing for the flood is not yet known as it is a natural occurrence. Researchers will collect water and sediment from the flood to find data that has never been collected in the past.
The team, composed of adjunct assistant professor of geosciences Douglas Howard, professor of history John McNeill, a Georgetown undergraduate student Lena Bichell (COL ’15) and a group from the University of Texas at Austin, will collect data from the glacial outburst flood as it occurs.
Bichell, an environmental biology major, was selected by Howard and McNeill to take part in the project. She said she is eager to travel to Iceland as a member of the research team.
“As an undergraduate student, I was reassured by the fact that I could contribute,” Bichell said. “Not only is this an opportunity to gather information, but the professors involved very much feel like it’s benefitting us students, which is great.”
Glacial outburst floods take place when a body of water contained by a glacier melts, forming a sub-glacial lake that eventually breaks through the ice and catastrophically releases a flood. A glacial outburst flood can be triggered by a volcanic eruption, as is the case with the outburst flood the research team will study, or can be caused by glaciers melting because of global warming.
Outburst floods linked to climate change are more common in mid-latitude high elevation areas such as the Himalayas, the Peruvian Alps and Northern Canada.
Glacial outburst floods have devastating effects on the surrounding environment, according to Howard.
“Anything in its [the flood’s] path is basically wiped out,” Howard said. “There’s so much power, so much energy with these floods that they essentially strip the surface of the channel in the direction of flow clean down to the bedrock.”
The RAPID grant was awarded to the research team in November 2014 and will be in effect until the end of October. According to NSF’s Program Director of Geomorphology and Land-Use Dynamics Richard Yuretich, the number of grants awarded varies from year to year, but averages three to four.
“The award depends on the uniqueness of the event and the ability of the proposal to use this to advance knowledge of fundamental processes that occur at the Earth’s surface,” Yuretich wrote in an email to The Hoya. “These glacial outburst floods are among the most catastrophic that occur on Earth. Obtaining data on the magnitude of these events is difficult, since they often occur without warning and the results can be devastating.”
RAPID grants are awarded to proposals that demonstrate severe urgency in the availability of and access to data, facilities and equipment in the cases of unanticipated events that require quick-response research.
The research team began working on the proposal once they received indications in August that the activity of the Bárðarbunga volcano would eventually lead to a glacial outburst flood because of the melting of the Vatnajökull glacier that overtops the volcano.
The group from the University of Texas at Austin includes professor and C.B. Smith Centennial Chair of Geography and the Environment Timothy Beach, Professor and Chair of the Department of Geography and the Environment Sheryl Luzzadder-Beach and doctoral student of geography and environment Samantha Krause.
Beach was previously a professor in Georgetown’s Science, Technology and International Affairs program for 21 years.
Howard emphasized the unique research opportunities presented by the imminent glacial outburst flood.
“This catastrophic outburst flood may only occur once in the life of this volcanic eruption. These kinds of events are very ephemeral; they don’t happen very often,” Howard said. “They awarded the grant so that we could observe it, and [these outburst floods] are rarely observed or collected data from like we have proposed.”
A glacial outburst flood can last from hours to several days, giving the researchers a narrow window of time to travel to Iceland and study the flood when the event unfolds.
The research team will monitor changes in the water chemistry and temperature at certain locations along the channel, as well as collect waterborne sediment samples in order to analyze the effect of the outburst flood on the site’s geomorphological features.
Data like this has never before been collected throughout the entire process of an outburst flood.
“This very possibly could be the largest [glacial outburst] flood in the history of the world that we’ve studied and put boundaries on,” Beach said. “It gives us an upper boundary on what geomorphic agents can do.”
The study will contribute to existing knowledge of glacial outburst floods in terms of how they change the landscape and impact human settlements over time. The project will not only provide a better understanding of the glacial flood in Iceland but can also be used to model similar outburst floods in more heavily populated areas of the world and even on other planets.
Howard has previously conducted research into how the dramatic changes to topography brought about by a glacial outburst flood can be used as analogs for similar floods on Mars.
“Doing studies like this one in Iceland helps us understand and warn people about the dangers of living in flood zones,” Luzzadder-Beach said. “It also greatly informs our understanding of planetary geomorphology around models to be created to study landforms elsewhere on earth and on other planets.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

