
April 17, 2015 by Andrew Wallender and Kshithij Shrinath Leave a Comment 
An electrical fire in the room next to the Mask and Bauble stage caused an evacuation of Poulton Hall Friday night around 10 p.m.
According to Vice President for Planning and Facilities Management Robin Morey, the fire was caused by a small water leak in a sink with an instant hot water dispenser.
“D.C. Fire and Rescue responded after our mechanic pulled the firm alarm,” Morey wrote in an email to The Hoya. “They rendered the scene safe. There was minimal damage.”
The Mask and Bauble production of “Urinetown” was halted in the middle of the second act, as everyone involved in the production and all audience members in the full house were ordered to evacuate.
At least six fire engines arrived on the scene, along with one battalion chief car. The firefighters cordoned off the area surrounding the building, which is located on the corner of 37th and P Streets.
According to Ben Card (COL ’17), who was in the audience of the production, there was a “smell of smoke” in the air.
Mask and Bauble will perform a Sunday matinee of “Urinetown,” which was originally scheduled to have its last show on Saturday.
“You guys have all paid for your tickets, you will be able to come for free to that performance. If you are not able to come, we would refund your tickets for tonight,” Urinetown producer Emily Grau (COL ’16) said.
No one was injured in the fire.
Executive Producer Caitlin Dutkiewicz (COL ’15) was not on site during the incident but immediately ran over to Poulton Hall when she heard about the fire. Dutkiewicz said that Mask and Bauble has numerous fire plans in place that helped the evacuation of the theater go smoothly.
“I’ve never had to deal with this in my time here, but I just talked to a former executive director of Mask and Bauble and it happened to them five years ago, so it’s happened before,” Dutkiewicz said. “I think given that everyone is out here and safe and happy, I think it’s all we can ask for.”
This article has been updated. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 17, 2015 by Katherine Richardson and Kshithij Shrinath Leave a Comment 
World Bank Chief Institutional Economist Joel Hellman was selected as the new dean of the School of Foreign Service, blending experience in academia and development practice to steer the school into its second century. Hellman will assume his role July 1.
He will succeed SFS Interim Dean James Reardon Anderson, who assumed the position in November 2013 after Dean Emerita Carol Lancaster (SFS ’64) was diagnosed with a brain tumor. Lancaster died Oct. 22, 2014, at the age of 72.
“We believe that by building on our foundation, Georgetown can make unique contributions in the context of the increasingly complex and interconnected global landscape that we face,” University President John J. DeGioia wrote in a campus-wide email announcing the decision on Tuesday. “As we imagine our future ahead and seek to engage in ever deeper and more meaningful ways with these issues, we look forward to working with Dr. Hellman to lead the SFS into its next hundred years of excellence.
A Fusion of Academia and Practice
Hellman, 52, holds a B.A. from Williams College, a M.Phil. in Russian and East European Studies from the University of Oxford, and a doctorate in political science from Columbia University. He served as a faculty member in the department of political science at Columbia University and in the department of government at Harvard University.
Hellman left his career in academia in 1997 to become a senior political counselor at the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development. In 2000, he joined the World Bank, where he initially specialized in the European and Central Asia region, before serving as an adviser in the bank’s Indonesia office. There, he coordinated the World Bank’s response to the 2004 tsunami in Aceh, Indonesia.
After serving in Asia, Hellman assumed the role as the World Bank’s first director for the Global Center on Conflict, Security and Development in 2011. Based in Nairobi, Kenya, and the District of Columbia, Hellman played a large role in managing global development.
Hellman currently serves as the chief institutional economist for the Governance Global Practice at the World Bank, specializing in governance and institutional reform, which he also studied as an academic.
“While we are sad to see Joel leave, this is a remarkable opportunity for him to serve at a distinguished university. I am confident that Joel’s energy, vision and intellect will be put to good service at that venerated institution,” World Bank Governance Global Practice Senior Director Mario Marcel wrote in an email to World Bank staff. “He has long been among the most articulate and visionary staff … and his wit, wisdom and insights will be missed.”
The university is currently collaborating with the World Bank on the two-year Global Futures Initiative. According to Mortara Center for International Studies Director Kathleen McNamara, who served on the selection committee, Hellman also coming from the World Bank was “a happy coincidence.”
SFS Faculty Chair Jeffrey Anderson, who interviewed Hellman and the other final candidates, said that Hellman’s background, which blends practical policymaking experience and academic scholarship, made him an attractive candidate for the position.
“It’s pretty striking how varied and rich his background in international affairs is as a practitioner,” Anderson said. “He also has very strong credentials as an academic. … He made the decision to go into development work, but by the time he left [academia], he established a reputation for academic excellence that is still with him today. For colleagues here in the school, I think they will see him as a wonderful choice on the scholarship front.”
McNamara echoed Anderson, pointing to Hellman’s extensive global knowledge and tangible experience in policy. In the past 20 years, Hellman has worked in over 50 countries and four continents.
“[He has] connections, relationships that he’s built. He spent a lot of time in India, he’s worked in Africa, Asia [and] Latin America,” McNamara said. “As we think about what are the emerging regions in the future: He’s going to have on-the-ground experience — even stature — with groups abroad, having already served so very ably in exactly the sort of places we’re going to be wanting to make sure that we are engaged.”
Vision for the SFS
In 2019, the SFS will celebrate the centennial anniversary of its founding. As the new dean will preside over the school during the occasion, the landmark milestone guided Hellman’s selection. The selection criteria demanded someone with a vision for the school over the next century, according to Provost Robert Groves.
“We wanted someone who could lead and coordinate faculty and staff and student discussions about looking back on the first 100 years and looking forward to the next 100 years of the school and how we can use this fantastic moment in history and really propel the school forward,” Groves said.
The opportunity to consider the future at the 100th anniversary was attractive to Hellman, as well, who saw the centennial as a unique moment to reflect.
“I’m in an enviable position,” Hellman said in an interview with The Hoya. “First, building on a school that already has strengths that are widely recognized but also, because of the centenary, having this opening to really think through what the next 100 years are going to look like or should look like, and what changes need to be made. That doesn’t often come along in the history of most schools.”
When Hellman explained his vision for the direction of the SFS, he emphasized that planning for the future must be a collaborative process.
“What I’m going to do is really reach out to all the different parts of the SFS community and listen to what they think are some of the key issues, some of the key pressures, some of the strengths and what needs to be addressed,” Hellman said. “Obviously, coming in from the outside, I have experiences that I want to share in discussion, but it really has to be based on a collective vision.”
Anderson lauded Hellman as “sending the right signals” about valuing faculty and student input, and Groves concurred.
After participating in conversations with SFS leadership, Hellman said that he primarily wanted to increase levels of collaboration at three different levels: first, between professors of different disciplines on research questions; second, between regional studies programs within the SFS; and third, between the different schools in the university.
“I think there is an openness of everyone I’ve spoken to at Georgetown of thinking more creatively about how [integration] is done in a way that preserves the strengths of the individual programs but also integrates global understanding,” Hellman said. “I think those are things that we will have conversations about with the students, with the faculty, with the staff, and see what possibilities there might be to look for linkages.”
Steven Radelet, chair of the Global Human Development program, which launched in 2014, expected Hellman to continue supporting the exploration of the grand questions of development.
“I suspect that Dean Hellman will continue to support that program, both given his own personal interests in development but also because of the recognition of how important development issues are in the future of the world economy and the world political system,” Radelet said. “It makes sense for the school to continue to build in this direction.”
As a specialist in governance and development, Hellman follows the legacy of Lancaster, who focused on issues of development and poverty reduction throughout her career.
“Carol was beloved by many colleagues here. We are still grieving her absence. She was a wonderful colleague and we miss her. Her great effort, her legacy is connected to programs involving global human development,” Groves said. “If you think about Joel’s work, if you just examine what he has been doing at the World Bank, it is indeed that. In a way, although it wasn’t planned, we have the next dean who, from everything he thinks about and cares about, is really quite consistent with the legacy that Carol left us. I expect good things on that front.”
The Executive Search Committee
The extensive search process for a new SFS dean began in early fall, when DeGioia appointed an executive search committee of 17 individuals, including professors, university officials and undergraduate and graduate students.
Center for Eurasian, Russian and European Studies Director Angela Stent, who also led the 2010 dean search, chaired the committee. The group also included College Dean Chester Gillis, SFS Academic Council President Megan Murday (SFS ‘15) and Program in Science, Technology and International Affairs Director Mark Giordano, among others.
The committee utilized the recruiting and consulting firm Witt/Kieffer, which Georgetown previously used to hire Groves and fill dean vacancies in the School of Continuing Studies and Georgetown University Law Center, to manage the search. Witt/Kieffer members declined to comment on the selection process, as the proceedings remain confidential.
McNamara said that they searched for candidates with tangible academic experience, in addition to real-world practice.
“As a committee, we were certainly very concerned that whichever name we sent up to the president, we made sure all of them understood the DNA of academic life,” McNamara said.
After an initial screening from Witt/Kieffer, the committee conducted preliminary and second-round interviews to narrow the pool to a small group of finalists. Stent said that this smaller group visited the School of Foreign Service campus in Doha, Qatar, but because of the confidentiality of the search process, could not provide details on the number or names of finalists.
Murday, the only undergraduate student on the committee, said that she served to provide a unique perspective during the deliberation process.
“[SFS undergraduates] have a specific set of concerns and a specific set of experiences that no other stakeholders, no other members of the committee have,” Murday said. “So [I was] making sure that not only was the candidate qualified in academic and professional regards, but also qualified as someone who would be there for students.”
After deciding on the list of finalists, the committee sent its top three recommendations to DeGioia and Groves, who both interviewed each candidate individually.
Groves said that he looked for three main attributes: an innovative mind, experience in both worlds of academia and practice and an ability to involve the community in discussions about the future of the SFS.
“President DeGioia and I discussed the three after each of us interviewed the three separately,” Groves said. “We sort of got our heads together and in that capacity, I was sort of advising him with regard to how I absorbed the different search committee input and my own feelings to help him make his decision.”
DeGioia, ultimately, made the final decision after consulting with university leadership and notified Hellman last week. Hellman visited campus Tuesday, the day of the announcement, to meet with faculty and staff.
Transition Process
Hellman currently lives in Washington, D.C., with his wife, Sharon, and his 18-year-old daughter, Isabel.
“We have two stray cats from Jakarta and one stray dog from Delhi,” Hellman wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We live in the Palisades just a few minutes Vespa drive from campus.”
Hellman will assume his position on July 1. He said that he hopes to meet with as many SFS faculty members and various stakeholders as possible in the coming months, a prospect made easier by the proximity of his current job at the World Bank, just a Vespa ride away on Pennsylvania Avenue.
In addition to his responsibilities as dean, Hellman also plans to teach a course on corruption. Reardon-Anderson currently teaches the required Map of the Modern World course, and Lancaster taught a freshman proseminar on ethics and global development while serving as dean.
“I’m very excited about returning to teaching,” Hellman said. “One of the early conversations I want to have with the faculty and the administration is, how quickly can I get back into the classroom?”
Hoya Staff Writers Toby Hung, Mallika Sen and Andrew Wallender contributed reporting.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 17, 2015 by Andrew Wallender Leave a Comment 
Banco Santander, the Eurozone’s largest bank, has pledged $2 million to Georgetown University to fund a new social economy initiative.
Banco Santander Executive Chairman Ana Botín and University President John J. DeGioia signed a memorandum of understanding to launch the initiative April 7.
The partnership is set to last five years, with an annual donation of $400,000. Although details are yet to be finalized, the new initiative will include yearly faculty roundtables on social economic issues, as well as a student think tank composed of 24 students from around the world.
“We are deeply grateful to Ana Botín and the leadership of the Santander Group, for their commitment to the social economy and their leadership on some of today’s most pressing socioeconomic challenges,” DeGioia said in a press release. “Our community looks forward to deepening our partnership and developing this new initiative together in the weeks ahead.”
Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Dean Norberto Grzywacz will lead the social economy initiative for the duration of the partnership with Santander. Undergraduates will potentially be able to participate in the partnership pending approval from Santander, according to Grzywacz.
“I believe that all those programs, even if they are graduate programs, they will have a strong impact in undergraduate life because they will be creating new mechanisms in which undergrads will be involved in research,” Grzywacz said.
The initiative will engage the academic community at both a local and global level, according to Grzywacz.
The local level of engagement will be made up of the roundtables, which will bring together Georgetown faculty, banking professionals and banking customers to discuss social banking, social financing and responsible banking. The university will hold three roundtables a year on varying topics.
“The point is to create new ideas that will have social benefit from a financial point of view,” Grzywacz said. “So every year there will be a report, and the report will propose those ideas. New knowledge will hopefully be created.”
The student think tank will form the global level of the new initiative and will engage the 24 participating students in projects devoted to bettering the social impact of banking. Students from across the world will apply to the think tank, though Grzywacz said that there will almost certainly be a number of Georgetown students in the group. Each year the student participants will compete to come up with new ideas for the banking world and the winning proposal will be granted funds from Santander to implement their project.
“We are hopeful that this new initiative on social economy will yield groundbreaking results,” Eduardo Garrido, Director of Santander Universities U.S. wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Renowned international scholars and experts will convene at Georgetown to conduct research and propose solutions to pressing global challenges.”
Santander Universities, the division of Banco Santander that partners with higher education institutions, currently has agreements with almost 1,200 other universities from around the world and has given out more than $1.3 billion in funding to schools since its founding in 1996.
“Santander believes that Georgetown University is especially suited to lead this new initiative on the social economy given its worldwide leadership in social issues, public and private management, and international affairs,” Garrido wrote.
Santander’s newly announced partnership with Georgetown builds off of previous collaboration between the two entities that began in 2007 when a digital magazine on “Globalization, Competiveness and Governance” was launched. The magazine was sponsored by Universia, a network of 1,250 universities that Santander has sponsored since 2000, according to Garrido.
“Georgetown has enjoyed a terrific relationship with Santander, through Universia.net, for almost 10 years through the publication of the Journal of Globalization, Competitiveness and Governability,” Office of the President Chief of Staff Joseph Ferrara wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We look forward to this new opportunity to explore further work together.”
Additionally, Botín, Santander’s chief executive, was a former member on Georgetown’s board of directors.
Grzywacz said that he is hopeful that the partnership with Santander will lay the groundwork for permanent programs and classes in the arena of social banking.
“We might have educational programs that are permanent that will have as their subjects these issues so that students will be able to come here, even after five years,” Grzywacz said. “They can take courses and even get degrees in these kinds of subjects.”
Geared wrote that while the initial partnership has a duration of five years, there is a possibility for Santander and Georgetown to renew the relationship.
“I think Santander has a vision, and we will follow that vision,” Grzywacz said. “But we will implement this with Georgetown’s strengths.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 17, 2015 by Katherine Richardson Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University Student Association President Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Vice President Connor Rohan (COL ’16) began their term March 21 after winning the 2015 executive election with a satirical campaign. After less than a month on the job, the pair discussed their transition period, goals and future plans with The Hoya.
What has been the biggest challenge you have faced so far in your first few weeks in office?
Luther: I think the biggest obstacle for us is that we started from scratch. We came in with no real platform, no real budget, and no real connections to GUSA. So I think the biggest challenge for us was getting acquainted with GUSA and really getting down to the details of the really important issues at Georgetown as well as the solutions and I think we’ve had a lot of help from both Trevor and other GUSA insiders which has been great. I don’t think we could have done this without Trevor or Abbey’s help so sort of getting that core team together.
Rohan: Something for me that’s been kind of difficult is getting caught up on initiatives that have already been started by Trevor and Omika’s administration and following up with that because us, our cabinet and our staff are not intimately familiar with the specifics of the issues that they were covering, so to follow up and to push through those last final steps has been a little bit challenging in that now it’s time to get the nitty gritty of these things done. Because we are not as familiar with these details as people that were involved in the previous administration, it’s been a little bit tough. However the previous administration has been accommodating and they have been willing to sit down with us and our cabinet and our staff to catch us up on specific policy changes and different university initiatives that they would like to see continue, and that they would like to see followed through.

How much continuity are you striving for from the Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) and Omika Jikaria (SFS ’15) administration? What do you plan to change or plan to continue?
Rohan: One thing that we’re trying to change is the Multicultural Council. The rollout of that was not ideal, and it’s faced a little bit of opposition from different self-identifying groups here on campus. Not only have we secured them a budget of $1,000 through the executive discretionary budget, but we are working to repair relationships between self-identifying cultural groups and the Multicultural Council. That’s going to be big this year.
Luther: One of the first conversations we had right after the inauguration was about the Multicultural Council. We sat down with the new leadership [of the MC] this year, and we’re making a really big priority for them to carve out a niche on campus. I think a lot of people have been sort of confused as to what their goal is and their real mission statement is, how it’s different from the current climate within cultural groups, so this year, we’re going to work with the leadership a lot to carve out a place for it on campus.
Rohan: Another big change we’re making is with the Student Advocacy Office. We’ve completely restructured SAO so that now it includes an Office of the Free Speech Advocate. It’s going to include an Office of the Intellectual Health Advocate. SAO’s previous job was to focus specifically on conduct cases, so now there’s going to be offices under that that focus on conduct. This will create a larger student organization based on advocacy, where individual students and groups can come and get help when they need it. That’s going to be headed by Ryan Shymansky.
Free speech has been a buzzword on campus for the past year. How much are you prioritizing this issue and what are your plans for free speech advocacy?
Luther: Obviously, we don’t choose the issues that are going to be buzzing around campus, but free speech is obviously one of those ones that has come up a lot in this first month that we’ve had. We’re placing a great priority on making sure that the university’s free speech policies are fair and clear. We’re working a lot with SAO to restructure them and make sure that they’re responsive to student needs through the Office of the Free Speech Advocate because we’ve seen just in this first month that there is a lot of confusion among administrators, among the student body about exactly where the line is on free speech. We want to make sure that students and administrators are aware of this, and that the policies are enforced fairly.
Rohan: We have Sam Kleinman for our secretary of speech, and he has sat on the Speech and Expression Committee, which is in charge of handling speech and expression policy. One of the things that I do want to do with the GU Fossil Free thing [the group stormed the stage in Gaston Hall during an event in March] is to clarify the speech and expression policy, because it’s vague whether or not what they did violates speech and expression.
Luther: We’ve been in constant contact with Dr. Todd Olson to make sure that they are being treated fairly.
Rohan: I’ve had meetings with relevant GUSA posts and administrators to see how we want to move forward, and I’m pushing for clarification within the policy and administrators have responded positively to that. That will be hashed out in the Speech and Expression Committee. I think that whether or not they’re sanctioned is going to inform how they move forward. Administrators for the most part have been responsive, and they definitely recognize the implications of this.
When you ran, you did not have much of a platform besides your mental health initiatives. How did you develop a platform of sorts after you won?
Rohan: It’s the people. There’s not a platform. We had so many great applicants. We had 123 applicants for our cabinet. And that’s huge. And we gave everyone interviews. We have really qualified people, we have a very diverse cabinet. It’s something that we’re very, very proud of. We sat down with them all once and we’re having our meeting tonight in which we will hash out exactly what people want to do this year. They’ve all sat down and spoken with their deputy chiefs of staff and have elucidated exactly what they want to see in a year from now. On our part, the big things that we want to handle this year are mental health — we just began a conversation and are looking forward to working with The Corp, who has recently established the Social Impact Chair — and I’ve personally had some very good friends who have had really unfortunate experiences with mental health on campus. I want to see to it that that is dealt with. We recently initiated that conversation with administrators, and we’re hoping to see some changes.
Luther: I would say the other big thing that is part of our platform is about the campus plan. That’s by far one of our biggest focuses in our first month of office. This is something that we didn’t choose to put on our plate, but because of the timing, this is going to be something that we are going to be very focused on the whole year. We really have been committed so far to informing the student body about what’s going on. We want to make sure that their voices are heard in this critical time period.
Rohan: We had the petition and it got over 2,600 signatures. Last week, we presented that to [Office of the President Chief of Staff] Ferrara and we have been in countless meetings with administrators and spoken to neighbors specifically about getting more seats on the GCP steering committee.
Luther: We don’t see the student engagement ending here with the petition. This campus plan is a very long-running document; it’s not going to be finalized until 2018.
Rohan: We need to get our foot in the door, and we need to let them know that we need specific asks and we need to make sure that we stay on top of it. Some of the narrative has been, “Well, we still have a while,” but ultimately, we need to start this as soon as possible. This dialogue is critical.
What has been the reaction to the campus plan petition and initiative thus far? Have administrators cooperated?
Luther: I would say that overall the reaction has been pretty positive. Everyone who has been involved in the process has understood the flaws of the last plan and people have been willing to commit themselves to making sure that this next process is a lot more smooth. One of the biggest things about the petition is about participation and student representation. I think a lot of people have seen that this is very reasonable request that we have. So right now, we are in a state of everyone in agreement.
Rohan: We are not all completely on the same page, and nothing is guaranteed because it is a very complicated issue with a lot of factors at stake. But, we have had positive interactions with the administrators and the board. We just need things to be followed through on.
How has your relationship with the administration been so far? How are you planning on marking your administration’s relationship with them?
Luther: I would say that the administration we have been dealing with are really committed to student concerns. And that’s the reason why they’re here, that’s been great.
Connor: Not to say everybody is. But the majority is.
What made you decide to ask for applications for every single person in your cabinet?
Luther: Well we thought that we had a pretty unique opportunity with the way we ran our campaign — we came into office not really feeling like we owed anyone political favors. We felt like we had a completely blank slate and that GUSA’s reputation around campus had been one of the, I would say, you are either in GUSA or out of it. There was no middle ground. So, within our first couple of weeks we spent a lot of that time in meetings with student leaders and groups. We told them, “Hey look, there is an opportunity here to get people involved in representing students. We don’t want this to be another round of GUSA insiders.” We want to find the people who are most passionate, committed and engaged in different issue areas on campus and bring them into the fold.
Rohan: I think we have about half GUSA and half non-GUSA.
How will you collaborate effectively with a very large cabinet of 67 people? Are you concerned about the size?
Luther: I would say that I’m not worried about that. We have, our deputy chief of staffs, are great. I know it’s a lot of people to keep tabs on but we are creating new positions. They were representing issue areas that weren’t traditionally represented by GUSA. So by bringing all these areas into the fold, we felt as though we are going to better represent student life. I have nothing but confidence in them.
Rohan: And we have more deputies than before.
Luther: They have shown nothing but commitment so far.
Why did you add new positions to the cabinet?
Rohan: Craig Levites is the new editor-in-chief of The Heckler and the Minister of Fun. He was added so that he could steer communications in the right way. Our Director of Communications is Will Simons. He has been so on top of it. We still need to have that voice that we had during the campaign. That’s our priority, and that’s what Craig is responsible for. We added a lot of positions that were specifically aimed towards social justice because we felt that that was something we thought that GUSA wasn’t particularly attuned to in the past. Also, we would like more direct collaboration between GUSA and student groups who have been very vocal. The general sentiment on campus needs to be reflected in the organization.
Luther: Something we found interesting was that some of the most vocal voices on campus have no affiliation or interest in student government, when student government is supposed to be the one representing the students. So, by bringing those people into the fold we think we can really increase the advocacy on campus. Another position we split up was Health and Safety. Last year there was just the Secretary of Student Health. We divided it to Student Health and Safety. The secretary and undersecretary are both responsible for advocating for mental health and sexual assault, which were two huge issues on campus that we are giving enough representation to.
Rohan: The bottom line is that by adding all these new positions we are getting more specialization. There are so many problems that aren’t being addressed and cannot be possibly be addressed when you have more general roles that are dealing with a lot of different issues at once because we’re full time students. So, with this specialization, I hope they are going to have more of a presence.
Luther: And that’s not to say that the people in the previous positions were not good at their jobs. They just were faced with so many issues that was so much for one person to cover.
How much jurisdiction are you giving cabinet members compared to previous GUSA administrations?
Luther: We are giving them a lot more autonomy this year. We don’t want to micro-manage them. We want to be there stride for stride with them.
Rohan: I want to let them flourish.
Luther: We want to be the wind in their sails.
Rohan: And that’s also part of it! In order to get autonomy, we had to get the right people. And that’s why we had such extensive applications. Because, in order to follow through with our plan of not micro-managing, we had to have faith.
What are your plans to advocate for access to benefits for unrecognized student groups?
Luther: Actually, from day one, we had to allocate the budget with the issue of the Regents Cage [storage space for unaffiliated student groups]. So I feel like right off the bat we have made an important step by getting the cage through. This is something that we’re going to focus on this year.
What do you hope your relationship with the Senate will be?
Rohan: Our first meeting with the Senate was contentious because it was the budget. But, since then there has been more collaboration. Today we approved changing the bylaws that will allow for the Senate to be within our cabinet meetings. We need more coordination, cooperation and communication. The three big C’s!
Luther: We would really like to bring them into the fold as much as possible. It doesn’t make sense to have a student government to have two separate entities.
Connor: And on a lot of the same issues!
Luther: The exact same issues. So if we could increase the productivity, we increase the synergy! That’s what it boils down to.
Have you given up your prior commitments with The Georgetown Heckler and Improv?
Luther: About a week after the elections, Connor and I stepped down from our previous leadership positions at The Heckler. These have been satisfied by Craig Levites, who is the new editor-in-chief and Thomas Moakley, who is the new managing editor.
Rohan: We did not feel as though we would have the time to create the quality that people have expected for The Heckler to be. As far as Improv goes, we are still a part of that! We are not in board positions anymore, but we will still be on stage once a month.
How are you going to change the communications approach from the past GUSA approaches to make it more tailored to your personalities?
Luther: This is where we see the Minister of Fun coming in. I found it pretty easy right off the bat to get sucked into GUSA, the inner workings of student advocacy. It’s really important for us to stay true to the reason why we were elected — that we engage people in a way that’s fun, that they want to listen to. By keeping this tone constant throughout the year we really hope to change the culture of GUSA.
Rohan: In a non-pretentious way. Which is part of the problem of GUSA — nobody wants to go to something called “Campus Planning” or “Master Workshop” or something. They will come to, next Wednesday we are having a “Scream at GUSA About Stuff” event. This is going to be a general discussion where you get to scream at us about what you want.
Luther: You don’t have to scream at us. You can whisper. You can hold up signs.
Connor: Telegrams. But honestly it’s about getting back to the roots of the community, making sure we are engaging people and making sure that we do what they want us to do and not us seeing problems and going off on our own.
Luther: There’s a sign over there [points to sign in GUSA office] that says, “It’s just student government,” and it is just student government.
There hasn’t been too much of a humor component to your campus plan petition campaigning. Was there a reason that you chose to make it more serious?
Luther: We tried to create a comedic element to it but it just didn’t pan out because of timing. That’s something I was a little disappointed that we didn’t get around to during the petition period. But I would say that moving forward, we hope to continue to engage with humor.
Rohan: We, during the campaign, had a lot of time to focus. Humor takes time! If you look at our calendar, you see that we can’t be as hands on with it as we have been in the past. A lot of that is delegated into communications. But ultimately, I think that moving forward, what we learned from the campus plan petition and from the fact that the humor element wasn’t as infused in the dialogue as we wish it was, that should be one of our priorities moving forward. We should have more of a hand in the humorous side of communications.
Do you think humor has its limitations and have you faced any of those yet and do you expect to?
Rohan: We knew that going in. We can’t sit down with an administrator, trying to discuss policy goals, in a character.
Luther: We understand that it only works to an extent, if we want to get real things done this year. While I wish I could be telling jokes all day long, we recognize that this is only one element.
Rohan: It works for communications, it works for outreach, for keeping otherwise miserable meetings light. It works for everyone once in a while lightening the mood in administrative dealings. Ultimately, when it comes down to policy, there is a separation between taking things lightly and taking things seriously.
Looking towards the last few weeks of school, what are your plans for the final push?
Luther: I think what we really want, especially with this cabinet meeting tonight, is to hammer out a timeline. It’s very easy to get sucked into the, “Oh we have lots of time left this year” but we don’t. We need to make sure that when we have these initial meetings with our cabinet and staff that we have a timeline.
Can you talk a little about your leadership style?
Rohan: Joe and I have very different leadership styles. Joe is a compromiser. He is a consensus builder and I am a little more of a bull.
Luther: I like to take input, I like to hear all sides. I like to get people talking and coming to an agreement.
Rohan: I focus on the issues. I like to hammer things out.
Luther: I think we work well together.
Rohan: I think we work great together. We haven’t been annoyed with each other yet.
Luther: We’ll get there, don’t worry.
On a really grand, macro level, what are your priorities for the entire term in office?
Luther: I would say that something that specifically falls on our timeline, whether we like it or not, is Campus Planning and then there are a few other issues area on campus that because of how serious the effects are, it is very important for us to engage with them. Those are things like mental health.
Rohan: One of the things I would like to engage with more is disability. Lydia Brown, who is fantastic, is leaving. There’s such a big void and it’s something that personally touches me. I have a lot of friends who identify as people with disabilities and I see what they are going through as a result of entities that are not accommodating. Georgetown is not ADA compliant and needs to get there. That’s a component of the campus plan, but I think that that’s definitely something I personally would like to see be improved.
What are you most excited for in the future in this position?
Luther: I’m excited to be engaged with other areas of campus that I wouldn’t otherwise be engaged with. I have met so many different people, and people who have had so many different Georgetown experiences that I never knew about. Going into this I thought I totally understood what Georgetown was about. I thought I had a pretty good idea of what it meant to go to Georgetown, but now I understand that there is no such thing as the typical Georgetown experience. To be able to continue to hear about all these different Georgetown experiences this year — I’m excited about that.
Rohan: This is a crash course in Georgetown. I feel like it’s personally connecting me to the institution and to the people. It is giving me a much better view of not only how things work, but how things have functioned historically and what this university needs. It will be really interesting to see how that perception develops throughout the year.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 17, 2015 by Daniel Silbert Leave a Comment 
As refugees flee their home countries, they search for safety from persecution. But even after reaching another country, their journeys are not over.
Instead, they face an arduous process of applying for asylum after landing in their new homes, leaving their fate uncertain. In 2014, 41,920 people applied for asylum in the United States, of which only 13,253 were actually granted asylum.
Georgetown University graduate students are working to make that process easier for applicants, with student-driven clinics at both Georgetown University Medical Center and Law Center providing crucial services to assist refugees on their path to safety.
Medical students opened the Georgetown Asylum Clinic in January to provide free physical and psychological evaluations to those seeking asylum in the United States.
The student chapter is the result of a collaboration with Physicians for Human Rights, a multinational organization of health care professionals dedicated to advancing human rights. Students started their clinic from scratch, and Kelly DiLorenzo (MED ’15), Nicholas Stukel (MED ’17) and Nathan Praschan (MED ’17) serve as clinic co-directors.
“Starting a clinic is not a joke,” Stukel said. “It’s a really slow, clunky, difficult, but at the same time really enlightening and empowering process.”
The clinic provides free evaluations to asylum seekers as part of the legal process of being granted asylum. The seekers are referred to the clinic by Physicians for Human Rights, which receives the cases from lawyers for the asylum seekers. After evaluating the patient, a physician or assistant writes a medical affidavit that becomes part of the legal testimony.
Sarah Kureshi, an assistant professor in the school of medicine who works with Physicians for Human Rights and has performed many asylum evaluations, provided guidance to the students as they set up their clinic. According to Kureshi, it is the physician’s job to determine if a patient’s story matches up with medical evidence, as well as decide if the patient is in legitimate danger if they return to their home country.
“We tell our students in training it is not our job to get emotionally involved or advocate for the patient,” Kureshi said. “We’re providing a legal document that is a medical evaluation.”
Kureshi described graphic scenes of refugees she has evaluated who have been tortured both psychologically and physically, suffering from cigarette burns, beatings with metal batons, rectal trauma and mutilation.
Although Kureshi stressed that the physical and psychological evaluations are objective evaluations, their existence as official records increases the likelihood of being granted asylum.
“Your chances of getting asylum are typically 38 percent or so without a medical affidavit, and with one it goes up to about 90 percent, sometimes even a little higher,” Stukel said.
After three months of training and logistical preparation, the student-run clinic performed its first evaluation last week on an individual who fled Russia after being tortured for political activity and sexual identity. Elizabeth Pickle (MED ’18) assisted the physician in the evaluation and wrote the medical affidavit. In addition to helping the patient in their quest for asylum, Pickle said she was able to benefit from the experience as well.
“So much of medical school is getting mired in the day-to-day stress of academics and learning biochemical pathways, and you always feel like you’re just setting up for the day when you’ll somehow be able to make a difference in a patient’s life,” Pickle said. “To be able to do that as a first year and go into a room and feel like I did something that could actually change a person’s life, I think that’s one of the greatest things the network has done for me.”
A second evaluation is scheduled to take place this week, with the goal of 10 completed evaluations by the end of June.
Medical students are not the only Georgetown graduate students helping refugees seeking asylum. The Center for Applied Legal Studies at the Law Center runs a 10-credit, one-semester clinic that assigns six pairs of law students to a real asylum case.
Unlike the student-run medical clinic that is just getting on its feet, CALS is a faculty-run program that has been assisting asylum seekers since 1995.
“The clinic for the students is a transformative moment because they’re moving from being students who listen to professors in front of classrooms or engage with them in dialogue to actual lawyers who are responsible for a case,” law professor and CALS Fall Director Andrew Schoenholtz said. “It is a huge transformation that occurs because the students have the full responsibility for the clients.”
Kelly Hughes (LAW ’16), a past CALS participant, said she was profoundly impacted by her work with a Hispanic male seeking asylum in the United States, which she said exposed flaws in the asylum system.
“We allow people to get asylum if they are facing persecution based on religion, race, political affiliation or membership in a particular social group, but we don’t allow them to get asylum if they are fleeing a civil war or the gang and drug violence in Mexico and Central America,” Hughes wrote in an email. “It really struck me that we have a law that creates this distinction that’s really somewhat meaningless for the people who need protection.”
Although both law and medical students have become activists in a field that draws on both professions, they have yet to begin collaborating. Schoenholtz indicated he was previously unaware of the student-run asylum clinic, but was optimistic about their efforts.
“I’m so glad to hear that we now have at Georgetown [University Medical Center] serious student engagement in this,” Schoenholtz said.
Praschan said medical students want to eventually work with the law center’s program.
“We want to build toward collaboration with the law school,” Praschan said.
At a time when civil and ethnic conflicts around the world are still prevalent, activists at both the law center and medical center hope to institutionalize and expand the programs for refugees in the future.
“Ultimately in the future it would be really nice to be able to be a lot more proactive with connecting the refugees with different services throughout D.C. or even having our own food and clothing bank or things like that,” Stukel said. “For right now, we’ve been pretty fortunate.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 17, 2015 by Ashwin Puri Leave a Comment 
A panel of student activists reflected on their personal stories, inspirations and visions for the future of student activism in the Healey Family Student Center Monday evening.
The event, titled Pass the Torch: A Celebration of Student Activism, was the second part of the three-part Ignite the Dream: Race and Socioeconomic Class in America, an event series aimed at increasing dialogue and awareness on the topics of race, class and social inequity.
The Pass the Torch event was organized by Corey Stewart (SFS ’15), Jimmy Ramirez (COL ’15) and Bserat Ghebremicael (MSB ’17) and served both to incite dialogue among attendees as well as to inspire future leaders of student activism on Georgetown’s campus. Panelists consisted of student activists and leaders Citlalli Alvarez (COL ’15), Colleen Roberts (COL ’15), Dan Silkman (COL ’15), Esther Owolabi (COL ’15), Lydia Brown (COL ’15), Michael Le (MSB ’15) and moderator Vail Kohnert-Yount (SFS ’13).
The discussion opened with a video in support of the movement to create a Casa Latina on campus as well as a video of a spoken word performance titled “Am I Next?” conceived by LaDarius Torrey (COL ’17) and written and performed by Walter Kelly (COL ’16). The spoken word performance aimed to highlight the subjugation, racial profiling and discrimination black males continually face in modern day society.
Georgetown Scholarship Program Assistant Director Alberto Morales (COL ’12) delivered an opening statement affirming Ignite the Dream’s mission of inspiring dialogue and supporting its theme of passing the torch.
“We as seniors asked ourselves, who is going to take over and who is next,” Morales said. “That is part of why we are here tonight, to discuss how we are going to go about that and what it means.”
The event continued with discussion among the panelists, beginning with the question of how each panelist’s perception of race and socioeconomic status has changed since arriving at Georgetown.
Roberts, a Georgetown Scholarship Program Advocate and Patrick Healy Fellow, spoke about growing up attending a predominantly white school and how coming to Georgetown allowed her to realize the prevalent disparities in race and class among her fellow students.
“I always saw a difference; I always saw a disparity; I always kind of knew something was wrong,” Roberts said. “But coming to Georgetown and being an African-American studies minor really exposed me to the depth of the inequities that are ingrained in our institutions. We still are living the legacy and consequences of racism and sexism…it’s all ingrained in how we interact with each other.”
Alvarez, a Patrick Healy Fellow actively involved with Hoyas for Immigrant Rights and Undocuhoyas, expressed the difficulties that undocumented students face in higher education.
“I was very much told I was the ‘different’ Mexican, the one that is different in all of the senses,” Alvarez said. “I think you grow up believing that there was nothing wrong with that kind of marginalized racism you are around for a really long time. When I came to Georgetown, I found my racial identity.”
The panel also discussed motivations to become involved with student activism and what Georgetown’s administration could do to foster greater equality and access to benefits on campus.
Brown advocated for the creation of a disability cultural center on campus, which she has advocated for since August 2012.
“We are in a place where our university is constantly talking about innovation or designing the future, but all of the money that is going towards events, programs and initiatives that are going towards designing the future innovation really only serve to perpetuate empire and do not serve to empower the most marginalized people that are already on this campus,” Brown said.
Owolabi and Roberts both encouraged the university-wide implementation of a diversity course requirement, while Alvarez advocated for the hiring of a dedicated university employee in charge of supporting undocumented students on campus.
Silkman, chair of Students of Georgetown Inc.’s philanthropy committee, advocated for increased institutional support of access to important Georgetown traditions such as Corp Gala and the Diplomatic Ball for students who may not be able to afford the cost of such events.
Le encouraged additional collaboration between student organizations focused on social justice in order to work together to build a more equal and inclusive Georgetown community.
The event ended with a discussion on the intersectionality of student activism on campus, emphasizing how certain marginalized groups working together could affect greater change at Georgetown.
Attendee Zackary Abu-Akeel (SFS ’18) said that he appreciated the opportunity to hear the stories of upperclassman leaders of student activism and that he enjoyed the diversity of the panelists.
“The event provided an inspiring example of a wide range of activists that we have on our own campus,” Abu-Akeel said. “Each of the panelists found their own way to elevate the issue about which they were passionate to a serious and visible fight on campus, and their story sharing made it possible to relate their paths to my own.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 17, 2015 by Gaia Mattiace Leave a Comment 
Global Citizen Earth Day 2015, a free eight-hour event aimed at raising awareness for the issues of poverty and climate change, will take place on the National Mall to mark the 45th anniversary of Earth Day on Saturday.
The Global Poverty Project and Earth Day Network have partnered for the first time to organize the event, which includes an open concert on the grounds of the Washington Monument, with headliners No Doubt, Usher, My Morning Jacket, Fall Out Boy, Mary J. Blige and Train performing throughout the day.
The organizers have not released the specific times for each of the artists, but the entire event will begin at 11 a.m. and end at 7:30 p.m. Doors open at 10 a.m.
Justine Lucas, global programs director at Global Poverty Project, explained the correlation between poverty and climate change as well as why the organizations partnered for the event.
“We know you can’t end extreme poverty without addressing climate change,” Lucas wrote in an email. “As 2015 is a year when world leaders will establish the roadmap for ending extreme poverty and be negotiating on climate change and sustainability, it was the perfect opportunity for us to work together to unite citizens and drive commitments to help those living in poverty and protect the planet for years to come.”
Attiya Sayyed, communications and programs associate at Earth Day Network, also spoke about the link between these two issues.
“Those most affected by climate change are low-income or marginalized populations. The Pacific Island nation of Kiribati, for example — one of the poorest places on Earth — was the first country to declare its land uninhabitable due to sea level rise from climate change and has asked for help in evacuating its population,” Sayyed said. “Even more people will fall into poverty and food will become more scarce if we don’t stop our misuse of the planet.”
Additionally, organizers have advertised that the event coincides with the spring meeting of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank.
Lucas said another goal of the day is to bring international attention to the event and incorporate people from across both politics and business.
“We will see commitments from corporations, world leaders, policymakers and everyday citizens on stage, all committing to do their part to solve climate change and end extreme poverty,” Lucas said.
Sayyed also spoke of the event within the context of the upcoming United Nations Climate Change Conference that is scheduled to take place in Paris, France, in 2015.
“This event is a platform to build on the road to Paris. We will show leaders all over the world that citizens require a binding climate change agreement,” Sayyed said.
One of the highlights of the day will be the concert, which Lucas hopes will draw publicity to the entire day. She added that all of the performers have participated in previous Global Citizen events, such as past summer concerts in Central Park.
Sayyed said the music brings people together to appreciate the importance of the issues.
“Music can rally people together for issues. … The artists participating are also strong proponents for the issues: ending global poverty and stopping climate change,” Sayyad said. “With the talent of many influencers from all over the world, the 250,000 people expected to come out and rally on the National Mall will be inspired to take action.”
Graham Willard (SFS ’18), a member of GU Fossil Free, is a student planning on attending the event. He said he sees the event as a strong grassroots movement to show popular opinion to representatives.
“I think this will be an exciting event to show our government that there is a grassroots movement that wants to solve the problems associated with climate change now — not at some point in the future,” Willard said.
Christina Libre (COL ’17), also a GU Fossil Free member, disagreed. She said she doubted Global Citizen Earth Day will bring about real change and cited the lack of any official collaboration with members from the International Monetary Fund or World Bank in the day’s programming.
“It doesn’t actually bring any of the leaders from these organizations to its event in conjunction with its concert,” Libre said. “In fact, it doesn’t seem to be hosting any speakers or events that are actually going to be referencing the social justice movements it purports to dedicate the concert to. Nor does it seem to be raising any money for environmental or global development causes, as it is a free event. As such, I’m somewhat cynically inclined to predict that this is more of a PR move for the sponsors.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 17, 2015 by Lucy Pash Leave a Comment 
School of Nursing and Health Studies Interim Nursing Chair Edilma Yearwood was elected president of the International Society of Psychiatric-Mental Health Nurses in late March. Yearwood will serve in the president-elect role for a year to train for the position before assuming the presidency in 2016.
The previous president of the organization, Sara Horton-Deutsche, is stepping down after a year of service and will work closely with Yearwood in the upcoming transition period.
Yearwood currently serves as the division director for the society’s Association of Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Nurses, a role she has served since 2013. She was also chair of the Diversity and Equity Committee of ISPN from 2007 to 2012, during which she worked on promoting the mission of the organization.
“I love mental health,” Yearwood said. “For me, it’s pretty exciting. I like to work with people who have behavioral and psychological challenges and to better understand them and also to help them deal with some of the things they are managing and working on.”
Founded in 1999, the ISPN promotes mental health care, literacy and policy around the world through conferences, online resources, community service and partnerships. The ISPN offers education, leadership positions and networking to its members and opportunities to interact with clients, families, communities and global partners.
Members participate in research, funding, presentations and publications. The ISPN holds an annual conference for members to learn about mental health issues in different countries.
Yearwood said that as president-elect, she will focus on awareness and prevention of mental health issues.
“One of the things I really, really want to do is develop a process for mental health literacy within our work with people globally,” Yearwood said. “That to me is going to be a huge part of my work as president — how do we educate the global community more about mental health, and how do we help them focus on prevention? I’m a really strong advocate for preventing these challenges, so that’s something I’m going to be focusing on.”
Depression, anxiety and substance use are among the most common mental health issues, according to Yearwood.
“The World Health Organization is predicting, and there is lots of good data to show, that by 2030 depression is going to be one of the most significant problems globally,” Yearwood said. “Right now it might be number three, but by 2030 it will be number one. And usually depression and anxiety disorders co-exist. And I think substance use disorders are huge also.”
During Yearwood’s time at Georgetown, she created a graduate elective on child and adolescent behavioral health for family nurse practitioners and senior undergraduates. Yearwood will continue to work at Georgetown once she assumes the role of society president.
Much of Yearwood’s work as president of ISPN will happen in Washington, D.C., since the organization’s members are trying to gain more of a presence in public policy.
Yearwood’s deep involvement in nursing and children’s mental health shows in her over-30 years of experience. She has been certified by the American Nurses Credentialing Center as a clinical nurse specialist in child and adolescent psychiatric nursing. Yearwood is also a member of the American Academy of Nursing, the American Nurses Association, the Eastern Nurses Research Society and Sigma Theta Tau International. She is a member of the editorial board of the Journal of Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Nursing and also reviews manuscripts for 10 other journals. She is an editor and contributor to a 2012 childhood and adolescent behavioral nursing textbook, and she is also working on a global mental health nursing textbook scheduled to come out this fall.
Yearwood also participates in significant research on topics including minority, familial and immigrant youth mental health, cultural factors that affect mental health, the symptoms and treatment of mental health, and strategies for empowering the youth.
Yearwood was selected as a Fulbright Senior Specialist in 2007 and served in that role until 2012. Yearwood was also invited to the University of the West Indies School of Nursing’s Mona campus in Kingston, Jamaica, in 2008, where she taught mental health classes to undergraduate and graduate students and faculty, led psychiatric treatment programs, created policies on nursing students with disabilities and initiated graduate courses in child and adolescent mental health.
NHS Interim Dean Patricia Cloonan said that the NHS community admires Yearwood and is excited for her new position.
“We are thrilled for Edilma,” Cloonan wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Her election to this leadership role at the society reflects her important contributions to the field of mental health and her steadfast commitment to the success of ISPN. Organizations of local, national and international prominence in the health sector look to our faculty members for their expertise and leadership abilities, and Edilma’s election is another strong example of this.”
Fiona Hogan (NHS ‘18), one of Yearwood’s students, said that she is an inspirational and helpful professor.
“Professor Yearwood has been a great influence in my nursing education at Georgetown,” Hogan said. “She dedicates herself to our class and is always willing to give extra help if we are in need. I think she will be a perfect fit for her new position and will be a great influence on future students to come.”
Emily Bower (NHS ’17) agreed and said that she is impressed by Yearwood’s ability to simplify complex ideas for her students.
“Dr. Yearwood has been an amazing role model to me during the course of my budding nursing career,” Bower wrote in an email to The Hoya. “She is a brilliant person, and yet is still able to translate her knowledge to more rudimentary level in order to help students understand. I am lucky to have found a professor who cares so much about her students, not only as it relates to her course, but to all of a students’ courses. She is truly the epitome of the Georgetown University value of men and women for others.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 17, 2015 by Lucy Prout Leave a Comment 
Mayor Muriel Bowser launched FitDC, a citywide health initiative aiming to connect residents to local nutrition and fitness resources, at the Takoma Recreation Center on Saturday.
The FitDC initiative will build on the city’s healthy reputation, working to broaden the scope of accessibility and affordability of health services to middle class residents, while also providing more personal wellness services.
Bowser expressed optimism that the initiative will further the gains the city has made in fitness over the past few years at the launch event.
“As we build pathways to the middle class for residents in all eight wards, it is equally important that our residents are healthy and living active lifestyles,” Bowser said at the launch event. “Through this initiative, we will educate, encourage and challenge our residents to adopt healthier life choices.”
In a 2014 ranking of 50 major cities around the United States by the American Fitness Index, the D.C. metropolitan area ranked first in community health and third in personal health. Among the indicators used, 81 percent of D.C. residents had exercised in some capacity in the past 30 days, while 59 percent reported being in excellent or very good health.
Since the launch, the initiative’s immediate goal has been to build a coaching program, soliciting trainers from the community, to encourage residents to stick with their fitness and health goals.
The Department of Health and the Department of Parks and Recreation will coordinate the initiative, which is currently searching for sponsors and citizens to join its mission to bring more fitness and health options to the city’s middle-class population.
“The next step for this initiative is recruiting the FitDC Coaches, local residents who will lead the fitness challenges [and] serve as role models,” D.C. Department of Health Director LaQuandra Nesbitt, who joined Bowser at the launch, said at the event. “[They will] encourage residents to eat healthy and move more.”
Nesbitt said she believes the program will be a solid foundation for city residents to improve their exercise regiments.
“We launched FitDC because we’re committed to the idea that everyone has the ability to improve their personal health,” Nesbitt said. “[Citizens should be] provided with the knowledge and support to take control and accomplish their goals.”
Yates Field House Associate Director Charles Kennedy said that Georgetown was not contacted about joining the program.
Regardless, Kennedy noted that the Georgetown facilities would probably not be able to accommodate FitDC due to the high volume of Yates users every day, a problem Kennedy said many other D.C. facilities share. Currently, Yates sees close to 3,000 visitors a day.
“[O]ne of the problems I think [FitDC] might face is that the D.C. population is increasingly growing,” Kennedy said. “[And] the facilities to accommodate the youth, to do either outdoor recreation or indoor hasn’t really expanded.”
Kennedy added that the D.C. tax on health and fitness institutions, which went into effect in October, could be another challenge for the program to overcome, as it may inhibit those places from expanding to meet increased demand.
“I think they’re going to run into problems finding resources to support this program,” Kennedy said. “[A] lot of schools and areas don’t have what they need to take care of just their own student population.”
Alec Kingston (SFS ’18), who frequents CorePower Yoga, expressed hope for this initiative due to the high volume of workout facilities present in the city. He said that health and fitness options often come at a high price, which FitDC could help ameliorate.
“I feel that D.C. has so many options like Soulcycle, Purebarre, Washington Sports club, Core Power, Down Dog, et cetera, but unfortunately, especially for students on a budget, those options can just be too expensive,” Kingston said. “It would be nice if D.C. worked to find more reasonable options for day-to-day ways to say fit, like a YMCA.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 17, 2015 by Charlotte Allen Leave a Comment 
The Honorable Omar Abdullah, the former Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir, delivered his first address at an American university in Gaston Hall on Tuesday. Abdullah discussed his tenure as chief minister and the road forward for the troubled region in his keynote address that closed out the Kashmir Conclave, a series of panel discussions on Kashmir.
The School of Foreign Service Asian Studies Program and the Georgetown-India Dialogue hosted the conclave, which included panels on “Security Concerns,” “Politics and Identity” and “Kashmir’s Importance Today in the India-Pakistan Relationship.”
Abdullah, 44, completed his six-year term as chief minister in December 2014, and is the youngest Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir in the 67-year history of the state. He is currently a Member of the Legislative Assembly and former president of the National Conference Party.
Abdullah comes from a prominent political family; both his grandfather and father both served as chief ministers of Jammu and Kashmir.
Berkley Center director and Vice President for Global Engagement Thomas F. Banchoff introduced Abdullah.
Banchoff thanked professor Irfan Nooruddin, the Asian Studies Program, and the Georgetown-India Dialogue for their participation, and spoke about Georgetown’s role in the day of panels.
“We are an institution with strong expertise and robust networks around international issues, and as an institution we are committed to promoting greater understanding and collaboration in the service of the global common good,” Banchoff said.
Abdullah began his talk by expressing his discontent that, after seven decades of skirmishes and protests over India’s and Pakistan’s land claims of Jammu and Kashmir, there is still so much controversy surrounding the area.
“I had hoped long before this that the issue would have been put to rest and that we would be discussing a whole lot of other things with regard to India and Pakistan, but not Jammu and Kashmir,” Abdullah said.
Abdullah focused much of the first part of his talk on explaining the history of the Kashmir land controversy.
“Although it started to be described by various presidents here and other influential people as the most dangerous place in the world, I dare say that perhaps at one point in time it might have been; it certainly isn’t today,” Abdullah said.
Abdullah said that the 1947 partition—when India and Pakistan came into existence — led to a number of issues, especially because Jammu and Kashmir had a Muslim majority and a Hindu ruler.
“Because Jammu and Kashmir is a Muslim majority state, Pakistan felt that it should naturally have been a part of Pakistan, and on the other side India felt that Jammu and Kashmir symbolized what India is supposed to be about, which was a pluralistic, secular society,” Abdullah said.
Jammu and Kashmir decided to stay an independent state following the partition and was subsequently invaded by Pakistani militants whose occupation continue even today in some regions. Despite this, India only agreed to help Jammu and Kashmir if the maharaja, the ruler of India, signed an instrument of accession. This instrument of accession gave India power over the state’s currency, communication, defense and foreign affairs.
Abdullah said that the United Nations Security Council passed a resolution stating that the responsibility was on Pakistan to remove its uniformed nationals from Jammu and Kashmir. After the Pakistani nationals are removed, responsibility is on India to scale back its presence in the contested area so that the people can choose a course of governance.
Abdullah then turned his attention to the future of Jammu and Kashmir and the path to resolving the conflict. Many things have changed since 1947, according to Abdullah. Not only is the Pakistani side of Jammu and Kashmir currently a very different ethnic make-up than it was in the past, but Pakistan has also ceded some of its territory to China.
Abdullah said that because Jammu and Kashmir did not technically merge with India, it cannot be treated on par with other states in the area, and that this is a key aspect of resolving the conflict.
“Militancy in Jammu and Kashmir has had a number of very tragic facets including an almost complete exodus of the Kashmiri Pandit community from Jammu and Kashmir,” Abdullah said.
Abdullah added that democratic and government institutions have almost disappeared, human rights are being denied, and security forces operate with a sense of almost complete immunity from prosecution under the civil courts.
“A solution to Jammu and Kashmir is not going to emerge out of violence, war, or terrorism,” Abdullah said. “After 25 years of militancy and countless deaths in Jammu and Kashmir, but not an inch of territory has moved either towards the west or towards the east.
Although levels of violence in Jammu and Kashmir are almost 80 percent lower than they were in 2000, nothing has changed in terms of the laws giving immunity to security forces. Abdullah called for the establishment of a truth and reconciliation commission to investigate war crimes over the past 25 years.
Abdullah ended his talk by saying that though there are barely any families in Jammu and Kashmir not touched by violence, it is no longer the dangerous place it once was.
“Don’t look at Jammu and Kashmir as the most dangerous place in the world,” Abdullah said. “It isn’t. It certainly is one of the most beautiful places in the world.”
Attendee Gonzalo Figar, a first-year Master of Science in Foreign Service student, said that the Kashmir conflict is one of the most uncontrollable global conflicts and that the world should be involved and concerned.
“The speech was pretty comprehensive and honest on behalf of an Indian politician,” Figar said of the keynote address. “It wasn’t an impartial speech, although of course I didn’t expect it to be. It was of course balanced more towards the Indian point of view, but he did raise some concern about India’s attitude too, so all-in-all it was very interesting.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 17, 2015 by Matthew Larson Leave a Comment 
Delegate Eleanor Holmes-Norton (D-D.C.) will be hosting a panel of officials from various universities in Washington, D.C., to address the prevention of sexual assault on college campuses at American University on Thursday, April 23, but due to a time conflict with a similar Georgetown event, no university representatives will be officially attending Norton’s discussion.
The event aims to formulate and examine possible solutions to sexual assault on college campuses by gathering university student leaders and advocacy groups from a variety of institutions from around the District.
“Sexual assault is an ongoing crisis here and on our college campuses nationwide,” Norton said in a press release. “[But] this is a problem that can be solved.”
Norton confirmed the attendance of officials from American University, Howard University and the George Washington University at the event. There will be a chance for attendees to ask questions of the panelists and to submit ideas for discussion after the initial roundtable.
“Education, candid discussion, outreach and appropriate sanctions are among the tools that need to be put to work,” Norton said in the release. “We will seek the advice and recommendations of those most concerned and most involved.”
In a separate statement to The Hoya, Norton expressed a desire for students and administrators of universities around the District to attend and express their opinions in order to allow the event to be comprehensive for all college experiences.
“We hope students and advocates from every college and university in the city will join our roundtable and speak out to help all universities in the District prevent campus sexual assault,” Norton said.
Absent from those officially attending the panel are leaders from Georgetown, as the time of the roundtable conflicts with a sexual assault forum to be held on Georgetown’s campus in Copley Formal Lounge on April 23.
Hosted by the Sexual Assault Working Group, the forum will convene administrators from various offices of the university, including the Office of Student Conduct, the Division of Student Affairs and the Title IX Coordinator, on a panel to answer questions about campus sexual assault policy. The forum aims to encourage administrators to commit to specific initiatives.
Director of Media Relations Rachel Pugh noted that officials would be present at the Georgetown forum, which has been a long-standing commitment, and thus would be unable to attend Norton’s roundtable.
“Many campus leaders plan to attend this campus event,” Pugh wrote in an email. “[Students] should see some invites from student organizers soon.”
Georgetown University Student Association Deputy Director of Communications Jenna Galper (COL ’17) confirmed that because of the conflicting times, members of GUSA would not attend Norton’s event and instead they would attend the Georgetown one.
Despite the time conflict, Pugh also encouraged anyone who wanted to attend Norton’s discussion to do so. She said the most important aspect of the two events was that they provide an arena to talk about a major issue facing universities today with open and honest debate and discussion.
“Members of the Georgetown University community are invited to attend the roundtable hosted by Congresswoman Norton,” she wrote in an email. “As [University President John J.] DeGioia wrote to the community this fall, ‘At the heart of Georgetown’s mission is a commitment to serious and sustained discourse, even when topics are difficult to discuss.’”
Pugh added that Georgetown has been actively attempting to confront the issue of sexual assault by focusing on three areas: creating a culture where sexual assault is not tolerated, providing prompt resources to survivors, and responding effectively when an incident is reported.
She also said that, despite Georgetown’s peer education efforts to teach the student body about sexual assault, the forums were necessary to create a structured and institutional conversation about sexual assault.
“Effectively addressing this issue is an enduring challenge to which we are always adapting and renewing our long-standing commitment,” she wrote. “We have worked through student affairs to build on our education efforts with new programming for students.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 17, 2015 by Ashwin Puri Leave a Comment 
Students voiced a need for improved air conditioning and heating in dorms, better responses to facilities requests and updated Wi-Fi infrastructure in a recent Georgetown University Student Association residential living survey.
The survey, which was conducted from mid-February to mid-March, received 1,238 responses, or 23 percent of students living in on-campus housing. Darnall, Harbin, Henle, New South, Village A and Village C West had the highest amount of respondents with over 100 students responding from each of these dorms. There was a higher freshman respondent rate relative to the rest of the student body.
“I thought the survey was valuable as I think it is important for students and the administration to have constructive dialogue, and I thought it was an effective way to get my voice heard,” Sam Pence (SFS ’16), a survey respondent, said.
Air conditioning and heating problems were students’ top concerns in dorm rooms. Over 35 percent of respondents cited air conditioning and heating as improvement priorities. More than 30 percent of students were concerned with faulty showers in bathrooms, while TV channel variety captured 33 percent in the common room improvement category.
David Lizza (COL ’15), a former vice president of student advocacy for the InterHall Council, said that he will notify the Office of Residential Living of the problems cited by students.
“We are collecting [this data] so that in the future, we can hopefully produce a report with the findings,” Lizza said. “The Office of Residential Living and other related offices can use it as a guide to see where things need to be improved.”
Additionally, Wi-Fi access and connectivity were major issues for respondents, as more than 20 percent of students said in the survey that it was infrequent and inaccessible. However, GUSA senator Daniel Lysak (COL ’18), who helped co-design the survey, noted that responses to Wi-Fi access varied by dormitory.
“Wi-Fi success was also broken down into individual residence halls, apartments and townhouses,” Lysak said. “For example, in Reynolds, 25.6 percent of students stated that their Wi-Fi connection infrequently works. In New South, this number was much lower, only 15.5 percent.”
Around 30 percent of students felt that the responsiveness of facilities met or exceeded their expectations after submitting a work request. However, there was a stark divide between freshman dorms, whose rate was only 16 percent, and the upperclassman dorms, where 60 percent of students thought that facilities met or exceeded expectations. Lysak said this may be due to a lack of proper education of freshmen when it comes to submitting work requests.
“I know that responsiveness of work requests are a big concern for many students,” Lysak said. “[This] may cause administrators to think of new ways to articulate the work request process more clearly.”
Also included was a question on whether students would be interested in a prepaid laundry system covered for students with financial aid. Lysak and Lizza found an almost even split by respondents regarding the proposal.
Lizza said that the goal of the survey was to increase effective collaboration with administration while exploring potential new innovations to on-campus housing.
“The students working on the survey have worked with the Office of Residential Living throughout the whole process on the survey,” Lizza said. “The administrators are not ‘reacting’ or will be surprised by the data.”
Lizza said that more analysis is needed in order to garner a better sense of student ideas. He said he appreciated the strong interest the university has shown in their survey, as it has worked directly with the Subcommittee on Residential Living during the process.
“Overall, I think the survey was very successful,” Lizza said. “We received valuable student input and worked well with the Office of Residential Living in taking the results to the next steps.”
According to Lysak, the survey could be used as a template for future progress.
“This is truly what I like to call a ‘Team Georgetown’ effort,” Lysak said. “Despite the common student conception that administrators work against students, these administrators worked with us, meeting after meeting, to make this survey something that can be used as a tool to improve the lives of all Georgetown students.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

