
December 4, 2015 by Owen Eagan Leave a Comment 
The Working Group on Slavery, Memory and Reconciliation held a teach-in event focusing on Georgetown’s relationship with slavery and announcing the implementation of Freedom and Remembrance Grants and an Emancipation Symposium to address that history for an audience of around 150 people in Gaston Hall on Tuesday. The event comes in response to university-wide activism surrounding the legacy of slavery on Georgetown’s campus and demonstrations against instances of institutional racism on college campuses nationwide.
Working group chairman and history professor Fr. David Collins, S.J., led the conversation, which began with Matthew Quallen (SFS ’16) outlining the history of slavery at Georgetown. Quallen, who received a Marshall Scholarship this month to study the dehumanization of groups through history, published a Sept. 2014 viewpoint article in The Hoya that detailed Georgetown’s slaveholding past, sparking conversation and action from the Georgetown community.

“The Jesuits who supported the university held literally hundreds of people captive across generations over a century, entire families and lives passing by in slavery,” Quallen said in his lecture.
The Office of the President formed the working group this September to address the consequences of the university’s history with slavery. The event comes in conjunction with the working group’s recommendation for the interim renaming of former Mulledy and McSherry Halls to Freedom and Remembrance Halls, respectively, following student protests. The group’s recommendation was approved by University President John J. DeGioia and the university’s board of directors Nov. 14.
Associate professor of history Marcia Chatelain — who formerly taught at Brown University — and University of Virginia professor Kirt Von Daacke presented to the audience the ways in which both Brown and UVA have addressed their own histories with slavery.
Berkley Center for Religion, Peace and World Affairs faculty member and former South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission Research Director Charles Villa-Vicencio also presented lessons from reconciliation efforts following South African apartheid, citing similarities between the post-apartheid and post-slavery periods in South Africa and the United States, respectively.
Slavery at Georgetown
Quallen traced the story of slaves at Georgetown back to the 17th and 18th centuries. He described the grant of 12,000 acres of land to the Jesuits by Governor of Maryland Lord Baltimore upon their 1634 arrival in the colony.
The Jesuits utilized the grant for plantations as a source of funding; initially, Quallen said that Jesuits used indentured servants to work the land, but the availability of these servants declined in the 18th century. Soon after, the Jesuits began purchasing African slaves. By 1763, the Maryland Jesuits held approximately 200 slaves.
During his remarks, Quallen highlighted the humanity of the Jesuit-owned slaves who were held as property, telling the story of a 48-year-old woman named Fannie, whose family of 12 was most likely sold by Georgetown Jesuits in 1817.
According to Quallen, during the early 1830s, many Jesuits — including former University President Fr. William McSherry, S.J. — complained that the plantations were failing to produce profits and proposed a mass sale of slaves in order to generate greater revenue.
Fr. Thomas Mulledy, S.J., and McSherry, after receiving permission from Rome, executed the sale of 272 Jesuit-owned slaves for over $100,000 to the owners of a Louisiana plantation in 1834.
Under conditions placed on the sale from Rome, Georgetown was not to use the profits from the sales to pay down debts, such as those accrued during the university’s expansion. The families of slaves were not to be separated in the sale, and slaves were supposed to be able to receive holy ministry.
“To our knowledge all of the conditions of the sale were violated [by Georgetown] in some way or another,” Quallen said.
Concluding his remarks, Quallen explained that the working group is not yet finished investigating Georgetown’s history with slavery. Quallen — who investigated Georgetown’s slave-holding past through university archives — said there is still more work to be done.
“There is probably much more that hasn’t been explored and questions remain,” Quallen said.
Models for Progress
Brown and UVA utilized different approaches in reconciling their own relationships with slavery in the past decade.
Chatelain delved into the details of Brown’s approach in navigating its complex racial history, which includes being named after a family of merchants who financed slave voyages to Rhode Island in the 1700s.
“If I could characterize Brown University’s approach to this question, I would say that Brown played the long-game in investigating its history and really thinking about the action steps to reconciling it,” Chatelain said.
Beginning in 2003, Brown assembled a committee to investigate the university’s relationship with slavery. As a result of the committee’s work, Brown placed a memorial to the slaves of its past in the center of its campus, revised its official history to acknowledge its slave-holding past and extended a $10 million yearly grant to help Providence’s long-disadvantaged public school system, among numerous other reforms.
Chatelain explained that Brown’s actions, while successful, were not a cure-all for the university and its issues of race and slavery.
“The last point I want to make about the work that Brown did — although we consider it the gold standard of institutional responses to this history — it did not solve all of its problems,” Chatelain said.
According to von Daacke, the UVA commission to investigate its own historical ties to slavery was formed after 15 years of faculty, student, alumni and community members worked to compel UVA to acknowledge its ties to slavery. UVA founder Thomas Jefferson held hundreds of slaves during his lifetime.
Since the formation of the commission in Apr. 2013, UVA has seen developments in recent years that include several monuments and plaques honoring the slaves that once lived and worked on and near the campus. Along with other initiatives, UVA has created a class to teach students about the school’s relationship to slavery and has named a dormitory in honor of two slaves, William and Isabella Gibbons, who were enslaved by UVA professors.
Von Daacke said that cooperation between all of the different groups constituting a university community is critical to adopt reforms. He also said that the process at Georgetown would be slow, but progressive.
“[I]t’s collaboration — students, community, faculty, administrators, staff — everybody has to be brought to the table,” von Daacke said. “It takes time to gain trust and initiate meaningful dialogue. It’s going to take more than just your fleeting four years here to do this. This is something that you have to pass on to the next generation of students.”
Lessons from South Africa
Villa-Vicencio, who served as national research director on the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission from 1996 to 1998, a commission formed to address victims of human-rights violations under apartheid, reflected on his experience and offered his thoughts on memory and reconciliation in light of racial strife in South Africa and on college campuses nationwide
“Some of us just don’t have it within us to forgive the suffering and the tragedy that we may have faced,” Villa-Vicencio said. “I would like to suggest that a middle path is not forgiveness, but reconciliation.”
Villa-Vicencio added that in light of past societal tragedies, it may be best to recognize the past in order to overcome its tangible implications today.
“The past cannot be undone,” Villa-Vicencio said. “It can be acknowledged. … It can be managed, through the unlimited participation of everybody involved.”
Georgetown’s Plan of Action
The event ended with the unveiling of the working group’s newest policies, and announcing its decision to divide its 16 members into four issue-specific subsections to better formulate recommendations to the Georgetown community.
One subsection will focus on history and action concerning Georgetown’s archives. A second emphasizes Georgetown’s ties to local history in slavery, and a third works on topics of memory and memorialization. A fourth group will reflect upon reconciliation and ethics within Georgetown’s community.
These subsections have yet to convene and their recommendations will not be known until after the working group’s next meeting in mid-January.
The Working Group also introduced the Freedom and Remembrance Grants. These grants are a $10,000 initiative running until the end of the current academic year in which working group-approved students and faculty will receive amounts of up to $500 to sponsor creative engagement that promotes reflection on the issue of slavery at Georgetown.
The Working Group stressed that members of the university community interested in applying for a Freedom and Remembrance Grant, or in providing suggestions to the working group, can do so through its web page.
The working group additionally announced an Emancipation Symposium to be held April 18 and a ceremony commemorating the interim renaming of Freedom and Remembrance Halls on Dec. 11. The Emancipation Symposium will serve as a space for discussion and speakers on the topic of emancipation.
Georgetown University Student Association Vice President Connor Rohan (COL ’16), who attended the event, said that events of this type strengthen the university community.
“As Georgetown students, we have an obligation to learn about the sins of Georgetown’s past and how they continue to resonate today,” Rohan wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Events like these achieve that goal and bring our community closer together as a result.”
Sitaara Ali (COL ’17), who also attended the event, said that she thinks students should be more involved in response to the issue and continue to engage in the learning process.
“I wish more students were involved and understand that Georgetown has a history of slavery,” Ali wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I think the most important thing we can do now is learn from that history.”
Other students in attendance shared similar sentiments, with many wishing to see the community further acknowledge and engage with its emerging history.
Ebony Thomas (COL ’19) said she wants the Georgetown community to know that students and activists heed the working groups recommendations about Georgetown’s history with slavery and look forward to future dialogue.
“Just know that there are people listening and paying attention and want to know what their thoughts are about how we should move forward with the university,” Thomas said.
Collins closed the event with a hopeful sentiment for solidarity in the Georgetown community.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 4, 2015 by Sarah Griffin 1 Comment 
Three Georgetown students won prestigious postgraduate scholarships in November, with Peter Prindiville (SFS ’14), Matthew Quallen (SFS ’16) and Hannah Schneider (COL ’15) winning the Mitchell, Marshall and Rhodes scholarships, respectively.
Prindiville is Georgetown’s 10th Mitchell Scholar, and Quallen is Georgetown’s 11th Marshall Scholar, the first recipients to win both awards since 2012. Schneider — one of 32 Americans to win the scholarship in 2016 — is Georgetown’s 24th Rhodes scholar and the first Georgetown award recipient since 2011.
The Marshall and Rhodes scholarships provide the opportunity for scholars to pursue postgraduate degrees in the U.K., with the Rhodes scholarship awarded specifically for study at the Oxford University.
Founded in 1998, the Mitchell Scholarship selects 12 scholars for a year of postgraduate study at an Irish university. Compared to the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships, founded in 1903 and 1953, respectively, the relatively new Mitchell Scholarship is named for Senator George Mitchell of Maine, who served as the United States special envoy to Northern Ireland and helped negotiate the Northern Ireland Peace Accords in the 1990s. The Mitchell and Marshall Scholarships both boast annual acceptance rates of fewer than 4 percent from around 300 and 950 applicants, respectively.
University President John J. DeGioia expressed the Georgetown community’s pride in Prindiville’s accomplishment.
“We are deeply proud of our alumnus Peter Prindiville on the occasion of his selection as a Mitchell Scholar. His leadership here as President of our Philodemic Society and his many accomplishments are testaments to his hard work, dedication and commitment to serving the common good,” DeGioia wrote in a statement to The Hoya.
Prindiville, who is currently teaching social studies at an under-resourced Catholic high school in Biloxi, Miss., and pursuing a master’s in education at the University of Notre Dame, will be pursuing a master’s in history at the University College Cork.
Prindiville decided to apply for the Mitchell after his research interests led him to study in Ireland.
“I’m interested in exploring how societies remember and talk about the past, and how they inculcate traumatic memories in young people to form a national identity. I’m especially excited to examine the role of schools in ongoing cultural memory-making, and the power of education to sustain or discourage understanding between peoples,” Prindiville wrote in an email to The Hoya. “In a place like Ireland, these topics are very potent.”
The Mitchell Scholarship specifically seeks candidates who use their education and talents to promote the greater public good. Director of the Office of Fellowships, Awards and Resources for Undergraduates professor John Glavin said Prindiville made a significant contribution to campus and city life while at Georgetown through serving as an Advisory Neighborhood Commisioner,
“He’s remarkable, he had a remarkable career at Georgetown. He was an ANC Commissioner, representing Burleith and representing the students. I have seen a letter of recommendation from the head of that commission saying he was the best student commissioner they’ve ever seen,” Glavin said. “He really made a difference.”
Marshall Scholar Quallen plans to pursue a master’s degree in history at the University of Manchester followed by a master’s in geography at the University of Cambridge. Quallen will focus on the marginalization of people who historically lack access to structures of power.
“What I hope to study is early industrial history in England, and specifically this very important moment when the first cities in the world, cities that we know today, are forming,” Quallen said. “So the first industrial cities — Manchester, London, Liverpool — and what happens is all these new people come to the city, and they form this new under class that never existed before. … What I am interested in specifically is the ways in which they’re dehumanized.”
Quallen has been actively involved both on and off campus during his time at Georgetown. He is a Carroll Fellow, a columnist for The Hoya, the Georgetown University Student Association historian and a member of the International Relations Club and CEO of its sister organization, the Georgetown International Relations Association. Additionally, Quallen has interned for the Supreme Court and the Brookings Institution.
Quallen also serves on the university’s Working Group on Slavery, Memory and Reconciliation where he analyzes Georgetown’s slaveholding past and lectured at a teach-in on the history of slavery at Georgetown on Tuesday.
“Though Matthew has been an extraordinary influence on the campus, as is shown by his influential position on the Working Group on Slavery, it is a mistake to think that work done at Georgetown is the only criterion for Marshall election,” Glavin said. “Matthew’s work as a student, as a researcher, as a writer, as an activist, convincingly demonstrates to objective reviewers that he is and is going to be a forceful advocate for those whom hegemonic forces marginalize and subjugate.”
Georgetown students and alumni have historically been very successful in winning the Mitchell, Marshall and Rhodes Scholarships. According to Glavin, Georgetown is one of the most represented schools for Mitchell Scholarship winners. This year, three of the 20 Mitchell finalists were Georgetown young alumni.
“We for many years were the leading school for the Mitchell. I don’t know if we still are but we probably are one of the two or three top. It’s a very prestigious fellowship which is very hard to win,” Glavin said.
Glavin also suggested early preparation as the greatest indicator of success in postgraduate fellowship awards.
“One of the great problems we have is that people appear as seniors trying to do something which they really had a good chance of doing if they had appeared as sophomores,” Glavin said. “We win these things, but they take a lot of work and the earlier you start preparing for them the better.”
The Hoya published a question-and-answer interview with Schneider today in print and online.
 
 

Hoya 16 says 
December 4, 2015 at 12:27 pm
“Founded in 2005, the Mitchell Scholarship selects 12 scholars for a year of postgraduate study at an Irish university. Compared to the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships, founded in 1903 and 1953, respectively, the relatively new Marshall Scholarship is named for Senator George Mitchell of Maine, who served as the United States special envoy to Northern Ireland and helped negotiate the Northern Ireland Peace Accords in the 1990s”
Two factual errors:
1) The Mitchell Scholarship was founded in 1998 (not 2005) and its first recipients began classes in 2000.
2) The Mitchell Scholarship, not the Marshall Scholarship, is the one that’s “relatively new” in the second sentence.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 4, 2015 by Syed Humza Moinuddin Leave a Comment 
Reproaction, a non-profit that advocates increased abortion access and reproductive justice, organized a vigil attended by H*yas for Choice for victims of the recent Planned Parenthood clinic shooting in Colorado outside the Supreme Court on Monday.
Around 25 people attended the vigil, which was Reproaction’s first official event since university alumna Erin Matson (COL ’02) founded the organization in August. Speakers included Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), representatives from National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League Pro-Choice America and Planned Parenthood.
According to H*yas for Choice member Michaela Lewis (COL ’18), who attended the vigil, the student group did not take part in planning the event but did encourage members of the university community to attend. Lewis stressed the urgent need to address the violence that hinders reproductive justice.
“The war on reproductive justice and abortion care in the United States is one that has been fought for decades, and it is devastating that it has taken such a wanton act of brutality to bring this structural violence against women to public consciousness,” Lewis wrote in an email to The Hoya. “These events have not occurred in isolation, and now more than ever we cannot talk about women’s rights without talking about gun control.”
The shooting took place at a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado Springs last Friday. Suspected gunman Robert Lewis Dear Jr. opened fire in the clinic, killing three and wounding nine others. The three victims included a police officer, an Iraq war veteran and a mother of two. Police apprehended Dear after a five-hour standoff with law enforcement.
Matson led the crowd through moments of silence for not only those killed in Colorado, but also for all abortion and reproductive-health providers who have been targeted and killed in the past. Since 1977, there have been eight murders, 17 attempted murders, 42 bombings and 186 arsons targeted at abortion clinics.
Matson emphasized Reproaction’s aim to advocate for reproductive- health rights and reduce acts of violence against abortion providers.
“It’s no secret that reproductive- health rights are under extreme attack and losing, and Reproaction is a new organization looking to increase access to abortion and advance reproductive justice,” Matson said. “We know it’s time to stop losing and start winning – we think it’s time to shake things up.”
Matson said that as soon as the news from Colorado reached her office, she knew Reproaction needed to act in solidarity and demonstrate support from the pro-choice community.
“We saw the tragedy in Colorado and were immediately sickened and filled with resolve that we needed to provide a space for people to come together and say ‘No, we’re not going to let this continue any longer,’” Matson said. “We’re here to create space for more power within the movement so we are able to end the attacks on abortion and to see reproductive justice more broadly.”
Lewis similarly highlighted the importance of addressing crimes against abortion providers by placing the issue in a broader context.
“Shootings, bombings and arson are mere examples of the violent crime that has been perpetrated against providers of safe and legal abortions just in the past few years,” Lewis wrote. “It should go without saying that these explicit crimes do not include the political measures that are being taken by legislators to shut down clinics across the United States.”
Maston argued that incendiary rhetoric contributes to the targeting of abortion clinics, highlighting the words of Dear, who reportedly said “No more baby parts” to law enforcement following his arrest.
“The climate of bullying and incendiary rhetoric must end. It has consequences and it’s been going on for far too long,” Matson said. “For too long, this country has tolerated telling women who have abortions that they are murderers and women who use birth control that they are sluts. For too long, this country has tolerated the ongoing epidemic of terrorism targeting abortion providers.”
Lewis emphasized the role violence against women plays in driving attempts to prevent the advancement of reproductive rights.
“It is in this climate that anti-choice rhetoric takes wing, telling women that we are not worthy of bodily autonomy, of controlling our own reproduction or of choice,” Lewis wrote. “It should come as no surprise that in a world where there are individuals actively working to take away women’s freedom, there are individuals willing to take the lives of those who attempt to preserve it.”
As the vigil continued, Matson asked attendees to consider the role pro-life movements may play in violence against clinics. She argued that by demonizing abortion receivers and providers, such groups fuel a climate of hate that inevitably evolves into violence.
“The pro-life movement needs to turn it down. It’s time to stop telling the one-in-three women in this country who have abortions that they are murderers,” Matson said. “This broader culture where we can just say anything as horrible as we can think of about abortion providers is dangerous.”
President of GU Right to Life Michael Khan (COL ’18) maintained that the pro-life movement does not seek to be divisive, and refuted Matson’s statement (full disclosure: Khan is a columnist for The Hoya).
“Abortion is actually on the decline in the United States … So, that’s a totally false narrative and incorrect statement. Women are increasingly choosing life,” Khan wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Concerning those who choose abortion, pro-lifers, particularly those of us at Georgetown, do not advocate demonization, but rather liberation. … The only goal our ‘rhetoric’ seeks to accomplish is to promote a culture of life, for both the born and the preborn.”
Lilly Flashner (COL ’17), a member of student group Georgetown University Right to Life, echoed Khan’s sentiments, stating that the pro-life movement advocates reconciliation on the issue, rather than violence.
“It’s frankly contrary to reason to impute the violence of lone extremists to the pro-life movement. This man acted in ways contrary to the very rationale of the pro-life position, which maintains the only true consistent defense of the protection of life,” Flashner wrote in an email to The Hoya. “An authentic pro-life view gives witness to the reality that any society that accepts serious violence to its most vulnerable subjects breeds more pervasive violence in every other aspect of society.”
The GU Right to Life board also issued a statement in response to the shooting condemning the violence.
“The pro-life position advocates peace and dialogue with those of opposing viewpoints, never violence. We condemn violence of any kind against Planned Parenthood, abortionists, or any abortion industry workers,” GU Right to Life wrote on its Facebook page. “The board members will continue to pray for the victims of this senseless act and their families; we hope that you will join us.”
Following Matson’s remarks, NARAL Field Director Mitchell Stille voiced concern for the current state of reproductive health care in the United States and the security of those seeking care.
“No one should be afraid of making their own healthcare decisions, whether it’s accompanying a friend or a loved one to a doctor, no one believes they are going to a healthcare provider and be harassed, terrorized or be killed,” Stille said. “The federal government should call these attacks exactly what they are: domestic terrorism.”
Schakowsky recalled her prior political experience and how support for abortion and the pro-choice movement has evolved.
“We are in a fight that we did not pick, but this is a fight that we will win,” Schakowsky said. “When I got to Congress over 17 years ago, we had a bipartisan pro-choice caucus and there was no shame at all. Now, I have never seen in my life such a blatant attack on women’s health and women’s reproductive rights on abortion. It has only gotten worse.”
Washington, D.C., resident Kelsey Ruewe attended the vigil and said she was concerned about the effects of violent rhetoric on clinic safety and reproductive healthcare providers in light of the shooting.
“Hateful rhetoric and false things have the potential to blow things out of proportion and be used to justify violence against people, and it’s starting to show,” Ruewe said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 4, 2015 by Ian Scoville Leave a Comment 
Hannah Schneider (COL ’15) won a Rhodes scholarship to pursue a two-year master’s of philosophy degree in music at the University of Oxford. Schneider is the 24th Rhodes scholar in Georgetown University history and one of 32 Americans selected for 2016 scholarships.
During her time at Georgetown, Schneider, 23, developed a program with Carnegie Hall to find musical talent in the North Caucasus region of Russia, served as concertmaster of the Georgetown Symphony Orchestra and served as editor-in-chief of Utraque Unum, Georgetown’s undergraduate research journal.
Schneider is currently the director of special projects for the Mariinsky Foundation of America, dedicated to fostering greater partnerships between the United States and Russia through music and theater, and serves as an assistant to Russian conductor Valery Gergiev. While at Oxford, Schneider plans to specialize in music composition.
In an interview with The Hoya, Schneider discussed the role of music in her life, her time at Georgetown and her future.
The majority of your achievements at Georgetown in your post-grad life and in winning the Rhodes Scholarship have been centered around music. Can you speak a bit about the role of music in your life and why it is important to you?
Well, first, I’m actually not sure the majority of my time at Georgetown was spent doing music. A lot of it was, but I think I spent a lot of time doing other things. Whether it was pickup soccer or editing Ultraque Unum, spending time at the Tocqueville Forum or the Christian Fellowship, I think ultimately it was a decision to pursue music. Mostly because I decided that was the best place I could have the most impact in the world.
I came to Georgetown planning to go into foreign service, focusing on U.S.-Russian foreign policy. I would say that I made the choice to go into music because I realized that music has the potential to create a cultural and societal impact that isn’t stymied by politics or political stalemates. And what I saw in current trends was stalemate after stalemate, and I wanted to do something that could break through those tendencies.
How did Georgetown shape your relationship with music?
It’s funny. I came to Georgetown determined to quit music. I came to Georgetown partly because it wasn’t known for music. I was essentially making a change. I thought that I was leaving conservatory to go and do something that I considered more useful, something not in the arts, something “practical.” I thought I would be an economics major. And then after about three months, I realized that I missed it; there is a transcendent draw to music that I just wasn’t able to satisfy anywhere else. So I would say honestly that I stuck with music in spite of the culture of Georgetown, not necessarily because of it.
I’d like to qualify that however; Georgetown did shape the way I think about music in a particular regard. Georgetown has a remarkable culture of service that is quite unusual at undergraduate institutions. So while I didn’t necessarily come thinking that I would integrate music and service, by the time I wended my way back to music, I had begun to reimagine how I might integrate whatever my life work is into greater practical societal good. Georgetown undoubtedly had a role in that.
What inspired you to begin the recording program for musicians in the North Caucusus region?
My interest began with independent research I was conducting on the region. And it got to the point where I really wanted the rubber to meet the road. I felt compelled to test my findings, and see if I could budge the needle. So I wanted to see basically: Is the talent there in this region and does it just need to be promoted? Can I find people and help them achieve their goals by serving as a bridge between promoters and musicians or between agents and musicians?
But more than that I also wanted to understand and see firsthand what music can do in essentially a very conflicted and economically and politically challenged region. And what I found was a startling and compelling draw toward music. You would expect people to turn away from the arts in times of conflict, but on the contrary, I found that music permeated life; it was a sustaining and ennobling feature in the various communities I visited.
Why did you decide to apply for the Rhodes scholarship?
A couple of reasons. First, I am trying to pursue advanced music training, so I really did want the graduate school experience. But beyond that, the Rhodes puts a great emphasis on attracting people who are committed to using their skills for the betterment of the world, and I wanted to spend two years around those people.
What moments in your Georgetown career do you remember most? What role did Georgetown play in your winning the Rhodes scholarship?
The most memorable moments center around weekends of intellectual challenge and reflection with my professors and friends — particularly on retreats — such as the Tocqueville Forum retreat in the fall of my freshman year. But office hours also played an integral role in my personal development; there are a few professors and mentors who went above and beyond to grapple with my endless questions and encourage me to wrestle with the intellectual and ethical questions that gripped me. If I had to name a few, they would be professors Fedorova and Meerson in the Russian department and professor Mitchell in the government department.
The reason this is a difficult question to answer, however, is that there isn’t a particular institutional way that Georgetown prepared me for this scholarship. The funny thing about the Rhodes is that they examine your life — your academic record, yes, but also your ethical choices and your priorities. And so if I talk about what enabled me to apply for the Rhodes, it was my friends, my teammates, the people at my church, my professors, because each of them played a role in challenging me to continue in the work that I was doing in various ways, whether that was again being a faithful friend, or continuing to ask the hard questions in scholarly research.
What do you plan to do after your time at Oxford? What does your future hold?
I’ll tell you after Oxford [laughs]. I would like to conduct an orchestra. But I’m also thinking about ways to increase access points for classical music and rethink performance models, the art form, and new ways to engage younger audiences. So that’s a broad goal, and how exactly that will manifest after Oxford, I can’t say yet.
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 4, 2015 by William Zhu 3 Comments 
The Georgetown University Student Association hosted a Hoya Roundtable on transportation Wednesday night in the Healey Family Student Center’s Great Room, where students and administrators discussed concerns on the rerouting of Georgetown University Transport Shuttles and pedestrian safety.
Vice President for Planning and Facilities Management Robin Morey and Vice President for Government Relations and Community Engagement Chris Murphy fielded questions and suggestions from around 60 students for more than an hour. Much of the conversation focused on the rerouting of all GUTS bus stops to the newly constructed turnaround in front of McDonough Arena.
Morey explained that the change in bus routes was the result of the 2010 University Campus Plan, which mandated GUTS buses use Canal Road to leave campus instead of Reservoir Road.
“We’ve got to use Canal Road for the buses in and out,” Morey said. “We can’t cause objectionable conditions to our local communities and those objectionable conditions are really a function of negotiations between all the parties involved.”
To accommodate this change, several new GUTS stops were considered — such as around Cooper Field — but ultimately rejected due to pedestrian safety concerns.
“[This] doesn’t synergize with what we want with that pedestrian student-life corridor to be on the east side of the football field,” Morey said.
In response to concerns on increased travel time caused by the change, Morey said the university has not compiled sufficient data, assuming the lack of a bus stop outside of Car Barn has had the most significant impact on travel time.
Student riders, including GUSA President Joe Luther (COL ’16), have complained of wait times of more than 30 minutes for the Dupont Circle route. GUSA responded to student concerns in early November by implementing a survey to receive student and faculty opinion on the rerouting.
“This is the part where we feel like we don’t have statistically significant data,” Morey said. “The loss of a Car Barn stop must certainly hurt and affect much of our community in terms of commute.”
Lydia Bubniak (SFS ’18), who attended the roundtable, said the GUTS bus rerouting causes Georgetown to be more isolated from the rest of D.C.
“Georgetown sells itself as being in D.C., one of the most major cities in the country, but it seems like if it is going to take almost an hour to get to anywhere to connect you to anywhere else in the city — where most nonprofits and most businesses are — we might as well be all the way in Fairfax, Va, like at [the University of Maryland],” Bubniak said.
Bubniak also criticized the Georgetown neighborhood for imposing its desires on the university.
“The university was here since the 1700s, [the neighbors] knew it when they moved in,” Bubniak said.
As a response to student complaints, Murphy said that as most students are not D.C. residents, their words carry less weight than those of the surrounding community.
“Most of you are not D.C. residents, right? Most of you don’t vote in D.C., most of you don’t pay taxes in D.C., so the campus plan regulation that the district government put place was not designed with you in mind,” Murphy said.
In an effort to convey student discontent to administrators, GUSA Secretary of Campus Planning Ari Goldstein (COL ’18) polled students about their stances on the GUTS rerouting and found that students are in near-unanimous agreement against the rerouting proposal and want more accommodations like mini-shuttles to assist those who live far from the new GUTS turnaround.
“The university invested $4 million in a turnaround that every student in this room says had a negative impact on their experience,” Goldstein said. “We would all appreciate it if the university invested in similar funds, energy, attention and effort within the next campus plan to put negotiations into solutions that improve student life.”
As the roundtable ended, the event’s dialogue shifted to the issue of pedestrian safety on campus after the GUTS bus rerouting.
Jack Welty (SFS ’16) said he supports pedestrian safety but doubts whether GUTS buses hinder pedestrian well-being on campus.
“I don’t think pedestrian-friendly is a bad thing but I have just never heard of a kid being hit by a GUTS bus,” Welty said.
Morey could not think of an instance where someone has been hit by a GUTS bus, but said the risk is still significant.
“I don’t know how many [incidences] there have been. If it is zero, that’s what I want but if it is the first one, it is too many,” Morey said.
Vice President of GUSA Connor Rohan (COL ’16) said he was pleased that students were able to effectively express their complaints to the administration during the roundtable.
“I am glad that students finally had a venue at which to voice their opinions on this very unpopular matter and I look forward to administrators presenting timely and effective solutions to the student body,” Rohan said.
Welty shared Rohan’s sentiment, but was disappointed that it took the GUTS bus rerouting to bring student attention to the university campus plan.
“We have been talking about the campus plan for a long time,” Welty said. “It is almost sad that it took an event as … sort of traumatizing to some students as moving these GUTS bus stops.”

Dizzy says 
December 6, 2015 at 10:58 pm
Here’s an idea that would ameliorate a lot of the negative impacts correctly raised by students:
“In an effort to increase ridership, Metro is proposing to create two fare passes: one targeting university students and another that could be used in its bus and rail systems. Both would help attract new riders and encourage existing riders to take more trips, Metro said. The University Pass would offer unlimited rides on Metrobus and Metrorail at discounted rates to full-time students at accredited colleges. Metro estimates it could grow its customer base and revenue by providing a product targeting the region’s estimated 225,000 students.  The agency says it has been working with American University ahead of a pilot. Under the program, Metro would issue students a semester or annual UPass with unlimited rides.”
Georgetown should follow American’s lead and get this implemented as quickly as humanly possible.
Source: https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/dr-gridlock/wp/2015/12/01/metro-has-some-ideas-to-win-riders-back/

Really? says 
December 7, 2015 at 11:27 am
“[W]e might as well be all the way in Fairfax, Va, like at [the University of Maryland],” Bubniak said.
Last time I checked, the University of Maryland is in Maryland, not VA…just saying…

Thanks! says 
December 8, 2015 at 11:32 am
Hey, thanks for your intelligent contribution to the discussion!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 4, 2015 by Patricja Okuniewska Leave a Comment 
Athletes and Advocates for Workers’ Rights and Wearable Justice held a public forum to address questions about their awareness campaign against Nike’s unethical business practices and discussed plans to meet with University President John J. DeGioia Wednesday in the Worker/Student Solidarity Magis Row townhouse.
The event drew 16 attendees – mostly student-athletes – and was attended by professor of theology Kerry Danner-McDonald.
The forum began with a discussion of the letter AAWR sent Nov. 19 to DeGioia outlining the group’s opposition to Nike’s unethical business practices and urging the university to cut ties with the corporation. The letter was received by the president’s office, but the group has not received a response.
The letter comes as a result of athlete and advocate collaboration – sparked after a lecture by anti-sweatshop activist Jim Keady – to address Georgetown’s relationship with Nike. Student-athletes posted multiple images on social media showing athletes wearing university-provided sports apparel with Nike’s logo covered.
AAWR has been in contact with other schools involved in United Students Against Sweatshops, including the University of Washington and Virginia Tech, and is attempting to follow their example of meeting with university presidents. USAS advocates for workers’ rights with students on over 150 campuses nationwide.
CEO and founder of Wearable Justice Jake Maxmin (COL ’17) said the group hopes to meet with DeGioia to start a dialogue with him on the issue.
“The idea is [to sit] down and [start] a dialogue,” Maxmin said. “Coming out and saying that we have been thinking and the Worker Rights Consortium is something very important for workers’ rights around the world, and we want to stand up and support them.”
The group also discussed the timeline of its campaign, highlighting Nike’s recent decision to no longer allow the WRC into its factories. The WRC is an organization that works to monitor international labor rights and the enforcement of the manufacturing code of conduct in the production of collegiate goods. Nike now only allows monitoring by the Fair Labor Association, which is comprised of companies and corporations, along with 208 colleges and universities nationwide. The FLA has received criticism by USAS, stating that much of its funding comes from the very organizations — such as Nike — that are inspected by the organization.
Isabelle Teare (COL ’17), a student-athlete and co-leader of the campaign, noted the importance of informing the Georgetown campus about the WRC and what it does.
“We want to talk to Georgetown and Georgetown students especially, because I don’t think people realize what the WRC is and the fact that [Georgetown pays] the WRC to try to make sure that the conditions under which things are produced are at least somewhat ethical,” Teare said.
Danner-McDonald said the WRC conveys indispensable information.
“The WRC is an important tool, as it allows for some level of transparency and accountability, and even though there is evidence that there needs to be more accountability beyond what the WRC provides, the fact that Nike has withdrawn should be a significant concern for everybody in the Georgetown community,” Danner-McDonald said.
Teare said the group hopes to focus on bringing the WRC into Nike factories, so as to not set a bad example for other companies and their monitoring policies.
“If Nike, who is a massive leader in the apparel industry and also one of the worst in terms of their labor violations, says they are not allowing people to monitor their factories anymore, that sets a precedent,” Teare said. “That starts a ripple effect and then all the progress that people have made goes away. Getting factories monitored was a big step.”
The group hopes to put an emphasis on conscious consumerism, particularly in purchasing apparel and being aware of where it is manufactured. Danner-McDonald noted the importance of increasing transparency for student-athletes.
“I think that if it is indeed accurate that many student-athletes have tried to obtain copies of their contracts and have been denied access to them, then I think that is another issue that everybody should be quite concerned about, as that is a matter of transparency and treating students with integrity,” Danner-McDonald said.
An anonymous student-athlete at the forum spoke about the importance of the movement in making Georgetown students think about what they are buying and wearing. The athletes requested anonymity, citing potential repercussions from the athletics department.
“I think that it is a really great movement to get people reflecting about what they are wearing and who made it,” the anonymous student-athlete said. “It is something that I have never thought too much about before and have already found myself thinking more deeply about my personal purchasing power … I think that the movement is very empowering.”
Another anonymous student-athlete said the forum was an effective space for an open dialogue.
“I think the forum was an awesome place to share ideas and gain different perspectives on the issue, and to just be able to freely discuss what’s going on with other people who care,” the anonymous student-athlete said. “I think that by spreading the word and making as many people aware as possible, we could all really make a difference and that is so exciting to me.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 4, 2015 by Cheryl Liu Leave a Comment 
The Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization accepted the District of Columbia’s bid to join its membership – marking the first North American territory to be represented by UNPO – on Nov. 9.
Based in Brussels, Belgium, UNPO seeks to protect and promote the rights of its 42 members, which include indigenous peoples, minorities and unrecognized or occupied territories.
According to UNPO Program Manager Johanna Green, member commonality stems from underrepresentation on a global scale.
“This is where UNPO acts as an international platform through which our members can have access to the international stage, be it the United Nations … or other international bodies,” Green said.
UNPO President Nasser Boladai said that D.C.’s application was accepted because the city meets the formal requirements of membership, including a lack of self-determination and voting representation in Congress,
Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.) currently represents the District in the House of Representatives, but lacks the right to vote.
“As people in California have the same rights, people in D.C. should have the same rights,” Boladai said. “When people pay taxes and are full citizens of a country, they should have the same rights.”
In October, D.C. Councilmember Vincent Orange (D-At Large, LAW ’88) launched a Statehood or Else campaign with the aim of garnering 1 million signatures on a petition to be delivered to President Barack Obama and Congress at the Democratic and Republican conventions in July 2016.
The District’s shadow Sen. Paul Strauss spearheaded D.C.’s membership bid by presenting the city’s case at the 20th meeting of the UNPO Presidency, the organization’s governing body, Nov. 9. Shadow senators are elected D.C. officials who lobby for full voting rights for the city in the Senate but do not hold seats in Congress. The District’s other shadow senator is Michael Brown, who supported Strauss in the bid.
Strauss said that he recognized similarities between Taiwan’s and D.C.’s lack of official representation on a diplomatic trip to Taiwan, which is also a founding UNPO member. After encountering UNPO again through his work with the Haratin, a marginalized minority group in Mauritania, Strauss said he began to research the organization.
“I saw, shockingly, every time I would read their rules and covenant, D.C. seemed to qualify,” Strauss said.
Strauss said he believes D.C.’s membership in the UNPO will help in its fight for statehood by focusing international attention on the issue.
“As we look for areas for international cooperation in these troubled times, I think this is an area in which international recognition will help advance the D.C. cause,” Strauss said. “We’re getting press in areas where D.C. voting rights doesn’t always get press.”
Boladai echoed Strauss’s optimism regarding D.C.’s acceptance into UNPO and said he feels that the relationship will be mutually beneficial.
“Creating awareness, making contact and learning from each other is what we can do together,” Boladai said.
However, Georgetown government professor Stephen J. Wayne listed several reasons why he believes D.C. statehood is not feasible, including partisan motivations.
“Basically, Republicans don’t want two more Democratic senators, states don’t want to lose any influence in the Senate and there is a general perception that it’s the United States that should control the District of Columbia because it’s the capital,” Wayne said.
While Strauss acknowledged the difficulty of achieving D.C. statehood, he is still optimistic about its prospects.
“It’s easy to be cynical about political developments, particularly this year,” Strauss said. “But you could also go back in time and find other examples of struggles for equality that were difficult to achieve … the arguments against it are primarily partisan; the arguments for it are primarily principle.”
Additionally, Strauss said there is a need for the fight for D.C. statehood to be moved to college campuses. Georgetown students are also currently in the process of forming a Georgetown University for D.C. Statehood group, which does not yet have Student Activities Commission approval but aims to hold its first general body meeting next semester.
“Students have always been at the forefront of social justice movements and civil rights movements, and this is really a civil rights issue,” Strauss said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

