
February 24, 2015 by Katherine Richardson 28 Comments 
In response to a cartoon in the Georgetown Voice, students organized a town hall discussion and demonstration in Red Square on Sunday and Monday, respectively, to augment campus-wide awareness about racism and responsible satire.
The Page 13 cartoon, published in the Voice’s Feb. 19 issue, depicts then-GUSA executive candidates Chris Wadibia (COL ’16) and Meredith Cheney (COL ’16) in a horse costume, beaten by now-GUSA president- and vice president-elect Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Connor Rohan (COL ’16) wielding two bats that read “Satire” and “Heckler.” Two bystanders at the bottom of the cartoon discuss the scene, with one saying, “Should we make them a grave?” The cartoon was met with criticism for depiction of violence against African-Americans, since Wadibia is black, as well as misogyny, as Cheney is depicted as the horse’s rear.
According to Georgetown Voice editor-in-chief Dayana Morales Gomez (SFS ’16), the cartoon was meant to criticize satire publication The Georgetown Heckler — run by Luther and Rohan — and its treatment of Wadibia and Cheney. In an article posted Feb. 18 titled “The Georgetown Heckler Endorses Joke Candidates Chris and Meredith for GUSA Executives,” the Heckler staff criticized the ticket’s minimal platform and Wadibia’s comments in the presidential debate Feb. 16.
Morales Gomez said the cartoon was redacted and removed from the Voice’s website immediately after the newsmagazine heard of the criticism.
“We don’t have a huge staff in the office every week, and most articles and drawings are coming in on production night, so mistakes slip through the cracks,” she wrote in an email. “Sometimes we forget an Oxford comma; sometimes we misattribute a quote. This week we neglected to consider all implications of Page 13’s drawing. The intent of the drawing was to criticize the Heckler, so we were not expecting a response like this. That being said, we have been receptive to the response and have since redacted the drawing. We are working to make sure a drawing like this one never again makes it to print.”
The Voice also issued a formal apology for the cartoon on its website Friday night, and Morales Gomez said that they are in the process of developing guidelines for their cartoon page.
“I think most are being receptive to our apology,” she wrote. “An apology obviously can’t take back the drawing or the hurt, but we hope that what people really believe in our apology is that we are working to do better. We don’t want this drawing to be seen as a representation of what the Voice is or what it stands for, but we are excited about where the conversation is going.”
Criticisms of the cartoon abounded on social media, leading to the creation of two events.
The first, a town hall discussion on Sunday, organized by the Black Leadership Forum, brought together over 100 students and administrators including Wadibia, Page 13 editor and cartoonist Dylan Cutler (COL ’16), current GUSA President Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) and Vice President Omika Jikaria (SFS ’15), Luther and Rohan, as well as Vice President for Mission and Ministry Fr. Kevin O’Brien, S.J. The event, originally located in the Intercultural Center, had to be relocated to St. William’s Chapel because of the large turnout.
The discussion was moderated by Innocent Obi (SFS ’16), and any student in the audience could share their thoughts and concerns about the cartoon.
Kimberly Blair (COL ’15), the organizer of the Monday demonstration, spoke at the town hall about how she connected the cartoon to police brutality occurring in the United States.
“[I dislike] the fact that someone with the political climate, with the political climate in this country right now, with police brutality against people of color, can’t see the problem with posting this not just in general, because this is violence, but also with what’s happening in our world right now,” Blair said.
Matthew Robinson (COL ’18) said he was disappointed that the cartoon was published.
“You should never forsake writing and editing material for a punch line,” Robinson said. “As a member of the Georgetown community we need to focus on intellectualism, never compromising intellectualism, never compromising journalistic integrity and never ever ever using anything that could be seen as racially separatist or even misogynist. I think these are things we need to discuss.”
Javan Robinson (MSB ’15), who opened the town hall, took a different perspective, and said that although the cartoon upset him, he believes that the cartoonist and editors may not have understood its implications.
“The great thing about Georgetown, that has shaped me to be the person that I am, is that I have been able to meet and speak with people from all over the world who have had different experiences, and I wouldn’t change that for anything,” he said. “Maybe, they didn’t know that this could be wrong, and they didn’t know the issues that could come from this, which for me is honestly hard to see because I am an African-American male,” Robinson said. “It is definitely possible that they did not see that.”
Wadibia also spoke, and said that although he does not harbor ill will regarding the content of the cartoon, he hopes that it can encourage campus-wide discussion about racism.
“I just want to say, I am by no means angry at all,” Wadibia said. “I am very sad and a little disappointed. I stand before you guys because I believe in my ideals of Georgetown. I am not a perfect individual, no one in this room is perfect.”
One student, Wadibia’s underclassman campaign manager Tim Yim (SFS ’17), asked how the cartoon passed through the editorial rounds to reach publication.
Although Morales Gomez was present at the town hall, she did not speak. Cutler, instead stood and delivered a speech, apologizing.
“I came here because I want to apologize to the community. I made a mistake, I ignored perspectives outside my own and I tried to spread my own message using imagery that was far too severe,” he said. “In doing so, I failed to look outside myself. And you know what, that’s the result of my privilege.”
Cutler said that he encourages the community to help educate him about his actions and about racism.
“I stand with you, I ask to be your ally,” Cutler said. “I don’t want to contribute to racism and I don’t want to make anyone feel afraid. It is not my intention to spread a message of hate. I want to help silence the message of hate and it is apparent that I still have a lot to learn in order to do so. So I invite you, please come up, introduce yourself to me and I invite you to teach me. I promise, I’m really not as bad as that cartoon may have led you to believe.”
A demonstration in Red Square followed on Monday. More than 100 students and faculty took part in the silent demonstration, which began at 2 p.m., standing in a circle and raising their fists for 10 minutes. Demonstrators included Luther, Tezel, Wadibia, Cheney and O’Brien.
Blair spoke to the crowd about the cartoon after the silent demonstration, encouraging community involvement in other Georgetown projects. She passed around a petition urging the university to pass a diversity course requirement and discussed standing in solidarity with Aramark workers for improved conditions as their contract with the company expires in March.
“This is what coming together looks like,” Blair said during the demonstration. “I want to stand today in solidarity with each other. … We’re trying to create unity and consciousness so that you can put yourself in somebody else’s shoes while you’re here at Georgetown.”
Demonstrator Kamli Sirjue (MSB ‘16) said that she thinks a larger discussion on race definitely needs to happen at Georgetown.
“I’m here to support Chris and Meredith because that comic was extremely disrespectful, and I think it needs to be brought to the campus’ attention,” Sirjue said. “We really need to think about racism and sexism when we’re doing these things. It’s unacceptable.”
Georgetown’s Free Speech and Expression Committee, an advisory body made of students and administrators, will discuss the cartoon in a meeting this morning in response to a complaint received last week. The committee is composed of student members selected by the GUSA executive — Sam Kleinman (COL ’16), Chandini Jha (COL ’16) and Annabelle Timsit (SFS ’17) — along with a graduate student. Administrator and faculty members include Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson, Fr. Matthew Carnes, S.J., Associate Vice President for Student Affairs Jeanne Lord, Assistant Dean for Student Engagement Erika Cohen Derr and Rev. Bryant Osvig, S.J.
The committee will release the results of its discussion, which is not open to the press or public, in a week, according to Kleinman. The group will evaluate the complaint and decide whether to refer it to a sanction or educatory body or to not take action.
“We debate the question of whether or not the complaint has merit,” Kleinman said of the committee’s process. “In other words, whether or not we believe it should be referred to a sanction or an educatory body and whether or not we as the student expression committee need to engage in further education or perhaps need to release a clarifying document about the policy or revise the policy itself.”
This particular issue may be referred to the Media Board or Office of Student Conduct, but Kleinman said since this is the first time the committee has ever reviewed a case from student media, he is unsure of what will occur.
In 2008, The Hoya published an April Fool’s issue containing racist and other inappropriate material, leading to an office sit-in by students.
The university issued punitive measures, including sanctions and increased structural oversight. It remains unclear if the Voice will be subject to official punishment.
Olson and Lord deferred comment to Cohen Derr, who said that the committee is unsettled by the cartoon but pleased to see student discussion in its wake.
“Although we were disappointed that the Voice chose to publish this cartoon, we have been encouraged by their efforts to engage in understanding issues of diversity,” Cohen Derr wrote in an email. “The extent of respectful and constructive dialogue that has resulted from this incident is a powerful learning experience and testimony to the strength of our community.”
Hoya Staff Writers Mallika Sen and Andrew Wallender contributed reporting.
Hoya Staff Writer

A Student says 
February 24, 2015 at 11:34 am
So Georgetown kids once again have to waste their time protesting utter nonsense out of a lack of anything better to do. I have no idea how a cartoon that is on Chris and Meredith’s side is racist, but then again this type of short sighted thinking and knee jerk reactions to everything with a basis in fantasy and oppression basically defined their campaign, so I’m not exactly shocked to see the ringleaders names along with other people they roped in by yelling loudly about racism. The better question raised by this is: Is there any way to depict minorities in cartoons without being racist in some way? My guess is probably not. The three students on the Free Speech Committee (fairly Orwellian there), will probably seek to appease the spoiled masses in far worse a manner than Dylan’s shameful apology did.

Hoya says 
February 24, 2015 at 1:59 pm
Much ado about nothing: this is simply more nonsense from the Chris Wadibia camp, which still naively clings to its belief that he is like Jesus.

Burr says 
February 24, 2015 at 2:20 pm
@A Student
You make a great point.  The cartoon is actually a defense of Chris and Meredith by saying they’ve been attacked enough.  That begs the question of how a cartoon in support of them can actually be construed as bigotry towards them.  
Sadly, this is like the boy who cried wolf.  When an actual event of racism occurs on campus, one wonders if it will get the attention it deserves due to all the false claims of racism by people we are reading about in this article. 
Chris talks a lot about his character.  Now’s the time to step up and show some.  Dylan Cutler was defending him and all the negative attention he had been getting.  Chris can either defend him or hang him out to dry.  
Any bets on which path he’ll choose?

transparency says 
February 24, 2015 at 3:10 pm
Funny that The Hoya doesn’t mention its own, very explicitly and intentionally racist issue that it published not long ago, and which sparked many, much more deserved protests.

Freshman says 
February 25, 2015 at 8:10 pm
They explicitly mention it in the article, read it again.

anon says 
February 24, 2015 at 3:52 pm
Violence against women and minorities is definitely not being glorified here; it is being condemned. Is no one familiar with the phrase “beating a dead horse?” Aren’t Luther and Rohan, the two white males here, the ones being mocked for their actions? Haven’t other newspapers published similar cartoons to make political points which also depicted violence against black males:
see this link to the washington post: https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/comic-riffs/wp/2014/11/28/see-some-of-the-most-striking-ferguson-cartoons-so-far/
This really seems like a case of political correctness gone bad, not racism.

hoyalum says 
February 24, 2015 at 4:34 pm
please post the cartoon so that we can evaluate this story, rather than having to rely on student journalists.

Alex says 
February 24, 2015 at 10:34 pm
Here’s the cartoon: https://i.imgur.com/LdMyMtK.png
For context, Chris and Meredith’s campaign theme and slogan were “#Dignity” and “Dig it.”

hoyalum says 
February 24, 2015 at 5:25 pm
oops… please strike “student” on previous comment… didn’t mean to disparage.

Alum says 
February 24, 2015 at 8:37 pm
“In 2008, The Hoya published an April Fool’s issue containing racist and other inappropriate material, leading to an office sit-in by students.”
Bad journalism. This should read, “In 2008, The Hoya published an April Fool’s issue containing material SOME CONSTRUED AS RACIST AND INAPPROPRIATE, leading to an office sit-in by students.” You cannot state as objective truth that the material was racist and inappropriate, because there are many people who do not feel that it was.
Also, this Voice controversy is even stupider than the April Fools’ controversy.

Sigh says 
February 25, 2015 at 12:07 am
So apparently “beating a dead horse” is racist when there is a black person is involved. If the person in the horse costume was white, it wouldn’t be racist, right? God I am so confused. I feel bad for the cartoonist. 
Additionally, Meredith would have been depicted as the rear of the horse because she was the VP candidate, not because she is a female. Get your act together people!

SFS '05 says 
February 25, 2015 at 12:03 pm
“Additionally, Meredith would have been depicted as the rear of the horse because she was the VP candidate, not because she is a female.”
Yeah, the rationale for why the cartoon was sexist was by far the best part of all this.  If they were reversed in the horse, no doubt it would be racist for putting the black man in the back, and also sexist for implying that women are bossy.

anon says 
February 25, 2015 at 12:53 pm
@Burr
I agree these “controversies” are turning into the boy who cried wolf. You have one side that will say anything is offensive just to be politically correct/sensitive. But then there is the other side that will reflexively defend any action, even when that action really is offensive. 
Both sides need to take a reasoned approach in order to actually meet each other to discuss/advance the cause of equality. In this instance, that means people need to acknowledge the cartoon is not offensive by objective standards.

Burr says 
February 26, 2015 at 3:14 pm
You make a good point.  Whether you lean left or right, you need to call out actual instances of racism.  And whether you lean left or right, you need to acknowledge that sometimes what some hustlers are calling racist or sexist is not either of these things, but has more to do with the personal issues of the accuser, not to mention gaining a little money and attention for one’s favored cause.
One thought did occur to me in all this . . . perhaps there are really very few to no instances of actual racism and sexism occurring on the GU campus.  On the face of it the idea seems outlandish, but consider how many stories of alleged racism (or sexism) end up being like this one: fake or overblown.  It’s like there aren’t enough actual cases of real racism to talk about, so we have to gin up fake controversies.  
I wonder, too, whether it’s all part of a concerted campaign to foist the diversity requirement on the student body. Every speaker at the town hall meeting seemed to comment on it.  The Hoya wrote an editorial about it.  If I were of a conspiratorial frame of mind and thought the Voice and the activists were smart enough, I might even think the whole cartoon was drawn up to create this controversy.   (For the record, I don’t.)
I mentioned in the comments section of the Hoya editorial that each year certain professors in certain academic departments and programs try and find some easily brainwashable students to lead the diversity requirement effort for them.  After all, there is a lot to be gained by certain professors on campus to have a new mandatory course in their specialty taught to every student.  More money, more power, more chance to hire your friends, more attention devoted to you, and the opportunity to foist your ideology upon every student on campus.  
As I said, though, this will never happen.  The faculty, even those that lean left, know that the proponents of such an idea and who will benefit most are professional victims and activists, rather than serious scholars, and the requirement will make the university look bad b/c the substance of a diversity requirement course is likely to be nothing more than an attempt at ideological brainwashing.  
Think of the lawsuits too when some student who rejects the propaganda and says so in class and gets a vengeful “F” for not being politically correct.  Furthermore, such courses would draw more resources away from departments and programs that really matter and which actually develop the critical-thinking, writing, and other skills of students.  Hell, event those professors who would support the idea are likely to oppose it because it will draw more resources away from them.  Academic politics are zero sum game and professors at GU will have no problem, metaphorically speaking, stabbing each other in the back or stomping on one another if they need to. 
No, GU ill never have a diversity requirement, which I guess means that the campus is condemned to occasional outbursts of indignation over fake instances of racism, sexism, or whatever identity group wants something and is willing to yell loud about it.

Alum 2 says 
February 25, 2015 at 4:30 pm
This reflects terribly on the University, and not for the reasons the protestors think it does. In fact, they are the ones who make me embarassed for Georgetown. This guy drew the cartoon because of his “privilege”? What “privilege” is it that allows some people to claim victimization every time they see, hear, or encounter something that they don’t like even the slightest bit? And now this cartoonist’s name is going to permanently be associated with racism and misogyny because a bunch of bored teenagers decided to get all whipped up over nothing. Awful.

Burr says 
February 26, 2015 at 3:20 pm
Great point.  Some employer (they all do, even at Taco Bell), will Google his name and learn about this event.  Either they’ll think he was racist (even though he isn’t), or they’ll think he easily caves and lacks the courage of his convictions, which is another way of saying weak and a hiring risk.  His post-graduation job options have just been drastically reduced.  But, he said in his tearful apology that he is “privileged,” I guess his parents have funds to help him out.

Ben Saunders says 
February 25, 2015 at 5:52 pm
Dear all,
As someone who agrees that a protest solely on a somewhat tasteless cartoon is somewhat excessive (for evidence of that position, you can look at my public comment saying as much on the event’s Facebook page here https://www.facebook.com/events/363576737159272), the above comments lead me to believe a few points should be clarified:
1) We live in a country that in its immediate history has experienced issues of racially related violence so intensely that we’ve had to have the question of whether or not black lives matter asked sincerely. The intended salient identities in the depiction were of Joe-Connor and Chris-Meredith as GUSA candidates, but the secondary identity of Chris as black and Joe/Connor as white still exists, and therefore the cartoon was triggering for many member of the black community on campus. This wasn’t an intentional act by the authors (although many offended individuals wrongly assumed that this had been done in full awareness of the implications), and occurred as a somewhat careless mistake, you could even say the cartoonist was unlucky that Chris happens to be black and you’d arguably be in your right to say so.
2) The problem is that this reaction wasn’t just to this cartoon; it’s a reaction to the fact that greater offenses of a similar nature have occurred in the past with nothing changing, which is true both of the Georgetown community by itself and the nation as a whole. The title “Cartoon Sparks Ire, Dialogue” should read “Cartoon Sparks Remembrance of Similar Racially Insensitive Matters in Georgetown’s History and Therefore a Strong Feeling of Need for Making Something of This Recent Occurrence, Dialogue” (understandably that’s probably a bit too wordy). I’ll be the first to say that a potentially politically incorrect cartoon is not the best or most likely rally point for a movement, but it’s anger at the cartoon but general anger at race issues that have continued to have gone unaddressed at Georgetown that’s being expressed through the forum of this recent event.
3) I’d like to think that most people can accept without argument the claim that diversity (pertaining to race, ability, religion, and numerous other facets of identity) is a sorely under addressed issue. For those who contend that this isn’t the case and Georgetown has achieved a post-racial society, for evidence look to the lack of minority students in student government, the tacit segregation between student organizations, and the general unwillingness/inability of many Georgetown students to interact with students of different backgrounds due to discomfort, fear, or being simply unknowledgeable. Again, this is a pretty scant/vague list, but happy to talk more at length in other forums (i.e. Facebook messages) about specifics. The concerns for diversity aren’t imagined because there’s nothing else for us to do, but because the problems genuinely do exist. 
Diversity has and continues to be an extremely salient issue yet ignored on most points at Georgetown, and it’s important that we move to achieve comprehensive change rather than superficial change that involves only those who are already well-versed in diversity.
For this last reason, I want to encourage everyone to look more at the value of this recent movement for diversity (i.e. last campaign for georgetown, #thiswayfoward) rather than the immediate instigator associated with the movement (i.e. a cartoon with unintended implications). The cartoon by itself may not deserve this much attention, but the issues pertaining to race and diversity on campus the cartoon reminded many of do.

Sigh says 
February 26, 2015 at 3:20 pm
So every time violence is depicted toward a black person, it is a “trigger”? So every movie that has violence depicted toward a black person (let me tell you–there’s a lot of them) are offensive? Regardless of the circumstance? Regardless of the fact that it had nothing to do with their race? You pretty much summed up the ridiculousness of these claims in your last sentence, when you said “Chris happened to be black.” That is exactly our point. The cartoon was not drawn because Chris was black, but rather in spite of it. A real post-racial society is one in which a cartoonist can depict a black person in the same way they would a white person and not be labeled a racist.

Publius says 
February 25, 2015 at 8:49 pm
Collegiate academia is so very, very sad.  Look at the damage it does to entire generations of children.    How did it turn into a cauldron of divisive politics and phony outrage?  Is that why one goes to college these days?  To get a degree in that?

@transparency says 
February 25, 2015 at 11:43 pm
First of all, the article does mention it. I guess you didn’t read that far before jumping to conclusions. Second of all, it was neither explicitly nor intentionally racist, and was another overblown, manufactured “controversy” like this one.

Really? says 
February 26, 2015 at 2:29 am
“Responsible satire?” Why not call it what it is, “suppression of free speech?” 
How fitting these bandwagoneers are protesting in a place called Red Square. Bet they were all hashtagging JeSuisCharlie just a few weeks ago, too.

Alum 2 says 
February 26, 2015 at 8:56 am
@Ben Saunders,
Some of us would disagree that “we’ve had to have the question of whether or not black lives matter asked sincerely.” I don’t think there’s anyone who would say that black lives don’t matter, and I think the over-the-top rhetoric of “Black Lives Matter” is a strategic attempt to convert a smaller, but very important, issue (“How do we improve law enforcement’s ability assess and appropriately react to African American men in cases where the man poses little or no threat to anyone?”) into some grander statement about whether white people value the lives of other human beings. (Short answer: we do.)
I also remember the “tacit segregation between student organizations” when I was at Georgetown. And there was one reason for it: most students of color chose not to join the larger campus-wide organizations, and most white students have no place in the Black Students Association or other group dedicated to racial minorities. That’s it. 
If you want to see segregation in student organizations change, then encourage students of color to get out there and participate in whatever activities interest them. Or recognize that they simply don’t want to be a part of those groups*, and accept that the “tacit segregation” is the result of free choice on the part of students of color, not the result of some grand, unspoken, racist conspiracy (or “bias” or “privilege,” or whatever other buzz term is trending on campus these days) on the part of white students. 
*To be clear, there’s nothing wrong with students of color (or any other students) saying “Eh, I don’t want to write for The Hoya” or “I don’t want to do NSO.” That’s their prerogative. But they can’t make that decision and then also point the finger at The Hoya and NSO for lack of diversity. What should white students be doing? Personally begging disinterested students of color to join? Forcing them? Shutting down clubs until they meet a racial quota? Clearly, students of color know that the student groups exist because they’re complaining about being underrepresented in those groups. So what more—other than letting people know the group exists and how to join it—is there to do? (If it’s not obvious, I will disagree with any answer other than “It’s not white students’ responsibility to do anything else. It’s on students of color to engage, or not engage, on campus to whatever degree they want.”)

Burr says 
February 27, 2015 at 12:14 am
Excellent comment.  The fact is that many of those complaining about the lack of representation don’t bother to join, or encourage others to join, the organizations they claim are at fault.  In fact, some actively encourage them to not participate in organizations that don’t cater to their particular identity, or “mainstream” student organizations like GUSA or The Hoya.
And there is a very simple reason why:  it’s easier to complain about it than work for it.  
Also, our society encourages playing the victim.  
The sad fact is that even though GU is one of the safest, most welcoming places in the world for minorities, we select minority students who are likely to be hostile to that fact and who will create events that make it seem like GU is hostile to non-whites.  The results are events like this, where left-wing students like Dylan Cutler are shamed, hung out to dry, and have their post-graduation employment opportunities ruined.  
As someone who leans right, I’m laughing all night because of it.  Liberals eating their own.  Hilarious.  What a wonderful thing to wake up to.

Glen Jones says 
February 26, 2015 at 2:27 pm
Ironic that the cleverest and most purposeful bit of humor was produced in criticism of Georgetown’s alleged satire magazine.

anon says 
February 27, 2015 at 5:10 pm
Also the level of irony that Wadibia was originally criticized during his GUSA campaign for being “homophobic,” and for presenting a campus sexual assault plan that would make campus “unsafe for victims,” in the latter case in an editorial that appeared in this very paper.

Chip Sviokla says 
February 26, 2015 at 3:45 pm
For those feigning outrage over this non-event; shame on you for trying to bully others into silence in a free society. For those of you actually outraged over this completely non-offensive cartoon; you are colossally unprepared for life in the real world. The next few years are going to sting quite a bit when you realize what a juvenile and artificial cocoon you have been living in.
Let’s be clear about something. There is no right to not be offended, no matter how hysterically low your bar to offense is. Nor should there be in a free society. Ever. And the title of this piece needs correcting; there is no dialogue resulting from these manufactured rages against pretended offense by spoiled children who are attempting to cower their opponents with threats of being virtually tarred and feathered.

Ed says 
March 9, 2015 at 11:21 am
FYI, April Fool’s Day controversy was 2009.
[…] and a town hall meeting. The Voice’s top editor and the student cartoonist have both apologized and the image has been removed from the newsmagazine’s website. The cartoonist: “I […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 24, 2015 by Charlotte Allen 1 Comment 
With recent lawsuits filed against universities for inadequate resources for students with disabilities, Georgetown’s policies could leave the university vulnerable to a similar lawsuit, though administrators asserted that the university was compliant with federal disabilities legislation.
Two federal class action lawsuits, which were filed Feb. 12 by the National Association of the Deaf and four deaf and hard-of-hearing students in the U.S. District Court in Massachusetts, separately accused Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology of violating both the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Rehabilitation Act. According to the suit, the universities did not appropriately caption online educational resources, including “massive open online courses,” and thousands of video and audio tracks available to the general public.
Civil Rights Education and Enforcement Center Executive Director Timothy Fox, a lawyer for the plaintiffs in both cases, outlined the allegations on the center’s website, criticizing the universities for making the content unintelligible to deaf and hard-of-hearing students.
“Federal law prohibits MIT and Harvard from denying individuals with disabilities the benefits of their programs and services, including those provided to the public on the Internet,” Fox wrote.
Andrew Phillips, the policy counsel for the National Association for the Deaf, explained that the organization was rebuffed when it had previously approached the universities about the issue.
“The National Association of the Deaf seeks to change inaccessible systems through a variety of means including dialogue,” Phillips wrote in an email. “When we approached Harvard and MIT in an effort to convince them to caption their videos, our requests for access were denied. Consequently, we are pursuing litigation to achieve equal access.”
Georgetown University Director of Media Relations Rachel Pugh maintained that the university’s Academic Resource Center ensured the captioning of online content to maintain consistency with the Americans with Disabilities Act. All of Georgetown’s courses currently on EdX are captioned and have text-accessible transcripts available for download.
“The Academic Resource Center has explained to administrators of online programs that captioning is necessary in line with Section 508. The provision of classroom aids depends upon the student’s disability and requested accommodation,” Pugh wrote in an email.
However, Georgetown University Student Association Undersecretary of Disability Affairs Lydia Brown (COL ’15) said that the inequality of access provided to students with disabilities is widespread beyond closed captioning, citing unreported cases and expressing doubt that universities are particularly accommodating.
“Too often, intimidation and fear of retaliation keeps disabled students from filing formal complaints or lawsuits against their universities for access failures and disability discrimination,” Brown wrote in an email. “The impact of such fear is only heightened at more elite and prestigious schools. Yet it is critical to hold our institutions of higher learning accountable for their deliberate indifference and hostile environments for students with disabilities.”
Brown added examples of concerning disability issues at Georgetown.
“[There are] deaf students denied access to ASL interpretation, blind students denied access to Braille materials, students with psychiatric disabilities/mental illnesses coerced into leaving the university and students in wheelchairs functionally prevented from accessing numerous spaces on campus even after recent renovations or new construction post-ADA,” Brown wrote.
Brown said she believes the MIT and Harvard lawsuits may generally apply to Georgetown, and it should take note of these events.
“Our administration should take this as a wake-up call — if we don’t get our act together and meaningfully address the complaints of disabled students suffering from campus-wide hostility, ignorance and indifference, we might be next,” she wrote. “I have … learned of many incidents that could potentially become the basis of lawsuits if the wronged students were so inclined to pursue them.”
Pugh addressed the university’s general compliance with the ADA through the ARC, noting that the response to disability issues would have to involve the entire community.
“Georgetown University is compliant with the ADA,” Pugh wrote. “The Academic Resource Center works with students to ensure accessibility and inclusion to academics and campus life. … To achieve accessibility and inclusion, the entire university community must work together to address disability issues.”
While the ARC is tasked with the specific responsibility of implementing academic and housing accommodations for students with disabilities, Georgetown’s Office of Compliance and Ethics, the General Counsel and the Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity and Affirmative Action all have responsibilities to ensure the university’s compliance with relevant federal law on disability access.
The university’s policies for students with disabilities to request certain accommodations are outlined in the academic support section of the Georgetown University website, which notes that students with disabilities may submit documentation of a disability for approval to the ARC. Additionally, students are required to meet with professors at the start of each semester if they qualify for any academic accommodations.
On top of academic accommodations, the Office of Student Affairs announced an agreement with GUSA Feb. 10 to fund disability accommodations at campus events, allowing greater access to student activities for students with disabilities, which had been a burden for both the students and the student groups.
An added problem for students with disabilities this year has been the ongoing construction on campus, which Pugh said that the administration has worked to address.
“With the current construction issues, students have voiced their concerns to the Academic Resource Center, which initiated a conversation with the Office of Planning and Facilities Management to ensure that students’ concerns are addressed,” Pugh wrote.
Regarding the future of disability issues in educational institutions, Phillips added that universities should take extra care as they expand, particularly regarding online offerings.
“More and more colleges and universities are providing education and education material online, and it is important that these online materials are equally accessible to deaf and hard of hearing people just like they are required to for physical classes,” Phillips wrote. “As colleges transition to serve a broader market, we need to make sure they include deaf and hard of hearing people along the way.
 
Correction: An original article stated that Lydia Brown (COL ’15)  works at the Academic Resource Center. She does not, in fact, work at the center.

Caroline Jackson says 
February 25, 2015 at 10:18 am
I am one of the attorneys representing NAD on this case (I work with Andrew Phillips).
I have a correction for this article: the four plaintiffs are not students. They are members of the public seeking access to what Harvard/MIT make available to all the other members of the public. 
Otherwise, thank you for publishing such a well considered piece!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 24, 2015 by Emily Tu 1 Comment 
The Latino Leadership Forum is advocating for the creation of Casa Latina, a permanent space in the style of Black House that would function as a safe space for Georgetown students, alumni and allies.
The LLF is composed of various Latino student groups, including the Latin American Student Association, GU Riqueza Dominicana, the GU Mexican Student Association, Movimiento Estudiantil Chicano de Aztlan, PorColombia and Reventon Latino.
The Latino House would serve to increase community ties, institutional support and visibility among communities of color, according to LLF facilitator Naomi Fierro (COL ’15).
“What we’re hoping is that Casa Latina will be a safe space to celebrate and honor our culture, not only through cultural celebrations, but also by hosting meetings and events,” Fierro said. “It would be a place to just unwind, to be with other students who come from a shared experience. I think it would be very powerful in terms of an informal space that the classroom can’t necessarily provide.”
In a survey distributed by the LLF to gauge student support for Casa Latina, the LLF stated that a permanent house would offer a variety of programming to meet the needs of Latino students, alumni and allies, including events on Latino Identity, Intersectionality, Immigration, Study Breaks, Cultural Celebrations and Race, Ethnicity and Class.
The survey has already received over 300 responses, with the majority of students expressing support for the initiative, according to Fierro.
In the past, temporary Latino residences such as La Casita and El Hogar del Poder Latino were available on Magis Row, an independent, self-designed living learning community for juniors and seniors, which is administered through the university housing system.
Currently, the Latino community shares space in the Black House, which was founded in 1972 after 10 students petitioned then-University President Fr. Robert Henle, S.J., for a space of support and congregation for students of color. Each year, a rigorous application process conducted by the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access selects five students to live in the house, and the students then host events throughout the year. Associate Dean of Students in the Division of Student Affairs Dennis Williams, who works closely with the CMEA, said that the center “has no position on the issue” of a Casa Latina at this time.
Sharing the space between the Latino and black communities for events has recently resulted in a lack of adequate resources. Last semester, the Black House saw record-high attendance at programming events, with 931 students using the space, according to Black House Resident Director and LLF member Nancy Hinojos (SFS ’15).
Fierro emphasized the need for a separate Latino residence in the face of this high demand.
“We realized that the resources were being spread quite thin among the communities of color,” Fierro said. “Alongside that, we felt that there is a need for us to be recognized as an important and valuable identity that can be different from the Black House community.”
Hinojos said that Casa Latina, if established as a permanent residence, would look to the Black House as a model and partner.
“Ideally, the Latino House would be next door to the Black House,” Hinojos said. “This would create the opportunity for collaboration within the community and help us dive more deeply into the issues that affect students of color at Georgetown.”
GU Riqueza Dominicana Co-President and LLF member Ediana Then (COL ’15) emphasized the potential benefits of creating a Latino House, drawing on her experiences as a past committee member of Hoya Saxa Weekend, which gives admitted underrepresented students of color a chance to experience Georgetown.
“I’ve been participating for many years in Hoya Saxa weekend, and potential students have asked if we have a place here where Latino students can congregate,” Then said. “When I came here as a prospective student, that’s what really sold me on the school — that at that point we did have a Latino residence on Magis Row. That really cemented my decision, and I thought that this would be a place I could really feel at home.”
The LLF proposed the idea of creating Casa Latina at the annual Black House Dinner hosted by University President John J. DeGioia on Feb. 18, and the group is currently finalizing an official proposal that will likely be presented to the Office of the President after spring break, according to Hinojos.
The LLF will launch a campaign soon to mobilize student support for the initiative, and the group hosted a town hall on Feb. 17 to further ascertain student enthusiasm.
“All the students we have spoken to have responded very positively; everyone really wants this house to happen,” Then said. “At the town hall, some ideas were suggested on how to run the campaign to help promote this to the administration, such as reaching out to the [Georgetown Scholarship Program], the Women’s Center and the LGBTQ Resource Center. It would create a grassroots situation where everybody would be involved.”
They cited other universities with established Latino residences, including Columbia University’s Casa Hispánica, the University of Pennsylvania’s La Casa Latina and Yale University’s La Casa Cultural.
Fierro stressed that the LLF aims to move as quickly as possible on the project.
“As a senior, and speaking for the majority of seniors on the Forum, we want to see something tangible in place before we leave,” Fierro said. “It would be excellent to have a house next year. It’s definitely something that I wish I had as a Georgetown student during my time here — and I can only hope to leave that legacy for incoming Hoyas.”
Correction: This article previously stated that 10 students petitioned Fr. Timothy Healy, S.J., for the creation of the Black House in 1972. Healy did not arrive until 1976: the students petitioned Fr. Robert Henle, S.J., who was the university president in 1972.

Fact Check says 
February 24, 2015 at 10:46 am
Correction needed on the quote which reads: “Currently, the Latino community shares space in the Black House, which was founded in 1972 after 10 students petitioned then-University President Timothy Healy for a space of support and congregation for students of color.”
Healy arrived in 1976.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 24, 2015 by Toby Hung Leave a Comment 
Peace Corps Director Carrie Hessler-Radelet delivered a speech on the role of the Peace Corps in the future of international development in the Intercultural Center on Monday.
The speech was followed by interactive discussion with attendees moderated by School of Foreign Service Associate Dean Emily Zenick, who served as a Peace Corps volunteer in Thailand.
SFS Interim Dean James Reardon-Anderson introduced Hessler-Radelet by listing her extensive background serving as a Peace Corps volunteer.
Reardon-Anderson also noted the attendance of many former, accepted and prospective Peace Corps volunteers, which included students and faculty, at the event, as he encouraged students to take part in the Peace Corps’ operations.
“We hope that many of you will follow in that tradition and choose to join the Peace Corps, which is a really wonderful and very American enterprise and one of our great contributions to the world,” Reardon-Anderson said.
Hessler-Radelet began her discussion by first thanking the Peace Corps volunteers present at the event for their service.
“Because of you, we have people who call Americans friends from the farthest corners of our globe,” Hessler-Radelet said. “In this fractured world, that is such an important thing.”
With over 7,500 volunteers in 67 different countries working in six sectors including education and economic development, the Peace Corps places its volunteers in communities for two years to promote both skills development and cross-cultural understanding.
“Our mission is no less than world peace and friendship,” Hessler-Radelet said. “We have three goals: to help the people of interested countries meet their needs for training men to meet their goals, to promote a better understanding of Americans on the part of people served, and to promote a better understanding on the country and the people served on the part of Americans.”
Hessler-Radelet then pointed out a series of global issues in the future that may pose problems to the Peace Corps’ goal of international development, including unexpected disease outbreaks, overpopulation and terrorism.
However, Hessler-Radelet said that the role of the Peace Corps will become more important in light of these trends.
“I believe the Peace Corps will not only be relevant [in the future], but even more important in this increasingly diverse and interconnected world,” Hessler-Radelet said. “Peace Corps’ place in coming decades will depend on our ability to discern what the future holds and to become adaptable, resilient and stay true to our mission.”
Hessler-Radelet stressed the importance of tackling these issues through a bottom-up approach in order to directly help communities adapt to them.
“In order to address the next development problem, wherever it comes from … we will need to help vulnerable communities develop an approach to adaptation that manages uncertainty and fosters resilience. That has to be at the community level,” Hessler-Radelet said.
As an example, Hessler-Radelet cited the Peace Corps’ “Stomping Out Malaria in Africa” initiative from 2011, which used community-based approaches to significantly decrease malaria mortality rates in sub-Saharan Africa.
Hessler-Radelet then shifted the discussion to the use of technology in achieving development goals for rural communities.
“As we move forward, it’s really a priority to make sure that technology and innovation are woven through all of our work,” Hessler-Radelet said. “Our communities need to become digitally literate so that they can access the tools and services that they need that will help them develop.”
As a final point on the future of development, Hessler-Radelet emphasized the Peace Corps’ goal in establishing relationships with its beneficiaries to help them discover their potential.
“The beauty of the Peace Corps service is that most of us work with young people … [who] grow up to be leaders in their countries,” Hessler-Radelet said. “The greatest tragedy in the world is not poverty … [but] the lack of dignity, opportunity and hope. Peace Corps volunteers nurture the leaders of tomorrow. … Peace Corps volunteers identify potential.”
Paola Capo (SFS ’17) said that she enjoyed the event as an opportunity for former, accepted and prospective Peace Corps volunteers to come together.
“I really enjoyed the event, especially because I’ve had Peace Corps in mind for some time now,” Capo said. “Just seeing all the former Peace Corps volunteers as well as those who have recently been accepted to the Peace Corps come together for this event was heartwarming.”
However, Capo said that the speech did not suggest any concrete courses of action for the Peace Corps to achieve its goals.
“I wish she would have expanded a bit more on specific measures the Peace Corps will take as problems arise, instead of just saying that they would adjust when the problems come along,” Capo said. “However, I think the attitude is a good one, and it will be exciting to see what reforms continue to occur in order to improve the service the Peace Corps provides.”
Andrew O’Brien (MSB ’18) said that the speech shed light on the impact of the Peace Corps in shaping the United States’ diplomatic relations with other nations.
“I never realized the scope and influence of the Peace Corps in the international community, and what a role the organization plays in shaping foreign opinion of the United States,” O’Brien said. “The fact that 12 African presidents have attributed a large part of their success to Peace Corps volunteers says a lot about the lasting impact that just a few committed volunteers can have on foreign politics.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 24, 2015 by Kshithij Shrinath 3 Comments 
The Georgetown University Student Association senate voted unanimously Sunday to certify the results of Thursday’s executive election, officially confirming Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Connor Rohan (COL ’16) as the next president and vice president of the association.
“Connor and I are honored to serve in our roles this year and excited to serve the student body. We thank the senate for the certification and look forward to working with them,” Luther said.
“But we’re really peeved that we still haven’t heard from the Stewards. When are they going to confirm us, huh?” Rohan said.
Luther and Rohan won the election with 54.1 percent of the vote in the fourth and final round of voting, after campaigning on a satirical platform that criticized GUSA for being out of touch with the student population. With the lack of concrete, feasible platform tenets, sources close to senators had speculated in the run-up to the election that the body might choose to not confirm the results should the ticket win, but those worries proved to be unfounded.
Vice Speaker Abbey McNaughton (COL ’16), who finished second in the presidential election, introduced the motion to certify the results. The motion passed unanimously. McNaughton will assume the role of chief of staff for the executive.
Senate Speaker Tyler Bridge (COL ’17) noted the unorthodoxy of the new executive but said that certifying the results was not in doubt.
“While it is obvious that the victory of the Luther-Rohan ticket was a shock to many in the GUSA establishment, I believe that democracy has odd ways of making government work,” Speaker Tyler Bridge (COL ’17) wrote in an email. “As it should have done, the senate unanimously certified the election results.”
Former vice presidential candidates Meredith Cheney (COL ’16) and Reno Varghese (SFS ’16) were among the senators voting to approve certification. Current GUSA President Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15), Vice President Omika Jikaria (SFS ’15) and Luther observed the meeting.
While Bridge expressed his enthusiasm for working with Luther and Rohan, he said that their relative inexperience could allow a stronger role for the senate in campus leadership.
“This election, though unorthodox and once unimaginable, represents a distinct opportunity to begin a new chapter in student government,” Bridge wrote. “While it remains to be seen how the Luther administration will respond, this election places the senate in a unique position to lead. As the officially recognized voice of the student body, the senate, I believe, will be both ready and willing to step up to the plate, helping to fill a leadership role that we have previously shirked.”
Prior to the vote to certify the results, Election Commissioner Pavan Rajgopal (SFS ’14) gave the senate a brief overview of the election process, saying that the election ran relatively smoothly.
“Overall, we had a pretty successful executive election. It was definitely contentious at times, and got heated and personal; we obviously don’t like to see that,” Rajgopal said. “In terms of actual rule violations, though, there were only a couple reports. … We had a minor issue with study-abroad voting because our eligibility lists didn’t include those students but we were able to cross-check the lists with people who voted via email, and that process worked itself out.”
Rajgopal said that Luther and Rohan’s victory gave them a clear directive from the student body to lead.
“The election went fairly well. It’s great to see people energized about GUSA again,” Rajgopal said. “Joe and Connor, you guys have a huge mandate, and I’m sure that you’ll do great things.”
Hoya Staff Writer Katherine Richardson contributed reporting.

Bravo says 
February 24, 2015 at 1:06 pm
Class act (and smart) on Luther-Rohan’s part making the runner up Abbey McNaughton their Chief of Staff. Great decision.

Huzzah says 
February 25, 2015 at 11:28 am
Three cheers for Luther-Rohan if they decide to disband the senate via referendum as part of the next by-election. That should take care of Mr. Bridge’s bizarrely imperious attitude towards the newly elected President and VP.

Huzzah says 
February 25, 2015 at 11:28 am
Three cheers for Luther-Rohan if they decide to disband the senate via referendum as part of the next by-election. That should take care of Mr. Bridge’s bizarrely imperious attitude towards the newly elected President and VP (and by extension the entire student body).
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 24, 2015 by Patricja Okuniewska 1 Comment 
Applications for Teach for America, a prominent post-graduate opportunity that places students in disadvantaged school districts, dropped nationally for the second year in a row after criticisms of the agency, though Georgetown University alumni are still well-represented in the organization.
Application totals have declined by around 10 percent compared to the same time last year. According to The New York Times, the organization anticipates its teacher corps to decline by approximately 25 percent this year, leading to the closure of two of its eight summer training sites in Los Angeles and New York City.
Teach for America is a nonprofit organization that enlists college graduates to teach in low-income communities in the United States for at least two years as a means of decreasing educational inequality by providing more teachers in weak school districts. Prior to the past two years, the program had become a popular post-graduate option for college seniors but is facing declining interest because of external factors, including an improved economy and possible dissatisfaction with the program.
Cawley Career Education Center Executive Director Mike Schaub noted that because of its relationship with community service, Teach for America has always been a popular option for Georgetown students after graduation.
“Teach for America provides our students with an opportunity to continue their commitment to service upon leaving the Hilltop. Graduates who work with Teach for America develop a unique skill set that is valuable to their careers,” Schaub said.
Schaub explained that despite the program’s popularity, the time commitment of Teach for America could deter students from joining.
“Some college students would rather not make the two-year commitment that is required of Teach for America members,” Schaub said.
Kyla McClure (COL ’14), who graduated in December and who plans on joining Teach for America in 2016 to teach high school math in the Rio Grande Valley in Texas, also hypothesized that the declining interest could be indicative of a negative perspective toward teaching as a profession.
“I think it is primarily due to factors outside of the organization, namely a decreased interest in the teaching profession in general,” McClure said. “Teaching has received a large amount of media attention lately for the changes that are being made, including high stakes testing environments and in some counties large numbers of teacher layoffs. The message that this may be sending is that teaching is no longer a very stable career to enter.”
According to McClure, one of the main draws of TFA is its promise of a stable job. However, with an improving economy, students could also have more opportunities in other professions with higher starting salaries.
“As the economy strengthens and more opportunities open for graduates in finance, business and other sectors, the draws of a guaranteed job with TFA or another teaching program decreases,” McClure said.
April-Michelle Thomas (COL ’15), an incoming 2015 Corps Member placed in Newark, N.J., to teach English as a second language for K-12 and general education for K-6, agreed that salary plays a large role in deterring many graduates from the organization, but added that people may be having ideological doubts about the program, which has recently drawn social and economic criticisms.
“[There have been criticisms] such as the extremely short training window before being placed alone in a high-need classroom in an under-resourced school,” Thomas said.
She added that students could feel like they are taking away positions from more experienced teachers.
“They believe that they are taking valuable teaching positions from veteran teachers who can better serve some of the nation’s most underserved students,” Thomas said.
According to The Washington Post, an internal survey conducted by TFA revealed that criticisms of the program were a factor for 70 percent of potential applicants who ultimately decide not to apply.
Despite the criticisms, Thomas claims that Georgetown’s Jesuit tradition encourages Georgetown students to continue to turn to Teach for America as a viable option.
“I believe that Georgetown’s identity as a Jesuit institution and the values it upholds really encourages students to want to do work like TFA after graduation,” Thomas said. “I think that a large number of Georgetown students are more aware of what TFA actually is, more educated about the realities of the communities TFA works with and are overall relatively well-positioned to see past some of the criticisms of TFA to the heart of the work that the TFA strives to accomplish.”
Accordingly, Schaub said that graduating seniors at Georgetown continue to turn to service programs in nonprofit organizations, including TFA, as viable post-graduate options.
“Teach for America, Peace Corps, Jesuit Volunteer Corps, KIPP D.C. and other organizations focus on service to those who live in underserved communities,” Schaub said. “Graduates who enter these organizations develop skills such as working with diverse groups of individuals and adapting quickly to new situations that are useful in any career field.”
McClure distinguished Teach for America from the other service organizations because of the relationship it builds with its volunteers after they complete their two-year term.
“I think it is easy to conflate TFA and the Peace Corps and put them in the same general category of post-undergraduate experience, but they have very different visions,” she said. “TFA offers you the opportunity to become a lifelong educator, and invites you to stay in the movement for education equity even after you decide your teaching experience is over.”
[…] on the decline and fewer and fewer people are applying to alternative certification programs like Teach For America as well. Why would intelligent/capable people want to pursue a profession where over half the people […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 24, 2015 by Anna Riley Leave a Comment 
Gilda Gallardo (COL ’17) was a junior in high school when her family was torn apart. After constant worry about Immigration and Customs Enforcement home raids, her mother was deported to Tijuana, Mexico.
Three years later, Gallardo is an undocumented sophomore at Georgetown and a member of a new group called UndocuHoyas, which has brought her close to other students with similar stories.
Students founded UndocuHoyas this fall after identifying a lack of support at the level they wanted and needed on campus.
The group, which has no formal leadership as it is non-hierarchical, consists of around 10 involved student members, along with faculty and staff advocates and mentors.
“The group started meeting solely because everyone wanted to be around other undocumented students,” Citlalli Álvarez (COL ’15), one of the group’s founders, said. “It’s a working group. It started as people just getting together at my house.”
Alvarez is originally from Mexico, and currently works as a research assistant in the department of anthropology, researching immigration policy, specifically related to child migrants. She also serves as the president of Hoyas for Immigrant Rights.
Álvarez said that the group serves as a support system for undocumented students who face a unique set of challenges at college.
“There are specific issues that we face that no one is really aware of, so we kind of have to deal with it on our own,” Álvarez said. “New studies show that undocumented students are 30 percent more likely to be depressed in college because of the things that we’re dealing with, like worrying about if our families are safe. Georgetown goes on about cura personalis and caring for the whole person, but at CAPS, no one knows how to talk to undocumented students about their specific issues.”
UndocuHoyas meets about once every week, and 10 or more people usually attend gatherings. During the meetings, members discuss their specific needs on campus and plan ways to make changes.
Gallardo said that although each undocumented student has different needs, there are several changes that can be made that will help all of them.
“We’ve all been touched by specific things,” Gallardo said. “In general, I think we can all agree that there needs to be more change at an administrative level, which is why we’ve all grouped together.”
The group is advocating for a number of issues on campus, and is working with administrators to formulate solutions. Gallardo said that in the short run, the group wants to create a resource page on the website for the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access for prospective and current undocumented students, as well as alumni.
Álvarez said Georgetown needs a full-time staff member that has background knowledge and gets paid to know how to work with undocumented students. Currently, CMEA Assistant Director of Academic and Student Support Services Cinthya Salazar works closely with the group even though that is not part of her specific job description.
“Cinthya helps us just because she’s really great, but it’s not her job,” Álvarez said. “She’s already the director of a program, which takes a lot of effort. We really want someone to be hired, like a full-time staff member to work with undocumented students.”
Álvarez said that she is frustrated because the group wants more access to the administration, where large-scale change occurs.
“A lot of times we’ll direct questions at administrators, and they’ll send those questions to Cinthya,” Álvarez said. “It’s frustrating because we see her all the time; she comes to our meetings; she’s very engaged with us. We want to be in communication with other people who are higher up and making decisions. Cinthya’s done everything she can to help us, but the conversation needs to move beyond that.”
One of the other main concerns of the group is the study abroad requirement for undocumented students who want to major in a language.
“Students can’t major in a language here unless they study abroad. They can waive it, but you have to go to the department and explain your story,” Gallardo said. “But it shouldn’t be like that because it’s an emotionally draining experience to always have to go through bureaucracy to get that.”
Another pressing concern for the group is the fact that Georgetown’s website does not include information for undocumented students. Although the university does accept undocumented students, the website does not currently include a clause that tells undocumented students that they are permitted to apply. Álvarez said that many students do not know that their citizenship status does not affect admission.
“A lot of undocumented students are looking for that statement to make sure they are able to apply,” Álvarez said. “A lot of them are qualified and would get into Georgetown, but there’s no way right now for them to know that they can get in.”
Last semester, the group met with administrators from the Office of Undergraduate Admissions, who promised to add language to the Georgetown website that would state that the university will consider applicants “regardless of citizenship status,” a clause that has not been previously included. The language has yet to be added to the Georgetown website.
Office of Undergraduate Admissions Senior Associate Director Jaime Briseño worked with the group to draft a statement of intent to change the language of Georgetown website. According to Briseño, the clause will be added to the university’s website once it is accepted by the university counsel. He did not comment on why the counsel has yet to clear the statement.
“Whatever we post on our website would need to be cleared by the university counsel’s office to ensure it is consistent with university wide policies,” Briseño said. “It has been submitted to them for review, as we need to ensure that whatever is on our website is run through appropriate channels.”
Briseño also helped take the social security number section out of the application because UndocuHoyas explained that some undocumented students shy away from applying to Georgetown when they see a request for a social security number.
“We could see how some potential students might see the Social Security number request on the application and might be hesitant, so we removed that completely,” Briseño said.
The group has also led a few “teach-ins” with different university staff members and the Division of Student Affairs to better inform them about undocumented students.
“The staff here is completely clueless about undocumented students,” Álvarez said. “They don’t know that we’re here or how to support us. The Division of Student Affairs hasn’t had training on how to talk to undocumented students or how to provide resources for them. We broke it down and told them what we’re facing in the admission process with financial aid, the career center and academics.”
Gallardo said she envisions a future for Georgetown with increased on-campus support for undocumented students.
“My big dream, my big vision, for Georgetown would be to have a resource center for undocumented students and students from mixed-status families,” Gallardo said. “Georgetown, as a Jesuit institution, is looked at as a leader, and so it needs to step up its game.”
Álvarez said that she wants to see the university take action.
“Georgetown has said that, as a Jesuit institution, they support undocumented students,” Álvarez said. “Now, it’s at the point where they have to live out that commitment.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 24, 2015 by Deirdre Collins Leave a Comment 
United States Agency for International Development administrator Dr. Rajiv Shah has been appointed as a distinguished fellow for Georgetown’s School of Foreign Service. Shah will join the SFS faculty March 1 and will reinforce the university’s commitment to global economic development, working with SFS Global Human Development program director Steven Radelet.
Shah deferred comment on his new position until he arrives on campus in March, and SFS Interim Dean James Reardon-Anderson and Associate Dean Mitch Kaneda deferred comment until they begin work with Shah in the upcoming months.
Shah led President Barack Obama’s global hunger and food security initiative, Feed the Future and Power Africa, which has worked with over 7 million small-scale farmers in 19 countries to reduce poverty and malnutrition. Feed the Future has improved the nutrition of 12 million children and continues to sustainably reduce poverty and hunger around the world.
Shah also pushed America’s global health partnerships to join UNICEF and put an end to preventable child deaths in countries like Ethiopia and India. The program has helped the number of children under age five who die each year to drop from 12 million in 1990 to 7 million in 2011. Shah also directed the U.S. government’s responses to urgent humanitarian crises like the 2010 Haiti earthquake and the recent Ebola outbreak.
Before working at USAID, Shah worked in the U.S. Department of Agriculture as undersecretary and chief scientist. Shah created the National Institute for Food and Agriculture, an agency within the U.S. Department of Agriculture. NIFA aims to advance agricultural research, education and extension to address societal concerns in the United States.
Georgetown University President John J. DeGioia said in a statement on the university website that Georgetown students and faculty will benefit from Shah’s experience at USAID.
“Through innovative technology and engagement with diverse corporate and community sectors, Rajiv Shah’s leadership at USAID has worked to solve some of the world’s most pressing challenges,” DeGioia said. “Our students and university community will greatly benefit from his experience in international development and humanitarian responses.”
Radelet, who Shah will be working with at the SFS, worked as chief economist for USAID before joining the SFS faculty in 2012. Radelet commended Shah’s work and leadership abilities.
“Raj Shah is one of the most creative and energetic development leaders in the world today,” Radelet said in a statement on the university website. “He has led USAID through some of the biggest changes in its history and leaves the agency much stronger than when he arrived five years ago. We are thrilled that he has joined us at Georgetown.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 24, 2015 by Kshithij Shrinath Leave a Comment 
Barry Freundel, an Orthodox Jewish rabbi in the Georgetown neighborhood who also taught at Georgetown University Law Center until last year, pleaded guilty to 52 counts of misdemeanor voyeurism Thursday and will face sentencing in May.
Freundel, 62, was arrested Oct. 14 for placing recording devices at the women’s private baths at National Capital Mikvah, which is adjacent to the Kesher Israel Orthodox synagogue in Georgetown where Freundel served as rabbi.
The initial investigation, which charged Freundel with six counts of voyeurism, prompted more victims to come forward. According to The Times of Israel, prosecutors unearthed more videos in Freundel’s possession, in which the rabbi observed a total of 152 women. Due to statutes of limitations and difficulty identifying the people in the videos, Freundel was charged with only 52 counts of voyeurism.
“Bernard Freundel exploited his position of power to victimize dozens of women who entered a sacred, intimate space of religious ritual,” U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia Ronald Machen said in a press release. “He betrayed the trust of every woman whose private moments he caught on camera along with an entire community that counted on him for moral leadership.”
Each count carries a maximum sentence of one year of incarceration, a $2,500 fine, or both, which could set Freundel’s final sentence at 52 years. The U.S. Attorney’s office will seek a heavy sentence at the hearing May 15.
“We hope that this guilty plea will allow each of his victims to move forward and heal. We will be seeking a prison sentence that reflects the gravity of this disturbing assault on the privacy and dignity of so many victims,” Machen said.
In addition to his position as a rabbi in the Georgetown neighborhood, Freundel was an adjunct professor at Georgetown University Law Center, where he had taught a course on Jewish law since the early 1990s. He last co-taught a seminar in the spring of 2014.
An unnamed third-year law student, who said the rabbi lured her to the private baths, filed a lawsuit against the university in December for hiring the rabbi without a sufficient background check. The lawsuit is pending.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 24, 2015 by Matthew Larson Leave a Comment 
Mayor Muriel Bowser recently announced a $5 million expansion of the Marion S. Barry Summer Youth Employment Program that would enlarge the age group of those eligible and provide an increase in pay to city youth.
The program, which promises jobs to interested D.C. youth, was started by former mayor Marion Barry in 1979 in order to increase opportunities for youth, particularly those in poorer neighborhoods, to earn money, develop skills needed in the job market and gain experience by working with professionals. After Barry’s death in November, Bowser named the program in his honor.
The program, which previously allowed only 14- to 21-year olds to participate, will be expanded by Bowser to include unemployed 22- to 24-year olds.
The expansion is intended to relieve the potential trouble that young adults have finding a job when first starting out in the labor market, which is particularly an issue in D.C. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the city’s seasonally adjusted unemployment rate in December 2014 was 7.3 percent for adults, the highest rate in the country; the national unemployment rate is 5.6 percent.
“Frequently and more frequently, we’re talking about that young person who is 22- to 24-years old that continues to need our help,” Bowser said at a Feb. 10 news conference. “My administration is committed to investing in our young people.”
In addition to the age expansion, a new pay scale will come into effect for different age groups.
Previously, all 14- to 21-year olds made $7.25 per hour. Now, only the 14- and 15-year olds employed in the program will continue to receive $7.25 per hour, while the 16- to 21-year olds will make an hourly wage of $8.25. The 22- to 24-year olds will be eligible to make between $9 to $10 an hour, depending on the city’s budgetary outlook. The exact wage has yet to be determined.
The wage for youth in the program will be lower than the D.C. minimum wage, which is currently $9.50 and will increase by a dollar to $10.50 per hour on July 1.
Bowser said in the news conference that while the wage was important, the program’s real goal is to create a strong, skilled workforce native to the District.
“We [need to] make sure we’re making it a program that provides robust experience and allows young people to build a resume,” Bowser said. “[We need] sustainable jobs right here in Washington, D.C.”
Recent reports from the Fiscal Policy Institute and Office of the Chief Financial Officer have highlighted the stark inequality in the District, noting that the wage gap is at a 35-year high and that, compared to the 50 states, D.C. had the highest index of income inequality. Bowser explained that the expansion and the subsequent job training, especially for underprivileged youth, will do more to help D.C.’s economy and reduce inequality than other measures might.
According to Bowser, all job training programs will be examined over the course of the year and have their budgets adjusted based on their trainees’ success.
“Our issue is that we spend a lot of money in D.C. on training,” she said. “We have to get a handle on where all of the money is going.”
Georgetown University has participated in the Summer Youth Employment Program since the early days of the program and will continue to do so, according to Brenda Atkinson-Willoughby, the director of Partnerships and Community Engagement at the Office of Community Engagement.
“We welcome the opportunity to partner with the city’s SYEP,” Atkinson-Willoughby wrote in an email. “[We’ll] provide employment opportunities to a wider group of youth and young adults this year.”
As part of the program, Georgetown provides positions at the Biology Department, Department of Human Resources, University Information Services, McDonough School of Business, School of Nursing and Health Studies and Georgetown University Law Center.
Assistant Director of Community Engagement Jamie Scott added that the number of jobs Georgetown provides each year varies depending on the amount of positions available and the pool of applicants.
“Last year Georgetown hired five students, and in 2013 we hired 10,” he wrote. “We’ve hired as many as 12 students in prior years.”
Since applications opened on Jan. 30, over 14,000 youth have applied to the program, which will run for six weeks from June 29 to Aug. 7.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 24, 2015 by Emma Rizk Leave a Comment 
Georgetown’s Improv Association hosted the 19th annual Improv Fest in Bulldog Alley this weekend. Both nights were sold out and featured teams from George Washington, George Mason, University of Maryland College Park, Ohio State University, SUNY Binghamton and Columbia College.
Georgetown Improv team’s Co-director Emlyn Crenshaw (COL ’15) initiated the planning for the event last semester by inviting different schools to campus over email. After she received responses from interested schools, Crenshaw, who planned Improv Fest last year, finalized logistics. She helped the groups set up on-campus housing for out-of-town teams and coordinated the arrival of teams before the show.
“I’ve learned that no matter how hard you can work planning something for a bunch of improv people, chances are it will go awry in some way,” Crenshaw said. “So as long as you have the general logistics worked out, I have learned to trust it’s going to be fine, everyone will have fun.”
The money from ticket sales for all of the improv shows throughout the year goes into a fund for the Performing Arts Advisory Council (PAAC). Each year all the PAAC groups submit budgets, and that money is then divided up among the various groups based on those budgets, but Crenshaw said she does not believe the improv group receives enough funding.
Due to the low cost of running an improv troupe, Georgetown’s Improv Association does not receive as high of an allocation of money as they would prefer, which would allow them to travel to perform at more shows and host more workshops on campus. The team hosts several workshops throughout the year where they bring in professionals, usually alumni from Georgetown’s team, to work on specific aspects of improv.
“We’ve sold out every show this year, so we make a lot of money, but we don’t end up seeing that,” Crenshaw said.
According to Crenshaw, the team could also use more money to grow the Improv Fest here on campus by hiring professional improv troupes for workshops.
“I think for events like this the more people the better … one of the most unfortunate things about Improv Fest is ideally it would be four times as big, but we’re just too small of a school and we have too small of a budget,” Crenshaw said.
John Ross, vice president of “8th Floor Improv,” the improv team from Ohio State University, praised Improv Fest for hosting such talented and competent teams.
“We’re a well-traveled team …and Georgetown Improv Fest is really high quality in terms of what teams they bring in. Every team we saw this weekend had a grasp on what they were doing,” Ross said.
John Wambach, one of the creative director’s on “The Bureau,” University of Maryland College Park’s team, echoed Ross, highlighting Improv Fest’s impressive range of groups at the fest this year.
“We always love going out to Georgetown … they bring in such a variety of groups from all over the country. It’s probably the largest range of groups in one festival that we go to,” Wambach said.
The audience also lauded the performance’s diversity of improv troupes showcased.
“I really enjoyed the fact that other school’s improv troupes were involved. I think it added a really nice layer to the show to help the audience see all different styles of improv because every troupe had a very different way they interacted with each other, and very different senses of humor too. It was really enjoyable to see the variety in improv,” Emma Piliponis (COL ’18), a show attendee, said.
Gabe Bolio (SFS ’18), a freshman who joined the team in the fall semester, was one of 60 students who auditioned this year for the team. Bolio said the team has begun to rise in prominence on campus recently.
“I think the comedic performing arts at Georgetown is on the rise, the improv team has been around for decades but now it’s starting to have its mark on campus,” Bolio said.
This growing presence of comedy on campus is exemplified by this season’s historic elections results that named the satirical team Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Connor Rohan (COL ’16) GUSA president and vice president. Crenshaw, who worked on Luther and Rohan’s Youtopia campaign, said that she has also seen a notable change in prevalence of comedy on campus in her four years. This is the first year the team has sold out every show this far.
“As time has gone forward we’ve connected with more people … I feel like people are starting to try [improv] out a little bit more and it doesn’t feel as insulated and that’s so much fun,” Crenshaw said. “I’m so proud of the trajectory I’ve seen in the past four years … at this point, this year especially, we have become a team that is so forward thinking and so into growing comedy and growing our exposure and trying out weird new things, just because we can.”
Looking forward the team hopes to keep growing and influencing life on campus. Team member Caitlin Cleary (COL’16) also stressed this growing influence of improv on campus.
“Now that we have a lot more cultural influence on campus, how are we going to use that to get people’s attention, but without sacrificing being funny and a little subversive?” Cleary said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 24, 2015 by Alicia Che Leave a Comment 
In early February, Georgetown launched a new website to strengthen its Threat Assessment Program, which has been serving the university since 2012. Through the added new feature of a website, the university seeks to reach out to more students and ensure that it is using the best tools available to maintain campus safety.
The program’s newly launched website, threatassessment.georgetown.edu, contains information on the program and provides comprehensive instructions on how students and individuals can utilize the program to address dangerous situations and prevent harm.
Georgetown’s first Threat Assessment Program was initiated in 2012, following a new national standard for hazard planning for higher education adopted by the American National Standards Institute that strongly recommends that every U.S. college and university have a threat assessment team or program. Threat assessment, also known as behavioral threat assessment or threat management, is widely considered to be the most effective practice for preventing intentional violence on campus.
Before 2012, there was not one overarching body that tracked students and individuals who could pose a potential danger or threat to other people in the community.
“I think it made good sense that the university went from what was called Safety Net, which was a group of people who tried to monitor and track these students, to one centralized body with one person leading a group with overarching responsibility for working with people whose behavior has raised some concern and understanding what’s going on with them,” Department of Public Safety Chief of Police Jay Gruber said in a question-and-answer session on Georgetown’s website.
The Threat Assessment Program consists of several trained threat assessment teams that serve the Main Campus, the Medical Center and School of Medicine, the Law Center, the School of Continuing Studies and SFS-Qatar. All team members have been trained in behavioral threat assessment and follow best practice procedures for dealing with uncertain situations. Each team consists of representatives from multiple offices on campus, and the program operates through close collaboration among these offices.
“There’s the university’s department of public safety, student conduct, university counsel and student affairs – which includes Counseling and Psychiatric Services,” Gruber said. “It’s great to have constituents from different groups help identify possible threats on campus. A student affairs case manager can track cases well and take their expertise and bring it to the table and engage with students who may need help or pose some kind of threat.”
Director of Threat Assessment in the Office of Public Affairs Marisa Randazzo explained the rationale behind the creation of the new website.
“We created the website to help people understand what threat assessment is and to encourage them to report threats and other concerning behavior to the program,” Randazzo said. “It is also to answer some questions that people may have about what happens when they pass along a concern about a student, friend or colleague that they’re worried about.”
Randazzo also believes that Georgetown University students are an essential part of the university’s Threat Assessment Program, and they play a significant role in making sure that the Threat Assessment Program can fully achieve its effect.
“Students may be the first to become aware of threatening or dangerous behavior,” she said. “The earlier that the Threat Assessment Team hears about threatening or dangerous behavior, the sooner we can help to evaluate the situation and determine the best way to reduce risk and maintain safety.”
Randazzo encourages any student who becomes aware of threatening or potentially dangerous behavior to contact the Threat Assessment Program at [email protected], or any office that is involved in the program, such as Student Conduct, Residence Life, or the Georgetown University Police Department, who would then alert the Threat Assessment Program.
Katie Schmidt (SFS ’18) believes that the Threat Assessment Policy will help raise awareness on campus about safety issues.
“I think it’s important that we know how to react and who to alert when we are unsure so that we can pre-empt a situation before it actually happens,” Schmidt said. “The Threat Assessment Program, including the new website, would definitely help in that aspect.”
Jordan Smith (NHS ’17) said that she was not aware of the program before and hopes that the new website will increase student awareness of Georgetown’s risk assessment and management.
“I think it sounds like a really good program, it’s something we should have in place for people that feel unsafe or feel like their life is being threatened,” Smith said. “I think it’s something that needs more publicity so people know that there this is resource available if they are feeling threatened.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 24, 2015 by Gaia Mattiace Leave a Comment 
At first glance, Georgetown’s Red House, nestled a stone’s throw from Lauinger Library on 37th Street, seems like just another town house. But inside, a mix of students, professors, faculty and administrators are rethinking the world of higher education.
The Red House opened in June as a central gathering location for the Designing the Future(s) Initiative, a program that the university launched in November 2013 with the goal of improving university education. The initiative aims to engage students in complex problem-solving of today’s global issues and discussion about the future of education and curriculum. The 25 student representatives in the Red House, who were selected as the Board of Regents Future(s) Fellows in a competitive application process, work in collaboration with university administrators at the house.
Vice Provost for Education and professor of English Randall Bass said that the Red House emerged as an ideal space to house the new initiative.
“It really evolved a little bit by accident in that, at the end of the spring, after we came out with the pump priming ideas, we knew we wanted to start incubating projects. We just needed a space where that design work could go on in its own space,” Bass said.
The initiative will challenge the traditional staples of university education, such as the four-year bachelor’s degree or the format of the college transcript, and consider alternative formats such as four-year master’s degree programs.
A major goal of the initiative is to unite the university community in looking at the challenges that higher education currently faces and how Georgetown can improve its courses and programs through experimentation with innovative ideas.
The idea for the Red House originated in summer 2013 when Provost Robert Groves pulled together a group of faculty to discuss how Georgetown could improve as a university and to generate ideas about how the university’s future could progress. Faculty members came up with five ideas to improve higher education: flexible curricular and teaching structures, competency-based learning, expanding mentored research, work-learn and a four year combination of bachelor and master degrees.
Bass said that the five ideas were meant to stir discussion.
“It was just here are five ideas literally to prime the pump or to just start stimulating people’s thinking and in some ways to give them permission to think outside the boundaries of our model,” Bass said.
Kelly Heuer, the head of communications and project development at the Kennedy Institute of Ethics, said that the Red House, which is funded by donations, is a great place to get people from different backgrounds together.
“It’s a remarkable opportunity to be able to connect with people who are working in a totally different area subject-matter wise, with people who are working in a totally different discipline, or in a different part of the university, but are engaged in a similar kind of asking the big questions enterprise,” Heuer said.
Bass said he is excited to encourage collaboration between students and administrators.
“Hopefully we’ll be able to put together the two pieces — faculty being the prime movers of the curricular piece and the students being the prime movers behind some of these meta curricular pieces,” Bass said.
The students are currently working on a project called the Georgetown Student Dashboard, an online platform where students can track progress beyond grades.
“What I’ve found to be most rewarding is that students, administrators, faculty and staff are working together with a shared identity and purpose to re-imagine life at Georgetown,” Shane Thomas (COL ’16), who is working on the Student Dashboard, said.
One of the major projects in development at the Red House is the reconfiguration of courses around principles such as studio-based learning.
“We have a wonderful cluster — it’s called a studio collaborative — three self-standing courses that are all connected and they have a studio or studio-based learning at the center of them, so it’s an interdisciplinary approach to ethics and science and communication, but using innovative studio-based and design approach,” Bass emphasized.
Philosophy 105, a pilot studio course, is currently being offered as a bioethics introductory course. The Kennedy Institute of Ethics and the Red House collaborated to formulate the class, in which students tackle real world issues in bioethics and learn in a project-based educational setting.
“Students are driven to the content of the course, not by having it said to them in the content of a lecture, but by being asked to create something, to engage with some contexts, some problems, some puzzles and physically create something for an authentic audience of peers and external experts,” Heuer said.
Another major project in development looks at reinventing how college degrees work, such as blending bachelor’s and master’s programs.
A new minor in writing design and communications based on major projects submitted for review rather than required courses is also in the works.
“This is a pretty radical experiment in liberating, you know, or separating credits from seat time,” Bass said. “In saying that you are only awarded credits based on what you show you can do, not on just sitting in class or spending a certain amount of time in a seat.”
But with change comes hesitation. The Red House, still in its first year, hopes avoid this resistance by bringing in people from across Georgetown who can give full representation to every aspect of the university experience.
“We have to continuously be engaging lots and lots of people who have a stake in this,” Bass said. The program is a forum for creativity and advancement involving individuals from all facets of the university structure. “We’re trying to provide a framework to galvanize the incredible creativity of our faculty and the energy of our students.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

