
February 19, 2015 by Tom Garzillo Leave a Comment 
Over the past two weeks, various student groups and individuals have pledged their support to one of the five campaigns in the Georgetown University Student Association executive election.
This year, fourteen clubs endorsed particular candidates, while the majority of endorsements came from individuals. Last year, nine student groups endorsed, and in the 2013 election, 15 groups did so. For the past two years, the current GUSA president and vice presidents declined to endorse any ticket.
Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Connor Rohan (COL ’16) have picked up endorsements from the editorial boards of The Hoya, The Georgetown Voice, The Georgetown Heckler and the Georgetown Improv Association. Luther and Rohan are the editor-in-chief and managing editor, respectively, of The Georgetown Heckler and both are members of the Improv Association.
“Do not take their seemingly facetious platform lightly,” The Hoya editorial board wrote. “Behind the humor lies a thoughtful agenda committed to mental health reform, transparency and student-community engagement.”
Sara Margolis (COL ’16) and Ryan Shymansky (COL ’16) received a lengthy list of personal endorsements that included GUSA senators, the Secretary of the Arts Caleb Lewis (COL ’16), ANC Commissioners Reed Howard (SFS ’17) and Kendyl Clausen (SFS ’16), and J Street U Co-President Molly Wartenberg (SFS ’16).
Another one of their endorsers is Nora West (SFS ’15), GUSA secretary of health and student safety.
“In my role with GUSA and as a sexual assault peer educator I have worked a great deal with survivors and sexual assault education programs,” West said. “Reading Sara and Ryan’s platform and seeing their commitment to proactive risk reduction and reactive survivor support showed me that they understood the issue and were committed to changing the campus climate.”
Abbey McNaughton (COL ’16) and Will Simons (COL ’16) have garnered 85 individual endorsements as well, including a large number of GUSA senators and committee chairs, four club sports teams, President of the Black Pre-Law Association Queen Adesuyi (COL ’16) President of College Democrats, Matt Gregory (SFS ’17) and President of College Republicans, Amber Athey (COL ’16). They also received eight endorsements from student groups, the most of any candidate. Groups include Club Hockey, Hoyas for Immigrant Rights and H*yas for Choice. McNaughton and Simons also received an “A” grade from H*yas for Choice in their sexual health questionnaire, the highest of any campaign.
One of their other supporters is Megan Murday (SFS ’15), a GUSA deputy chief of staff and president of the School of Foreign Service Academic Council.
“I spent much of this year engaging in master planning discussions and lobbying for student priorities,” Murday said. “Abbey and Will are the only ticket that have both the background knowledge necessary to seamlessly continue advocating for student interests and the ability to build the administrative relationships necessary to earn respect and be taken seriously.”
Tim Rosenberger (COL ’16) and Reno Varghese (SFS ’16) received endorsements from both GUPride, of which Rosenberger is secretary, and the Georgetown Israel Alliance.
“He has been a visible LGBTQ member of a number of more mainstream campus organizations, never once denying the salience of his identity for the sake of fitting in,” GUPride said in a statement. “No one has gone to greater lengths than Tim and Reno to understand our history, issues and realities.”
The GIA, whose original proposal sent to candidates asked them to oppose Boycotts, Divestment and Sanctions on Israel, caused controversy after four tickets agreed to the original proposal and subsequently reneged. Reno and Varghese signed GIA’s revised proposal that encourages campus-wide discussion and does not mention BDS, receiving the group’s endorsement.
“Tim and Reno have been a consistent force for dialogue and unity at Georgetown,” the group wrote in a statement. “We’re proud to announce their affirmation of our statement in the name of creating a safe space for Georgetown students to engage in constructive discussion around the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.”
Chris Wadibia (COL ’16) and Meredith Cheney (COL ’16) did not respond to multiple requests for comment about their specific endorsements. Their Facebook page includes an album called “Proud Supporters of the Movement,” and includes photos of 35 individual supporters, including Helen Brosnan (COL ’16) and Kendall Ciesemier (COL ’16), founders of campus women’s conference OWN IT, Lecture Fund Chair Marcus Stromeyer (COL ’15) and Georgetown basketball player Josh Smith (COL ’15). Ciesemier, Brosnan, Stromeyer, Wadibia and Cheney are all members of the Lecture Fund, and the ticket received individual endorsements from multiple Lecture Fund members.
“We are supporting Meredith because we believe that the campus needs a strong woman leading our campus,” Brosnan and Ciesemier wrote in their endorsement. “She is an ideal role model for underclassmen and is a source of constant optimism – something we can all learn from. Meredith owns it at all times!”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 19, 2015 by Tom Garzillo Leave a Comment 
Candidates for the 2015 Georgetown University Student Association executive election have submitted their proposed administrative budgets for the upcoming year.
Presidential candidate Joe Luther (COL ’16) and his running mate Connor Rohan (COL ’16) requested between $78,410 and $79,909 in university funding, the most of any ticket. This was followed by Tim Rosenberger (COL ’16) and Reno Varghese (SFS ’16), who asked for $46,250, Abbey McNaughton (COL ’16) and Will Simons (COL ’16), whose budget called for $44,150, and Chris Wadibia (COL ’16) and Meredith Cheney (COL ’16), who requested $42,200. Sara Margolis (COL ’16) and Ryan Shymansky (COL ’16) asked for the least amount of money, requesting only $29,000.
Last year, the current executive pair of Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) and Omika Jikaria (SFS ’15) called for $44,800 in their proposed budget. The pair received around $22,000 from the GUSA Finance and Appropriations Committee, less than half of their proposed budget, according to Tezel.
The budget form, sent to candidates by FinApp Chair Robert Shepherd (MSB ’15), asked candidates to fill in their budget requests and agree to FinApp’s 2010 6-Point Reform Plan, which prevents excessive spending.
Luther and Rohan, whose budget is almost entirely satirical, said that if elected, they will work with Shepherd to craft legitimate funding allocations. Their current budget, which calls for $25,000 for a “town crier” and $12,000 for a “Kehoe Field Injuries Pension Fund,” makes it the largest budget requested in the group.
The GUSA Fund occupies the largest non-mandatory allocation on most of the proposals, and serves as a separate, GUSA-owned fund that can be used at the executives’ discretion. The GUSA Fund can provide money for recognized and unrecognized student groups, as well as individuals.
Wadibia requested $22,000 for the fund, the most of any campaign. Luther called for $20,500, while Margolis asked for $20,200. McNaughton allotted only $15,000 to the fund, the lowest of the campaigns. The Rosenberger budget submitted to The Hoya did not specify an amount for the GUSA Fund.
Luther, Margolis and McNaughton all chose to allocate $1,500 toward the Georgetown University Farmers Market. Rosenberger asked for $2,000 and Wadibia requested $2,500.
The McNaughton proposal calls for $1,500 for a sexual assault awareness campaign, while Wadibia requested $1,000. Rosenberger’s budget asked for $1,000 and Margolis requested $500 to support the “I Am Ready” sexual assault prevention initiative.
The campaigns also included an amount designated as “executive discretionary,” which serves as last resort funds for use by the president and vice president.
McNaughton requested $3,500 in this category, more than any other campaign. Wadibia asked for $3,000, while Rosenberger and Luther each called for $2,000. Margolis requested $1,500, the lowest amount.
A major difference between the five campaigns is the amount that each allocated for the GUSA senate.
Rosenberger’s executive budget called for $30,000 in the senate general fund. McNaughton asked for $29,550 while Margolis’ budget requested $27,000. The Luther and Wadibia budgets did not include an amount for the senate general.
Both McNaughton and Rosenberger requested $1,300 for the Senate administrative fund, while Luther proposed “$1,000, plus this spearmint candy that I found in my pocket.” Margolis allocated only $800, and Wadibia’s budget included $1,200 for “senate discretionary” funding.
One notable difference in the Rosenberger budget is its $6,000 for the What’s a Hoya? program, since the pair plans to bolster the program and increase its reach to sophomores and transfers if elected. McNaughton and Wadibia asked for only $2,000 for this program, while Luther and Margolis did not specify.
“We really want to use the executive budget to expand upon programs that exist, but they should be better in scope and impact,” Rosenberger said. “What’s a Hoya? should have its budget increased, more executive support and be expanded to include transfers and sophomores.”
What’s a Hoya? coordinator Megan Murday (SFS ’15) said that additional funding would benefit the program.
“With an increased budget, that would help us upgrade the quality of the venues we use,” she said. “We don’t have a very large operating budget at all.”
Wadibia and Cheney’s budget most notably allocates $10,000 toward the Collegiate Readership program, an initiative that allows Georgetown students to read newspapers and other publications. McNaughton’s budget requested $9,800 for a print and online New York Times subscription, while the remainder of the campaigns did not address this program.
The print Collegiate Readership Program, which provided copies of USA Today, The Washington Post and The New York Times, was cut by the current GUSA executive team in March to preserve its budget by suggestion of FinApp. Currently, GUSA provides students with online subscriptions to the New York Times, a service that began in September.
Beyond the numbers, each campaign’s budget proposal included answers to a series of questions regarding GUSA and its impact on the student body.
Luther and Rohan humorously described the difference between the executive campaign season and the rest of the GUSA year.
“GUSA is like the life of a butterfly in reverse,” they wrote in their budget proposal. “For a short while during campaign season, GUSA is highly visible … following executive elections, the butterfly retreats into its cocoon and blends into Georgetown’s natural surroundings.”
The Margolis-Shymansky ticket proposal described GUSA as an advocacy body that can use its budget for good.
“GUSA serves as an advocate for the entire undergraduate student body,” Margolis and Shymansky wrote. “It is a direct link to the university administration … while it may not be possible to quantify the reach and influence of GUSA, we can safely say that it directly improves student life on campus.”
McNaughton said she hopes to make GUSA more efficient and productive.
“GUSA should always look for ways to better engage the student body and effectively manage productive relationships with administrators so that policies can be passed that are in the student body’s interest,” the McNaughton-Simons proposal read.
The Rosenberger-Varghese proposal spoke similarly about GUSA and its impact.
“It connects students with administrators and has the ability to advocate for student interests during university decision making processes,” Varghese wrote. “In addition, its finances can help start new student initiatives that achieve social, academic and community related ends.”
While the Wadibia-Cheney budget information submitted to The Hoya did not contain written responses, Wadibia said that changing the nature of GUSA is an important part of his mission, and that his budget partially makes this possible.
“We want to make GUSA something that is admirable, adored within students’ eyes because it makes relevant, practical decisions,” Wadibia said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 19, 2015 by Mallika Sen Leave a Comment 
Sunday night finds the Healey Family Student Center nearly exceeding capacity and Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Connor Rohan (COL ’16) on a quest to find a private space to conduct an interview for this article.
Frustrated in this endeavor, their offer to perform an interpretive dance in lieu of a traditional sit-down is cut short by a passerby: “Luther-Rohan, big fan!”
“I had random people taking pictures with me last night,” Rohan later said. “Quoting our campaign, you walk down the street and you hear it from the windows, like a musical.”
Each year, the Georgetown University Student Association executive race produces candidates proudly touting their extensive experience within the organization, or emphasizing their fresh perspective. This year, the annual clash between the GUSA insider and the GUSA outsider has been toppled askance by the entrance of a third category — the GUSA iconoclast.
Changetopia
In their bid for the GUSA presidency and vice presidency, Luther and Rohan have targeted the apathetic, fatigued and jaded with their satiric promise of a “Youtopia” — interchangeable with “______topia” (pronounced “blanktopia”) — a perfect Georgetown where every whim will be satisfied.
“There are a lot of campaigns that try to make a mockery of the system and the way people treat it, and while we are trying to make a lot of commentary about the GUSA process and the way people approach it and how alienating it is to people, we are also trying to make commentary about Georgetown itself through what we’re doing,” Luther said.
The ticket’s unorthodox approach is a means to an end, but the pair does not plan to make a mockery of GUSA, should they triumph.
“We’re very careful to not have much farce. Farce doesn’t have anything underlying, but the way that I see it is that a lot of people don’t listen to the other candidates. They know of them, and might support them because they know someone in their campaign, but they don’t read their platform,” Rohan said. “We’re presenting issues in such a way where, maybe there’s not as much very clear content but at the same time we’re pressing very important issues in a way, through a medium that makes people want to read it, and they want to think about it and talk about it and want to laugh.”
Nine of the 10 tenets of the published Luther-Rohan platform are, as Rohan put it, “impossible,” with the exception of that which governs health and safety. If elected, the pair plan to assume office, with two caveats: a failed confirmation by the GUSA Senate, and a demonstrated unwillingness of university administrators to work with the pair.
“Just because we have a mandate from the public doesn’t mean that people are willing to work with us, and we want to make sure people are willing to work with us and hear us out before stepping up,” Rohan said.
Luther and Rohan have prepared an alternate agenda for a potential term as GUSA executive, with a major focus on transparency and mobilization.
“I think GUSA’s biggest failing is that it really does not mobilize the student base well. At the end of the day GUSA’s power really does not lie in one or two individuals and the executive positions and senators,” Luther said. “Its power lies in mobilizing the people and informing them, to have a say what’s going on in the universe. The only time I’ve seen GUSA mobilize people was last year during the satellite campus debate and I think that’s in part because people are so turned off by GUSA and how they approach issues.”
Heckling, Reinvigorated
Perhaps nothing has recently captured the fancy of a large swath of the student body as the recently resurrected Georgetown Heckler. The genesis of the Luther-Rohan campaign lies in The Georgetown Improv Association, which brought the pair together last year, upon Rohan’s transfer from George Mason University, and the satire publication, which provided the notoriety and push to run. Luther serves as editor-in-chief, while Rohan is a managing editor.
Luther and Rohan both joined the flailing online publication last winter, which began to revive with Twitter coverage of the 2014 GUSA executive election, entirely orchestrated by Luther. His performance was enough for graduating editor-in-chief Henry Thaler (COL ’14) to eschew the hierarchy and hand control to the enthusiastic upstart.
“I just felt like, with Joe, not only was he enthusiastic, but he was really funny, and he wanted to expand the Heckler and take it to a whole another level,” Thaler said. “Joe understood that a lot of people would love to read funny things about what’s going on in the Georgetown community, and because he’s plugged in he gets it and is able to put a funny spin on it.”
The revitalization, which includes a commitment to posting at least one new piece a day, has seen readership grow from 100 unique views to 10,000 in a matter of months. Facebook posts easily attain over 100 likes, far exceeding that of traditional campus media.
“[We] heard Connor [at the vice presidential debate] talk a lot about engagement, how powerful our voice can be and kind of reengage the students, whereas previous GUSA executives have failed at that. Even though what they’re doing is kind of satirical, it is kind of like the proving ground,” Heckler editorial board member Craig Levites (COL ’17), a campaign staffer, said. “If we can get that done during the campaign, if we can engage those people who are traditionally apathetic, I think there’s no reason why we can’t do it when we’re in office because I think we’ve been very successful at that so far.”
This familiarity with the mindset of the Georgetown student body reflects Luther’s background: Improv, the Heckler, director of marketing at Students of Georgetown, Inc. storefront Vital Vittles, Blue and Gray Tour Guides and New Student Orientation.
“Joe, I don’t think people realize, he is as much of a Mr. Georgetown as he is. His sister went here, so it’s all in the family. … He kind of runs this place and people don’t know it,” said campaign staffer Emlyn Crenshaw (COL ’15), the executive producer of Improv and a member of the Heckler editorial board. “And Connor, if you’ve ever talked to Connor, you know he is extremely dynamic and passionate. He’s so driven that its almost scary. I think if there was some GUSA initiative that he wanted to get done, or if he had to get into a meeting about Aramark and was advocating for students in a room full of administrators, I know that Connor Rohan would be extremely vocal.”
Verity
Pursuing the GUSA executive positions Luther and Rohan in the footsteps of successful, high-profile satirical campaigns at Harvard College and Oxford University.
In 2013, then-juniors Sam Clark and Gus Mayopoulos won their executive race for the Harvard Undergraduate Council, having asserted they would resign if elected; Clark indeed stepped down, Mayopoulos did not — and thus ascended to the presidency.
“I think everybody was pretty surprised [when we won]. I think the people that voted for us were happy and I think a mix of that was some people were some people were disillusioned with the student government and wanted to see something new go on,” Mayopoulos, whose term finished at the end of last year, told The Hoya. “I think some people just wanted to see the show go on and wanted to see out of morbid curiosity what would happen if you put a completely untrained person in a position of power, mild power.”
Harvard and its UC was plagued with many of the same problems Georgetown and GUSA faces — apathy, lack of communication and a divide between a largely forward-thinking student body and conservative administration. Mayopoulos, who wrote for Harvard satire publication Satire V, was not a stranger to the substantive issues, but willingly tackled the learning curve regarding the UC.
“ I think I knew less about the council than any other president before or even after this. I couldn’t micromanage because I had none of the knowledge necessary to do it and so most of my executive board was given pretty free range to do whatever they wanted in their capacities, so I think the different committee chairs appreciated it,” he said. “I don’t think they felt lack of guidance, but I think it was an exciting opportunity for them to take control of their committees in a very whole way.”
To ameliorate communication between the council and the student body, Mayopoulos’ team employed humor to attract the attention of students; otherwise, though, UC proceedings continued in a professional and largely serious manner under his leadership, eliciting the respect of students and administrators (with a minor hiccup: “When we met with [Harvard University President Drew Faust], the first thing she said was, ‘Where is your costume?’ because I had worn a Napoleon costume to all of the council meetings,” Mayopoulos recounted. “The second time I met with her, I did wear the Napoleon costume — I think there was definitely an association of me being a joke.”).
“The weird thing is, I think, in my opinion, [Luther and Rohan] are quite a bit sharper with their criticism and their satire,” Mayopoulos said. “I think we were more weird, we would say things that were just nonsensical, whereas the ‘Youtopia’ idea seems to be taking specific shots at real issues, which frankly seems like a better way to go about it than we did. For a long time, just because it seemed so ridiculous to us, we never planned on being serious contenders.”
If Luther and Rohan are to take office, neither legitimacy nor humor will be sacrificed, they claim, but these would-be iconoclasts would certainly be different.
“Satire doesn’t mean that we’re not being serious,” Rohan said.
“I think there’s a very large difference between taking yourself seriously and taking your job seriously,” Luther added. “I think that, for years, people were really alienated by how seriously the GUSA crowd takes themselves, and I think that’s really hindered their ability to do their jobs, so we think, by taking a different approach by how we’re treating ourselves, it has no implication about how we’d treat the job.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

