
April 24, 2016 by Toby Hung and Emily Tu Leave a Comment 
Edward Blatz Jr. (MSB ’17), a junior on the men’s lacrosse team, died early Sunday, according to a university-wide email sent by Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson and Vice President for Mission and Ministry Rev. Kevin O’Brien, S.J.
Blatz is survived by his parents Anne Marie and Edward Blatz Sr. and two older sisters, Elizabeth and Jessica. The cause of death has not been announced as of 3 a.m. today.
In their email, Olson and O’Brien expressed grief over Blatz’s death and offered condolences to his loved ones.
“This is a loss for our community,” Olson and O’Brien wrote. “Our thoughts and prayers are with Eddie’s family, friends and everyone in our community during this time.”
Blatz graduated from Garden City High School in New York, where he played football, lacrosse and basketball. A 10-time letterwinner, with three in football, three in lacrosse and four in basketball, Blatz led his high school team – the Trojans – to a Long Island Class II football title in 2012 and two state Class B lacrosse championships. He was noted as Garden City’s first all-time leader in receptions and touchdown catches, and was a member of the All-Long Island First Team in lacrosse and Second Team in football.
At Georgetown, the 21-year-old student was a management major who played defense for the lacrosse team and appeared in 25 games, starting 19 throughout his career.
In a statement released by the athletics department on Monday, Lacrosse Head Coach Kevin Warne mourned Blatz’s death.
“Eddie was a great young man who was well-respected and well-liked by his teammates and the Georgetown lacrosse family,” Warne wrote. “He was a very bright student and a talented player and words cannot express the loss we are feeling right now.”
In the statement, Athletics Director Lou Reed highlighted the player’s influence as a member of both the athletic and wider university communities.
“Our heartfelt condolences and deepest sympathies go to Eddie’s family as together we mourn his sudden passing,” Reed wrote. “This is a tragic loss not only for our Georgetown athletics family but for our entire university. He will be greatly missed by his teammates and coaches and friends on campus.”
Masses were held for Blatz at Dahlgren Chapel on Sunday night.
The university will provide campus resources to students and faculty during this time, with staff available at Counseling and Psychiatric Services, the Office of Campus Ministry and the Faculty and Staff Assistance Program.




Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

