
July 26, 2016 by Jack Lynch Leave a Comment 
Donna Brazile, an adjunct assistant professor in the Georgetown women’s and gender studies program, will serve as interim chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee following the resignation of Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.) amid a leaked email scandal.
Brazile, a veteran political strategist who has served as the DNC’s vice chair of voter registration and participation since 2000, will take the reins after the Democratic National Convention, which concludes on Thursday. Brazile was unavailable to comment as of press time.
Wasserman Schultz announced her resignation on Sunday in light of WikiLeaks’ recent release of 20,000 DNC emails, which revealed that Wasserman Schultz wrote unfavorably of Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders (D-Vt.) during the primary race. The emails stoked allegations that the Democratic Party establishment was unfairly skewed toward presumptive presidential nominee Hillary Clinton during the primary season.
“Going forward, the best way for me to accomplish those goals [which include electing Clinton president] is to step down as party chair at the end of this convention,” Wasserman Schultz said in a statement Sunday.
Wasserman Schultz, who was appointed DNC chair in 2011 by President Barack Obama, was supposed to hold the office through January 2017. Brazile will fulfill her responsibilities to the end of the term while Rep. Marcia Fudge (D-Ohio) will preside over the convention.
Brazile has taught a seminar – “Women in American Politics” – at Georgetown for 14 years. In addition to teaching, Brazile is a syndicated newspaper columnist and frequent political commentator on CNN and ABC News.
Previously, Brazile served as the campaign manager for Al Gore in the 2000 presidential election, becoming the first black woman to manage a national presidential campaign.
Yesterday, both ABC News and CNN suspended their contributor agreements with Brazile in advance of her assumption of the DNC Chair position. Brazile will appear on CNN’s convention coverage for the remainder of this week in an unpaid capacity.
In an appearance on ABC’s “This Week,” Brazile said she had met with the Sanders campaign and apologized on behalf of the DNC.
“I think that the allegations, the emails, the insensitivity, the stupidity needs to be addressed, and we are going to address it,” Brazile said.
Following the announcement of Brazile as interim DNC chair, WikiLeaks tweeted an image of an email that involves Brazile in the DNC controversy surrounding the Sanders campaign. In the email, Brazile responds to a press inquiry from The Washington Post about the DNC-Sanders squabble by writing: “I have no intention of touching this. Why? Because I will cuss out the Sanders camp!”
Brazile said Sunday on ABC News’s “This Week” she had apologized to the Sanders camp.
Roey Hadar (SFS ’17), who is registered to take Brazile’s class next semester, said he was pleasantly surprised to hear about Brazile’s selection. The registrar’s office has not announced whether Brazile’s lecture will still be offered in the fall as of press time.
“I always like to see Georgetown students, alumni or faculty do big things and take on more prominent roles,” Hadar said. “It’s just another example of how closely this school is attached to breaking news.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


July 26, 2016 by Tala al Rajjal Leave a Comment 
Georgetown is among 18 institutions awarded a $28 million grant from the National Institute of Health for the BELIEVE project, an effort led by researchers from The George Washington University to discover a cure for HIV/AIDS.
With funding from the NIH’s Martin Delaney Collaboratory grant, researchers will develop a cell therapy approach designed to improve the immune system’s ability to eliminate HIV reservoirs in individuals with HIV.
The BELIEVE project, or Bench to Bed Enhanced Lymphocyte Infusions to Engineer Viral Eradication, is a joint program involving 18 medical centers spanning across the United States, Canada, Mexico and Brazil.
American institutions collaborating on the project include Johns Hopkins University, the Children’s National Health System, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard University and the University of Pennsylvania. Internationally, the project involves researchers at the University of Toronto, Centro de Investigación en Enfermedades Infecciosas in Mexico and the University of Sao Paulo.
Georgetown University Medical Center Senior Associate Dean for Students Princy Kumar will lead Georgetown’s arm of the project. Kumar was unavailable to comment at press time.
In April 2015, NIH awarded Georgetown University, along with George Washington University, Howard University, American University, the Children’s National Medical Center and the Washington DC VA Medical Center, a $7.5 million grant to set up the District of Columbia Center for AIDS Research.
The lead investigators from DC CFAR, including Kumar, are spearheading BELIEVE.
Brad Jones, an assistant professor of microbiology, immunology and tropical medicine at GWU School of Medicine and Health Sciences, said the project’s goal is to eliminate viral reservoirs.
“Curing HIV infection will likely require eliminating all virus in all of the sites that it persists, a daunting task,” Jones wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Our goal is that at the end of this five-year period we will have a clear indication that we have achieved reductions of viral reservoirs in clinical trial participants and knowledge on how to improve upon this initial success to cure individuals in future iterations of this trial.”
Jones emphasized the need for local action, as Washington, D.C., plays an important role in the HIV epidemic with an infection rate of 3.2 percent.
“It is critical that the local academic institutions partner with each other, with community stakeholders, and with industry partners and work together to help curb the epidemic locally, nationally, and around the world,” Jones wrote.
The program will establish community advisory boards, annual meetings between institutions, educational outreach and other frameworks to ensure successful cooperation on the transnational project. The District of Columbia Center for AIDS Research will further provide access to laboratories, study design services and access to clinical populations.
Alan Greenberg, director of the District of Columbia Center for AIDS Research, stressed his team’s dedication to full collaboration with other key institutions in both BELIEVE and DC CFAR.
“[We] will work in close collaboration to ensure that there is maximum synergy between these two NIH funded projects,” Greenberg wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Manya Magnus, an associate professor of Epidemiology and Biostatistics at GWU’s Milken Institute School of Public Health who also serves as associate chair of the department, underscored the need for local outreach in both the medical and general community.
“It is critical that local and global communities are thoroughly engaged in all facets of HIV cure research. In addition to developing structures for ongoing and meaningful community input into both basic science and our novel clinical trials, we will together with members of the community develop and implement innovative educational outreach strategies about HIV cure research,” Magnus wrote in an email to The Hoya.
As a member of BELIEVE’s executive committee, Jones expressed his optimism toward the project and the BELIEVE team’s vested responsibility to work toward a cure for HIV.
“We are all excited and grateful for this opportunity to work together. My personal feelings are dominated by a sense of responsibility. We’ve been handed an opportunity to move the world closer to a cure for HIV/AIDS and we are committed to delivering on this,” Jones wrote.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


July 26, 2016 by Andrew Wallender Leave a Comment 
At least three Georgetown University Bookstore employees, including an employee who has worked at the bookstore for more than 30 years, lost their jobs when the bookstore switched vendors from Follett to Barnes & Noble College last month.
Former bookstore employee LuAnne Buzzanca was turned down for part-time and full-time rehiring by Barnes & Noble in mid-May. Buzzanca began working at the bookstore in 1985 when it was still run out of Lauinger Library.
“When they turned me down the first time, I was like, ‘There’s nobody who can do what I did,” Buzzanca said. “And that was really messed up. I mean, I helped train the cashiers, I helped train the managers on the register, I greeted the people. I did everything for the last [31] years.”
All Follett employees were offered an interview by Barnes & Noble, according to Barnes & Noble College Regional Manager Chris Colbert.
“Understandably, some employees chose to remain employed with Follett and were placed in positions in other areas within that company,” Colbert wrote in an email to The Hoya. “A vast majority of employees, however, transitioned with Barnes & Noble College, along with six internal hires from Barnes & Noble College.”
Colbert declined to provide specific numbers on how many former Follett employees were offered a position and how many were not.
Buzzanca said she was not offered the opportunity to remain with Follett and would have to reapply for a job at a different Follett location. She added that two of the other employees who were also turned down for re-employment were replaced by the Barnes & Noble College internal hires.
Buzzanca said that when she was turned down for employment by Barnes & Noble College, the management told her that other candidates had better qualifications. But Buzzanca, who was left handicapped after a car accident three years ago, questioned whether her physical ability may have affected her eligibility. Colbert declined to comment on Buzzanca’s status, citing confidentiality.
“You know, I’m still not fully recovered. I don’t know if that had anything to do with it or not,” Buzzanca said. “You know, throw that in the mix but it’s a questionable thing.”
Two remaining full-time employees who worked with Buzzanca at the old bookstore in Lauinger Library were rehired by Barnes & Noble College and will continue with the new bookstore operator.
Bookstore employees are covered by the university’s Just Employment Policy, which is designed to ensure the fair treatment of university employees. As part of the policy, the university seeks to ensure the continued employment of current university employees when services change contractors.
“Georgetown will attempt to avoid employee job loss as the result of implementation of this policy. If Georgetown no longer contracts work to a subcontracting firm, the University will prioritize employment of any workers who presently work under those subcontractors at Georgetown University, to the extent legally possible,” the policy reads.
Sophie Bauerschmidt Sweeney (COL ’17), a member of the worker’s rights advocacy group Georgetown Solidarity Committee and the Advisory Committee on Business Practices, which develops the Just Employment Policy, said the ACBP requested for Barnes & Noble to retain the bookstore employees for a trial period.
“Several members of the Advisory Committee on Business Practices tried to push for an automatic trial period for all employees so they could only be dismissed if there’s actually a problem, but that didn’t happen,” Bauerschmidt Sweeney wrote in an email to The Hoya. “This is an instance in which the intent of and the spirit of the JEP really isn’t being followed.”
The former manager of the book store under Follett also asked for all employees to be kept on, according to Buzzanca.
Former student bookstore employee Emeline Kong (COL ’17) said she was disappointed with how the transition unfolded, particularly the staff restructuring. Buzzanca trained Kong as a bookstore employee three years ago.
“I know how much the job meant to [Buzzanca] and how hard she works for the bookstore,” Kong wrote to The Hoya. “The decision shows that the new management does not have a complete perspective on what the bookstore is and has been for the last few years.”
Barnes & Noble College’s takeover of bookstore operations were announced to the university community in a May 25 email from Associate Vice President of Auxiliary Services Joelle Wiese’s office.
As part of the transition, the main campus bookstore and Law Center bookstore will be renovated next summer, while the School of Continuing Studies bookstore location shut down on June 10.
Despite the staff restructuring, Wiese said the bookstore transition progressed smoothly.
“The transition has gone very smoothly,” Wiese wrote in an email to The Hoya. “UIS’ assistance and support from faculty with course materials has been tremendous in this process. The transition from one vendor to another, ensuring customer’s needs were met, was due to the hard work of many people from Georgetown, Follett and Barnes & Noble.”
According to Wiese, Barnes & Noble College has made the bookstore more efficient in its operations, shaving an average of 30 seconds off customer transaction times with the introduction of newer cash register technology. Wiese added that customers also now have more affordable options for course materials with Barnes & Noble’s price-match program and improved rental options.
Colbert said that the new bookstore aims not only to improve customers’ shopping experiences but also to engage the Georgetown community through events with nationally renowned authors and Georgetown faculty members who author new books.
“Our goal is to create a vibrant social and academic hub on campus that precisely reflects Georgetown University’s mission and values and build relationships that enrich the university experience and extend ties long after graduation,” Colbert wrote in his email to The Hoya.
For her part, Buzzanca has accepted her future outside of the bookstore.
“I’m pretty sure a lot of people are going to be shocked, but there’s nothing I can do,” Buzzanca said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

