
February 23, 2016 by Marina Pitofsky Leave a Comment 
The Washington, D.C., Department of Health announced a decrease in new HIV cases among District residents for the seventh consecutive year in a report published Feb. 2.
The DOH’s interim HIV/AIDS surveillance report used preliminary data from recorded patients in 2014 to form its assessment. Under current law, doctors and hospitals must report to the DOH when they have a patient with a confirmed case of HIV.
According to the report, there was a 29 percent decrease in new HIV cases between 2013 and 2014, with 396 new cases reported in 2014 and 553 cases reported in 2013. The number of new HIV cases in 2014 is also down 70 percent from the 1,333 new cases reported in 2007, the year with the highest number of new HIV cases in Washington.
Mayor Muriel Bowser celebrated the decline in new HIV cases in a press release on Feb. 2.
“Last year, I announced the bold goal to cut in half new HIV cases in the District by the year 2020,” Bowser said. “Today, we continue to make progress toward that goal and take new approaches that will enable us to ultimately end the epidemic in our city.”
DOH Senior Deputy Director for the HIV/AIDS, Hepatitis, Sexually Transmitted Diseases and Tuberculosis Administration Michael Kharfen said this decline can be attributed to a comprehensive combination of approaches that the DOH uses in treating HIV. Kharfen emphasized the District’s timeliness in linking HIV-positive patients with the healthcare they need as critical in reducing HIV rates.
“The standard that the federal government has set is within three months,” Kharfen said. “We have a protocol here in the District called red carpet entry. This protocol is that if you are newly diagnosed with HIV or you have been wanting to return into care, we can get you an appointment with one of our HIV medical providers within 72 hours.”
Kharfen also cited other methods used by District healthcare providers to reduce the rate of new HIV cases, including providing free condoms and clean intravenous needles as well as ensuring HIV-positive residents remain in care.
Kharfen stressed the need to understand the intersections of social and economic factors when considering healthcare policy.
“You have to understand that health doesn’t occur in a vacuum, that there are other factors that can have impacts on people’s health choices and conditions,” Kharfen said. “That can be their economic opportunity, it can be whether or not they have a stable place to live, it can be whether or not they can have transportation and access to health services and it can be education.”
This year’s report also marks the implementation of two new changes to the DOH’s method of compiling data on HIV cases: the addition of a separate gender category for transgender residents suffering with HIV and AIDS and a change to the methodology of tracking cases. The report cited the new gender category as a way to ensure transgender residents are not underrepresented as they have been in past reports.
Kharfen emphasized the importance of this new category in developing patient comfort in healthcare.
“It’s also a way to destigmatize sex, because for a lot of people their sexuality is fluid and their gender identity can be fluid,” Kharfen said. “Therefore, we’re missing the opportunity to have people feel comfortable about health, their sexual health, and that may put them at risk for HIV in a way because we’ve categorized them in a way that they don’t see themselves as.”
For the first time, the DOH will also change its methodology to define the transmission of HIV in all new cases by either injection, drug use or sexual contact, aiming to enhance the quality of reported data and reduce stigmatization.
DOH Director LaQuandra Nesbitt highlighted inclusivity as the basis for both of these changes in a press release Feb. 2,
“We are promoting an inclusive approach to the HIV epidemic as part of our strategy to reduce barriers and develop effective and scientific-based strategies to achieve a HIV-free generation in the District,” Nesbitt said.
Kharfen lauded Bowser’s administration in the work it has done to reduce the spread of AIDS and HIV in the District, especially through measures that account for marginalized people.
“We’re fortunate in that in the District of Columbia we’ve got a mayor who really has set out a new way of talking about health. The way that she’s describing it is really about looking at health equity,” Kharfen said. “What we’ve got in the District is leadership that says, ‘We’ve got to think about all of these factors and how they relate.’”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 23, 2016 by Molly Cooke 3 Comments 
The Georgetown University Student Association senate voted to certify the results of Friday’s GUSA executive election Sunday night, officially confirming Enushe Khan (MSB ’17), former speaker of the GUSA senate, and Chris Fisk (COL ’17), former GUSA deputy chief of staff, as president and vice president.
Khan and Fisk, the only formal candidates in GUSA’s first-ever one-ticket executive race, were elected Friday night with 57.9 percent of the vote. The comedic ticket of Wisemiller’s Hot Chick and Chicken Madness sandwiches, interpreted by Anirudha Vaddadi (SFS ’16), came in second with 878, or 35.6 percent, of write-in votes in the final round. The write-in ticket of Reed Howard (SFS ’17) and Courtney Maduike (SFS ’17) placed third with 440 votes in the first round and 454 in the second, while Maddy Moore (SFS ’17) and Scott Lowder (COL ’17) placed fourth with 58 votes.
Khan is the first Muslim, international student and female of color to be president of GUSA. Fisk is the second member of the Georgetown Scholarship Program to be vice president, following Adam Ramadan (SFS ’14), who was elected as vice president with Nate Tisa (SFS ’14) in 2013.
Voter turnout was 33 percent of the student body — 2,388 students — markedly lower than the 3,637 votes in 2015 and the record 3,733 votes in 2013.
Two senators abstained and all others voted in favor of certification. Khan recused herself from leadership of the meeting.
Khan said she is excited to enact her and Fisk’s campaign platforms now that campaigning is over.
“Now we can get to work,” Khan said. “The anxiety comes from having to talk about things but not being able to do them. I personally don’t like talking about things; I just like rolling up my sleeves, getting to work.”
Fisk said he and Khan started work immediately.
“Sunday night after the certification, the to-do list came out and it was getting the ball rolling,” Fisk said. “It’s just go, go, go as much as we can and get to work as fast as we can, which is a lot more comforting than the past two weeks.”
The public meeting addressed plans for GUSA’s restructuring and the new D.C. policing bill, both priorities for Khan’s administration, before focusing on whether the procedural issues cited by the GUSA Election Commission in delaying release of election results Thursday night were valid enough to justify disputing the results and holding a new election.
The Election Commission delayed release of the election results for 15 hours on the grounds it believed the Constitutional Council had made a procedural error in ordering it to place five write-in slots on the ballot, following a petition by candidates Howard and Maduike on Wednesday.
Howard and Maduike previously appealed to be formally added to the ballot on Feb. 16, a request denied by both the Election Commission and Constitutional Council on the grounds it would be a break in typical election procedure.
Students must attend one of two information sessions and sign a form certifying that they understand election rules by a certain date in order to be included on the ballot, though this process is not explicitly stated in GUSA bylaws.
GUSA bylaws indicate the power to regulate and certify elections is at the discretion of the senate, meaning it is the only body able to create election rules. The bylaws do not contain procedure for write-in candidates.
GUSA Election Commissioner Alden Fletcher (SFS ’17) said the Election Commission was uncomfortable with a change in election procedure.
“There was a desire to make the race more democratic by instituting this change, and from our perspective that represented an evaluation of what was the desirable features of the race, and we were uncomfortable with being forced to make that change, especially at such a late hour in the proceedings,” Fletcher said.
GUSA Constitutional Council Chief Justice Josh Shinbrot (COL ’16) said it was within the Constitutional Council’s purview to make such a decision, and emphasized it was a unique situation and not universally applicable.
“Ultimately what you have is a situation in which the bylaws don’t provide guidance for what to do, and you have a constitution that sets up a democratic system, a candidate raises a legitimate question, and the Constitutional Council has its interpretive authority,” Shinbrot said. “At the end of the day the fundamental question is whether or not procedure was followed, and procedure was followed to the T.”
No conclusion was officially reached regarding the existence of a procedural error.
Chair of the Intellectual Life Committee Eric Henshall (COL ’16), who represents off-campus residents, argued that whether a procedural error had occurred was irrelevant to the legitimacy of the election results.
“The people spoke, the Constitutional Council’s decision made it easier for write-in candidates to win, it disadvantaged Senator Khan and Chris Fisk, and they still won,” Henshall said.
Maduike wrote in an email to The Hoya that election bylaw reform is needed, citing the over 1,223 write-in votes cast Friday.
“We drew attention to inherent unfairness in the write-in policy and successfully petitioned to add more write-in options to the ballot,” Maduike wrote. “We demonstrated that students do want a choice and that they speak up via write-in candidates when given the opportunity. We came together as a group to offer the student body a voice that is rational, reliable and present, and we look forward to protecting that voice in further discussion.”
Howard and Maduike were not present at Sunday’s meeting.
Former Vice Speaker and current Speaker of the Senate Theo Montgomery (SFS ’18), who moderated the meeting, said a discussion concerning revision in bylaws would be forthcoming.
“I think this is a really productive discussion and a discussion we should have at another date,” Montgomery said. “It will take time to put together bylaws changes that accurately clarify this process, keep it democratic, and make it clear.”
Khan said she looks forward to working more with the senate as it passes new bylaws.
“Hopefully with the new bylaw reforms that will passing, that will be brought to the floor by Chairman Henshall, this will mean that we will be working closely together for the rest of the year,” Khan said.
After the certification of her election, Khan addressed the senate, thanking it for its debate and resigning her position as speaker.
“I just wanted to say thank you so much for holding this debate and also just for this entire year,” Khan said. “This is a really great group of people, it’s been such an honor serving as your speaker. At this point, I would like to officially resign from the speakership role.”
Correction: An earlier version of this article listed Chris Fisk (COL ’17) as the first member of the Georgetown Scholarship Program to be elected vice president of GUSA. Fisk is the second GSP member to be elected to the role, following Adam Ramadan (SFS ’14) in 2013.

Alum '14 says 
February 23, 2016 at 10:12 am
Congrats to Enushe and Chris! One fact check on GSP: Adam Ramadan (elected VP on the Tisa/Ramadan ticket in 2013) was in GSP, so Chris is the second VP in GSP. A healthy trend.

Goldman Sachs says 
February 23, 2016 at 10:37 am
“I just like rolling up my sleeves, getting to work.” That’s why we hired you Enushe! Looking forward to the summer in New York.

cannon says 
February 24, 2016 at 4:44 pm
No bylaw changes!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 23, 2016 by Charlotte Allen 1 Comment 
Following the Georgetown University Law Center Dean William Treanor’s public statement regarding late Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia (CAS ’57) on Feb. 13, which sparked an emotionally charged debate between liberals and conservatives, the Georgetown Black Law Students Association issued an open letter Feb. 19 regarding the treatment it has received from the law center.
Scalia graduated summa cum laude from Georgetown before obtaining his law degree from Harvard University. He served as associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States from 1986 until his death and acted as a member of the court’s conservative majority. Scalia adhered to a judicial philosophy known as originalism, which asserts that the U.S. Constitution is interpreted in terms of its meaning at the time it was written.
In his statement published on the GULC’s website, Treanor highlighted Scalia’s involvement in the Georgetown community and his impact on the way law is practiced across the country.
“Scalia was a giant in the history of the law, a brilliant jurist whose opinions and scholarship profoundly transformed the law,” Treanor wrote. “Few Justices have had such an influence on the way in which the law is understood. On a personal level, I am deeply grateful for his remarkably generous involvement with our community.”
Following the release of the statement, GULC professors Gary Peller and Louis Seidman each responded with emails to the law center community voicing their concerns with the dean speaking on behalf of the law center, stating that members may not have agreed with the sentiments that were expressed.
In his email, Peller outlined his personal opinions on Scalia’s legacy as a legal figure.
“I am not suggesting that J. Scalia should have been criticized on the day of his death, nor that the ‘community’ should not be thankful for his willingness to meet with our students,” Peller wrote. “But he was not a legal figure to be lionized or emulated by our students.”
Seidman similarly expressed his disagreement with the view of Scalia included in Treanor’s statement.
“Our norms of civility preclude criticizing public figures immediately after their death,” Seidman said in an email to The Hoya. “For now, then, all I’ll say is that I disagree with these sentiments and that expressions attributed to the ‘Georgetown Community’ in the press release issued this evening do not reflect the views of the entire community.”
This, in turn, prompted an email response from GULC professors Randy Barnett and Nick Rosenkranz expressing grief for Scalia’s passing and pain at the specifics of the initial messages sent to the community.
“To hear from one’s colleagues, within hours of the death of a hero, mentor, and friend, that they resent any implication that they might mourn his death — that, in effect, they are glad he is dead — is simply cruel beyond words,” Barnett and Rosenkraz wrote.
Both professors also shared personal stories about Scalia and expressed concern for the students mourning the late justice’s passing.
“Leaders of the Federalist Society chapter and of the student Republicans reached out to us to tell us how traumatized, hurt, shaken, and angry, were their fellow students,” Barnett and Rosenkranz wrote.
The Black Law Students Association echoed the original email’s wording in its open letter to the community, listing issues affecting black and minority communities at the law center.
“Many Black students were also ‘traumatized, hurt, shaken, and angry,’ when fact patterns on a practice exam directly referenced the facts of the Trayvon Martin tragedy,” the BLSA wrote in an open letter on Facebook. “Many Black students are also ‘traumatized, hurt, shaken, and angry’ as real progress on institutional anti-racism and administrative equity and inclusion is constantly delayed.”
The BLSA acknowledged the grief of fellow GULC members but took issue with the way mourning could potentially affect others in the community.
“While we support an individual student’s choice to mourn, it must also be acknowledged that Justice Scalia’s legacy affects us in vastly different ways,” the BLSA wrote in the letter. “As a result, some of the viewpoints expressed in the email exchange were disheartening for many in our membership.”
The BLSA continued by questioning the treatment of students of color by the law center and students’ lack of comfort in expressing these concerns.
“If this one email exchange exacerbated frustrations of conservative or libertarian students, imagine the impact of continuous antagonistic classroom lectures and insensitive remarks about issues that directly affect the lives of the Black students here at the Law Center,” the BLSA wrote. “If our community can empathize with the hostile environment conservative students will reportedly enter as the result of the comments made by a two liberal professors in an email, then they cannot turn a blind eye to the calls for sensitivity training and a concerted effort to make faculty aware of the issues that face minority students.”
In an interview with The Hoya, Peller emphasized that he had not meant to remark on the content of Treanor’s statement. Rather, he objected to Treanor’s comments being issued on behalf of the entire community.
“I didn’t write specifically to comment at that time on Justice Scalia’s legacy or his place in our political culture or anything like that,” Peller said. “I was responding to what I thought was the insensitivity on the part of the dean to speak for the entire community, many of whom felt great pain from Justice Scalia’s decisions regarding issues that are central to their identity.”
Seidman agreed with Peller that Treanor’s statement should not have been issued on behalf of the entire community. However, he emphasized the importance of demonstrating respect for the recently deceased.
“With respect to my views about Justice Scalia, I think that the norms of civil discourse are that you don’t criticize somebody within a week of their dying,” Seidman said. “I have a lot of views about Justice Scalia, but I don’t think that this is the time for talking about that.”
Although Seidman did not sign Peller’s response to the dean’s statement, he said he did not have any problem with it and also emphasized the predictability of the reactions toward the statement. Seidman also mentioned that he received emails of support from multiple students and that Peller received similar messages from over 200 students.
Peller expressed hope that the issue would be resolved within the law center community.
“I feel very bad that the issues have become so polarized and bitter, and I hope that people will calm down and come together in peace,” Peller said.
Seidman echoed Peller’s desire for unity within the community, adding his view that discourse is the way to achieve this.
“I think on both sides people ought to stop complaining about being hurt and start engaging in the kind of debate that universities were meant for,” Seidman said.

George says 
February 25, 2016 at 1:53 am
It is certainly the case that every person in the GULC community does not have the same feelings about every issue.  Accordingly, I am assuming that the Professors would object if the Dean issues a statement honoring those who died on 9/11 or American veterans or leading figures in the civil rights movement (even during Black History Month).
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 23, 2016 by Christian Paz 7 Comments 
The School of Foreign Service Dean’s Office is actively considering restructuring the curriculum of the SFS with new course offerings and updated core requirements in the lead-up to its centennial celebration, with initial changes set to be announced in mid-March.
Currently, students in the SFS must enroll in a proseminar course, fulfill a writing requirement, achieve proficiency in a foreign language, take two philosophy courses, two theology courses, two government courses, three history courses, four economics courses and the “Map of the Modern World” course.
Students can major in one of eight programs that they can also pursue as concentrations or interdisciplinary certificates, the SFS equivalent of a minor. Students are not allowed to double major or declare minors from the College.
Senior Associate Dean for Undergraduate Affairs Daniel Byman said this curriculum structure allows students to have a broad and deep understanding of international affairs.
“Like most curricula, the strengths and weaknesses go together,” Byman said. “One of the strengths to me, at least, is you get a fantastic grounding in the essentials of international affairs very broadly defined. That would range from philosophy and culture, to economics, to finance, history, so it is very deep.”
Byman said any changes to the curriculum are proposed to faculty committees for discussion. These committees evaluate the state of the current curriculum and consult students, alumni and faculty members to determine whether changes are needed and how to implement them.
“I and people in the dean’s office have been talking to students and alums about a very basic question: What should students know and what opportunities should they have at the School of Foreign Service?” Byman said.
Although no specific changes have been agreed on yet, Byman said curriculum reviews are necessary to ensure the SFS is properly preparing students for changing times.
“2016 is not 1916,” Byman said. “In my mind, we have a moment where it is logical for the school to look at what it does well and what it should change to meet the challenges of the coming years.”
SFS Academic Council member Roopa Mulpuri (SFS ’18) said a crucial part of any restructuring is making the curriculum forward-thinking, citing the science, technology and international affairs major as the most forward-reaching.
Mulpuri said SFS students should gain a stronger background in science during their undergraduate experience to ensure exposure to some of the facts behind contemporary issues like climate change and food shortages.
“We want something where you delve into an issue and learn some science abstractly and then look at some of the policy solutions that are already being proposed,” she said.
According to Mulpuri, the faculty committees are also considering adding an ethics course to the core curriculum to provide students with a grounding in Georgetown’s Jesuit values and mission.
Academic Council President Anna Hernick (SFS ’16) said students desire a more balanced curriculum.
“We’re hearing more and more that SFS students appreciate the interdisciplinary nature of the core, but hope to find a balance between this breadth and more personalized depth in their undergraduate experiences,” Hernick said. “For example, students want to be able to take more classes in technology, foreign languages and business and have those courses incorporated into their SFS studies.”
Byman said changes to the curriculum require managing trade-offs, as more courses means less flexibility in the curriculum.
“One could argue it has gone too far in one direction or the other. Certainly one thing the committees are exploring is what is the balance between requirements and not required courses,” Byman said.
Alexandra Williams (SFS ’19) called the current economics requirement excessive.
“Personally, I don’t see the necessity for the requirement of four economics classes for SFS students,” Williams said. “For students not interested in majoring in international political economy or international economics], four economics classes seem excessive to me.”
According to Mulpuri, the SFS faculty is aware of complaints regarding the number of economics classes students are required to take. SFS students are currently required to take both “Microeconomic Principles and “Macroeconomic Principles.”
Grady Willard (SFS ’18) said he also believes students should have increased exposure to science classes in the core.
“We come out of the SFS with incredible skills in a variety of fields but understanding scientific knowledge is not one of them. In an interconnected world, it is extremely important that policymakers, consultants, businessmen, et cetera. understand how to interpret scientific information,” Willard said.
Ben Baldwin (SFS ’19) said certain core classes should be substituted.
“If changes were to be made to the curriculum, I would like to see the reduction of the number of core classes or the substitution of some core classes for others, as the sciences or courses in ethics are currently underrepresented in the core curriculum of the SFS,” Baldwin said.

SFS 2016 says 
February 23, 2016 at 11:53 am
Literally no one in the SFS wants to waste their time with an ethics course

SFS 2017 says 
February 23, 2016 at 3:02 pm
I think it’s an excellent idea. We need some more ethics in the international system.

SFS 2016 says 
February 24, 2016 at 11:47 am
We have 2 required philosophy courses for that already. As it stands, the SFS needs to become less restrictive, not more. For a student that has never learned a language and needs to start from the beginning, didn’t take AP or IB exams in high school, they have almost 0 free electives in four years, due to the absurd number of requirements in the school. People like to complain about how the only jobs SFS students can get are in consulting, but what else does the curriculum prepare you for? You get rudimentary knowledge of a lot of things, mastery of almost nothing, and have no freedom to explore. Getting into a good grad school for economics or politics is very difficult because they don’t care how many diversity or ethics or theology courses you have taken, they care if you know high level math, which the SFS actively discourages students from taking.

A Correction... says 
February 23, 2016 at 2:59 pm
“SFS students are currently required to take…” *Principles of Microeconomics, Pinciples of Macroeconomics, International Finance, AND International Trade. There’s a reason SFS students complain so much about Econ wrecking their GPA/wasting their time when they could be taking classes more beneficial to their major and their interests.

ABoilingGlassofCoffeePlease says 
February 25, 2016 at 5:55 pm
Yes, like “Intro to Coffee Brewing 101” and “Your Transition From NGO to Barista”

SFS says 
February 24, 2016 at 8:33 am
Language minors, though…
[…] recently revealed through The Hoya that the administrators of SFS are considering changes to the core curriculum. This idea may seem great for SFSers due to the excessive amount of Econ requirements and […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 23, 2016 by Ian Scoville Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University will launch the Center for Jewish Civilization, an interdisciplinary teaching and research program that will cover all aspects of Jewish civilization, with an event Monday.
The center, which will replace the Program for Jewish Civilization, is the result of almost 12 years of work by university administrators, faculty and donors.
As part of the School of Foreign Service, the center will push forward plans to create a major and a Master of Arts degree in Jewish civilization. The center will focus on a wide range of subjects, including American foreign policy toward the Middle East and Jewish literature and culture.
The formal launch event Monday night will include a keynote address by Rev. Patrick Desbois, president of Yahad-In Unum and director of the Service for Relations with Judaism in the Catholic Bishops’ Conference, University President John J. DeGioia and SFS Dean Joel Hellman.
The center has also hosted a series of events in the run-up to its launch, including an all-day conference Feb. 29 about anti-Semitism. Representatives of the U.S Department of State, as well as area experts from France, Poland, Scandinavia and Holland, will attend the launch.
The Program for Jewish Civilization was originally launched in September 2003 under the leadership of Rabbi Harold White and sought to promote an increased understanding of Jewish civilization at the university.
Rabbi Rachel Gartner said the center will showcase the importance of Jewish life at Georgetown.
“We at Georgetown have a great story to tell about Jewish life. Jewish life and academics have been thriving at Georgetown for a good long time. The Center of Civilization represents a coming to fruition of years of excitement and offers us an incredible opportunity in a big way to tell the story of Jewish life here,” Gartner said.
Gartner also said the center will satisfy a desire for increased education in Jewish civilization at Georgetown.
“From my perspective as the rabbi on this campus, I can say that there is a thirst for more Jewish knowledge in our Jewish student community, and there is an interest in learning about Judaism among students from other backgrounds as well,” Gartner said.
Adam Shinbrot (COL ’18), who is a member of the Georgetown Israel Alliance, wrote in an email to The Hoya that he hopes the CJC will promote Jewish life for all students.
“I think that the launching of the CJC will promote Jewish life on campus for both Jews and non-Jews,” Shinbrot wrote. “At a school like Georgetown, I think that offering students a way to learn about Judaism, anti-Semitism, the holocaust, and Israel (although the holocaust and Israel can be seen in a “non-Jewish context”) is the best way to promote Jewish life and allow students to engage in Semitic studies.”
A full article on the center’s launch will be covered in a future issue of The Hoya. Hoya Staff Writer Jesse Jacobs contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 23, 2016 by Jack Segelstein Leave a Comment 
In recent years, the College has introduced a number of majors and minors in response to student interest, but many academic departments find themselves unable to accommodate the growing demand. Administrators are struggling to keep these programs as inclusive as possible while managing limited resources and attempting to preserve the hands-on academic rigor they feel might be lost with indiscriminate growth.
African American Studies
Earlier this month, University President John J. DeGioia announced the creation of the African American studies major, which will open to students in the fall of the upcoming academic year. DeGioia also announced the establishment of a working group, which has yet to be formally assembled, to prepare for the implementation of the major.
The African American studies minor was first opened to students in 2004 and has since grown to offer approximately 20 classes per semester and graduates about 25 students per class.
College students have been calling for an African American studies major since 2001, accruing the support of faculty, alumni and over 1,000 student signatures on a formal petition.
Currently offered through the English department, the minor strives not only to rectify exclusion and marginalization, but to expand epistemological frameworks and broaden conceptions of the human condition.
Associate professor of African American studies in English and Director of African American studies Robert J. Patterson explained the process of expanding the minor into a major, a process he and his peers have been discussing over the past three years.
“There is a critical mass of faculty that can make a major more viable. So the recent hires over the last four or five years including mine have provided additional classes, additional expertise that would afford Georgetown the opportunity to help the minor transform into a major,” Patterson said.
Along with many of the College’s other new majors and minors, African American studies is highly interdisciplinary. Patterson said he sees the institution of the major as an opportunity to increase collaboration with other departments.
“[I hope] that we will see departments either trying to collaborate with African American studies through their own faculty lines to hire specialists in their disciplines that also could contribute to the research and teaching missions of African American studies,” Patterson said.
Patterson called this a critical moment in Georgetown’s history.
“It’s still important that Georgetown is entering this conversation, and that it will do it in such a way that’s intentional, that’s committed, that will provide the students, faculty, the greater Washington, D.C. area, the United States and the world the opportunity to engage in this important body of work and thought and culture,” Patterson said.
Business Administration
First offered in 2010, the business administration minor is the only way for College students to be guaranteed up to six courses in the McDonough School of Business. Students not part of the minor generally face slim chances of enrolling in MSB courses, as they are placed at the bottom of what are often long add-drop waitlists.
All minors must apply the fall semester of their sophomore year and, in addition to having a minimum GPA of 3.3, all applicants must complete four prerequisite courses by the end of their sophomore years. A joint committee of College and MSB deans select a maximum of 50 students from the application pool, which has been growing steadily each year.
Around 75 students applied in fall of 2015, a jump from last year’s 60 applicants. The coordinator of the minor, Assistant Dean Jessica Ciani-Dausch, attributes the larger applicant pool to greater student awareness of the program.
“It’s clear that part of having more advanced notice earlier on [is that] the word gets out among peers,” Ciani-Dausch said. “[That], as well as just having time to get all the prerequisites done has made for a more robust application pool.”
According to College Dean Chester Gillis, the primary reason for limiting the number of minors is to protect the course capacity of the MSB.
Gillis, who created the minor, anticipated the demand because of the career skills the program offers non-MSB students.
“You can be a biology major and maybe eventually be a doctor working in a practice that’s going to require some quantitative skills,” Gillis said. “Having some of those requisite skills that the business school can provide is a good idea for a College student.”
However, Ciani-Dausch said the minor may not be as helpful as some students might expect.
“Ultimately businesses know they are going to be training you on whatever skill-specific things they need to train you on,” Ciani-Dausch said. “And therefore it’s not as important as you may feel at first about labeling yourself because they’re almost expecting you to be a blank slate they need to train.”
Education, Inquiry and Justice
Enthusiastic student response has been positive, but accommodating a large influx of interest has been challenging for Associate Dean Tad Howard, the coordinator of the education, inquiry and justice minor.
“I don’t like having to turn people away, but we’ve had more interest in the minor than we’ve been able to accommodate,” Howard said. “At least in that sense it’s a successful program.”
Howard said the minor, introduced in the fall of 2011, examines K-12 education in urban environments through both theoretical and practical lenses.
“I think one of the key, signature features of this minor is to bring the theory behind education to light through actual work inside classroom environments,” Howard said. “So students do both work in traditional classrooms here on campus, but also go out into the city and experience the reality of what they’re studying.”
Student interest has grown to the point where only half of the roughly 30 students who apply each year get into the program.
Rising demand is pressing the administration to expand the minor, but according to Howard, there are equally important reasons to keep it small.
“Right now we want to make sure the program is really good for the students who do it, and if it gets too big too quickly it could become too diffuse, the experiences in those schools could be less powerful,” Howard said. “So making it much bigger than it is right now would take more than just adding a section of a class, it would be a much bigger commitment that we’re not ready to make yet.”
Film and Media Studies
Gillis said the College first realized it needed a film and media studies program when it risked losing students to other universities with film programs.
“I was hearing from students [who] said, ‘Well, I was tempted to go to Northwestern or Brown or Yale or the University of Maryland,’ because they had a program in film and media and we had nothing,” Gillis said. “We should not be losing students to these other competitive institutions for this particular reason.”
John Cuhna (COL ’16), a senior minoring in the program, said Georgetown’s film program was a substantial factor when he decided between New York University and Georgetown.
“I really wanted to go to Georgetown, but if it did not have this minor — because I’m so passionate about film [and] because I wanted that to be my life’s career — that would’ve been a deal-breaker for me,” Cuhna said.
Gillis implemented the minor in the spring of 2011, and his decision has been validated by positive student response. In recent years, around 20 students per class are accepted into the program; administrators declined to disclose how many applications they receive.
Film and media studies program Coordinator Lily Hughes explained that the size of the program is constrained by both limited resources for expensive equipment and the need to preserve a tight-knit, creative community.
“We try to create that community and create that group mentality, and I think that’s something we’ve been very successful at,” Hughes said. “And I think part of that comes from the fact that we are a smaller group. It can feel like a family; it’s harder to instill creative community in 100 students than it is in 18.”
Journalism
Launched in the fall of 2012, the journalism minor has quickly become one of Georgetown’s most competitive. Limited resources restrict the program to around 20 students per class, but in recent years the number of applicants has climbed above 30.
Students must apply by the spring of their sophomore years and have a cumulative GPA of 3.33. Every journalism course is offered to non-minors except for the senior capstone course, which allows seniors to produce their own piece of professional journalism.
Complementing Georgetown’s Jesuit mission, social justice features prominently in the program as well as journalism broadly, according to journalism Director and professor of the practice Barbara Feinman Todd.
“Shining a light on issues that otherwise might go unnoticed by voters, by citizens, is what the best journalism does,” Feinman Todd said. “If you take, for example, what’s going on in Flint, Mich.: So how do we find out what’s going on there and how do we put a face to the people who are harmed by it? That’s through journalism.”
As an example of the journalism minor focusing on social justice, the Pearl Project was launched as a seminar taught by Feinman Todd and, from 2007 to 2010, examined the kidnapping and death of Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl in 2002.
Justice and Peace Studies
The program on justice and peace began offering a major in the fall of 2014. According to Director Randall Amster, the major has experienced exceptional growth in its first three years..
The major includes a community-based learning course, similar to the practical element of the education, inquiry and justice minor. Kendall Banks (COL ’16), who is pursuing a JUPS major, said the course was critical in her choosing to come to Georgetown.
“The JUPS program really drew me to apply here because it’s pretty unique,” Banks said. “[It] had an emphasis on both social justice and also community-based learning … so I could actually be learning in a classroom but also be out in the D.C. community actually contributing.”
Amster said the community-based learning allows for students to have substantial connections with their course material.
“So for instance, students might be working in an educational capacity such as with D.C. Reads or D.C. Schools or the After School Kids Program, and they’re working with students and mentees and tutees and they’re seeing connections between the kinds of structural issues that we’re talking about in the classroom in those experiences,” Amster said. “That’s the moment that we’re looking for pedagogically, and it often comes to fruition.”
Philosophy and Bioethics
According to Gillis, the impetus for creating the philosophy and bioethics minor in the fall of 2012 arose within the administration.
“We could do this better than most places. We have good biology, we have excellent ethics both in the philosophy department and the Kennedy Institute of Ethics,” Gillis said.
With approximately 15 minors in the past two classes combined, Head of Academic Programs for the Kennedy Institute of Ethics Dr. Laura Bishop said, despite its modest size, philosophy and bioethics has received interest from a range of students, such as those in the School of Nursing and Health Studies, humanities, sciences and even language studies.
“It’s a small minor but there’s definitely student interest, and what I appreciate most is that students come from across the university,” Bishop said. “It’s really drawing students from a range of backgrounds.”
The fundamental question raised by the minor is the role that ethics ought to play in rapidly evolving fields of scientific inquiry and practice.
“Bioethics and ethics is really about how we should treat people, how we act, what are our obligations to other people, how can we create just and fair institutions and work within them,” Bishop said.
The Future of the College
Gillis said evaluating the need for new majors or minors requires three steps: identifying what needs to be done to stay current among academic institutions, identifying what students will realistically want to do and filling an academic void that does not require a huge investment of infrastructure.
Although Gillis said he has been delighted by each new minor’s popularity, he cautions against the College promoting aimless innovation.
“I don’t feel like I have to create these programs just to say I’ve done innovation, no. I think that’s a bad idea, actually,” Gillis said. “We’ll do things that make sense, and make sense for us. Where we don’t need to do it, I won’t do it just to say I did it.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 23, 2016 by Tara Subramaniam Leave a Comment 
Executive Director for the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace Security Melanne Verveer (SFS ’66 and GRD ’69) celebrated her new book “Fast Forward: How Women Can Achieve Power and Purpose” while championing ways women can take on leadership roles in Riggs Library on Thursday.
The event was hosted by the Georgetown President’s office, GIWPS and the Georgetown Women’s Alliance. Verveer was interviewed on stage by Lois Romano, an editor at The Washington Post, and introduced by University President John J. DeGioia.
Verveer’s discussion signified the beginning of Global Gender Justice Week’s series of talks engaging with issues pertaining to gender equality and justice, organized by the Georgetown Women’s Alliance. Guests include United Nations Representative on Sexual Violence Zainab Bangura and a panel discussion on Women Leaders in Asia.
In DeGioia’s introduction for Verveer, he highlighted her work on global gender justice from her time as an ambassador to the publishing of her book “Fast Forward,” which contains interviews with female leaders, including their views on addressing gender equality. “The leaders profiled in this work share an uncommon commitment to service, to supporting the contributions of others and to affirming the importance of women’s participation as leaders in our society,” DeGioia said. “We are reminded through Ambassador Verveer’s work of the importance of these stories.”
Verveer began her talk by illustrating the importance of sharing personal stories and having these conversations about gender in the broader context of women’s rights. She praised the strides made in elevating women to positions of power that occurred following her own college education. “Twenty years ago, women’s rights weren’t human rights. In twenty years, so much has happened around the world,” Verveer said. “Whether it’s laws to combat violence against women or girls’ education, a whole range of progressive changes that have been made.”
Verveer said there is still more work to be done to combat women’s rights abuses. She said as women have proven to be indelible assets to organizations and industries they work in, there will continue to be less discrimination.
“The evidence-based case has moved this argument from the right thing to do to the smart and most strategic,” Verveer said. “Even if you’re not motivated by the rights principle, whatever you’re trying to do to advance your enterprise, including women is in your self interest.”
Verveer said modern women are a force to be reckoned with, both economically and politically, noting the large percentage of women-run businesses in theU.S.
“In the United States, women-run businesses are growing at 1.5 times the average, which is significant,” Verveer said. “If we were an economy, the amount women are contributing to the economy of the United States would be close to the economy of Germany.”
According to Verveer, despite improvements in the condition of gender equality, many women’s issues are still being overlooked, including child care, paid leave and the campaign for equal pay for equal work.
Verveer explained how, while collecting stories for “Fast Forward,” she found that women continued to be held back by a fear of failing, and this fear affects progress toward gender justice and female empowerment.
“Every woman we interviewed talked about two things: lack of confidence and the fear of failure,” Verveer said. “The fear of failure is very interesting because I think a lot of us are driven not to fail, but failure is a big part of knowing and moving to the next stage.”
Verveer argued that starting the conversation on how to improve women’s self-esteem is a small part of what needs to be done to further gender justice and female empowerment. She added that citizens and groups must focus on specific issues, such as the education of women.
“In so many places, women have been told, ‘You don’t count, you can be violated.’ The greatest investment that can be made anywhere is education. Education is a game changer,” Verveer said. “Never underestimate what will happen to some of your classmates and where they might end up someday.”
Vinitha Raj (SFS ’19), who attended the event, said she was inspired by Verveer’s comments on her time as a Georgetown student and also impressed by her willingness to work hard when there were not many opportunities available to her.
“I thought it was particularly interesting that she talked about her experience as a trailblazer in politics, and how she touched upon that when she was in school at Georgetown, it was so much more difficult, that there weren’t that many women there,” Raj said. “Some of us just take it for granted that we can think about careers in politics, a lot more easily than she did.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 23, 2016 by Marina Pitofsky Leave a Comment 
Mayor Muriel Bowser released her new homelessness initiative Feb. 9, which proposes to close the homeless shelter at D.C. General Hospital and open up eight smaller neighborhood shelters in each ward of the District.
The council voted to approve Bowser’s plan last fall amid intense scrutiny of the D.C. General shelter. Criticism arose after the disappearance of eight-year-old Relisha Rudd, who police say was kidnapped from the shelter by a male janitor. Complaints of staff misconduct and poor living conditions leading to disease and a lack of security services have also beset the shelter.
Since then, Bowser’s office has worked to identify smaller spaces around the city that will collectively house the same number of homeless residents, with the aim of avoiding the safety problems that a large-sized shelter such as D.C. General faces.
Bowser addressed these complaints and her plan to move forward and work with the D.C. Council in a press release Feb. 9.
“In a city as prosperous as ours, there is no reason we should keep families at D.C. General. The building is too big, too old and too far removed from the services that get families back on their feet,” Bowser said. “I have been working with the council on a plan that will create small, short-term family housing. These facilities will be modern, safe and dignified – and will bring us one big step closer to our goal of ending homelessness in the District of Columbia.”
Bowser’s initiative plans to create a new shelter in each ward of the District on property that the city already owns as well as newly purchased and leased property. The Patricia Handy Place for Women, a women’s shelter built to house 213 residents, was the first to be completed and opened Feb. 10 in Ward 2. The other seven shelters will each house 50 families and will open in 2018.
Bowser’s plan has drawn support from several public officials, including councilmember Jack Evans (D-Ward 2), who lauded the initiative’s response to the poor conditions of existing shelters.
“I’m supportive of the Mayor’s plan to close D.C. General and to open smaller shelters across the city in our continued efforts to end homelessness in the District,” Evans wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I’ve called for D.C. General to be closed for several years on account of the terrible conditions of the building and ineffectiveness of providing the necessary services at such a large facility. I’m pleased that the Patricia Handy Center for Women in Ward 2 has already opened to start providing better, more personalized services to our neighbors in need.”
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Julián Castro also praised Bowser’s plan in a press release Jan. 9.
“I commend Mayor Bowser on her commitment to solutions that we know work to end homelessness and to committing to closing the family shelter at D.C. General,” Castro said. “All families deserve a safe and dignified place to lay their children to bed at night, and the District’s plan to develop smaller, community-based programs across the city is a big step toward creating a system that works.”
However, the initiative has also drawn community criticism, especially regarding the decision to build the shelters with communal bathrooms rather than private bathrooms. Critics have said this lends itself to security issues, such as situations in which unaccompanied children would be sharing facilities with adult strangers.
Georgetown University Law Center adjunct professor and Executive Director of the Washington Legal Clinic for the Homeless Patricia Mullahy Fugere cited multiple concerns with Bowser’s plan, including the industrial location of the shelter in Ward 5 and its impact on homeless residents struggling with asthma.
Fugere said her largest issue with the proposal is the lack of concern for more permanent spaces for the homeless community.
“An effort to close D.C. General is only ultimately going to be successful if there is more affordable housing that’s available for our low-income neighbors. Unless all of us as a community, both private and public sectors, are willing to treat the lack of affordable housing, we’re going to just continue to be treading water,” Fugere said. “We can’t lose sight of the ultimate end, which is getting people into someplace permanent that they can afford.”
However, Andrew O’Brien (COL ’18), member of student group Hoyas/Homeless Outreach Programs and Education, which seeks to address hunger and homelessness in D.C., said that a focus on permanent spaces for low-income residents may not necessarily be the solution to the issue.
“D.C. General is a permanent shelter, but it wasn’t a good shelter. I’ve met dozens of individuals experiencing homelessness who have told me that they often avoided D.C. General, preferring to sleep on a park bench rather than in an overcrowded and often unsanitary shelter like D.C. General was,” O’Brien said. “So just because it was a permanent epicenter of homelessness doesn’t mean that it was necessarily something that was positive for the homeless community.”
O’Brien also highlighted the risk of community backlash from areas where the new shelters will be built.
“Any time you see these people trying to build homeless shelters in new neighborhoods, especially heavily gentrified ones, there’s always a lot of what’s called NIMBY backlash, ‘Not in my backyard,’” O’Brien said. “But hopefully that won’t stop the $40 million budget for the project in creating a more humane and safe neighborhood-based shelter system.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 23, 2016 by Elisabeth Neylan Leave a Comment 
Students in Georgetown University’s School of Nursing and Health Studies hoping to complete the nursing major are forced to pay out-of-pocket transportation costs to get to hospitals in order to complete the mandatory clinical component of the major, forcing some students to switch to less beneficial, but cheaper, sites.
In order to ensure that nursing students are exposed to a multitude of clinical experiences, clinical sites span the Washington, D.C., Maryland and Virginia areas.
For some students, however, getting to and from their clinical experiences poses a significant financial burden.
Lauren Gilmore (NHS ’17) said the hours of some clinical experiences require students to spend their own money to take taxis to their sites because public transportation is unavailable.
“It’s not always an option when we have to be there so early to take public transportation so a lot of the nursing students will share cabs, but we’re not able to get any sort of reimbursement,” Gilmore said. “We have to pay all of those transportation costs out of pocket.”
Gilmore said she has friends who are forced to spend over 10 dollars on each cab ride to and from sites in the fall, totaling hundreds of dollars a month in transportation costs.The Office of Student Financial Services’ website estimates average travel that students may incur to get to clinical sites and internships at around 650 dollars a year. According to the 2015-2016 Bachelor of Science in Nursing student handbook, students may have to travel up to 35 miles from Georgetown to reach a clinical site.
Elena Snow (NHS ’17) said transportation costs forced her to switch to a less beneficial site.
“I ended up having to switch my clinical because I was going to be at a [Northern Virginia hospital] on an oncology floor, which would have been an incredible opportunity for me, but I couldn’t afford to go there and back because I’d have to Uber back to make it to [class],” Snow said. “I missed a really cool opportunity because of my personal finances and that was a little disheartening.”
According to Carolyn Landry (NHS ’18), nursing students incur additional costs beyond transportation. Students have to purchase uniforms and undergo background and health checks — costs that can often add up to hundreds of dollars.
Patricia Cloonan, interim dean and associate professor in the NHS, wrote in an email to The Hoya that the NHS tries to be mindful of student’s clinical locations.
“For example, we make our best effort to place first and second year students at MedStar Georgetown University Hospital, which is located very close to St. Mary’s Hall. We hope that this helps with the transition to living in Washington, D.C.,” Cloonan wrote. According to Cloonan, the NHS tries to accommodate the financial challenges for upperclassman students getting to their sites.
“If transportation is a noted issue and the primary site is not available, we work to place students in a similar area to where their top choices are located. In addition, if transportation proves to be a fundamental hardship, we work to place students at alternate locations closer Georgetown’s campus,” Cloonan wrote. “Our goal is to work closely with students to ensure the best possible educational experience and give them options that reflect their individual situations.”
Cloonan wrote the administration has attempted to reduce the costs of transportation for students in the past, including using vans and taxi coupons, but the efforts were unsuccessful.
“Vans did not prove feasible for a variety of reasons, including too few students going to the same clinical site each morning, parking fees, and the need to have two certified student drivers on board for each trip. Additionally, we tried to implement a half-price coupon system for taxi service (with 2-3 students in each car) to make the cost of commute less burdensome, but we did not have one student take advantage of that option,” Cloonan wrote. “Certainly, we are happy to revisit these ideas if a need is expressed.”
Cloonan did not respond to requests for an in-person interview with The Hoya.
Associate professor Colleen Norton, director of the school’s BSN program, wrote in an email to The Hoya that it is essential for students to have varied clinical experiences, which can only be achieved through sending nursing students to off-campus hospitals.
“As educators, we must ensure that our students, in the course of their formation as professional nurses, receive high quality and diverse clinical experiences that will prepare them for a range of career placements as nurses,” Norton wrote.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 23, 2016 by Owen Eagan Leave a Comment 
Vision for a Nation Foundation Chief Executive Officer Tom Rosewall (GRD ’78) highlighted the lack of proper eye care for individuals in developing nations and his work in Rwanda at an event hosted by the Master of Science in Foreign Service program on Feb. 17. Held in the Intercultural Center, Rosewall’s discussion focused on the significance of eye care to global populations, business productivity and economic progress.
According to the Vision Impact Institute, a non-profit organization raising awareness for proper eye care, about 2.5 billion people worldwide suffer from untreated vision problems. In 2010, poor vision directly caused a $2.3 trillion global economic loss.
Rosewall noted how vision problems, including conditions like presbyopia, a progressive loss of near-vision affecting people after about age 40, as well as nearsightedness and cataracts have far-reaching effects for people’s life prospects if left untreated.
“How many potential leaders are out there who can’t see?” Rosewall said. “The kids can’t get an education. The adults can’t work.”
Serving as CEO of Vision for a Nation since 2014, Rosewall changed the institutional structure of the organization to allow it to support the Ministry of Health in Rwanda, utilizing the country’s existing health infrastructure to provide primary eye care to the approximately 1.2 million rural Rwandans who need it.
Vision for a Nation operates by training primary care nurses to perform local vision screenings and simple treatments like eye drops to eliminate the backlog of eye patients stressing Rwanda’s health system. The organization also ensures Rwanda’s 502 health centers and 42 district hospitals are stocked with eye treatments like reading glasses and increases awareness for eye care in Rwanda through advertisement campaigns.
Holding up his own pair of reading glasses for emphasis, Rosewall emphasized the cost-efficiency of his vision treatment solution as he has begun to implement it from Kigali, the capital of Rwanda.
“I sourced these for 46 cents,” Rosewall said. “That’s how inexpensive most solutions can be.”
Rosewall said Vision for a Nation plans to expand from Rwanda by 2018, potentially moving to Botswana or Bhutan to support health ministries with eye care in those countries.
According to Rosewall, the organization plans to leave Rwanda with a high public awareness about eye care issues, a sustainable health program without patient backlog and with a profit; the government of Rwanda gains about $1 from each pair of glasses sold.
Rosewall said that unlike other organizations, Vision for a Nation shines as an exemplar of a well-run initiative on a national scale.
“We did something that is totally nationwide,” Rosewall said. “It’s the only program in the world that works.”
Though Vision for a Nation continues to impact eye care in Rwanda, Rosewall said eye care is not an issued adequately emphasized in the international sphere, noting its absence from the United Nations Sustainable Development and Millennium Goals.
“This is a forgotten thing,” Rosewall said. “Nobody thinks about this problem. This is a problem that’s so cross-cutting; it affects everything.”
To increase global vision care awareness, Rosewall plans to launch the Clearly Initiative, a campaign hoping to address proper eye care in developing regions, beginning in March and closing in 2018. With solution-creation competitions and conferences bringing together industry professionals, the initiative will span six continents and has already been in contact with companies like Amazon, Warby Parker and Uber to secure funding and cooperation.
Rosewall expressed his confidence in the initiative, citing an early endorsement agreement with a non-governmental organization promoting adult literacy as a mark of future success.
“If I can get one NGO like that, I’ll get more,” Rosewall said.
Maurice Masozero (GRD ’17), a Rwandan who attended the event, said Rosewall’s talk was interesting and aligned with his studies.
“I thought it was great,” Masozero said. “I work in the health field myself, though in other things, but I think it was very thought-provoking and it’s a really great program.”
Chad Davis (SFS ’19), who also attended the event, said he was cautiously optimistic.
“I think the Clearly plan is certainly ambitious and it’s hard to say if such a plan can exist at a global level because there are so many ambiguities and differences amongst each country in the world, specifically pertaining to their health care industries,” Davis wrote in an email to The Hoya. “But I like to think I am optimistic so it is certainly possible.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 23, 2016 by Lisa Burgoa Leave a Comment 
President Barack Obama’s 2017 proposed education budget, released Feb. 9, aims to tackle issues of college debt and affordability as well as bolster science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related learning.
The proposal also endeavors toward expanding funding for teacher training with a suggested $69.4 billion in discretionary funds and $139.7 billion in new mandatory spending over the next decade.
The budget, which marks a two-percent increase over the 2016 appropriation, allocated money to new programs, including $4 billion over three years for computer science instruction, $75 billion for nationwide preschool programs and $61 billion over the next decade to provide free community college for students who maintain a minimum grade point average of 2.5.
The single largest apportionment on the budget was $15.4 billion devoted to the U.S. Department of Education’s Title I program, which aims to expand educational opportunities for economically or socially-disadvantaged students. Acting Education Secretary John B. King Jr. said the budget reflects the Obama administration’s commitment to advancing educational equity in school systems.
“We have made tremendous progress with record high school graduation rates and more students of color going to college, but we have further to go to ensure that educational excellence is a reality for all students,” King said in a press release Feb. 9. “This budget builds on the Administration’s continued efforts to invest in education, from high-quality early learning through college.”
The proposal faces an uphill battle for approval from Republicans in Congress, who generally oppose measures to augment general federal funding and have expressed little support for programs such as free community college. Georgetown’s Program on Education, Inquiry and Justice Director Douglas Reed, who also serves as professor of education policy, said the budget is unlikely to clear the Republican-dominated Congress.
“The administration may have proposed a lot of stuff, but it’s more of a wish list than anything else,” Reed said. “The odds of it passing in its current form are basically zero.”
Among the most ambitious aspects of the budget is its emphasis on ushering classrooms into the digital era and enhancing STEM education. Aside from the funding for its “Computer Science for All” Program, the president also incorporated $125 million to train teachers in high-demand subjects like math and science.
While Reed commended the federal government’s allocation of resources toward infrastructure conducive to scientific learning, he expressed skepticism over its ability to improve instructional quality in math and science.
“Especially in the inner city, there’s a huge problem with attracting people who can teach science or math, and there is a lot of research that shows students do a lot better in math or science when they have a teacher who has a degree in math or science,” Reed said. “It’s very hard to really influence the supply of math and science teachers because the alternative careers for people with math and science degrees are a lot more lucrative.”
In the place of funding going toward teacher training, Reed suggested allocating money for technological equipment in schools.
“The federal government is better positioned to provide infrastructure like computers and ensuring every kid has access to high-speed internet, which not all schools do,” Reed said.
Lucretia Witte (GRD ’16), president of EduWonks, a graduate student group focusing on education policy, said another challenge is that federal budgetary measures regarding STEM education may not realistically be implemented in schools as they were initially imagined at the national level. Federal funding comprises only 12 percent of school funding, with the rest provided at the state and local level.
“Local context is very important. There might be bigger hurdles in an area because, let’s say, you can’t get computers in an inner city school because of theft or because we’re in a rural area and don’t have good internet connectivity,” Witte said. “I think there is a risk that these plans won’t go into effect exactly as intended, but it depends on what the main challenges are in the local s
chool district, how progressive the local superintendent is about technology education, how much economy is given to school leaders –— all these impact how federal education policy will be carried out.”
Witte also questioned Obama’s policies regarding postsecondary education, which aimed to alleviate the financial burden of higher education through free community college as well as increases in Pell Grants for low-income students and benefits to previously incarcerated individuals.
“I don’t think this policy will have the desired impact of getting more low-income people in community college who wouldn’t already be attending,” Witte said. “Instead we would expect to see that people who might otherwise go to four-year schools opt for free community college because it’s a more attractive option financially. If we do see that happening, that could even edge out more of the folks that we would be helping to get through school in this budget item.”
Reed argued that the policy might fail to meet its intended goals if avenues of communication are not established between four-year institutions and community colleges.
“You can go to a community college and take classes, but if none of them transfer afterward that doesn’t help you get a four year degree. State public universities have done a great job about communicating their expectations from community colleges, but private universities have done a really lousy job,” Reed said. “If it doesn’t translate, and if we don’t have the kind of communication about what the pathways are, that could be kind of a problem.”
Luis Gonzalez (COL ’19), who aspires to a career in education, said that he understood why some reject the profession as a viable career option.
“Several of my teachers made a difference in my life, and, as a result, I want to be a difference maker too, but because education isn’t exactly lucrative, people are not interested in pursuing careers in education,” Gonzalez said. “Students, not just here at Georgetown but elsewhere as well, want to pursue careers that will pay more, and a career in education will not be enough to pay the student debt many students acquire in college.”
Gonzalez added that the federal budget should address more systemic problems that hinder the education of vulnerable students.
“If I could add to the education budget, I would for sure make sure I added funds specifically dedicated for what I would call community enrichment,” Gonzalez said. “From my experience growing up in a district with a high number of low-income families, students have to defy economic barriers in order to become successful students. We are expected to be great students, but we live in tight spaces where gang violence and drugs are present. There are things that clearly affect how we perform in school.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 23, 2016 by Matthew Riley Leave a Comment 
Georgetown Center for the Constitution adjunct professor and Director Randy Barnett, along with adjunct professor Lawrence Solum, will host a weeklong seminar, “Originalism Boot Camp,” at the Georgetown Law Center from May 23 to 27.
Students will meet with and hear lectures from several prominent originalist scholars, including Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas and former Attorney General Ed Meese. Barnett defined the term originalism as a way of interpreting the Constitution in its original intent from the time in which it was written.
The program is open to current law students nationwide who have completed at least their first year of law school, with applications closing March 16. Up to 20 applicants will be chosen to participate.
The original program of speakers included Justice Antonin Scalia, who passed away Feb. 13 at the age of 79. As a major proponent of the theory of originalism, it was his work that first attracted many students to this philosophy of constitutional law.
Program manager Alexa Gervais, who helped to reorganize the program after the news of Scalia’s death, highlighted the loss the program faces in light of the late justice’s passing.
“The really great thing about having Justice Scalia speak late in the program was that it gave our students time to learn about originalism, so they would be able to formulate questions to ask,” Gervais said. “Of course, it’s a real tragedy that we don’t have the opportunity to do that anymore.”
However, Gervais said she is hopeful the program will prove even more influential in the face of losing a major proponent of originalism.
“I think Justice Scalia’s passing makes the program that much more important. It gives some seriousness to it, and shows why it’s so important that we educate our nation’s next judges on originalism,” Gervais said. “This great advocate for originalism is no longer able to fight for it on the court. It is our job to step up and promote originalism to work towards our goal of staying faithful to the text of the constitution. In that way, we can honor his legacy.”
Barnett founded the Center for the Constitution and is organizing the inaugural seminar program this year. He contrasted the originalism method of interpretation with attempts to adjust the Constitution’s meaning to current times.
“We’ve had a long-standing debate in this country between those who favor what’s called the living Constitution, which means a Constitution that the courts can change the meaning of, to update the Constitution with the times, against those who believe that the meaning of the Constitution should remain the same until it is properly changed,” Barnett said. “The outcomes of big cases can sometimes turn on which approach is adopted.”
Barnett said the motivation behind the boot camp centered on a desire to prepare students for future careers in originalism, while separating itself from a similarly-focused seminar that the Center for the Constitution co-sponsored with the Fund for American Studies, a non-profit that funds academic programs, for the past two years.
“This year we decided we would go our own way and recruit students ourselves – particularly students who want to focus on originalism,” Barnett said. “This is the first year our separate stand-alone seminar is running. It was conceived to assist students who are on a career track in which this idea would make a difference, whether that is as a clerk for a judge, a judge, a professor, or a litigator or a politician. We are exposing students to the best understandings of how originalism works in theory and in practice.”
Solum, who helped to design the new program, highlighted the importance of a seminar that informs students on a topic they might not otherwise learn about.
“Years ago, I had this idea that there was a need for some kind of one-week program on originalism because there was a gap in law students’ education and in the education of judicial clerks, lawyers and judges,” Solum said.
Aside from attending daily lectures from Barnett and Solum, reading articles and cases and listening to a variety of guest speakers, students will attend field trips, like to the Supreme Court to meet with Justice Thomas. Solum emphasized the various aspects of originalism to which the program seeks to expose students.
Solum stressed the importance of originalism, since many law schools do not place nearly as much importance on it as the living Constitution interpretation.
“Originalism is now the most discussed and debated theory about constitutional interpretation, and over the course of the last 30 years, it has become increasingly important as a methodology for the Supreme Court and for other courts,” Solum said. “It plays a tremendous role in judicial practice, but at most American law schools, it isn’t studied in any depth as compared to its rival, the living Constitution.”
Gervais expressed confidence that through this program, students will gain knowledge of originalism they may not have otherwise.
“Students are going to learn originalism in a way that they will never be able to at any other law school or university,” Gervais said. “We are offering so many different perspectives and such a variety of political ideology in one week that I think students are really going to walk away with this intensive understanding that is impossible to get in any other form or place.”
Yale Law School student Michael Clemente, who applied for the program, emphasized the widespread impact originalism can have, particularly on the protection of people with intellectual disabilities.
“There’s so much to learn about originalism – you can learn in terms of the actual practice itself or about the broader effects of it as a whole,” Clemente said. “My argument is that we are actually executing some people today with intellectual disabilities who would not have been executed in 1791 when the eighth amendment was adopted.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 23, 2016 by William Zhu 1 Comment 
David Azerrad, director of the B. Kenneth Simon Center for Principles and Politics at the Heritage Foundation — a conservative think tank — argued against the tenants of liberalism and warned of increasingly liberal culture at a discussion hosted in Healy Hall on Feb. 16. The event was hosted by the Georgetown University College Republicans.
At the Heritage Foundation, Azerrad teaches policymakers and other political leaders his ideas of American political tradition, constitutionalism and conservatism. He contributes his research and work to journals including The Federalist, Public Discourse and National Review.
Azerrad said liberals and liberalism are pushing, and succeeding, in political endeavors and progress, citing President Barack Obama’s recent change in his stance on marriage equality.
“Over the past several decades it is undeniably true that the left was been moving to the left. Liberals of a generation ago were much more conservative than liberals of today,” Azerrad said.
“In May of 2012, it was less than four years ago that President Obama himself was still opposed to the redefining marriage and even that is becoming yesterday’s news.”
Azzerad argued liberals and liberalism are dedicated to progressing specific themes in policy.
“Where liberalism wants to go, and I will write it on the board for you, is: subsidized, destigmatized autonomy with a paternalistic twist,” Azzerad said.
Azerrad also said he finds a contradiction in the tenants of liberalism: that liberals allow gender identity to be chosen, but not race, a stance he found confusing and misleading.
“You don’t need a woman’s body to be a woman; I don’t understand why you need black skin to be a black person and white skin to be a white person for that matter,” Azerrad said.
Azerrad highlighted college campuses as liberal places known to quiet prejudicial and hate speech, or any dialogue that others might find offensive.
“You need to silence intolerant and bigoted speech that makes people feel bad about themselves. To see what this means, go to every single college campus in America,” Azerrad said.
Azerrad said, despite some of the liberties it gives, liberalism as an ideology comes with constraints, including a variety of economic restrictions in the form of government acting within the food and pharmaceutical industries.
“They give you a lot of choice in one area particularly — pretty much anything having to do with sex — but then in the political realm, in the economic realm, endless restrictions,” Azzerad said.
Azerrad said that liberals are on an accelerating agenda to solve perceived inequalities and expand sexual freedoms, warning that liberals are approaching a slippery slope when it comes to marriage equality and LGBT rights.
“I think eventually they are going to have to push for lowering the age of consent and perhaps even legalizing incest. After all, why is it that I can’t marry my sister? Why can’t I choose to express my identity this way?” Azerrad said.
As his speech closed, Azerrad emphasized how the success of political conservatives paved the way for liberalism to progress forward to new issues. He claimed conservative policies and ideas in previous decades allowed for liberals to develop and expand liberalism across the country.
Following a student question asking about his stance on the recent policy change in the military to opening all combat positions to women, Azerrad expressed strong opposition and asked if the public was ready to see women suffer in the battlefield if a larger conflict occurs.
“What happens if tomorrow there is a real war and women soldiers are not only killed but brutally raped by the enemies?” Azerrad said.
Another student asked Azerrad how to express conservative views on strongly liberal campuses. Azerrad said the roles of campus liberals and conservatives are now reversed, as the right has ceased to be the mainstream, a difference from the liberal counterculture of the 1960s.
“Today, the counterculture is the right. If you are not on board with the left’s sexual agenda, if you are not on-board with the left’s economic agenda, you are a minority voice,” Azerrad said.
Azerrad expressed his support for students with conservative views and encouraged them to be brave but also to proceed with care on campuses.
“You guys have it very difficult, and the way to proceed is to be courageous but cautious,” Azerrad said.
Following the event’s close, Melvin Thomas (COL ’18) said that he grew up with mostly liberal peers and was glad that Azerrad could provide a new perspective.
“I think it was very interesting to hear a spokesperson for the right give a take on how he sees liberalism,” Thomas said.
Dominic Lamantia (COL ’17), a member of the GUCR, said the event was an intriguing opportunity to reflect on both liberalism and conservatism’s roots.
“I thought this was a very intellectually stimulating presentation, and it is very good for us as members of GUCR to be able to really dig deep to really examine the philosophical underpinnings of both liberalism and conservatism,” Lamantia said.

AW says 
February 25, 2016 at 10:29 pm
I think it’s great that at a school where the student body is consistently liberal, we have conservative as well as liberal intellectuals come to campus and give talks. 
That being said, a lot of the arguments Azerrad makes don’t sound like sincere attempts to grapple with what “liberals” or those on the left believe. For instance, I think it would take a knowledgeable “liberal” about two seconds to make a convincing argument why we should allow gay marriage but not lower the age of consent. Indeed, exactly what definition of “liberalism” is Azerrad working with anyway? Which serious liberal intellectuals, rather than “progressive” or “radical” or “socialist” (or maybe he just means Democratic) really support restrictions on free speech to the extent that he charges? And what definition of conservativism does he support instead?
In short, as much as I support more dialogue on campus that includes conservative and moderate voices, this doesn’t seem like a very illuminating event.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 23, 2016 by Tala al Rajjal Leave a Comment 
The 91st Diplomatic Ball, an annual formal that brings together Georgetown students, alumni and members of the diplomatic community will be held at the Willard Hotel on Mar. 18.
The Willard, a 150-year-old hotel, remains a popular site for presidents, foreign dignitaries and prominent social figures to visit. According to Chair of the Planning Committee Nada Eldaief (SFS ’18), the hotel was ultimately chosen for its architecture, history, design, the staff’s helpfulness and the flexibility in scheduling, among other reasons.
“We ended up going with the Willard because they had great availability for the days we were looking at and it meant that Dean Hellman could attend. It also has a lot of amazing history and it’s such a great location right by the White House” Eldaief said. “We’re also looking at making Dip Ball a bit more formal and having a lot more VIPs come so we think that the venue itself really speaks to that.”
Co-Vice Chair of the Planning Committee Claire O’Connor (SFS ’18) said the Committee also hopes to expand the guest list to include more alumni from Georgetown’s various schools, particularly those who are working in international affairs, as well as to continue to invite distinguished members of the foreign service community.
“We think that this new increase of Georgetown alums will really add something special to the Ball and will hopefully make it an even more interesting and insightful experience for students,” O’Conner said.
Eldaief said the Committee has been working to have more members of the foreign service community attend, praising the guest list as especially strong this year.
“We have some amazing people attending. I can’t reveal the guest list just yet but so far the RSVPs have been phenomenal,” Eldaief said.
According to Eldaief, this year’s event will be increasingly structured, and will include a cappella performances from Georgetown groups and guest speakers.
O’Connor said the the Diplomatic Ball offers students a unique opportunity.
“How many students can say that they have attended an event where they got to interact with ambassadors, foreign service officers, and foreign policy experts at the age of 18 or 19? Even those who aren’t interested in foreign work have found it to be a fun occasion to get dressed up for a night, meet interesting people and be a part of a historic Georgetown tradition,” O’Connor said.
Clare Mahoney (NHS ’18), who attended the Diplomatic Ball last year, said she is looking forward to this year’s event.
“What I enjoyed most about the Dip Ball last year was the atmosphere. I rarely go to such fancy events in which I get to dress up and talk with such notable people, so I really enjoyed that aspect of it,” Mahoney said. “I can’t think of anything that I would improve from last year, but I’m excited to see the new location and any changes they have made.”
As of Monday, 450 tickets remain of the 800 available for students. Tickets will be sold from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. in Sellinger Lounge until Friday. Tickets cost $65 for students under 21 years old and $75 for students over 21 years old.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

