
February 2, 2016 by Aly Pachter and Ian Harkness 2 Comments 
Around 60 Georgetown University students, faculty and members of college political groups gathered for the Iowa caucus watch party in Old North hosted by the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service on Monday night.
The caucus culminated in a Republican Party victory for Sen. Ted Cruz (R-T.X.), whose 27.7 percent of delegate votes — corresponding to eight delegates — beat out Donald Trump, who received 24.4 percent of delegate votes, corresponding to seven delegates.
The Democrats saw a much closer match, as 99 percent of precincts reported Hillary Clinton as the winner as of 2:14 a.m. Tuesday morning, beating out Bernie Sanders (I-V.T.) with 49.9 percent of the delegate votes to Sanders’ 49.6 percent.
Former Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley, who received the support of less than 1 percent of caucus-goers, announced the suspension of his campaign in the midst of the caucus. Former Arkansas Governor Mike Huckabee, who received 1.8 percent of the vote and no delegates, also announced the suspension of his campaign.
Former Deputy Director of the White House Office of Public Engagement and IPPS 2015 fall fellow Buffy Wicks, who also served as senior staff on President Obama’s 2008 and 2012 campaigns, joined former Republican National Committee Political Director and Iowa Republican Party Executive Director Gentry Collins in answering questions from the audience while results from the Iowa caucus were projected on a screen in the room. The two drew on their personal experiences in past caucuses. Additionally, another screen was set up to allow Georgetown students currently in Iowa to Skype in to discuss the updates.
The event was co-hosted by the Georgetown Public Policy Student Association, the Georgetown Public Policy Review, the Georgetown University College Democrats and the Georgetown University College Republicans.
IPPS Executive Director Mo Elleithee (SFS ’94), who also served as communications director for the Democratic National Party and as senior spokesperson for Clinton’s 2008 campaign, opened the event by expressing excitement for the caucus itself and its ability to answer questions that the nation has wondered about for over a year.
He then introduced Wicks and Collins as veterans of the Iowa caucus to the audience.
“It is an exciting night for all who are even remotely interested in politics as we explore many of the questions that we have been asking for a year and a half — including ‘Can Donald Trump actually win anything?’” Elleithee said.
The Iowa Caucus differs from other state primaries. In each of Iowa’s 1,682 precincts, voters gather at a set location to cast their votes. Iowa then allocates delegates based on how Iowans cast their votes. Iowa is also known for the small size of its caucuses — certain precincts decide the winners by a coin toss when the race is tight.
Additionally, certain caucuses are held in voters’ homes.
The Republican and Democratic caucuses themselves differ in that Republicans indicate their preferences by a show of hands or by secret ballot. Democrats gather in “preference groups,” and at each location, each candidate must garner a certain amount of votes, which in most cases is 15 percent. If they do not receive that number, the members must realign with other candidates for a final vote.
Collins emphasized the historical successes of the Republican and Democratic Iowa caucuses in predicting how the national election will play out. Since 1972, the Iowa caucus has had a 42 percent success rate in predicting the Democratic nominee for president and a 50-percent success rate in predicting the Republican nominee.
“On both sides, Iowa has a long history of either picking the eventual nominee or, more often in the Republican case, winnowing out the field of candidates and providing more clarity for subsequent states about what the decision really is,” Collins said. “The winnowing process is the first major step on the road to the White House.”
Elleithee highlighted the importance of the Iowa caucus as not only the first major electoral event of the presidential nominating process but also as a means for candidates to gain attention and support from other voters.
“There’s two things at stake tonight,” Elleithee said. “There’s the number of delegates but there’s also the claim to momentum.”
The three speakers shared their thoughts as developments, such as O’Malley’s decision to suspend his campaign, were revealed. Collins commented that several O’Malley supporters decided to re-register as Republican voters in order to cast their votes for Republican candidates.
Wicks said in the panel discussion that the Iowa caucus is not so much about delegates, but about its psychological impact.
“The biggest thing about Iowa is just the expectations,” Wicks said. “I was at a precinct, Des Moines 46th, watching a campaign that I worked on for a year unravel in front of my eyes, watching my candidate [Howard Dean] lose, and it was really hard to watch because you literally are watching it as it’s happening. And I got back to the headquarters in Des Moines and was walking into the war room, and the campaign manager was almost in tears.”
Wicks expressed excitement about the success of the watch party, especially given that students stayed for the duration of the caucus.
“It’s great that there are so many students interested in this. Georgetown is a very active student body. I think it’s great that after three hours and no one’s leaving, in fact more people are coming,” Wicks said. “I think it’s great that the students are so politically minded, which gives me hope for the future.”
Collins agreed that the students contributed greatly to the success of the event, especially given that supporters of a variety of candidates made a showing.
“I enjoyed it enormously. First of all it was a really impressive turnout, even though we’re stuck here in a hot, crowded room students seem to be sticking with it mostly,” Collins said. “What’s really exciting to me is to see the range of support across both parties for a variety of candidates.”
Collins went on to express how impressed and excited he was by the commitment of the audience that attended the watch party.
“To see a group of young people this engaged across both parties and supporting a whole range of candidates taking it this seriously, showing a lot of commitment to be here — and not for credit by the way — is really impressive,” Collins said. “It’s exciting to be a part of it.”
D.C. Students for Rubio Board Member Zach Hughbanks (COL ’18) said the event was a success because of the variety of viewpoints represented by the attendants and the experience of the panelists.
“It’s great to get people who’ve actually been in the trenches and understand what’s going on to moderate,” Hughbanks said. “It’s great seeing all these people who are politically involved on Georgetown’s campus come together; seeing Hillary supporters here, Sanders supporters here and us [Rubio supporters] enjoying the event together.”
Hoya Staff Writers Ian Scoville and Syed Humza Moinuddin contributed reporting.

Shelly Patterson says 
February 29, 2016 at 5:20 pm
Cruz? Yikes. I’d rather see President Trump

Tehwan Park says 
March 11, 2016 at 10:31 pm
#FeelTheBern
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 2, 2016 by Ian Scoville Leave a Comment 
Twenty-seven percent of students have completed the Georgetown Sexual Assault and Misconduct Climate Survey as of Monday morning, currently falling short of the university’s 50 percent participation rate goal, according to an email from Vice President of Institutional Diversity and Equality Rosemary Kilkenny.
The university has extended the survey completion deadline from Feb. 6 to Feb. 15 in an effort to boost participation numbers.
The survey was originally released to the student body Jan. 14, and is based on a template developed by the Association of American Universities in late 2014. Twenty-seven other universities, including Harvard University, Yale University and the University of Pennsylvania use the survey.
The Sexual Assault Working Group and a misconduct climate survey working group tailored the survey specifically to be used at Georgetown.
University President John J. DeGioia stressed the importance in assuring that as many students as possible respond to the survey.
“I wish to thank all of our students who have contributed to this survey, and I would like to encourage all students who have not yet taken it to participate over the next two weeks,” DeGioia wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Every response gives us important insights into how we can shape our ongoing efforts to build an environment where everyone can thrive.”
The survey has an average 19 percent participation rate among participating schools. Harvard had a 53 percent participation rate when it took the survey, Yale had 52 percent, the University of Pennsylvania had 27 percent, Brown University had 36 percent and the University of Arizona had 8 percent.
The School of Foreign Service holds the highest participation rate among Georgetown schools, with participation from 50 percent of its students. Georgetown’s Graduate School of Arts and Sciences holds the lowest participation rate at around 13 percent as of Jan. 28.
Only 16.3 percent of McDonough School of Business undergraduate students have taken the survey, while 32.9 percent of students in the College and 43 percent of students in the School of Nursing and Health Studies have taken the survey.
Kilkenny, who previously served as the university’s Title IX coordinator and on the Sexual Assault Working Group, said it would be difficult to predict the final participation rate.
“We have never collected this kind of data so it is hard to say what the impact of participation will be when the survey closes on Feb. 15,” Kilkenny wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Reaching this aspirational goal [of 50 percent] as a campus, or among the representative sample, will be tremendously helpful to our work.”
Georgetown University Student Association Secretary Maddy Moore (SFS ’17), who is also a member of the Sexual Assault Working Group, said that even though the school is falling short of the 50 percent participation rate, the survey has still done well.
“We were obviously shooting for something higher than the national average, so I’m glad that we’ve surpassed it, but it would be great if we got more people to participate and it would be great if we could break 50 percent,” Moore said.
Kilkenny said she is hopeful that the final participation rate will climb.
“Given that we have extended the survey by a week and that it takes most students less than 20 minutes to complete the survey, I am hopeful our undergraduate, graduate and professional students and their allies will rally to make sure as many people as possible participate in the next two weeks to give us the most data,” Kilkenny wrote.
The university has employed various marketing strategies to encourage student participation, including hanging posters around campus and encouraging clubs to email their members. GUSA has also started advertising in the past week.
Moore said student marketing has helped the participation rate.
“I think that student drives towards the marketing effort has made a difference,” Moore said. “I think sometimes people have seen all these posters and gotten emails that can be very passive, whereas hearing from students they start to realize why this survey is something that they should participate in.”
Health Education Services is also offering walk-in sessions for students who want support in the vicinity while taking the survey.
Moore said she hopes all students will realize the importance of participating.
“What I’ve been telling people is really urging them that sexual violence is a community issue, it’s something that impacts the entire community, you might not know it, but it can impact your roommate, it can impact a loved one, someone on your floor, and it’s something that we should all work toward ending and raising awareness around,” Moore said.
According to GUSA President Joe Luther (COL ’16), it is important for as many students as possible to participate in order to ensure the survey’s accuracy.
“That survey is critical for years to come in terms of informing how we talk about sexual assault policy and how the campus climate is. So, the more responses we get, the more accurate this can be,” Luther said.
Francesca Sacchi (COL ’18) said she has not taken the survey because of its length.
“It takes half an hour and I could be doing homework and other stuff at that time,” Sacchi said. “They advertised it for 15 minutes, but then it took people 25. My friends have done it.”
According to Kilkenny, the survey has taken an average of 20 minutes.
Marjorie Fuchs (COL ’16) said she took the survey to help make a difference.
“I took the survey because I thought sexual assault is an extremely important issue on campus and I thought that it was really important to have my own voice and the voices of my peers heard to make a difference in something that is often seen as taboo,” Fuchs said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 2, 2016 by Lisa Burgoa Leave a Comment 
A group that backed a $10 million gift to Georgetown University in January has been linked with slavery and human trafficking in the Thai fishing industry, according to a report by the Guardian newspaper, prompting concern among students.
The Charoen Pokphand Group, a Thai conglomerate, created the Hong Kong-based Spring Breeze Foundation in 2015 in order to expedite its charitable donation process. The foundation announced Jan. 14 that it would donate $10 million over 10 years to the university for the creation of an Initiative for U.S.-China Dialogue on Global Issues.
A 2014 investigation conducted by the Guardian newspaper found that the CP Group fed its shrimp with fishmeal supplied by fishing trawlers operated with slave labor.
In a 2014 Guardian editorial responding to the investigation, CP Foods Chairman Dhanin Chearavanont condemned slavery in the Thai fishing industry and emphasized the corporation’s commitment to combatting the use of slave labor in food production. According to the editorial, the CP Group eliminated suppliers suspected of human trafficking or slavery involvement. The Group also said it would conduct an audit on its suppliers and assist law enforcement authorities in these investigations.
“Through our research and development of alternative protein sources, CPF could walk away from fishmeal,” Chearavanont wrote. “However, doing so would shift the problem to the fishing industry, which is mostly comprised of fishermen earning their living in legal ways. The products of the fishing boats involved in human trafficking and slavery will continue to be purchased by other factories, and the issues around slavery will remain unchanged.”
The CP Group’s production accounts for 10 percent of the 50,000 tons of shrimp annually exported from Thailand and sold to foreign retailers such as Wal-mart and Costco.
The report described the experiences of Burmese and Cambodian migrants coerced into human trafficking rings.
“Men who managed to escape from boats supplying CP Foods and other companies like it told the Guardian of horrific conditions, including 20-hour shifts, regular beatings, torture and execution-style killings,” the Guardian reported June 10.
Shang Zhang (GRD ’11), an investment manager for CP Group’s subsidiary CT Bright Holdings, stressed the measures taken by the corporation to combat human trafficking. The CP Group founded the Shrimp Sustainable Supply Chain Task Force in 2014, which seeks to eliminate forced labor from Thailand’s seafood industry.
“CP is actively doing the right things in addressing the issue and improving the local context instead of walking away and shirking responsibility,” Zhang wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Vice President of Global Affairs Thomas Banchoff said that although the university was aware of the claims before accepting the gift, it was satisfied with the CP Group’s response to the slavery allegations.
“In our background research we examined a June 2014 report of slave labor on some of the fishing boats in CP Food’s shrimp industry supply chain,” Banchoff wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We were reassured by the CP Group’s immediate response to the report – to reiterate its opposition to all aspects of human trafficking and slavery and to invite independent NGOs to routinely audit its suppliers.”
Celeste Chen (COL ’14, GRD ’17) was among a group of current Georgetown students who first called attention to the potential unethical practices of the donor group in a letter to The Hoya. Chen drew parallels between Georgetown’s acceptance of the donation and the renaming of McSherry and Mulledy Halls last November in light of lingering racial sensitivities associated with their namesakes’ involvement with slavery.
“The fact that we’re now accepting money that is connected and supported by a company that not only runs modern-day slavery, but also has acknowledged it and said that it can’t really do anything to stop it because it is what it is, is just incredibly hypocritical,” Chen said. “It needs to be re-examined, like what our motives are and if we really learned anything from the fact that we decided to rename the residence halls. Did we learn anything from the media coverage, from the student sit-ins, did the administration actually consider that?”
Chen also questioned whether the CP Group’s link to the Chinese government as its first foreign investor threatens the autonomy of the initiative’s research. However, Banchoff said that academic independence is a foundational aspect of the new program.
“Georgetown maintains full independence to manage the initiative consistent with our mission and values– a principle that the donor fully acknowledges,” Banchoff wrote. “Independence is one of four foundational principles for the initiative, alongside transparency, balance and academic excellence. All four are designed to ensure that the initiative upholds academic freedom and promotes the open exchange of ideas.”
Amin Gharad (COL ’16), former president of Georgetown’s chapter of Amnesty International, said the university should examine the moral implications of accepting the gift.
“If these things are true, those are serious moral considerations that need to be looked at if the university decides to go through with this [initiative],” Gharad said. “From what I know, this is a very serious thing that should be investigated, and if it’s found to be true, I would like to think the very least you could do is not participate and not give any credence to the immoral activities of these human trafficking syndicates.”
Gharad said he is weary of the selective outrage that accompanies human rights abuses.
“When these things happen in Nigeria or in Iraq at the hands of groups that are enemies of the state and rightfully so, we have no problem not only condemning it but also taking deliberate action to have nothing to do with it in terms of incentivizing it,” Gharad said. “I don’t see why this would be any different, considering it was done under the auspices of the Thai government or a big fancy corporation that has billions and billions of dollars just turning a blind eye.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 2, 2016 by Ian Scoville 1 Comment 
Since running and winning Georgetown University Student Association’s first satirical campaign, GUSA President Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Vice President Connor Rohan (COL ’16) have sought to create a more representative and open GUSA while pursuing a series of specific initiatives focusing on sexual assault and mental health policy.
The Luther-Rohan administration had both the largest and most representative cabinet in history, with 67 cabinet members. In creating the cabinet, Luther and Rohan approached student groups representing students who were typically not involved in GUSA and had open applications.
Luther and Rohan advanced a series of sexual assault and mental illness initiatives during their term. In September of this year, GUSA reached a memorandum of understanding with the administration to address issues of sexual assault on campus, including implementing a campus-wide survey on Georgetown’s sexual misconduct climate and expediting the hiring of a dedicated Title IX coordinator.
In January, the GUSA Mental Health Committee launched Project Lighthouse, a project that will implement a peer-to-peer online chat for Georgetown students to anonymously discuss mental health problems with trained supporters.
The Luther-Rohan administration made progress in other policy areas too. The GUSA Campus Plan Subcommittee launched “Let’s Not Get Screwed Again,” an online petition calling for greater student voice in the campus master-planning process, last March.
Progress on the campus plan has been made since the petition’s launch. The university appointed Advisory Neighborhood Commissioners Kendyl Clausen (SFS ’16) and Reed Howard (SFS ’17) as representatives on the Georgetown Community Partnership Steering Committee in July to serve alongside Luther. On Jan. 22, the Committee agreed to expedite the creation of a draft campus plan to allow greater opportunity for student input.
In an interview with The Hoya, Luther and Rohan discussed their experience leading GUSA and their thoughts on GUSA moving forward.
As a collective administration and as individuals, what are you most proud of from your term?
Luther: I guess what I’m most proud of what we’ve done is a lot of the messaging that we’ve been able to get across. When we ran, we ran simply on “we are just [interacting with students] a different way,” and I think by now speaking towards the end of it we’ve come a long way in terms of changing how GUSA interacts and engages with the student body. So I know that’s kind of intangible, and I can talk about policy stuff too, but I think what we ran on and what I most enjoyed about this is being able to have fun with it and reach people in a different way.
Rohan: Probably the piece of policy I’m most proud of is the sexual assault MOU, which was really big. But I think, I don’t know, I have my personal things, the fact that I even just got through it is incredible.
Luther: The fact we’re still alive!
Rohan: The fact that I’m still alive, yeah. Our work on campus planning has been pretty exceptional, I think.
Luther: Campus planning we’ve made a lot of great strides in. We’ve spent so much time on it. But also things like Project Lighthouse, I think there’s a really a cool future for that.
Your mental health and sexual assault platforms were initially your only formal policies. Have you made the progress you hoped for in these areas? What more is there to do?

Rohan: I said this to somebody in our midterm meeting who took it very much the wrong way, so I’m going to say it again because I was right. No one will ever be satisfied no matter what. So we’ve made some great progress and I think some necessary progress. The thing is, there’s always more to be done. You can’t do it all at once, you can’t expect two people to come in and revolutionize the world because there are real constraints financially, and at times you do experience just a general unwillingness to move forward with certain issues, because they always have to be weighed against everything else. It’s all coming from a few pools of money. So we always want to expand resources, and, of course, more resources are always a positive thing, but I don’t think there’s any point where we can say we’re absolutely positively satisfied, and this is the end.
Luther: I don’t think there’s any way we could have solved it in one year, and I don’t think this is going to be solved for many years to come.
Rohan: It’ll never be solved, no one’s ever going to be like, “uh, we’re good!” No one, ever, even if it’s as close as it’s going to get to perfect, people will not be satisfied.
Luther: I guess that we’re working in a large, cumbersome bureaucracy, and so there’s just so many meetings and holdups that you essentially can’t get around, and so I think we did as best we could to keep things moving.
Rohan: I think we did a damn good job, too.
As a collective administration and as individuals, what are your biggest regrets from your term?

Luther: I guess my biggest regret is that we stopped being true to ourselves, at least at the beginning. I think we were overwhelmed with the amount we had to learn and the institutional knowledge that we just didn’t have. And so a lot of what we did at the beginning was just playing catch-up, and I think we got too wrapped up in that, and that ultimately detracted from the reason why we were elected, which was to create a student government that is fun, that is down-to- earth and that communicates in a way that is unorthodox but that gets information across.
Rohan: And I think we eventually got to that point as well as we can. But the first half was very policy-oriented, very much like any GUSA leadership. We were probably a little more aggressive with things than a lot of other GUSA leadership has been in the past just because we had that wiggle room and we could kind of grow in somewhat unorthodox ways. But, yeah, the first half was not fun.
Have you satisfied your goal of creating a GUSA that represents all students?

Rohan: That’s been very difficult because we tried our best and to a certain extent, it’s not GUSA that’s preventing the organization from being totally inclusive and totally representative. Because our first few weeks what we did was we went into a ton of cultural groups, groups of people of color, and said, “please, please, apply, apply.” And we just did not get the number of apps that we were hoping for. It’s certainly a much more inclusive and diverse cabinet than any administration’s had in the past. But it’s not perfectly representative yet. And we opened up applications in a way that’s never been done before because people just come in with their cabinets set, and we didn’t have that at all. We had us and a chief of staff, and we opened it up, and we lobbied, lobbied, lobbied, lobbied, lobbied these organizations, which we hoped would have a greater interest. And a lot of people did apply and a lot of people did get positions. But is it representative? No. Did we try our best and could we have tried harder? No.
Luther: That sums it up. I’m not sure you’ll ever get to a student government that totally represents Georgetown but at the same time we had a couple weeks where we did our absolute best to reach out to different groups that are not historically involved with GUSA, and I think we were disappointed that we didn’t get a higher response.
Your GUSA cabinet was the biggest and most representative in history. Looking back, would you create such a large cabinet again? Was it effective?

Rohan: Parts of it were. Parts of it were not. The way that I like to think about it is it’s like sifting for gold in a lot of ways. Because some people just did drop off. But some people are really, really hard workers. And we have a lot of really hard workers. So you’ve just got to find the golden nuggets. But I don’t think there were any drawbacks to having such a large cabinet. Maybe it made it a little more impersonal for people, but at the end of the day having that many people meant that we’re going to have a good number of very dedicated, very knowledgeable, very passionate people in the room. And I think we definitely have that. We have a lot of those people in our cabinet.
Luther: Looking back on it, I think what’s more important than the size of the cabinet is cultivating a group dynamic and a team environment. And because we came in with no experience we were, again, walking on eggshells essentially. So we tried to look for the people that we thought are the leaders in their fields for this area, and kind of let them do their thing, let them spread their wings. That’s what we thought would be the most effective way to get the best results out of our cabinet. But I think [that was discounted slightly] by not creating a stronger dynamic and a team environment, and a family feel essentially working towards a shared vision.
What are your plans for after Georgetown?
Rohan: We want to do TV writing.
Luther: We want to be comedy writers. Do you know anyone in comedy writing? I think we’re very nontraditional in that aspect of what we want to do, too. I think this job is great if you’re looking to go into business or law school. I don’t know if it was super helpful for us on that front, on a professional front.
Rohan: I feel like I gained some skills through it, though.
Luther: Gained some skills, got some cool experiences. Cost a lot of time, though.
Rohan: I feel like I’m more focused and … I’m more confident about certain things.
Luther: I feel like I speak a different language now.
Rohan: A language that we’ll never use.
Luther: Bureaucrat talk.
What advice will you be giving your successors in the transition meeting?
Luther: Our biggest lesson is to be down-to-earth, at the end of the day this is just student government. And going back to what I said earlier, make it fun for the people involved. Really try to cultivate that team feel. But also don’t be exclusive. Find the balance.
Rohan: Don’t take yourself seriously, because if you do that, everyone’s going to hate you. The worst people in GUSA are the people who take themselves really seriously. The people who are just administrators in training. Sometimes they can be the most effective, though, but the worst to work with. They’re going to know exactly who they are as soon as they read that!
[…] Nice Q&A with the Georgetown University student president and vice-president. […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 2, 2016 by Aly Pachter Leave a Comment 
Dean of the School of Foreign Service in Qatar Gerd Nonneman will step down as dean at the end of his term in June, as announced by University President John DeGioia in an email to the Georgetown community sent Jan. 29. Senior Associate Dean of the School of Foreign Service James Reardon-Anderson will replace Nonneman and serve from July 2016 to July 2018.
Nonneman has served as the dean of SFS-Q since 2011, prior to which he served as director of the Institute of Arab and Islamic Studies and the Center for Gulf Studies at the University of Exeter. Nonneman also formally served as executive director of the British Society for Middle Eastern Studies and is a councilmember of the World Congress for Middle Eastern Studies.
He will return to the SFS-Q faculty as a professor of international relations and Gulf studies. Nonneman was unavailable for comment at press time.
DeGioia expressed his gratitude for Nonneman’s work as dean in his statement to the Georgetown community.
“During his time as dean, he increased the number of students and faculty on our GU-Q campus, supported the research of our faculty and enriched our engagement with Qatari society and culture,” DeGioia wrote in the email sent to the university community. “We are deeply grateful for the service and leadership he has provided our community, and we look forward to honoring his tenure as dean later this year.”
Reardon-Anderson, who played an instrumental role in the development of SFS-Q during his tenure as founding dean, has served as a member of the Georgetown faculty since 1985, first as director of Asian studies from 1992 to 1995 and then as director of the Master of Science in Foreign Service from 2002 to 2005. Reardon-Anderson will serve for two years rather than the standard five-year term while an international search is conducted for a future dean, according to DeGioia’s email.
Reardon-Anderson became interim SFS dean in November 2013 after Dean Carol Lancaster (SFS ’64) stepped down after being diagnosed with a brain tumor. Lancaster passed away Oct. 22, 2014 at the age of 72.
Reardon-Anderson remained SFS dean until 2015 when a committee formed by DeGioia selected Joel Hellman as SFS dean.
Hellman said that although Georgetown will be losing a passionate professor, the Doha, Qatar campus will gain a dean dedicated to SFS-Q. Hellman highlighted Reardon-Anderson’s continued relationship with SFS-Q even as he remained in D.C.
“He’s been a part of SFS-Q for so many years and I think he’s really been an integral part of SFS-Q,” Hellman said. “Even over the last year, he was serving as the SFS-Q liaison here on campus. So, he’s always kept one very important foot on the ground in Qatar and Doha because that’s where, I think, his passion has been.”
Hellman predicted that despite the leadership transition, students at SFS-Q will not experience any major changes.
“Both Dean Nonneman and Dean Reardon-Anderson know the place extremely well, have been an important part of its path over the last ten years,” Hellman said. “I suspect that Dean Reardon-Anderson will continue a lot of the work that he first started when he was dean and that Dean Nonneman continued when he took over.”
Provost Robert Groves agreed that the Qatar campus is prepared for the change in administration and added that the transition will allow for new possibilities for the school.
“Deans at Georgetown are appointed for five-year terms. School administration and faculty processes are designed for rotation of deans keyed to the five-year term,” Groves wrote in an email to The Hoya. “With all the changes in deans there are opportunities for new initiatives for the school.”
Reardon-Anderson said that although personal reasons led him to leave SFS-Q, he has always felt an attachment to Doha.
“I was the first dean and I really enjoyed it,” Reardon-Anderson said. “I had to come home for personal reasons, my parents were not well, and I’ve always wanted to go back. This is an opportunity to go back so that’s why I’m going. I really like the place, I like the school, I like the kids. I’m looking forward to it.”
Reardon-Anderson went on to describe the differences between SFS-Q and SFS on the Hilltop, emphasizing the close-knit nature of the Doha community.
“The relations between the faculty and the students are much closer, I think because it’s a smaller place. The student body is much more cosmopolitan, it’s a much more international, diverse student body,” Reardon-Anderson said. “All in all, it’s a really good experience for the students that have been there.”
Office of the President Chief of Staff Joseph Ferrara expressed gratitude to both Nonneman and Reardon-Anderson.
“We are very grateful to both Gerd Nonneman for all he has done to lead our Doha campus since 2011, and to Jim Reardon-Anderson for agreeing to serve as our new dean there, starting this July,” Ferrara wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Hellman stressed the importance of Nonneman’s legacy at SFS-Q.
“I think that Dean Nonneman did a really fabulous job in Doha and I think that we all really appreciate all of the effort, enthusiasm, dynamism he brought to SFS-Q,” Hellman said.
Hellman emphasized Nonneman’s passion for scholarship, a field to which he is returning.
“I understand his desire to go back to teaching and research because he was and remains a really strong scholar of the Middle East,” Hellman said. “That’s why we were so excited to recruit him to SFS-Q. So, he’s going back to his scholarship and I’m sure that he’s going to continue to play a really big role in SFS-Q as a senior faculty member and as an important scholar in that area. We really do appreciate all the work that he did.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 2, 2016 by Syed Humza Moinuddin Leave a Comment 
Former Pakistani Ambassador to the United States Husain Haqqani advocated for an overhaul of ideologies and paradigms within Pakistan, including the ways Pakistanis study and learn their history as well as their relationship with Islam, in a panel discussion titled “Reimagining Pakistan” held in the Mortara Center for International Studies on Wednesday.
Along with Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani, a member of the ruling Qatari royal family, Professor in the History of Islam Tamara Sonn and Professor Christine Fair, the ambassador highlighted ways to confront the ideologies fueling instability within Pakistan and the surrounding region.
Haqqani was exiled from Pakistan in 1999 following his criticisms against the government. He then taught as a professor at Boston University from 2004 to 2008 before serving as Pakistan’s Ambassador to the U.S. in 2008. He resigned after pressure from officials in Pakistan, who alleged the ambassador attempted to solicit support from the U.S. military if a military coup took place in Pakistan. He left Pakistan in 2012 and has not returned since.
Haqqani’s remarks first focused on the ways extreme Islamic ideology continues to plague Pakistan’s own population as well as the country’s stability.
Haqqani said Islam — once a uniting force following Pakistan’s independence in 1947 — has been utilized by leaders in Pakistan to exert control over regions and ethnic groups within the nation.
“Islamic ideology has been used essentially to be able to perpetuate the ethnic domination of groups instead of uniting a federation of partners,” Haqqani said. “Pakistan needs to morph into a more fair federation that accepts its diversity instead of insisting that we will try to create one nation by enforcing everything from the top.”
Many minority groups within the country have suffered from such domination, particularly Ahmadi Muslims. Ahmadis belong to a specific sect of Islam, but officials within Pakistan consistently oppress the group. When filing official documentation, other Pakistanis are required to denounce Ahmadis as well.
“Every Pakistani who applies for a passport as a Muslim, in order to perform a pilgrimage to Mecca, is required to sign a declaration that disavows Ahmadi beliefs and disavows them as Muslims,” Haqqani said. “Instead of uniting, [religion] has become a divisive factor.”
Later in the discussion, Sonn noted Haqqani’s desire to see religious ideology move out of the Pakistani legislature. She raised questions as to whether it was Islam itself that contributed to the suffering of minorities or if it was the way religion played out in public discussion.
“In particular, your proposition is that it is very important for Pakistan to give up its ideological paradigm when it comes to [Islam],” Sonn said. “Could it not be said that there would be a reimagining of public discourse about Islam [instead]?
Haqqani said the Pakistani state continues to see competition with India as one of the primary purposes of its existence. He argued that the government and leaders are obsessed with establishing dominance over India, though such thinking is unsustainable.
“Does [Pakistan] want to be a country that derives its pride from the size of its nuclear arsenal, or are we going to derive pride from having a nation that actually looks after its people?” Haqqani asked. “Pakistan cannot achieve any of that until it ends this perennial competition it has with our much larger neighbor [India].”
Fair reiterated this point during her own remarks. She said it is important to explore how to deal with such misbeliefs and fallacies in light of the Internet, journalism and public discourse.
“Pakistani textbooks and media keep claiming that India has started every war and Pakistan has won every war,” Fair said. “So what accounts for this enduring accumulation of fiction that so many Pakistanis rehearse in their curriculum and elsewhere as fact, despite empiricism? How do you puncture the bubble of nonsense?”
One method for changing such views and ideology lies in revisiting the ways Pakistanis are taught about their history and their national identity. Haqanni advocated for changing the ways Pakistani citizens view themselves in relation to the world.
“The reimagined Pakistan would tell our young people that you are Pakistanis because you were born in a country called Pakistan … Surely Pakistan can revisit its own history and say ‘We did something wrong somewhere and this is how we can change it’ and that is what I think is needed,” Haqqani said.
Moez Hayat (SFS ’19), who is ethnically Pakistani and attended the event, said the ambassador’s comments reflected ideas that were too dismissive of the idea of Islam as a uniting force.
“As a Pakistani and as a Muslim, I found this conversation interesting, but unhelpful at its best and insulting at its worst,” Hayat said. “While everyone agrees many of Pakistan’s problems lie with its military and security institutions, the idea that Pakistan as an idea should be changed is laughable.”
Hayat said instead that Islam should be a unifying factor in Pakistan.
“No matter how many times it fails, the actual idea of Pakistan will always be just,” Hayat said. “The idea of Pakistan as a state based in Islam is part of the solution, not part of the problem. The idea of Pakistan may need repair, but it does not need to be reimagined.”
Ali Rehman (COL ’17) also disagreed with some of Haqqani’s specific ideas, though she said she appreciated his efforts to spur progressive thinking among Pakistani communities both in America and in Pakistan.
“He presented a more progressive view, something a lot of my friends [from Pakistan] discuss here in the U.S.,” Rehman said. “While some of his viewpoints may not be agreeable, they are still good starting ground for the future of Pakistan and the improvement of the [Pakistani] people.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 2, 2016 by William Zhu Leave a Comment 
Former Governor of Utah and U.S. Ambassador to China Jon Huntsman promoted a bipartisan approach to resolving foreign and domestic issues to a crowd of about 80 people in Old North Thursday.
Huntsman, who serves as the national co-chair of No Labels, an organization dedicated to bipartisan engagement and solution-building, was hosted by No Labels Georgetown along with the Institute of Politics and Public Service, College Republicans and the International Relations Club.
Huntsman began the discussion by emphasizing the ever-increasing levels of gridlock in U.S. politics. Huntsman said future generations need to resolve gridlock in order for the government to become more effective.
“My generation has brought you gridlock. And I feel badly about that,” Huntsman said. “Your generation is going to have to bring us problem solving and that means crossing the impenetrable divides of politics and anything else you want to throw between humankind.”
No Labels Georgetown President Max Rosner (COL ’18) led the conversation with Huntsman and focused on foreign policy and the Islamic State group.
“How can our leaders begin to forge a bipartisan strategy to deal with this problem and what might that strategy look like?” Rosner asked.
Huntsman advocated for increasing educational opportunities, believing that learning institutions are vital to changing violent ideologies.
“How do you change the hearts and minds of people who have fallen into radicalization?” Hunstman asked. “I only know one way; it is called education. You open the doors of institutions like this one, like other great institutions of higher learning in the world.”
Huntsman also addressed rhetoric from the 2016 Republican presidential primaries, arguing that candidates’ statements on fighting terrorism are detrimental to the country as a whole.
“We are not going to make the sand glow in the dark, we are not going to carpet bomb people. This is just nonsense that does no good whatsoever for this country of 320 million great people,” Huntsman said.
Huntsman also emphasized the importance of bipartisanship in his own life. A Republican, Huntsman served as ambassador to China from 2009 to 2011 under President Barack Obama.
“It is always America first. It is not your party first — it is American first,” Huntsman said.
Huntsman added that the mission of No Labels embodies the direction U.S. politics should follow.
“We are trying to move the nation[al] debate from anger, acrimony and finger-pointing to problem solving,” Huntsman said.
No Labels aims to have all presidential candidates sign the Problem Solver Promise, agreeing to help find bipartisan solutions to one of four goals, including the creation of 25 million jobs over ten years, securing Socia Security and Medicare for 75 years, balancing the federal budget by 2050 and securing U.S. energy by 2024.
“Within thirty days of getting elected president of the United States, you will meet a bipartisan group of leaders from Capitol Hill and you will choose one of the four silos around the National Strategic Agenda and you will lead out and make it happen,” Huntsman said.
Huntsman said that he predicts deep divisions to form among Republicans, potentially leading  to the formation of a new party.
“We are drifting today and I think we are seeing fissures within the party that have created the rise of populism,” Huntsman said. “It is as if you are seeing a new party being born even as we sit here tonight.”
Huntsman warned that the current state of campaign finance is destroying the trust that citizens have in representatives and encouraged reform.
“We’ve got to ameliorate the trust deficit, because in the long-term campaign finance and gerrymandering is corrosive,” Huntsman said. “We can tinker around all day and let that metastasize and kill the body politic or we can say ‘instead of complaining, instead of cutting somebody else down, we are going to step up and find a solution.’”
Huntsman also stressed the importance of environmental protection and conservation, acknowledging that conservation was originally a core Republican tenant dating back to former President Theodore Roosevelt’s term.
“It ain’t the party of Roosevelt anymore,” he said.
As the event drew to a close, Huntsman said the nation’s populace needs more confidence to make effective change.
“We have become way too cynical as a people. We’ve lost our blue sky sense of optimism and our can-do spirit,” Huntsman said.
Jenny Liang (SFS ’18) said that she agreed with Huntsman’s promotion of bipartisanship and how such dialogue increases the effectiveness of policy.
“It was great, especially when he talks about No Labels and how bipartisan cooperation between both parties is essential for future American policy both domestic and foreign,” Liang said.
Sami Scheetz (COL ’18) found Huntsman’s views to be a reprieve from politics surrounding the current election cycle.
“What he is saying today really resonated with what I think and is my general opinion of where politics is today,” Scheetz said. “It was very refreshing break from what we have been hearing in the 2016 election year.”
Simon Wu (SFS ’16) admired Huntsman’s proposed policy measures and dedication to bipartisan doctrine.
“I have always been a huge fan of Jon Huntsman and I think that it is incredible that everything that comes out of his mouth is so reasonable and measured and that’s something that does not exist anymore in sufficient quantity in government,” Wu said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 2, 2016 by Jack Lynch Leave a Comment 
Students of Georgetown, Inc. and the Georgetown University Alumni and Student Federal Credit Union both selected their new leadership teams for 2016 this past week.
Taylor Tobin (COL ’17) will serve as chief executive officer of The Corp. Chris Grillo (SFS ’17) will serve as chief executive officer of GUASFCU. Both Tobin and Grillo will begin their terms in early March.
Joining Tobin on The Corp’s leadership team will be Chief Financial Officer Katie Smith (MSB ’18) and Chief Operating Officer Alex Donovan (SFS ’17). The leadership team of Tobin, Smith and Donovan is the first all-female executive team in Corp history.
Samin Rai (MSB ’17) has been appointed as COO of GUASFCU and Tony Pezzullo (MSB ’17) has been made CFO, joining eight other members on the board of directors.
GUASFCU introduced a new leadership position this year: chief strategy officer. Ashish Pandya (MSB ’18) will be the first GUASFCU intern to hold the position, which will focus on mapping out GUASFCU’s long-term goals and expanding the credit union’s outlook past the four-year undergraduate period.
Pandya said the position will help GUASFCU plan for the future.
“Ideally, the addition of the CSO spot to the board will really help with continuity and knowledge transfer,” Pandya said.
Tobin joined The Corp in the fall of her sophomore year, shortly after transferring to Georgetown from New York University. Tobin started out as a barista in Uncommon Grounds and soon branched out to other parts of the company.
Over the past year and a half, Tobin has worked shifts at other Corp storefronts, including The Hilltoss and Vital Vittles, and has worked with The Corp’s marketing department. Tobin is also a part of The Corp’s “Green Team,” a working group of Corp employees that focuses on sustainability issues.
Tobin said she is eager to embrace some of the particularly complicated and unique aspects of a student-run company.
“I think what makes The Corp special is that it’s always going to change, because all of our employees turn over every four years,” Tobin said.
Tobin said she sees her role as facilitating the goals and ambitions of Corp employees, ensuring that they can have a positive impact on the company during their time at Georgetown.
“I think the officers are in this lucky position where we get to talk with all the employees and kind of see where people want to push change towards,” Tobin said.
According to Tobin, The Hilltoss and Kickback are examples of employee-driven projects that have become reality. But while major changes are always possible, Tobin said she and the rest of the new Corp leadership are especially focused on making The Corp’s current services as efficient as possible.
“I think we’re in a position to take a year and really strengthen what we already do, to strengthen our day-to-day and our operations so that we can serve the Georgetown community to the best of our ability,” Tobin said.
Grillo joined GUASFCU as a teller in the fall of his freshman year. After a semester at GUASFCU, Grillo joined the credit department, eventually working his way up to credit chair.
During his time in the credit department, Grillo developed a new product called 3L, a loan program for students transitioning from law school to employment in the workforce.
Grillo’s main goals for the next year are to further expand on some of the credit union’s success in the past year, including expanding GUASFCU’s credit builder program, a secure loan system that helps students build their credit score.
Grillo said he also hopes to increase GUASFCU’s brand awareness among both undergraduate and graduate students.
“Deeper engagement with the community is going to be our first and foremost priority,” Grillo said.
Grillo wants to fully realize GUASFCU’s role in the Georgetown community as both a financial service provider and a philanthropic organization.
“Above all else we’re a not-for-profit that runs like a business. It’s not an investment banking experience and it’s not a common banking experience,” Grillo said.
Pandya, who worked under Grillo in the GUASFCU credit department, said Grillo’s ambition and persistence are evidence of his preparedness for the CEO position.
“He has the ability to think long-term and enact his plans, but I think the most impressive thing on Chris is really his work ethic and his ability to follow through on projects that he helped originate,” Pandya said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 2, 2016 by Tara Subramaniam Leave a Comment 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs Robert McDonald emphasized the need for values-based leadership to find individual and team success to a crowd of about 150 in Gaston Hall on Friday. Former Secretary of Defense and Distinguished Executive in Residence at Georgetown Chuck Hagel introduced McDonald.
“To take the job that Bob McDonald has is not one for timid souls who are concerned about any aspect of themselves, other than they want to make a better world and do as much as they can to contribute to this world,” Hagel said. “I don’t know if he runs the VA but he leads. No one is big enough, smart enough to run any big institution, but you lead institutions.”
McDonald was confirmed by the United States Senate as the eighth Secretary of VA in 2014 following a nomination from President Barack Obama. Prior to becoming a part of the VA, McDonald graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1975 and earned an MBA from University of Utah in 1978.
He joined Procter & Gamble in 1980, a large manufacturer of home and hygiene products, and over the course of decades helped add an additional one billion people to its customer base. He became CEO of P&G in 2009 and retired in 2013 before being nominated to Secretary of VA.
McDonald’s leadership history and experience in the VA is centered on value-driven leadership. McDonald said leadership shapes his everyday work and the goals he strives to achieve.
“When I think about leadership, I think about character and values, and the importance of those values being able to animate what we do,” McDonald said.
To explain his thoughts on values-based leadership, McDonald started by introducing the importance of values and character in Veterans Affairs.
“If you want to understand an organization, you always start with the foundational purpose and values. Not just whether they’re on the wall of the conference room but are the people living that purpose and those values every single day,” McDonald said.
This purpose, he said, is shaped by the events in one’s life. McDonald said it is important for individuals and organizations to get in touch with their education, experiences, culture, family heritage and organizational memberships to develop their own set of beliefs.
McDonald shared his nine leadership beliefs centering on purpose, diversity and accountability in order to illustrate how his values have shaped his actions throughout his personal and professional life.
His first principle emphasized how living a life driven by purpose is more meaningful and rewarding than meandering through life without direction.
“When you’re dying and your loved ones ask if you accomplished your purpose in life, what would you say?” McDonald said.
At P&G, McDonald strove to lead the company with additional purpose by committing to save one life every hour, in any way possible. He also said institutions must do well to do good and must do good to do well.
Another principle emphasized how everyone wants to succeed and success is contagious.
“No one tries to fail, but because we’re time-starved, we end up managing by exception,” McDonald said.
McDonald also argued that putting people in the right jobs is one of the most important roles a leader has. He believes character and taking personal responsibility for the results are the most important traits of an effective leader.
“As a new cadet, you learn that ‘no excuse, sir’ is the most powerful answer in the world because you’re taking responsibility and implicitly taking steps to ensure it never happens again,” McDonald said.
His next principle states that diverse groups of people are more innovative than homogenous groups. However, the difficulty of running a diverse organization means that the Golden Rule, to treat others the way you would like to be treated, does not necessarily apply. Leaders have to follow the Platinum Rule instead, which is to treat others as they want to be treated.
Additionally, McDonald believed ineffective strategies, systems and culture are bigger barriers to achievement than a person’s talent.
“Organizations are perfectly designed to get the results they get,” McDonald said.
McDonald’s final principle of leadership stressed how the true test of a leader isn’t what happens while a leader is in charge but what happens after. He referenced author Jim Collins’ adage, that “leadership is about building a clock rather than telling time.”
In addition to these nine beliefs, McDonald said that he strives to follow a model created at P&G called the 5E’s of leadership: envision, engage, energize, enable and execute.
Attendee Julia Friedmann (SFS ’19) said she was motivated by McDonald’s remarks, noting how his rules for team success can be easily forgotten, but are essential in order to attain consistent achievement.
“I thought it was really inspiring, personally,” Friedmann said. “I think his ‘Platinum Rule’ is what we’re losing in everyday dialogue. I think that’s something I’m going to try and do in my daily life when I’m trying to be a leader with other people.”
Ricard Mondolfi (SFS ’19) said he appreciated the secretary’s honesty, but noted how McDonald did not fit into a stereotypical mold of a politician or a government official.
“First of all, I was extremely impressed by his resume, because I’d heard only negative things about the VA,” Mondolfi said. “It was kind of reassuring to know that we have a guy who is not only a veteran but also incredibly successful in a global company like P&G, of which he was CEO and President.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

