
September 30, 2016 by Alfredo Carrillo Leave a Comment 
For the first time in 45 years, Umberto “Suru” Ripai, a food and service worker at Leo O’Donovan Hall, may return to his hometown in South Sudan, thanks to a fundraiser set up by Unsung Heroes, a Facebook page that spotlights workers at Georgetown.
Two hundred and ninety-two people have donated more than $5,070 to the GoFundMe campaign, exceeding the campaign’s goal of $2,000, as of press time. Unsung Heroes created the campaign Sept. 27, after the page featured an interview with Ripai.
Last week, Unsung Heroes also announced that it has partnered with Students of Georgetown, Inc. this semester to create projects to help give back to campus workers.
Unsung Heroes Founder Febin Bellamy (MSB ’17) said the partnership, which was announced in a Facebook post last week, will facilitate the vision he had when he extended the initiative beyond a class project. Bellamy originally created Unsung Heroes last April to raise awareness and support for workers on campus.
Unsung Heroes has pursued a variety of initiatives since launching in April, from hosting appreciation luncheons organized with The Corp to writing thank-you cards with philanthropy group GIVES.
Unsung Heroes helped Oneil Batchelor, a building maintenance worker, start his own catering business by raising $2,500 and hosting him at a large catering event on campus.
“I never felt so appreciated,” Batchelor said. “The students showed me so much love.”
Bellamy said that while his project was originally intended to document university workers’ stories, he now aims to incite social change through activism.
“People can easily share a story [on Facebook],” Bellamy said. “Students are now understanding that these people are human beings, but we want [them] to get involved, [to] go out of their way to think about these unsung heroes.”
Bellamy hopes The Corp’s partnership will motivate students to actively support the “unsung heroes” of Georgetown. Even though most of the plans still require further consolidation, Bellamy said students will have opportunities to engage with the organization in November.
“The Corp partnership is something we are looking forward to because it will help us work with the students to really give back to the workers,” Bellamy said.
Bellamy said he is now considering the work that the organization can achieve with the support of the largest student-run nonprofit in the world.
“This is much more structured,” Bellamy said. “Before, it was different events where we would come together, now it’s an official partnership.”
Both groups plan on extending their work beyond a proposed “appreciation month.” Ideas such as care packages and discounts for unsung heroes would eventually give way to initiatives that seek to engage even more students.
According to Corp Service and Outreach Chair Agnes Lee (SFS ’17), The Corp’s leadership is considering featuring physical depictions of Unsung Heroes stories at storefronts for all students to see.
Former Corp Social Impact Chair Harrison Williams (COL ’16) — who helped kickstart the partnership — said he believed the project would bring a type of social entrepreneurship he thought Georgetown was lacking, while benefiting The Corp’s business interests.
“It allows The Corp to use its resources to address different issues taking place in the Georgetown community,” he said. “It contributes to the issue of worker’s rights, which should be taken pretty seriously.”
Lee said this is an opportunity to mobilize the entire Corp community under a single purpose.
“Past service efforts, we’ve done a good job of engaging individual services,” Lee said. “This initiative is so special because it is Corp-wide.”
Lee said she hopes the program will acquaint the workers with the wide array of services The Corp offers and how they can benefit from them.
“Our motto is ‘Students serving students,’ but we [as] students get served by the facilities workers, and we really benefit from their work,” Lee said. “It forms our identity as a whole as The Corp. Students who serve students serving the facility workers who work hard for us.”
Bellamy said he is also considering expanding Unsung Heroes to other college campuses and converting the Georgetown group into a chapter of a larger organization.
“We realized this is a problem, not just with Georgetown, but other schools,” Bellamy said. “There are unsung heroes in every school.”
Bellamy is currently working with American University and The George Washington University, in hopes that more chapters would open in the Washington, D.C. region. He said he would personally spearhead these efforts, even beyond graduation.
“This project has taught me that everyone has a story, no matter who you are or where you come from, we all have stories that connect us together,” Bellamy said. “Even though you may not be from the same socioeconomic or cultural background as the person next to you, you still have stories that you can share together. There’s emotion that ties you together.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 30, 2016 by Aly Pachter Leave a Comment 

Georgetown was abuzz with belated Olympic fever Wednesday when more than 500 Olympians and Paralympians came together in McDonough Arena for the first time since the conclusion of the 2016 Summer Olympic and Paralympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, for the Team USA Awards.
The ceremony also served as a homecoming for three alumni who participated in the Olympic or Paralympic Games: track and field Olympian Emily Infeld (MSB ’12), Paralympic swimmer Michelle Konkoly (COL ’14) and Olympic sailor Charlie Buckingham (COL ’11).
The United States Olympic Committee recognized outstanding performances by individual athletes and teams in six categories during the ceremony, which is set to air Oct. 4 on NBC Sports Network.
In addition to the awards ceremony in McDonough Arena, the night featured a two-hour red carpet athlete procession and an after-party in the Healey Family Student Center. The award ceremony, hosted by Akbar Gbajabiamila and Matt Iseman from NBC’s series “American Ninja Warrior,” featured prominent guests including Secretary of State John Kerry and Olympian Carl Lewis.
Around 100 students were granted tickets to the red carpet and 100 to the awards ceremony. The university distributed tickets Monday on a lottery system basis.
The red carpet also featured performances by the Georgetown Pep Band and the Georgetown cheerleading team. The student section, which was located on one side of the red carpet, cheered as each of the athletes stepped out of buses and onto the red carpet.
For each award, every National Governing Body and High Performance Management Organization in the United States was invited to nominate one female, one male and one team. Winners were selected through a combination of fan voting and Olympic and Paralympic family voting. The awards selection process attracted around 400,000 votes for finalists.
During his introductory remarks, University President John J. DeGioia referenced his pride in the athletes as well as Georgetown’s opportunity to participate in the event.
“The spirit of seeking excellence, of pursuing your personal best, of exemplifying sportsmanship and of supporting your teams. This is at the heart of the Olympic and Paralympic games, and it comes alive in each of them,” DeGioia said. “On behalf of our entire Georgetown community, I wish to express how deeply proud we are of your accomplishments, your example, your determination and of your leadership. Congratulations on all you have accomplished. We look forward to celebrating with you tonight.”
Vice President for Public Affairs Erik Smulson emphasized the importance of Georgetown’s own history of Olympic athletes.
“We were honored when the US Olympic Committee asked us to host the Team USA Awards on Georgetown’s campus,” Smulson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We look forward to celebrating the Team USA athletes and their accomplishments and highlighting Georgetown’s own Olympic history and athletes to a national audience.”
In an interview with The Hoya on the red carpet, Infeld said she was happy to be back on campus.
“This is amazing — it’s so fun. I love Georgetown. I’m so nostalgic. I miss it so much. It’s really, really fun being back and exploring,” Infeld said. “I love the culture here and that was one thing that made me want to come to Georgetown. I feel like it made me love it and have such great memories and it’s great to see that that culture is still there.”
Kerry, who led the official U.S. delegation to the Rio Olympics this summer, presented the first award of the night to swimmer Katie Ledecky for Female Athlete of the Olympic Games. Kerry emphasized the strong performances of Team USA’s female athletes.
“As secretary of state, I have been able to participate in some incredible moments, but I have to tell you leading the U.S. Official Delegation to Rio this summer was a really special privilege and I thank you for it. The 2016 American Olympic team was the most successful ever,” Kerry said. “The performance of our women really stood out above all, bringing home 61 medals.”
Before winning the award, Ledecky expressed a similar pride in the women athletes of the U.S. Olympic Team in a red carpet interview with The Hoya.
“It’s a tremendous honor to be nominated with so many fantastic female athletes. I think it was a banner year for Team USA female athletes,” Ledecky said. “I don’t know if I’m going to win, I don’t really care, I’m just proud to have been a part of it. Just to see those athletes here tonight is going to be fun.”
Ledecky, a native of Bethesda, Md., who took classes as an undergraduate at Georgetown last year while she trained for the Olympics, also acknowledged her connection with the school.
“It’s great to be home, it’s great to feel the support. I’ve been around Georgetown my whole life — my mom worked at Georgetown for a while, I have two cousins here, and they’re here tonight,” Ledecky said. “It’s just fun to share it with family and friends and to see everyone.”
The Team of the Olympic Games Award went to the women’s gymnastic team, with four of the so-called Final Five, Simone Biles, Aly Raisman, Laurie Hernandez and Madison Kocian, taking the stage to accept the award. The fifth member of the team, Gabby Douglas, could not attend due to wisdom teeth surgery. Meanwhile, the Team of the Paralympic Games went to the sitting women’s volleyball team, which won its first-ever Paralympic gold medal in Rio.
In an interview with The Hoya before the ceremony, gymnasts Raisman and Hernandez said they were thankful for the student support they witnessed while walking the red carpet.
“It’s really cool. It’s really crazy. We definitely weren’t expecting all the support so it’s really surprising,” Raisman said. “We saw the cheerleading team and all of the athletes so it means a lot to us just because it’s incredible to feel all this support.”
“This is amazing. I knew that we had a lot of support, but it’s cool to see it in person,” Hernandez said.
Kocian said despite the excitement of the night she was most excited to be reunited with her team.
“I’ve been busy starting school so it’s just exciting to be back with the girls. Every time we come back together we’re just so happy to be back together and just share all of our recent memories and experiences and just kind of catch up,” Kocian said. “So I think that will probably be the best part.”
The Male Athlete of the Paralympic Games award went to Paralympic swimmer Brad Snyder. Snyder said he was grateful for the opportunity to celebrate Team USA’s successes with everyone who contributed to them.
“I think coming home and celebrating what we’ve accomplished in Rio together as a team, together as Team USA, means a lot and to be able to celebrate our community in this way is something I’m mindful of,” Snyder said.
The Male Athlete of the Olympic Games award went to Olympic swimmer Michael Phelps, who was attending the Ryder Cup, a golf tournament in Minnesota, and accepted the award via teleconference.
“I want to say what an honor it is to be nominated for this award. I wish I was there with you guys celebrating and hanging out with you all,” Phelps said. “I will see all of you soon.”
In addition to the athlete awards, the women’s water polo team Head Coach Adam Krikorian won the Coach of the Games award after leading the team to its second straight gold medal this summer.
The Building Dreams award, which is given to an individual, group or community that has gone above and beyond to help Team USA went to the North Baltimore Aquatic Club, which placed five swimmers, including Phelps, on the 2016 U.S. Swimming team.
Track and field Paralympic athlete Tatyana McFadden collected the award for Female Athlete of the Paralympic Games.
New to the awards this year was the inaugural Jesse Owens Olympic Spirit award, which is meant to recognize an individual who has served as a force for good in society. Jesse Owens’ granddaughter, Marlene Owens, presented the award, which was posthumously bestowed to Olympic champion boxer Muhammed Ali. His wife, Lonnie Ali, accepted the award on his behalf.
Marlene Owens described the lasting impact her grandfather had on the athletic world, an impact the Jesse Owens Olympic Spirit Award seeks to recognize.
“It celebrates my grandfather, not just for his remarkable athletic accomplishments, but also for the impact he had on changing for a better world. Throughout his life, he used the power of his work to motivate youth,” Marlene Owens said. “His great sense of pride in our family that his life continues to inspire people around the world trying to do their best, even today, 80 years later.”
While accepting the award on her husband’s behalf, Ali stressed the importance of unity despite racial and cultural differences.
“The Olympics are an appreciation of other people and cultures, as we all are humans bound together by our abilities and not torn apart by political differences,” Ali said. “The Summer Games in Rio are a reminder of how great we are together, people of all countries, backgrounds and religions. We appreciate how people can come together to celebrate the things that unite us all.”
Georgetown University Police Department Chief Jay Gruber said despite GUPD’s experience in providing security to high-profile figures, it had never had to secure an event of this magnitude before.
“We’ve never had an event quite this size before with such high-profile people,” Gruber said. “The preparation is different because the amount of people that we had. In this case, we had close to 600 people we had to be concerned about.”
Despite the concerns and the combined 100 GUPD and Metropolitan Police Department officers patrolling the space, Gruber said the event went smoothly and expressed particular satisfaction with the behavior of the attending students.
While presenting the award for Male Athlete of the Paralympic Games, Konkoly expressed happiness at being back at Georgetown to celebrate the 2016 games.
“Thank you so much, it’s so great to drop in on campus, it’s so great seeing my Hoya family and my Team USA family in one place,” Konkoly said.
Hoya Staff Writer Paolo Santamaria contributed reporting
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 30, 2016 by May Teng Leave a Comment 
Recent allegations surrounding the understaffing of facilities workers in the Healey Family Student Center have raised larger concerns from students regarding the treatment of workers on campus.
Continued negotiations between the university and the Service Employees International Union 1199 Union Local, which took place this past Thursday, Tuesday and Wednesday may provide improvements to current standards for workers.
Since the facility opened in September 2014, the Office of Planning and Facilities Management has assigned eight workers to clean the 44,000 square foot building from 5:30 a.m. until opening at 7:00 a.m, according to workers interviewed by The Hoya.
The eight workers who clean the HFSC are also assigned regular night shifts at other buildings, which generally take place from 10:30 p.m. until 5 a.m.
Workers are bargaining for a 5 percent raise to match their workload and to match inflation in the District of Columbia.
Members of the Georgetown Solidarity Committee demonstrated outside of McShain Large Lounge in the McCarthy Residence Hall during negotiations to demonstrate their support.
“As workers were leaving the negotiation room, there was a lot of positive reception,” GSC member Esmeralda Huerta (SFS ’17) said. “It feels like the university is finally listening to us.”
The GSC is pushing for a $15 starting wage, tying yearly raises in pay to inflation and ending understaffing and alleged racism.
According to a night shift worker in the Rafik B. Hariri Building, who asked to remain anonymous, he and his co-workers earn under $15 an hour with a $1 surplus for night workers.
Michael McCannon, a custodian who cleans the HFSC after he cleans the Walsh Building, said the burden of cleaning the building within a short time period poses challenges for the cleaning team.
“I can’t do all the work,” McCannon said. “Some days I fall short.”
McCannon said he and other members of the cleaning staff have communicated their concerns to supervisors during staff meetings, but said management staff have not taken steps to address these concerns.
McCannon said current working conditions are unsustainable.
“They’re not hiring anybody, they’re not raising any wages and they’ve increased our workload,” McCannon said. “We’re being overworked, underpaid, disrespected and not dignified.”
Concerns of understaffing on campus are not unique to the HFSC. One emergency facilities response worker, who asked to remain anonymous for employment reasons, said the campus is understaffed on weekends. While there are four people responsible for responding to emergencies in three campus buildings during weekdays, he is the sole response worker available on call during weekends.
Additionally, the worker said emergency facilities response workers do not have access to transportation and must report to sites by foot, often making it difficult to respond quickly to emergencies.
The night worker stationed at the Rafik B. Hariri Building also said his department is understaffed. The worker said issues related to understaffing have only worsened during his five years on staff.
He also said the wages earned do not correspond to the work demanded. Like McCannon, he said he has tried to express his concerns to supervisors, but has not received a response.
“A lot of the time they avoid us when we try to discuss these things,” he said.
According to the worker at Hariri Building, the relationships between supervisors and workers do not create a positive working environment, with supervisors unfairly dividing overtime work between workers and remaining generally unresponsive to worker concerns.
“When you see your supervisors treating you like you’re nothing, it doesn’t give you the energy to come in,” the worker said. “We love the students, but when you have to deal with reality, it’s back with management. It’s mentally challenging.”
Huerta said she disagrees with Vice President of Planning and Facilities Management Robin Morey’s management strategy.
“What he’s done so far is create a lot of managerial roles, so he’s bringing in people but not people who are on the grounds doing actual work,” Huerta said.
The Hariri night worker said he is disappointed with the disparity between union workers and management staff’s pay.
“If you look at what those guys up there are earning compared to us,” he said, “It’s total disrespect.”
In a statement to The Hoya, the Office of Facilities Management said that Georgetown uses industry standard benchmarks from organizations such as APPA, an educational facilities organization, to determine staffing levels for maintenance and cleaning operations.
Office of Communications Media Relations Manager Ryan King said facilities has filled roughly 20 union represented jobs since January 2016 and continues to post jobs.
King said the addition of the HFSC shifts to workers’ assignments was not expected to place a significant burden on existing staff as it was an incremental increase on existing space being cleaned. The HFSC was previously a dining hall for residents in New South before it was remodeled in 2014.
Additionally, 10 new facilities staff members will be hired as a result of the opening of Pedro Arrupe, S.J. Hall and the Thompson Athletic Center, according to King.
Workers and GSC members both argue for a general need for dignity and respect in the workplace.
“You need to respect your workers,” McCannon said. “You cannot treat them as if they’re your slave or your child.”
Correction: This article previously stated the HFSC cleaning staff were contracted by cleaning firm P&R Enterprises and had signed a contract in June dictating workloads would remain the same; the HFSC cleaning staff are employed directly by the university and the contract does not apply to them. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 30, 2016 by Olivia Chiu Leave a Comment 
The Library of Congress hosted its 16th annual National Book Festival in the Walter E. Washington Convention Center on Sept. 24. The free, public, one-day event boasted book signings by 120 authors spanning across genres, poetry slams, panel discussions and an exposition floor with dozens of booths devoted to family-friendly activities and exhibitions.
Founded by former librarian and First Lady Laura Bush and then-Librarian of Congress James Billington in 2001, the National Book Festival strives to promote literacy as one of the pre-eminent literary festivals in the nation.
Two-time Newbery Award-winning writer Lois Lowry, author of “The Giver” and “Number the Stars,” attested to the festival’s capacity for promoting reading in an increasingly digitized world.
“The festival reminds us, I think, that reading is not an obsolete act, but an ongoingly vital one,” Lowry wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The fact that so many thousands of people came out on a beautiful day to celebrate books—and authors, and reading—that says a lot.”
Best-selling author Geraldine Brooks, who received the 2006 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction for her historical fiction novel “March,” said the event’s vitality was a reassuring sign in a country where illiteracy and apathy remain a pervasive, if underestimated, problem.
“There have been some very compelling presentations about how desperate our predicament is with the illiterate and the aliterate, which are people who can read but don’t read. And if you don’t have reading skills in this day, you will just have such a stunted life,” Brooks said. “It needs to have more of a spotlight on it, so I’m glad that the festival’s really focused on that.”
Library of Congress intern Celine Calpo (COL ’19) skipped Homecoming on campus to volunteer at one of the children’s booths. Calpo currently works at the Young Readers Center, a Library of Congress program designed specifically to promote literacy among children and youth.
“We were mostly entertaining teachers, and we had a huge jar full of book recommendations that were either banned or had some sort of diversity aspect to them; we tried to emphasize nontraditional novels, and a lot of people responded fairly well,” Calpo said. “A lot of the teachers ended up asking for copies of posters that we had of book rankings and recommendations.”
The Library of Congress estimated that around 30,000 people attended the event. Among the attendees were the writers Stephen King, Salman Rushdie and television producer and screenwriter Shonda Rhimes.
Returning festival attendees including Michigan native Heather Mlsna noted some differences from previous years. Mlsna, a self-identified participant in the literary community, flew to Washington, D.C., with her daughter Piper to attend the festival.
“We’ve noticed there seems to be an upgrade in security between last year and this year, and that’s translated to be somewhat more organizational and always a little bit more limiting when there’s something like that,” Mlsna said. “But it’s completely understandable given all of the different challenges we’re facing as a nation right now.”
Her daughter, Piper Mlsna, praised the festival’s unifying of book worms from all over the country.
“I think it’s striving to just have a literary community, a national literary community, and bring together a lot of the best authors that are contemporary authors, and it does a really good job of getting a broad range of genres and people and perspectives,” Piper Mlsna said. “And people that enjoy that kind of medium, the literary medium, all come together and even fly in from different states. I think it does a great job of bringing people who love literature and bringing them together.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 30, 2016 by Molly Cooke and Joe Egler 3 Comments 
Perennial satirical candidate Wisemiller’s Chicken Madness sandwich won one of the uncontested off-campus seats by write-in vote in Thursday’s Georgetown University Student Association senate election.
This is Chicken Madness’ first reported victory in a GUSA election, although Election Commissioner Grady Willard (SFS ’17) said the Election Commission will recommend that GUSA defer to the candidate with the second-most votes. Last year’s executive election saw the Chicken Madness and Hot Chick ticket come second, with 878 votes in the final round of voting.
Election commissioners reported preliminary results early this morning on Twitter. Saad Bashir (COL ’19), Zainab Feroze (SFS ’18), Alexander Bobroske (SFS ’17) and Habon Ali (SFS ’18), the only candidates competing for east campus, were elected.
Chris Grocki (SFS ’17) and Henry Callander (COL ’18) won south campus, defeating a single competitor. Of the five candidates who ran to represent north campus, Jack Pelose (COL ’19), Owen Hayes (COL ’18) and William Morris (COL ’19) were elected. Jennifer LeBeau (MSB ’17), Marisa Hawley (SFS ’17) and Michael Hosbein (NHS ’17), a write-in candidate, will accompany Chicken Madness for the off-campus win.
Zach Oschin (SFS ’20), Javon Price (SFS ’20) and Charle Haijar (MSB ’20) will represent freshman south.
The full election results for central campus, West Campus and Freshman North could not be released as of press time due to discrepancies with candidate campaign receipts, which indicate candidates’ campaign expenses, not being turned in on time, according to the election commission. At-large results were postponed due to a significant quantity of write-in votes, which the Election Commission must hand count.
Off-campus housing showed the lowest voter turnout at 9 percent, according to Willard. There were two candidates for four seats in the district.
“Seniors don’t usually have high voting, and there were only two candidates [in the off-campus district],” Willard said. “It was the only district where there wasn’t the maximum number of candidates.”
Turnout was highest among freshmen, with 46 percent total turnout, 49 percent in Freshmen North — consisting of Darnall Hall and Harbin Hall — and 44 percent in freshman south — consisting of New South and Village C West.
Elections will be confirmed at the first meeting of the new senate on Sunday at 5 p.m. in Healy 106.
Willard said it is hard to compare this year’s turnout to last year’s given residential redistricting that took place last semester. Southwest Quad and Village C remain independent districts, although they were rebranded “west campus” and “south campus” with 26 and 21 percent turnout rates, respectively.
The Former Jesuit Residence, Copley and Village C East comprised central campus with a turnout of 24 percent. Henle Village and Pedro Arrupe, S.J. Hall constituted north campus with a 22 percent turnout, and all other university housing outside the front gates, including LXR, Alumni Square, Nevils and townhouses, composed east campus with turnout of 17 percent.
This year’s race was more contentious than in recent years, with 56 students —three quarters of which were male — competing for 29 available seats in eight residence-based districts, compared to 46 candidates who ran last year.
Only one of eight residence-based districts, off-campus, showed fewer names on the ballot than available positions. In contrast, the at-large district saw eight contenders for its four seats, with many veteran GUSA senators campaigning for re-election outside of their former district.
Each ballot contained three write-in spaces after the spring 2016 petition by Reed Howard (SFS ’17) and Courtney Maduike (SFS ’17) for there to be more freedom for students to vote for last-minute candidates.
Willard said write-in votes make the vote tallying process more laborious.
“The problem is, the system does not take any kind of marker besides a name,” Willard said. “People have all these different symbols — quotation marks, parentheses, exclamation points, and so, I’ve removed some of them, but I have to go line by line until the system tells me that I’ve tried everything, so I’m going line by line through 1,600 votes. It takes a while.”
Incumbent Senate Speaker Richie Mullaney (COL ’18), who served the Henle district last year, campaigned for an at-large position this election.
“Campaigning at large can often present a more difficult challenge than campaigning in a single district,” Mullaney said. “I’m not used to campaigning all over campus, and you really have to make sure you’re known by all classes and people you don’t normally interact with on a daily basis. But I think it’s a fun challenge because people get to learn about you and your ideas, and that’s what I’ve tried to do in the last week.”
Freshmen represented the greatest showing of candidate participation, with 11 competing for the three freshman south seats reserved for New South and Village C West and 14 for the three freshman north seats for Darnall and Harbin.
Meghan Bodette (SFS ’20), who ran for a seat in the freshman south district, said that while the race is competitive, she believes it is ultimately good that candidates are forced to talk about issues facing students.
“It means a really diverse array of ideas are involved in this senate race, and it means a lot of issues are covered,” Bodette said. “I love the range of issues that were brought up, especially issues related to diversity and inclusion, and better access to really all kinds of programs at Georgetown for more people. And I think that, whoever wins, the freshman class really couldn’t ask for better representation.”
Harrison Nugent (SFS ’20) ran for a seat in the freshman north district. He explained the challenges of vying for an elected position with his new classmates.
“For me, at least, I thought the biggest challenge is not only were there 14 candidates, but there were three candidates on my floor in Darnall — Darnall floor one. So, having a really split vote on my floor made it pretty difficult,” Nugent said.
Elkins and Mullaney noted the importance that at-large candidates campaign for the freshman vote.
“Unlike most of my classmates, I need to win the votes of the freshmen, and the new students here at Georgetown,” Elkins said. “I made sure I put flyers in freshmen dorms. I hit all of those earlier this week, and as far as I know, I was the only at-large candidate to do so. So I’m hoping that can win me some votes.”
“Freshmen campaign, and freshmen vote, and freshmen are engaged in the political process here at Georgetown,” Mullaney said. “Introducing yourself to freshmen as an at-large candidate is pivotal if you want to be successful.”
GUSA President Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) said she is optimistic about the executive branch’s ability to work in tandem with the senate.
“This is a unique year in the sense that we hope to have a really strong, really working relationship with the senate,” Khan said. “ We were really able to do that last semester. And largely because of my background in the senate, I, just in general, have a lot of respect for the senate. And I hope that the execs and senate continue to work closely together through most of the year.”
Correction: This article previously stated Harrison Nugent (SFS ’20) ran for a seat in the freshman south district; he ran for a seat in the freshman north district. This article also stated there was a 19 percent increase in turnout; the final statistic has not yet been released. 

SFS 2016 says 
September 30, 2016 at 5:04 am
Gregory won’t want to admit it but you can thank The Academy people for Chicken Madness.

rigged election says 
September 30, 2016 at 3:16 pm
They still won’t admit that chicken madness won the last election??!

Jack says 
September 30, 2016 at 7:51 pm
This has been a banner year for democracy.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 30, 2016 by William Zhu 5 Comments 
Georgetown University Pride apologized on Sunday for a spoken word poem presented by Willem Miller — the group’s representative at last Friday’s Mr. Georgetown pageant — in which he described his concerns about raising a black child in this country.
In a Facebook statement, the group admitted to its troubled approach to racial issues within the organization without explicitly mentioning Miller’s performance. During the talent section of the pageant, Miller, who is white, performed a spoken word poem that touched on the black experience amid ongoing national dialogue on police brutality.
“What took place during the Mr. Georgetown competition was inexcusable and not the narrative we want to define us, but it has,” the post wrote. “GU Pride has engaged with the topic of racial justice in a manner that has often been idle, ineffective, and offensive.”
GU Pride also shared a Google form on the post for members of the community to provide feedback on how the group can further address issues of race in cooperation with the black community.
“Additionally, we will work on the processes by which we can hold ourselves accountable when macro and microaggressions occur,” the post wrote. “We apologize to all, especially to our Black community members, and we welcome any feedback or comments that anyone may have.
GUPride declined to comment further on the situation, as it wished to hold a board meeting before speaking with press.
The Georgetown Program Board said in a statement to The Hoya that the Mr. Georgetown pageant allows students to present their own talents and that the content of the performances is not indicative of GPB’s views.
“A portion of the Mr. Georgetown pageant involves students performing their talent. What occurs does not necessarily reflect the views, opinions, or positions of the Georgetown Program Board or any of its members,” the statement reads.
Scott Lowder (COL ’17), who attended Mr. Georgetown, said he felt GUPride’s message on racial issues in the United States. was accurate, but disagreed with the presentation of the issue.
“I think that while the topic is certainly something that needs to be addressed and needs to be talked about, I think the way in which it was done and the tone it was taken might’ve been problematic, and I think that’s where the issue arose,” Lowder said.
Lowder said while the message was not delivered in a considerate manner, one should still assume that Miller performed the poem with good intentions.
“We should definitely recognize that there might’ve been a misdelivery of the message, we shouldn’t decide any bad intentions or maligned intentions to the messenger themselves,” Lowder said.
Assistant Vice President for Strategic Communications Stacey Kerr was not available for comment as of press time.

Wow says 
September 30, 2016 at 10:00 am
A trans man forced to apologize to the black community for microaggressions during a spoken word poem on race.
You can’t get more college than that.

Joe says 
October 1, 2016 at 12:46 pm
What was objectionable about the poem?  Was it simply because a white person offered an opinion about race?  Or what?  This isn’t a news story, it’s half a press release.

ugh says 
October 3, 2016 at 4:04 pm
typical hoya article

Audience Member says 
October 2, 2016 at 5:39 pm
Having heard the poem myself, I have to say there was little objectionable about it- only that it was delivered by someone white. I can’t imagine Mr. Pride can speak personally to the black experiance, which makes the poem a bit of a misguided attempt, but was it offensive? Not really. This seems very over-inflated, and poor journalism on The Hoya’s part for blowing things out of proportion.

hoyalum says 
October 3, 2016 at 9:44 am
How come the Hoya will not report what was said?  Is it so offensive that it cannot be printed?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 30, 2016 by Paula Hong Leave a Comment 
The Smithsonian Institute’s much-anticipated National Museum of African American History and Culture opened to the public Saturday following a three-day grand opening festival featuring performances, cultural workshops and a dedication address by President Barack Obama.
The event, held on the Washington Monument grounds, also included remarks from civil rights icon Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.) and Oprah Winfrey and Will Smith reciting famous quotes by prominent black figures. Former presidents George W. Bush and Bill Clinton were among the 7,000 who attended the ceremony, which culminated in a city-wide bell ringing.
Thousands more who could not get tickets to the address gathered on the National Mall to watch the dedication on Jumbotrons.
The museum opening follows a week marked by two highly publicized police shootings of black men amid an ongoing national dialogue about race.
Located on Constitution Ave and 14th St., the 400,000-square-foot museum contains 12 galleries centered on themes of history, community and culture. The exhibits boast more than 3,000 artifacts, including fragments of the São José, a Portuguese slave ship that sank off the coast of South Africa in 1794, Harriet Tubman’s shawl and a vintage Tuskegee Airmen airplane.
The museum — the only national museum exclusively devoted to the documentation of African-American culture — emerges following a century of concerted efforts to commemorate black history through a federally owned museum, spearheaded by African-American Civil War veterans as early as 1915 and successfully authorized by Congress in 2003. A fundraising program exceeded $315 million in private funds to help finance the $540 million construction, which was partly covered by federal funds.
Lonnie Bunch, the museum’s founding director, expressed hope that the museum will provide a gathering place for those hoping to learn from America’s past.
“If we’ve done our job right, I trust the museum will be a place for all Americans to ponder, reflect, learn, rejoice, collaborate and, ultimately, draw sustenance and inspiration from the lessons of history to make America better,” Bunch said in a news conference.
The free advanced time passes for the museum are booked through December. Passes for 2017 may be obtained online starting Oct. 3.
Assistant professor of history Marcia Chatelain said she worried the museum’s popularity meant she would be unable to secure passes until long after the museum’s opening, but she was able to attain a ticket through a friend to a preview day prior to the museum’s public opening. She commended the museum’s unflinching portrayal of black Americans’ struggles, as well as its commitment to underscoring the dignity of their culture.
“I really like that they’ve been able to strike a balance between progress but not glossing over the fact that progress came at a very high price,” Chatelain said. “It is not necessarily a one-hundred-percent feel-good experience, and it shouldn’t be, but what they did do effectively was tell a very complicated story about change over time and I really, really appreciate that.”
Chatelain said, given the District’s own checkered racial past, the location of the museum was fitting.
“D.C. is a city that embodies a lot of the contradictions of the United States; it’s a city that is the seat of power, but that reflects so much racialized inequality in the United States,” Chatelain said. “It’s a place where the whole world converges in order to understand America, and at the same time it was also formed and surrounded by states that were engaged in slavery. It’s really a symbol of freedom that has a long history of racial segregation.”
During his dedication address, Obama dwelled on his legacy as the nation’s first black president while championing the museum as a testament to black Americans’ achievement, invoking the famous poem “I, Too” by Langston Hughes.
“It is a monument, no less than the others on this mall, to the deep and abiding love for this country and the ideals upon which it is founded,” Obama said. “For we, too, are America.”
Ruby Vega (SFS ’19) said she woke up at 4 a.m. to secure a spot on the National Mall to witness Obama deliver his speech. She was unable to obtain a ticket for the opening of the museum, though she received timed passes to visit on Dec. 8.
“Obama was so far away he looked like an ant from where I was standing, but it was worth it,” Vega said. “Right when he walked onstage, my eyes began to swell with tears. It was a beautiful speech, and it really made everybody feel the magnitude and importance of what was happening.”
Nicole Calvario (COL ’19) said attending the celebration was emotional in light of the racial tensions due to the recent police shootings.
“There were silent moments in the crowd, especially when the police shootings were addressed,” Calvario said. “But in general I felt the public was honored and humbled, and there was breath of hope from everyone.”
Hoya Staff Writer
Lisa Burgoa contributed reporting
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 30, 2016 by Caroline Landler 1 Comment 
Students of Georgetown, Inc. and the Georgetown University Alumni and Student Federal Credit Union collectively received over 750 applications in a record-breaking hiring season for the two student organizations.
Last year’s fall hiring season for the two organizations received over 600 applications and hired over 100 students.
GUASFCU accepted 22 of the 290 students who applied for an internship — a 7.6 percent acceptance rate — while Blue and Gray accepted 32 of the 313 tour guide applications with an acceptance rate of 10 percent according to Blue and Gray President Prayuj Pushkarna (SFS ’17).
The Corp has not yet provided its final hiring numbers as of 2:30 a.m.
According to Pushkarna, Blue and Gray’s acceptance of 32 new guides is the highest number in the club’s history.
“This is actually the biggest guide class we’ve ever taken in the history of Blue and Gray since 1984,” Pushkarna said. “We did everything we possibly could to create more places for more applicants to get spots in the organization.”
While GUASFCU maintained its annual fall hiring cap of 22 new interns, GUASFCU’s Chief Commercial Officer Grace Cole (SFS ’17) said the addition of a new diversity and inclusion auxiliary committee led to a large and varied applicant pool this semester.
“We want to get people from all different schools, all different socioeconomic backgrounds, all different cultures, geographic locations of where they went to high school, race, sexual orientation, everything,” Cole said. “We had a more diverse applicant pool, and I really think a lot of it is to do with that initiative.”
The Corp did not significantly change its hiring practices this year, according to Director of HR Bella Todaro (SFS ’18), as it had already made significant efforts to increase diversity in recent years.
Some organizations do not require an application — including the Georgetown Admissions Ambassador Program and the Georgetown Program Board — and look to include all interested students in their clubs, according to GPB Head Nick Bailey (MSB ’17), who also works for The Hoya.
“We try to reach the interests of all Georgetown students,” Bailey said. “This year we’re really pushing on being more inclusive and working with groups that we haven’t happened to work with in the past.”
Bailey said GPB prioritizes inclusivity and is confident that membership will remain consistent.
“We are supposed to represent the whole student body, and so we won’t turn people away because we are looking for diverse interests and diverse people that want to help us plan our events,” Bailey said. “So far we’ve had three meetings already, and the member attendance has not dropped at all.”
Despite active efforts to make clubs more inclusive, the club application process is the first time many students have been rejected, which can be disheartening.
“There are obviously a lot of negative aspects to the selectivity of clubs,” Pushkarna said. “Nobody likes being rejected from clubs. That can definitely have an effect on most students’ minds or their mental health.”
According to Pushkarna, regardless of the arduous application process and low acceptance rates, clubs play a prominent role in the dynamics of the Hilltop.
“I think Georgetown students’ commitments to their clubs contributes to the vibrancy of the Georgetown culture at large, whether its performing arts clubs that are contributing to it or cultural clubs that are contributing to it,” Pushkarna said.

Gray&Blue says 
October 3, 2016 at 11:23 am
And still, according to Dr. Olson and Dr. Lord, the university doesn’t recognize Greek life because “Student organizations at Georgetown are expected to comply with a standard of open membership, one which contributes to building the inclusive and welcoming student community at the heart of the Georgetown experience.” Sure, that seems like even administration of university policy. What. A. Joke. And certainly none of the organizations mentioned in this article do any hazing, no way, it’s the evil fraternities that do that.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 30, 2016 by Sophie Donnelly 1 Comment 
Students involved in Greek life organizations are speaking out against Georgetown’s continued lack of support for social fraternities and sororities at Georgetown following the university’s email condemning Greek life activities and values on campus Sept. 14.
On Sept. 15, the Georgetown University Student Association sent a student-wide email response to Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson and Associate Vice President for Student Affairs Jeanne Lord’s message, emphasizing its belief in the positive role of Greek life on campus.
GUSA Liaison to the Greek Council Tucker Cowden (MSB ’17), the former chapter president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, said he supported GUSA’s decision to send an email detailing its stance on Greek organizations.
“What motivated the response was that, particularly in this season of the school year, GUSA’s role is to make sure that every student has an accurate understanding of what the on- and off-campus groups offer,” Cowden said. “I think the main reason for the response was just to let them know that as students they have the right to free speech and free association.”
According to Cowden, the GUSA response to the university’s email was not intended to be inflammatory.
“It’s their job to affirm university policy, and there are no hard feelings in them doing that,” Cowden said. “The GUSA response was focusing on the reason that people join these organizations here [which] is in line with cura personalis and is in line with those other ideals that we pursue at this university.”
Cowden said he was disappointed that the email sent by Olson and Lord contained stronger language than those of previous years, referring in particular to the allegation of fraternities leading to higher rates of hazing and alcohol abuse on campus. Olson and Lord sent a similar email during last year’s rush season.
“At Georgetown, everyone I know who is in a Greek organization has just the same values as everyone else on campus, as far as moderation and mildness and that kind of thing,” Cowden said.
Men’s Jewish social fraternity Alpha Epsilon Pi Master Jack Rosenberg (SFS ’17) said that the vilification of Greek life by the university is not a fair representation of the presence of such organizations on campus.
“We’re involved in charity, we put on scholarship events, community service, educational forums,” Rosenberg said. “We fill a hole that obviously 10 percent of the student body is interested in.”
Olson said he stood by the university’s position regarding the issue of Greek organizations after talking with students.
“Dr. Lord and I have listened to student perspectives on this, and we remain fully committed to the points we made in our recent letter,” Olson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Lord said she appreciated the position outlined by GUSA in its` email response, but she believes students should not limit their extracurricular activities to Greek life.
“It is our hope that students will explore the diversity and richness of life on the Hilltop,” Lord wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Rosenberg said he hopes the students and university will reach an agreement on the issue of Greek life on campus.
“We are actively searching dialogue with the university,” Rosenberg said.
[…] service, educational forums,” Alpha Epsilon Pi Master Jack Rosenberg (SFS ’17) said in an article in The Hoya. “We fill a hole that obviously 10 percent of the student body is interested […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 30, 2016 by Ellen Baker Leave a Comment 
The great room of the Healey Family Student Center was packed with around 500 students Monday night for a watch party of the first debate between Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump.
The watch party, hosted by the Georgetown Institute for Politics and Public Service, featured commentary from President Barack Obama’s former campaign press secretary Ben LaBolt and former Republican National Convention chief digital strategist Mindy Finn.
The event was cosponsored by the College Democrats, College Republicans and Independent Journal Review.
Held at Hofstra University in Hempstead, N.Y., the presidential debate broke the record as the most-watched in United States history with more than 80 million viewers. The 90-minute debate consisted of six 15-minute segments, covering three topics: achieving prosperity, America’s direction and securing America.
The debate broached topics including the economy, national security and the various scandals surrounding both campaigns, including Clinton’s use of a private email server during her tenure as secretary of state and Trump’s refusal to release his tax returns.
Prior to the debate, LaBolt reflected on the implications of the unprecedented number of viewers watching the debate.
“The campaigns are predicting 60 million viewers will tune into the debate for the first time, which brings into question the importance this debate will have on influencing the campaign,” LaBolt said.
Media outlets including The New York Times predicted the debate could bring in as many as 100 million viewers.
Finn said the nominees’ performances in the debate could have a significant impact on voters’ intentions.
“Voting begins earlier and earlier in each cycle. Not only does this debate matter in terms of that undecided group, but people might decide and vote tomorrow based on what they see tonight,” Finn said.
Clinton said she would make the economy fairer by raising the national minimum wage and guaranteeing equal pay for women’s work. She further criticized Trump for repurposing the principles of trickle-down economics, a policy popularized during Ronald Reagan’s presidency in which taxes were cut for upper tax brackets in an effort to stimulate the economy.
“The kind of plan that Donald Trump has put forth would be trickle-down economics all over again.
In fact it would be the most extreme version,” Clinton said. “I call it Trumped-up trickle-down economics.”
The conversation then shifted to the topic of race relations. Trump stressed the importance of imposing law and order in assuaging racial concerns in the United States.
“We need law and order. If we don’t have it, we’re not going to have a country,” Trump said. “In inner cities, African-Americans, Hispanics are living in hell because it’s so dangerous. You walk down the street, you get shot.”
Toward the end of the debate, Trump questioned Clinton’s abilities to serve as president, claiming she lacked the stamina to be president. Clinton recited the exhaustive schedule she endured as secretary of state to combat his claim.
“As soon as he travels to 112 countries and negotiates a peace deal, a cease-fire or even spends 11 hours testifying in front of a congressional committee, he can talk to me about stamina,” Clinton said.
Jaclynne Nader (NHS ’18) said each candidate had different strengths and weaknesses during the debate.
“At the beginning I thought Hillary came off as robotic and smug, but she improved later on,” Nader said. “Trump did better at the beginning, but at the end became more aggressive.”
However, Jawad Pullin (COL ’18) said he doubted that the debate would have a significant influence on American voters.
“I still think the election is going to be close, and the same voters who are repulsed by each candidate only found more reasons to be repulsed by them tonight,” Pullin said. “I doubt they will change who they were voting for.”
Charles Hajjar (MSB ’20) said he enjoyed the debate and the atmosphere of the debate watch party.
“It was really cool to be surrounded by people of all political and ideological backgrounds and watch the debate together — definitely something I’ll remember for a long time,” Hajjar said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 30, 2016 by Yasmine Salam Leave a Comment 
After a month on the Hilltop, the Class of 2020 is beginning to settle into life on campus. These new Hoyas are part of the 16.4 percent of admitted applicants.
|
The Class of 2020 represents a diversity of backgrounds. Fourteen percent of the class identify as Asian, 9 percent as black and a further 9 percent as Latino. Ten percent applied from abroad; 8 percent were international and 2 percent were Americans living overseas.
China and the United Kingdom sent the most international students with 18 freshmen from each country. Italy, France, Peru, South Korea and Spain follow closely, sending seven or more students each. One-third of first-year students claim fluency in more than one language.
Thirty-five percent of domestic students are from the mid-Atlantic region with New York and New Jersey as the two most represented states.
In the Classroom
Despite their diverse origins, most freshmen agree that the level of academic rigor has met expectations thus far. Gaia Pipitone (COL ’20) said the academics have been refreshingly competitive.
“The academics are at a good standard but it’s healthy competitive,” Pipitone said.
According to Ethan Craunot (SFS ’20), the workload has not been too difficult.
“I have less work now than in high school but I had a lot of work in high school,” Craunot said.
Required courses most freshmen take include “Problem of God,” “Writing and Culture Seminar” and various introductory classes.
According Otto Hentz, a theology professor who has been teaching at the university for over 50 years,
“Problem of God” is a crucial component of the Georgetown freshman experience.
“It gets them started on a liberal arts education by having them address one of the most fundamental issues that must be mapped to address what it means to be human,” Hentz wrote in an email to The Hoya. “It invites them to think, not just master ‘material.’”
Mustafa Karakaplan, who teaches 650 students, most of whom are freshmen, in his “Principles of Microeconomics” lecture, said the freshmen academic experience is unique.
“I am new too just like you guys but there is something about Georgetown freshmen that I like a lot,” Karakaplan said. “I don’t know how to express it but there is that feeling that whenever I enter the classroom that students are very engaged.”
David Gewanter, an English professor teaching “Writing and Culture Seminar” to freshmen, said students often struggle with transitioning from high school writing to college-level writing.
“Secondary school teachers in some cases will tell you things which are needed for the following year and they will teach you habits which are appropriate for their teaching,” Gewanter said. “Freshmen import them into college and it turns out to be a very different ball game.”
Adjunct professor Albert Pierce, who is currently teaching a School of Foreign Service pro-seminar titled “Ethical Challenges in Life and Literature” said the students in his freshman seminar each fall are eager to be at Georgetown.
“In my experience the students are just thrilled to be at Georgetown,” Pierce said. “What I enjoy is seeing some students in particular learn how much they can learn from their classmates.”
Outside the Classroom
Some freshmen like Arthur Manset (COL ’20) said they initially struggled to find a balance among studying, socializing and doing extracurricular activities.
“I think it’s tough, you have to adapt to a world where you’re on your own without your parents,” Manset said. “You have to discipline yourself and I think it’s a tough thing definitely. It’s a challenge but you learn from these types of experiences.”
Natalie Gómez (COL ’20) said she overcame the difficulty of juggling between social life and academics after a month on campus.
“I did find the balance,” Gómez said. “I don’t think I’ve been overwhelmed by one or the other.”
On-Campus Housing
Students were met with surprise when they moved into their dorms. Alia Kawar (COL ’20) said her negative expectations of Darnall Hall have been disproven.
“When I got the news that I was in Darnall, I thought I was going to be in the worst dorm on campus because of all the complaints I’ve heard from older students,” Kawar said. “But actually living in Darnall has been one of my highlights here at Georgetown because I was able to become part of a close-knit community that cared about each other and was culturally diverse.”
Students in other freshman dorms, like Harbin Hall resident Jaebok Lee (SFS ‘20), said they found it to be a convenient way to meet and make friends.
“There is a huge population that stays in our common room,” Lee said. “I think that is great way to meet new people and make lasting friendships.”
While students in the Class of 2020 seems content with their classes and the sense of community on campus, frustrations run high concerning housing utilities and the slow response time to fixing problems.
“I am a bit frustrated with the facilities,” Pipitone said. “The water is never hot and the taps are slightly broken and make a terrible noise and no one has come to fix it yet.”
According to Audrey Bischoff (COL ’20), food on campus has been satisfactory, particularly the new to-go program at O’Donovan Hall, but bemoan the long lines.
“I am very much a fan of the Leo’s to-go program,” Bischoff said. “But the lines for the spaghetti and wok are always too long.”
Despite the variety of food choices, Cameron Barr (MSB ’20) said the quality of the meals was subpar.
“The wok station is an eight out of ten, the pasta station is a six out of 10 and everything else in Leo’s is a one out of 10,” Barr said.
Georgetown Culture
Besides dorms, freshmen said pre-orientation programs and Hoya Saxa Weekend were key factors in enabling them to make connections on campus.
“Making friends was easy because of international pre-orientation and because people are cool,” Craunot said. “Everyone is so cool and very open minded, at least the people I hang out with.”
According to Pipitone, some international students express that they have not met enough Americans yet and feel slightly isolated because of it.
“I think it’s good that Georgetown is a very international community but at the same time, the international students tend to group with each other,” Pipitone said.
Georgetown did not hold a pre-orientation program for international students this year for the second year in a row in an effort to help international students meet more American students.
Lee said he was shocked by the Georgetown club culture.
“I found it very surprising, the exclusivity of the clubs and how social life is so restricted based on the clubs you engage in,” Lee said.
According to Callia Kharas (COL ’20), the transition to Georgetown has been easier than anticipated.
“Honestly the transition, when I left for college, I thought it was going to be harder then it actually was,” Kharas said.
After an eventful first month, which included appearances by former Gov. Martin O’Malley (D- Md.), Secretary of State John Kerry and 2016 Team USA Olympians, the Class of 2020 is eager to see what the rest of the semester holds.
“Definitely looking forward to the end of the semester —seeing how things turn out, what my grades will be, see how I manage to adapt. I am of course looking forward to going home in between the two semesters.” Manset said. “But I am mainly looking forward to finishing the semester in the same way I started: in a great way, making good friends, building strong relationships and adapting myself to this great lifestyle. Looking forward to what’s about to come.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

