
November 8, 2016 by The Hoya Staff Leave a Comment 
Updates to be posted here throughout the day. Follow us on Facebook, Twitter and Snapchat for more (all @thehoya).
 
2:50 a.m. 
“It’s time for us to come together as one united people.” – @realDonaldTrump in his address to his supporters in New York. #ElectionNight
— The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016
  2:40 a.m. 

.@CNN says @HillaryClinton called @realDonaldTrump moments ago to concede the election.
— The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016

  2:00 a.m. 
Outside the White House, arguments between Trump supporters and crowd members are breaking out. #ElectionNight pic.twitter.com/EFOwknNyVA
— The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016
1:45 a.m. At the White House Protesters from United We Dream: “Stop targeting the undocumented community. Stop targeting my black brothers and sisters. Stop targeting my Muslim brothers and sisters. Stop targeting the LGBT community.”

Protestors from United We Dream: “Enough is enough. Stop deporting my community.” pic.twitter.com/0YIrmBFF1e — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016

  1:40 a.m. “I guess I’m disappointed that America’s gotten to this point, they’ve elected, well, they’re about to elect a leader who is a misogynist and everything he stands for is kind of against all my personal beliefs.” Jenna Ball (GW)
Jenna Ball (GW Student)”they’re about to elect a leader who is a misogynist and everything he stands for is kind of against all my beliefs.” pic.twitter.com/sJXMr91Z9Z — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016
  1:10 a.m. From the White House.

Anti-Trump protestors outside the White House. #ElectionNight pic.twitter.com/vTokvFL6Qt — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016


A crowd outside the White House sings the national anthem. #ElectionNight pic.twitter.com/tSDkNpIJ8E — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016


At the White House pic.twitter.com/nlbYMIUzUI — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016

  1:10 a.m. 
.@CNN is projecting that Trump will win Utah, giving him 244 electoral votes to Clinton’s 215. #ElectionNight — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016
  1:05 a.m.

GU Running Club’s new statement on canceling the run. pic.twitter.com/VC0pjSnHRZ — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016

  12:50 a.m. 
With 60.04 percent of total votes counted, the D.C. statehood referendum has received 79.18 percent approval. #ElectionNight — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016
Measures included a proposed state constitution and borders. It must still be approved by Congress.

The mood is solemn as students in HFSC wait for the final outcome projection. #ElectionNight pic.twitter.com/S8j3nU7CmH — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016

  12:35 a.m. 
.@CNN projects that Clinton will take Nevada, giving her 215 electoral votes to Trump’s 238. #ElectionNight — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016
  12:30 a.m. 

Crowds starting to gather outside the White House. [Courtesy Mackey Merrill (MSB ’19)] #ElectionNight pic.twitter.com/KAYY2MNWbV — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016

  12: 25 a.m.
GU Running Club has cancelled the run to the White House due to safety concerns. — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016
  12:17 a.m.

Reports of #BlackLiveMatter protests outside the White House. — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016

  12:10 a.m. 
.@CNN calls Iowa for Trump, giving him 238 electoral votes to Clinton’s 209. #ElectionNight — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016
Alexander Marco Garcia (SFS ’19), Trump supporter: “I think it is going very well I am very pleased I am excited, but I know that I shouldn’t put all my….. I shouldn’t be, you know, so excited because it could go the other way. “My support for Trump boils down for one sentence. I will not surrender this country or its people to the false song of globalism any longer, Trump said that. And I am staunchly anti-multi cultural and I am staunchly against anti- globalism and I feel like trump of the two candidates is obviously for me.”

Trump supporter Alexander Marco Garcia (SFS’19): “I will not surrender this country or its people to the false song of globalism any longer” — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016


In response to Trump winning Iowa, some students started chanting “Love Trumps Hate” #Election2016 pic.twitter.com/PKAvWvkcNP — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016
11:55 p.m.  Meredith Forsyth (SFS ’19), the Hillary Clinton supporter we’ve been following today, expresses lingering optimism while watching the returns in HFSC. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-P1ceAXKBL4&feature=youtu.be   11:50 p.m. 

.@CNN calls Georgia for Trump, giving 232 electors votes to Clinton’s 209. #ElectionNight — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016

11:40 p.m. 
.@CNN calls Washington state for @HillaryClinton, giving her 206 electoral votes to @realDonaldTrump ‘s 216. #ElectionNight — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016
“Whatever the result of this election is, it’s not a result of low female or minority turnout, this is a literal referendum for white nationalism from people who should know better.” Abby Frias (COL’ 20) in HFSC.

“Whatever the result of this election is, it’s not a result of low female or minority turnout” Abby Frias (COL ’20) pic.twitter.com/staHOqIqpr — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016


Ariadne Moreno from Florida: “within the immigrant community it is not something that is laughable at this point.” pic.twitter.com/XQL3j2Zp3d — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016
11:35 p.m. 

.@CNN calls Florida for @realDonaldTrump, giving him 216 electoral votes to Clinton’s 197. #ElectionNight — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016

  11:20 p.m.
.@CNN called Nebraska for Trump and Oregon for Clinton. #ElectionNight — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016
  11:10 p.m. 

.@CNN calls North Carolina for Trump. #ElectionNight pic.twitter.com/aU4E88ILs4 — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016

  11:00 p.m. CNN calls California and Hawaii for Clinton, Idaho for Trump. Current electoral vote projections from CNN: Trump – 171; Clinton – 190
“The general mood in the room is extremely stressed” – Kristen Hovland (COL ’20), from Colorado, in HFSC. #ElectionNight — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016


.@CNN calls California and Hawaii for Clinton, Idaho for Trump. #ElectionNight pic.twitter.com/w3Z6xL6wbf — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016


Students respond to latest projections. #ElectionNight pic.twitter.com/fFAKTcOqba — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016
  10:45 p.m. Earlier Peter Hamilton (COL ’20), the Trump supporter we have followed today, expressed anxiety and excitement as he watched the election returns at the HFSC watch party. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2BYxRqMlKRU&feature=youtu.be 10:40 p.m. CNN calls Virginia for Clinton. Current electoral vote projections from CNN: Trump – 167; Clinton – 122

.@CNN calls Virginia for Clinton. — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016


Students responding to @CNN calling Virginia for Clinton in HFSC. #ElectionNight pic.twitter.com/Apy2xDbio7 — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016
10:30 p.m. CNN calls Ohio for Trump. Current electoral vote projections from CNN: Trump – 167; Clinton – 109

Response to @CNN calling Ohio for Trump in HFSC. #ElectionNight pic.twitter.com/KKKFjzBSlO — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016


“Ohio is only a blow if she also loses Florida” – Christian Mesa (COL ’19), responding to @CNN calling Ohio for Trump. #ElectionNight — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016
  9:25 p.m. 

HFSC is packed with students for the watch party. Virginia still not called. #ElectionNight pic.twitter.com/PUf0169dv8 — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016

8:40 p.m.
Students in HFSC waiting for the results of the very tight Florida race. #ElectionNight pic.twitter.com/ctErKMv9ZB — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016
8:00 p.m.

.@CNN projects win for @HillaryClinton in Maryland and D.C. #ElectionNight — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016

 

Cheers from students in HFSC as @HillaryClinton wins states including Maryland and D.C. #ElectionNight pic.twitter.com/umT4wv1AGW — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 9, 2016

7:30 p.m. CNN project that Trump has won West Virginia. Film of student response at the GU Politics watch party in HFSC:
7:15 p.m. A map for GU Running Club’s route for the run to the White House tonight. (Illustration: Jesus Rodriguez/The Hoya)    7:10 p.m. First responses to projection of state results from students at the GU Politics watch party in HFSC. “I am aghast that Trump could’ve won the primary still. I haven’t gone through the five stages of grief yet to come to terms with that. So the fact that he could win a state against Hillary Clinton is amazing.” Sinead Carolan (SFS ’17) “I’m a Trump supporter and also from Kentucky, and that was the first state he won so I’m pretty excited right now. I’m not actually expecting him to win though, but I’m still really excited, hopeful.” Chase Wagers (COL ’20) 6:30 p.m. We caught up with Peter Hamilton (COL ’20), the Trump supporter we are following today, who went to Dahlgren to pray ahead of the beginning of release of election results tonight. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZgwtGzlEiuU&feature=youtu.be 6:10 p.m. GU Politics fellow Scott Mulhauser spoke to The Hoya after the Political Trivia event. Mulhauser predicts that Clinton will win the election. “My sense across the conversations I’ve had today with reporters and operatives and others is that we ultimately will have, I think, Hillary Clinton with a comfortable win tonight, a close Senate that seems to be tipping to the Democrats, be it a seat or two or three, which will give them a narrow governing majority and some pickups in the House.  So we’ll see somewhere between 10 and 20 for the Democrats tonight. I think we’re optimistic and hopeful that that means some progress for those of us that care about getting things done in the next couple years. We’ve seen a lot of stagnation. We’ve seen judges delayed and denied. I think tonight we’re hopeful that tonight there will be some progress. I’m hopeful that with Donald Trump out of our political discourse, that there is progress to be made and there are things we can get done. It is never an easy fight, but there are ways to get things done in D.C. Chuck Schumer is taking over the Senate Democrats, Hillary Clinton as the likely next president, has the opportunity to get things done. There are smart Republicans who will work with her. I hope they can see the forest for the trees and get things done. Hillary will win. Having read not just polls and not just prognostications, but actually looking at the early voting numbers, I am increasingly certain that she will win.” – Scott Mulhauser 5:45 p.m. GU Politics fellows Scott Mulhauser and Michael Steel at the “What to Watch for Tonight” panel in HFSC.

.@GUPolitics fellows Scott Mulhauser and Michael Steel at the “What to Watch for Tonight” panel. #ElectionDay pic.twitter.com/pGboDneOU2 — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 8, 2016


“I think there is a burgeoning consensus among vote forecasters and others that tonight looks like a Hillary Clinton win” – Scott Mulhauser — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 8, 2016


“I’m concerned that if they call the election early, Republicans in places like Florida won’t show up to the polls.”@GUPolitics fellow Steel — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 8, 2016


“Trump is more likely to lose in every close race because he doesn’t have people knocking on doors and out there campaigning for him.” Steel — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 8, 2016


“I honestly think his supporters will abandon him [Trump]… I think he’ll wind up being more of a punch line.” Steel #ElectionDay — The Hoya (@thehoya) November 8, 2016

“I cast my vote for Hillary Clinton for all the women like my mother who have continuously uplifted me and told me they believe in me. At this point time there is no other candidate who has the qualifications that she has and I think it’s really exciting because my family has believed I’m Hillary Clinton for a long time so it’s exciting for me to cast my ballot but also for my mom to cast her ballot and for my father who is an immigrant to cast his.” – Alex Alonso (COL ’17), who attended the panel. 4:10 p.m. 
Students and local residents line up to vote at the Georgetown Neighborhood Library. pic.twitter.com/6N4LLJ7xI1
 
— The Hoya (@thehoya) November 8, 2016

 
4:00 p.m. We caught up with  Meredith Forsyth (SFS ’19), the Clinton supporter we are following today, who worked a shift walking voters to the polls with GU Votes. >
 
3:35 p.m. Scott Mulhauser, GU Politics Fellow and former chief of staff to the U.S. Embassy in Beijing, discusses his plans for Election Day and encourages students to vote today. >
 
3:05 p.m. Peter Hamilton (COL ’20), the student Trump supporter we will also be catching up with throughout the day, says he is looking forward to watching the results as they come in tonight.
>
 
2:50 p.m. Throughout Election Day, we will be catching up with a Georgetown student who supports Clinton and one who supports Trump. Meredith Forsyth (SFS ’19), a Hillary Clinton supporter, discusses her plans for the day. (Video: Aly Pachter/The Hoya) >
1:45 p.m. Panelist Camden Stuebe, chief of staff at The Independent Journal and member of the steering committee for Republican Women for Hillary, spoke to The Hoya following the event.
Will conservative millennials tend to vote for Hillary today?
A lot of them are really disappointed that it’s the first election for a lot of them to vote and they’re not voting for a Republican candidate when a couple of them, too, really want to do work in Republican politics and felt like because Donald Trump is the nominee and they disagree with everything on his platform and that he represents, they didn’t get the opportunity to get some of the experiences they would have liked to from a professional standpoint as well.
How do you envision the outcome tonight?
I really hope Hillary wins by a landslide and she wins early.
What do you see as the future of the Republican Party if Hillary wins?
It’s going to force the party to take a really hard look at itself and how they let somebody like Donald Trump become the president, but I think it will also reassure people who are big-time Republicans that there is something here worth saving, and that people rejected a person who although he might be the official nominee, goes against everything the party stands for.
1:25 p.m. Mark Rom, in the “How Does the Election Work?” Panel (Baker Living Room, Healy G-18)
“We already pretty much know that Clinton will get 252 electoral votes, and we’re pretty confident Trump will win at least 163 electoral votes.”
“One possibility we can see tonight is that Clinton wins almost all the states that we can see are close.”
1:17 p.m.
“Even if he doesn’t win, we’re now in this mood to be publicly racist and sexist in a way that it wasn’t before.” GUCD panelist on Trump
— The Hoya (@thehoya) November 8, 2016
1:00 p.m. Georgetown University College Democrats are hosting their “Are We Screwed” roundtable discussion in the HFSC Social Room.
12:12 p.m. The Georgetown University College Republican panel, Where Do We Go From Here?, is about to begin in HFSC Herman Room. Before the panel, GUCR Chief of Staff Michael Parmiter (MSB ’18) said,  “Do I believe that it’s rigged in the sense that votes aren’t counted? No. Do I believe that it’s rigged in the sense that the mainstream media has been coordinating with the Clinton camp? Do I believe Democrats use voting fraud? Yes.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 8, 2016 by Lisa Burgoa Leave a Comment 
Even as the results of the 2016 presidential election remain mired in uncertainty, Bethan Saunders (SFS ’17) has known her exhaustive Election Day schedule well in advance of Nov. 8.
As a co-founder of student-led voter mobilization initiative GU Votes, Saunders plans to lead scores of Georgetown students to the polling station at the Georgetown Public Library on R Street NW today after casting her own ballot. Later, she hopes to visit the offices of POLITICO Magazine with the Georgetown Institute for Politics and Public Service, spearhead a photo campaign at the Healey Family Student Center and conclude the day with a celebratory run to the White House after the election’s winner is announced.
A Political Agenda
Saunders’ schedule represents just a sampling of the programming planned for Georgetown’s Election Day, a collaborative effort between GU Politics and student organizations including GU Votes, GU College Democrats, GU College Republicans, the Georgetown Program Board and the Georgetown University Student Association, among others. Other events include election trivia, prediction competitions, panel discussions and watch parties in the hours leading up to the election’s results.
This marks the first presidential election for GU Politics since the institute first launched in the McCourt School of Public Policy last fall. The institute has spent six weeks strategizing today’s agenda.
The programming runs from 7 a.m. until past 2 a.m., depending on when the election is called for either Republican nominee Donald Trump or Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.
Saunders, who helped GU Votes surpass the goal established by the organization’s #1000GUVotes campaign by registering over 1,600 Georgetown students to vote, said Election Day represents a culmination of months of political fervor building up on campus.
“I’ve seen across the board, Georgetown students are very passionate and very excited about the election, no matter what side of the aisle they fall on. They’re going to be buzzing with energy, there is going to be a lot of excitement, there is going to be a lot of nerves, I’m sure, on both sides,” Saunders said.
GUCD Chair Mattie Haag (COL ’18) said her group’s efforts to politically mobilize both Georgetown students and others in the community culminated in a field trip to Philadelphia in which over 100 students were bused for a weekend trip to register voters and canvas for Clinton’s campaign.
“We have been having groups go out to Philadelphia and other areas in Pennsylvania because it’s just such a contested state in this election. Students have been canvassing almost every weekend since the start of the semester,” Haag said. “Last weekend, we had our huge Get Out the Vote Weekend, coordinated with the campaign.”
Ricardo Mondolfi (SFS ’19) participated in the Get Out the Vote Weekend, an effort sponsored by Clinton’s campaign that encouraged prospective voters to cast their ballots. Despite the Clinton campaign’s influence, Mondolfi maintained the initiative focuses less on partisan politics and more on encouraging all to vote.
“It’s less partisan than you think it is. All we want to do is make sure people are ready to vote and that they actually do exercise their constitutional right,” Mondolfi said.
Playing it Safe
Despite the excitement, Election Day on campus is accompanied by an undercurrent of anxiety by those who worry the results of the election may induce violence or psychological duress in students.
GUSA President Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) cited last week’s incident involving the circulation of a “Frito Bandito Party” with quotes misattributed to Trump as evidence that the campus risks offensive politically charged rhetoric following the election. Khan said GUSA’s Free Speech Forum on Nov. 17 will serve as a reconciliatory tool after the fallout from the election.
“I think when we talk about any divisions that this election has or may potentially create within our student body, a lot of it is pertaining to speech and the rhetoric that is harmful to certain communities on campus,” Khan said. “The flyer last week was an example where the election rhetoric was harmful and attacked specific identities in an attempt to create some sort of divisiveness on our campus.”
Although Georgetown University Police Department Chief Jay Gruber said he was unable to disclose GUPD’s security plans for the election, there will be an increase of staff Tuesday to monitor activity on campus, a measure not taken in previous elections.
Gruber warned students to avoid areas where political tensions run the risk of violence.
“If you do encounter protests, or hear about protests, be sure to avoid the area, and consider not participating in any protests,” Gruber wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Professor of international relations Marilyn McMorrow, who organized a discussion Nov. 2 working with students on strategies to respond nonviolently to potential post-election violence, said she has particular concerns about the fallout following this year’s election.
“I have never been so worried about the aftermath of an election before in my life,” McMorrow said. “I organized this whole thing as a commitment to non-violence and a commitment to bipartisan support for the ballot, for the principles of democracy through ballots, not swords. If we are anxious, sometimes it helps to have a plan.”
A Divided Campus
Basanth Sadasivan (SFS ’20), a Trump supporter, said he has encountered hostility on campus because of his political beliefs.
“There were so many situations where some things got a little bit out of control, like I would find some not-so-nice stuff left outside of my room door. Some people were obviously not too friendly with me because of my political beliefs,” Sadasivan said. “My biggest challenge about being a Trump supporter is that so many stereotypes get associated with you as a result.”
Khan said although GUSA normally abstains from federal politics aside from its lobbying branch the Federal and D.C. Relations Committee, GUSA has collaborated with Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson to ensure Counseling and Psychiatric Services is available on-call after hours Tuesday for students who need to access the service as a result of the election.
“Stress or trauma may potentially take over students as a result of the election, so it’s important they are aware they have resources to help them if they need,” Khan said. “As GUSA, it’s our role to make sure that there are resources available for students who may feel the need to do something after the results, or in that evening.”
GU Politics Chief of Staff Hanna Hope said in addition to working with Georgetown’s leading political organizations, Election Day provided the opportunity for the institute to partner with nonpolitical student groups such as Georgetown’s yoga club Hoyasana, which will offer sessions to help students relax amid Election Day anxiety, and Georgetown Running Club, which will sponsor a 2 a.m. run to the White House.
Hope pointed to the political activity already present on campus as a means of providing a unique opportunity to further involve the community on Election Day.
“I feel like so many students who come to Georgetown come for the political community and we’re so excited to have the opportunity to be the kind of conveners of political activity on a day like this,” Hope said. “It really creates this sense of community and family for the campus.”
Hoya Staff Writers Christian Paz, Tara Subramaniam and William Zhu contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 8, 2016 by Alfredo Carrillo 1 Comment 
Georgetown has committed to directly fund 15 students with uncertain housing conditions to stay in the Georgetown University Hotel and Conference Center during winter break.
The accommodations will be funded by the Offices of the President, Provost and Student Affairs. This marks the third consecutive year that winter housing has been provided for students in need, and the first year in which the administration has pledged to cover all expenses.
The project is the culmination of a two-year partnership between the Georgetown Scholarship Program and various student groups, including the Georgetown University Student Association. In coming weeks, GUSA and GSP will extend an invitation for interested students in need to apply confidentially for accommodation.
GSP Director Melissa “Missy” Foy (COL ’03), who will be reviewing requests alongside an ad hoc committee, said she expects approximately 15 students to be housed, an increase from last year’s 10 students.
Georgetown first began offering winter accommodation for students in 2014. Last year, Foy used funds donated to GSP from student groups and the university to rent a house for 10 students in the Woodley Park neighborhood of Washington, D.C, through Airbnb.
Last year, GSP received donations from Students of Georgetown, Inc., which contributed $4,500, while GUSA and the Georgetown University Alumni Student Federal Credit Union donated $500 each. The Provost’s Office donated $2,000, while the President’s Office and Alumni Association each provided $1,000.
GUSA President Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) said even though the support of student groups last year was impressive, the administration is ultimately responsible for meeting the needs of all students.
“We are of the firm belief that when the university accepts a student, it is on the university to ensure that the student is fully accommodated,” Khan said.
Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson said a collaborative effort is taking place to ensure the needs for all students are met over winter break.
“I am grateful to student leaders in GUSA and GSP, and professional colleagues in GSP and Residential Living, who have worked together to identify needs and explore options,” Olson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “This year, several offices are partnering to assure that students with genuine needs have a place to stay in the hotel on campus during the break — numbers are still being finalized.”
After Khan and GUSA Vice President Chris Fisk (COL ’17) assumed office in April, the pair began advocating for the university to fund the winter housing initiative. GUSA, Olson and Executive Director of Residential Services Patrick Killilee determined that the hotel is the most cost-effective, safe and comfortable option for on-campus housing.
“The ideal would be that students could be in the community together. That’s why our recommendation was the Hotel and Conference Center here on campus, so that all students could be together in a secure building,” Khan said. “[Meals and services] will be covered.”
Foy said candidates’ financial need and ability to access alternative accommodation will be taken into account if more students apply than there are spaces available.
According to Foy, there is also the possibility of increasing the space available for students.
“I hope we will have some wiggle room if the need expands, and we can predict that far enough out,” Foy said. “That’s why it’s important for students to apply as soon as the application is released. I encourage students to apply, particularly those receiving need-based financial aid.”
International students are also eligible for the program.
Foy said the move shows the administration’s push for greater inclusivity across campus.
“The fact that the university’s leadership is throwing its full support behind this endeavor speaks volumes about their continued commitment to students from economically diverse backgrounds,” Foy said. “It’s a really important message to the students who benefit specifically from winter housing, that GSP alone doesn’t just care about you, but that, of course, the university as a whole does too.”
Fisk said GUSA will continue to push for more inclusive socio-economic initiatives.
“As a GSP student, this topic has inherently been something I’ve confronted and considered every day at Georgetown, and this year it has been something we’ve made GUSA confront and focus on as well,” Fisk said.
Fisk said he was grateful the administration listened to students and is committed to making Georgetown a more inclusive institution.
“This is a reassuring example of their commitment to supporting students of all backgrounds and, really, of their willingness to recognize the importance of issues students bring to them,” Fisk said.

Fiona Manonn says 
December 7, 2020 at 2:56 am
My mother and I were spending a couple of days celebrating her 82nd birthday and it was wonderful. Everyone at the Heiwa Heaven The Resort was just lovely to hear. We made special memories. As always, thank you. What a beautiful environment you get to work in every day….the island, the hotel, and the people all make it so very special.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 8, 2016 by Charles Trepany Leave a Comment 
The White House selected Georgetown as the winner of its Interfaith Community Service Award from a group of 766 colleges and universities, the university announced last Monday.
The award, which is a community service initiative led by the White House and the Corporation for National and Community Service and supported by the Department of Education, represents the highest federal recognition bestowed to an educational institution for community engagement and service learning. The award has been administered annually since 2006.
The Corporation for National and Community Service, a federal agency that announced the award, spotlighted Georgetown’s Homelessness Outreach, After School Kids, Service Learning and Magis programs as some of the highlights among the over 100 university-sponsored service opportunities available at the school. Georgetown was further recognized for having 25 professors teach 40 community-based undergraduate courses.
Georgetown’s selection comes three months after the university became the first U.S. college to hire a full-time Hindu priest chaplain, Brahmachari Vrajvihari Sharan. Georgetown was also the first Catholic university to hire a full-time Jewish chaplain in the 1960s and a full-time Muslim chaplain in the late 1990s.
Georgetown was selected from the President’s Higher Education Community Service Honor Roll.
The Center for Social Justice, the Office of Campus Ministry and the Berkley Center for Religion, Peace and World Affairs submitted a joint application for the award in June, highlighting their combined 770,653 hours of community service through 8,135 volunteers during the 2014-15 school year.
The Office of Campus Ministry, which facilitates dialogue and service projects supported by Roman Catholic, Protestant, Orthodox Christian, Jewish and Muslim chaplaincies, along with Buddhist and Latter-day Saints student groups, contributes to fostering interreligious projects for students.
The Corporation for National and Community Service CEO Wendy Spencer characterized Georgetown as a national leader in community engagement in an Oct. 31 press release.
“Service and higher education go hand-in-hand,” Spencer said. “Every day these colleges and universities inspire young leaders to commit to solving problems alongside community members.”
Melody Ahmed, associate director for programs at the Berkley Center for Religion, Peace and World Affairs, said support from Georgetown’s administration was crucial to the success of the university’s interfaith programs while personally helping her stay committed to programs.
“I was incredibly moved and incredibly strengthened in my own faith and my own commitment to this work by how supportive Georgetown is of initiatives that promote interreligious and intercultural dialogue,” Ahmed said. “That’s why I’ve worked here for 10 years and will continue to do so. Having the commitment of this university, from very top level down to the students, is really incredible.”
Center for Social Justice Executive Director Andria Wisler noted that while the Center for Social Justice was excited and honored to have won the award, Georgetown will not rest on its laurels in its quest to create an open environment for people of different faiths.
“When we heard the news about the award, our day at the Center for Social Justice continued as it does every day — with van picks-ups and drop-offs and Hoyas across the city in schools, at community centers, in homes, on campus being together, serving with and within a city that they have come to call home,” Wisler wrote in an email to The Hoya. “While we appreciate the recognition, our energy to do this work comes from the power of relationships we have nurtured across Washington, D.C.”
Protestant Chaplain Olivia Lane said the diversity of the chaplains adds a spiritual dimension on campus unseen elsewhere.
Hindu student Piyusha Mittal (SFS ’18), who has been involved with the interfaith movement, said she believes Georgetown is well-deserving of the White House’s Interfaith Community Service Award. She said the interaction between people of all different faiths, such as Sharan and Fr. Gregory Schenden, S.J., at Georgetown is one of her favorite aspects of the university.
“Georgetown just would not be Georgetown without its interfaith,” Mittal said. “How many schools have a rabbi, an imam and a Hindu priest, all together? If you’ve ever been to chaplain’s tea, it’s probably the greatest sight. You’ll see Brahmachari, who’s our Hindu chaplain, bonding with Fr. Schenden, who is our head of the Catholic chaplaincy, over ‘Star Wars’ and Diet Coke.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 8, 2016 by Joe Egler Leave a Comment 
In the 2016 fiscal year, Georgetown’s endowment and donations to the university funded 23.2 percent of undergraduate scholarships, according to Dean of Student Financial Services Patricia McWade.
Over the past 10 years, the university has withdrawn $590 million from its $1.5 billion endowment, 39 percent, to fund academic research, professorships and undergraduate scholarships.
According to Chief Investment Officer Michael Barry, the allocation of the endowment is determined by donors, who often donate funds for specific purposes. Currently, 36 percent of the endowment is allocated to academic research, 30 percent to endowed professors, 24 percent to student aid such as scholarships, 8 percent to facilities and grounds and 2 percent to other uses.
Donors can make contributions in different forms, including current-use gifts, donations that can be spent at the discretion of the university and endowed gifts, gifts that are put toward the university’s endowment.
The university’s endowment recently saw a $648 million increase from its latest and most successful fundraising campaign, “For Generations to Come: The Campaign for Georgetown,” which ended July 30.
Georgetown’s endowment has long been exceeded by other universities; Harvard University’s endowment reached $35.7 billion in the 2016 fiscal year — down $2 billion from 2015 — while Yale University’s endowment reached $25.4 billion this year.
Vice President for Advancement Bart Moore (SFS ’87) said the university’s endowment is key to funding research, construction and general improvements to Georgetown life.
“Endowment is the base of resources that an institution can pretty reliably depend on every year [to] generate a reasonably predictable flow of income to support the most important work of the university,” Moore said.
About 40 percent of the funds raised in the “For Generations to Come: The Campaign for Georgetown” went to the university’s endowment, according to Barry.
Dean of Admissions Charles Deacon said the university has a strong focus on giving financial assistance to first-generation college students in the form of the Georgetown Scholarship Fund.
Georgetown is one of a few dozen colleges and universities including Harvard University and University of Pennsylvania that has a need-blind, full-need admissions policy through a combination of loans, grants and work-study.
According to Deacon, while financial aid needs at Georgetown are met, the money to fund this commitment comes out of the operating budget, which is less resilient than the endowment.
“If it comes out of the operating budget, it’s more of a strain on the budget, and endowment can support it, become self-sufficient, self-standing,” Deacon said.
Deacon said the money the university has affects its ability to attract the most skilled students.
“While we do meet the full need, we don’t do it in a very generous way. Most of the money is coming out of the operating budget rather than the endowment,” Deacon said. “In the end, our ability to enroll the most talented class is certainly impacted by the resources that are available to us.”
According to McWade, the size of the endowment does not affect the types of students Georgetown attracts because the university works to meet all the financial needs of students with a mix of funds from endowments, gifts and the operating budget.
The university aims for a 5 percent return on the endowment, including the rate of inflation, according to Barry. Sixty-four percent of the endowment is invested in public equity assets, 16 percent in absolute return, 6 percent in real estate, 6 percent in commodities, 5 percent in private equity and 3 percent in bonds.
The endowment has seen significant changes in recent years. Georgetown’s administration has been trying to expand its socially responsible investment policies, according to Barry.
In 2015, the board of directors committed to divest from coal companies after years of urging from student group GU Fossil Free and at the recommendation of the Committee on Investments and Social Responsibility, a committee of 12 that includes faculty, staff members, administrators and student representatives.
This year, the Investment Office is exploring investments that will have positive environmental, social and governance outcomes, with the belief that doing so can potentially enhance the endowment’s return, according to Barry.
Director of Protestant Chaplaincy Bryant Oskvig, who is on the Committee on Investments and Social Responsibility, said the committee enables the university to make socially responsible investments.
“This committee has really served as a place to really extend the conversation about how we as a community [understand] ourselves as investors in the market, and how we allow our values to be a part of that conversation, and how we make investment decisions in that way,” Oskvig said.
Georgetown University Student Association President Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) said GUSA looks to promote student interests and Jesuit values on the committee through its student appointee.
“We set the tone of what we want, and we set the vision for what we want the student’s engagement to be like, and we try to shape how we want the student to be productive in the conversation,” Khan said. “In terms of GUSA, we are held to these Jesuit values of the campus, and so something that’s important is that the university does the same.”
Moore said the endowment is important beyond mere financial stability and support for the university.
“Our desire to invest in the current and future mission of the institution is always expanding,” Moore said. “This is, from my point of view, inherent to the Jesuit culture of the place: this sense of what more can we be, and what more can we do.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 8, 2016 by Will Linde Leave a Comment 
Although students were heavily involved in selecting Aramark as the university’s dining contractor for the next 10 years, dining workers were not included in the discussion.
According to Georgetown University Student Association President Enushe Khan (MSB ’17), dining workers were not included in the selection process because their involvement as Aramark employees could be a conflict of interest. However, students on the Office of Auxiliary Business Services’ Request for Proposal Committee, which participated in the contract negotiations, advocated for the university to retain current dining employees.
“We made it very clear in the RFP that worker job security was important. As a result, the administration was very clear to the vendors that we really need our workers to be able to keep their jobs,” Khan said.
Chief Operating Officer Christopher Augostini announced Aramark’s selection Nov. 1, which brings with it a renovation of O’Donovan Hall to include outside vendors and healthier dining options, as well as new meal exchange options.
Students participated in a dining town hall in January and attended vendor open houses from both Aramark and Sodexo in September, while representatives from GUSA worked with administrators in scoring the vendors’ proposals and finalizing the university’s new dining contract.
GUSA Dining and Auxiliary Services Policy Team Chair Mark Camilli (COL ’19) said the partnership was streamlined to incorporate student opinions.
“The students incorporated in the dining RFP working group were students in GUSA, and that was a very collaborative process,” Camilli said. “Also, GUSA has many meetings with administration with problems that are going on.”
Khan said student engagement was a key factor in the final decision.
“Both vendors have said they have never seen students so engaged in the process, which is huge, and I think it’s because we as GUSA have prioritized this,” Khan said. “This new dining program is shaped by student interests and the fact that students were so engaged in the process.”
All dining workers will keep their jobs unless they choose to leave, under the university’s Just Employment Policy. The policy mandates that Georgetown look to protect workers’ employment whenever there is a vendor transition for university services.
Georgetown Solidarity Committee member Esmeralda Huerta (SFS ’17) said that while GSC has been told all workers will be protected, the group is distrustful following layoffs of bookstore employees after Barnes & Noble College took over the contract from Follett this summer.
The Hoya reported July 26 that at least three bookstore employees had lost their jobs in the transition.
“We’ve basically been guaranteed by [Associate Vice President of Auxiliary Business Services] Joelle Wiese and by the Just Employment Policy that all the workers will keep their jobs, but if you look at the vendor switch at the bookstore, those workers lost their jobs,” Huerta said. “That guarantee didn’t really mean anything.”
The nature of many dining workers’ jobs will change when the upper level of Leo’s is converted into a food court with eight different dining offerings, according to Khan.
“There’s going to be more interaction, which is great. Those workers and dining services on campus are so friendly,” Khan said. “They are great people, and instead of being in the back preparing food, they will be preparing more in front of you, and it’s more interaction with the students, which I think will be positive for everyone.”
While Khan and Camilli believe increased student-worker interaction could be positive, Huerta said this interaction may lead to supervisors monitoring workers more rigidly.
“The new plan is very retail- and customizable options-oriented, which means that students will be interacting more,” Huerta said. “On the one hand, we do want students and workers to be interacting, but I can also see this as being an excuse for managers to police worker behavior.”
Huerta said there are also concerns over workers’ access to benefits under their contracts. Aramark and workers reached a contract agreement in April 2015 that included a plan for unionization, a 40-hour paid work week and a cheaper health insurance plan.
“There are some things that, even though you have it on paper, aren’t fully implemented, so I know a lot of the worker concerns right now is that they aren’t making 40 hours. A lot of them are making 37 ½ hours, which puts them just under the cutoff to get better healthcare,” Huerta said.
Camilli said the future of Leo’s is positive for students.
“You no longer need to have a meal plan to be able to walk into Leo’s, which is really exciting because it is something that keeps Leo’s the social hub of campus that it has always been, whether you’re a freshman or a senior,” Camilli said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 8, 2016 by Jeff Cirillo Leave a Comment 
Although MedStar Georgetown University Hospital received a rating of C in hospital safety, it is still safer than all but one of the six other Washington, D.C. hospitals, according to a report released Oct. 31 by nonprofit organization The Leapfrog Group.
According to The Leapfrog Hospital Safety Grade, as many as 440,000 people die annually from hospital errors, including injuries, accidents and infections. This amounts to an average of more than 1,200 people dying daily due to preventable hospital error.
The hospital safety ratings, which evaluated hospitals based on their ability to avoid malpractice, accidents and patient injuries, placed MedStar Georgetown in the 43rd percentile of the 2,633 hospitals evaluated nationwide. More than 1,500 hospitals, or about 57 percent of the total, scored an A or B.
While MedStar Georgetown performed worse than most hospitals nationwide, it was the only D.C. hospital evaluated by the Leapfrog Group to receive a C. Only Sibley Memorial Hospital in Northwest D.C. scored higher with an overall B rating.
Four of the five D.C. hospitals that scored lower than MedStar Georgetown received a D rating. These include Howard University Hospital, MedStar Washington Hospital Center, George Washington University Hospital and Providence Hospital of Washington. Not for Profit Hospital, the only hospital evaluated in D.C.’s Southeast quadrant, scored an F, the lowest possible rating.
MedStar Georgetown’s Communications Specialist Yvette Rattray disputed the findings of the rankings, claiming they did not accurately reflect the quality of care provided at the hospital.
“Rating systems can at times oversimplify a complex healthcare landscape, create more confusion than clarity for patients and providers and could mislead patients away from the best hospitals that set the standard of care for their conditions,” Rattray wrote in an email to The Hoya. “In some cases, the quality data used can vary, so when reviewing ratings, consumers should ensure reporting is based on current data that reflects the latest achievements on quality.”
Only 177 hospitals, or less than 7 percent of the total number evaluated, scored below MedStar Georgetown, while 954 hospitals including MedStar Georgetown received the most common letter score of a C.
Vanessa Pabon (NHS ’18), a nursing major who has worked over 200 clinical hours at MedStar Georgetown, said the C rating does not come as a surprise, recounting examples of apparent noncompliance to protocols by certain staff.
“Personally, I have seen a lot of things that are questionable about the practices,” Pabon said. “For example, when there’s a patient at risk of falling, you should always have the door open, and on multiple occasions I’ve seen them close the doors.”
Conner McMains (GRD ’19), president of the Georgetown University School of Medicine Patient Safety Interest Group, which raises awareness of patient safety issues, defended MedStar Georgetown.
According to McMains, who interned at the MedStar Institute for Quality and Safety, there is a strong commitment to patients’ welfare.
“I am proud that MedStar Georgetown University Hospital ranks near the top in patient safety among D.C. hospitals,” McMains said. “I know very well that MedStar holds patient safety as a top priority.”
Leapfrog evaluated hospitals based on process and structural measures, which examined the hospital environment and how often hospitals gave patients recommended treatment, as well as outcome measures, which represent what happened to a patient while receiving care.
The ratings also took into account national performance measures from organizations including the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Leapfrog Hospital Survey, which encouraged hospitals to voluntarily report additional safety data but did not require completion to receive a safety grade.
Of the 49 states plus D.C. ranked by Leapfrog, D.C. is one of only four with no A-rated hospitals. The other three states are Alaska, Delaware and North Dakota. Maryland was the only state not ranked by Leapfrog, as it does not require hospitals to publically report patient safety data, from which Leapfrog bases its rankings.
McMains acknowledged while there is room for improvement in MedStar Georgetown’s rating, he believes these improvements will come as the new rankings put pressure on the hospital to improve.
“In my experience, I have been continually impressed and reassured by the advancements MedStar has made in providing safe, high-quality health care to all patients,” McMains said. “While a C rating from the Leapfrog Group certainly indicates some room for growth, we are likely to see this rating improve in subsequent evaluations.”
Leapfrog President and CEO Leah Binder said in a press release that overall patient safety involves a number of different factors and improvements that take time to implement.
“Many safety measures are concrete, like accurately calibrating blood glucometers or clearly marking medication labels. On the other hand, some measures can be fairly amorphous, considering things like culture, communication and leadership,” McMains said. “These intangible influences are arguably some of the most important drivers of safety, but they also take the most time and effort to improve.”
Pabon has also worked clinic hours in Virginia Hospital Center in Arlington, which scored an A rating from Leapfrog. She said her experiences in each hospital have been noticeably different.
“It’s like a night-and-day difference between Virginia Hospital Center and MedStar Georgetown,” Pabon said. “It’s just a completely different environment.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 8, 2016 by Tait Ryssdal Leave a Comment 
Georgetown Health Education Services has no plans to fully release information regarding student health from the National College Health Assessment survey results from previous years.
The NCHA, a survey developed by the American College Health Association, is administered to colleges and universities across the United States to survey issues ranging from drug use to sexual health.
Several peer institutions, including Dartmouth College, Emory University, Northwestern University and the University of Southern California publish data for their respective campuses. While Georgetown does not make all the information publicly available, portions of the information are available in The Stall Seat Journal, available in many public restrooms on campus.
HES, which works to provide the university community with health information, withholds some of the results it receives from the NCHA on the grounds that releasing data could infringe on students’ right to privacy, according to Director of Health Education Services Carol Day.
“Some of the data that might easily become sensationalized is not something that we are looking to defend because frankly, it’s pointless. The story is more what we do with this data, not so much what the numbers are,” Day said.
Every two years, the NCHA provides the university with over 300 data points on a number of topics related to student health. According to NCHA Chief Research Officer Mary Hoban, the university has the liberty to publish or withhold any information it chooses.
“I have seen campuses with all different levels of access to student data,” Hoban said. “Some schools you’ll see no access, some will be limited, and others, the results will be posted on their website.”
It is more common for universities to not make the data entirely public, according to Hoban.
Certain information is not released to the student body because it could reveal personal details, according to Day.
“It comes under the institutional review board because we are dealing with survey data, very personal topics in some cases that we’re asking students,” Day said. “While it’s voluntary and anonymous, the students who take the survey are guaranteed that the survey results are somewhat limited in usage.”
Day said the withheld data could be misinterpreted out of context.
“Any and all of it is disclosed as we see is appropriate. We don’t mind sharing most of it with students, but we like to keep it in context,” Day said. “We don’t like to give out bits and pieces because it’s more meaningful in a context that we are talking about the implications of it.”
Co-Presidents of H*yas For Choice Emily Stephens (SFS ’17) and Brinna Ludwig (NHS ’17) did not respond to requests for comment.
Miranda Gabriel (COL ’20) said she was concerned about repercussions of the university’s decision to withhold student health data due to the assumed propensity of students to judge things they do not fully understand.
“Withholding data does not falsify it. If they don’t make it clear to us that certain issues exist among the population here at Georgetown, it does not make those realities disappear — it only leads to assumptions and speculation,” Gabriel said. “It degrades the HES’ reputation as a reliable and trustworthy source when they try to hide the truth.”
Correction: This article previously stated Senior Director for Strategic Communications Rachel Pugh did not respond to requests for comment; this is not correct. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 8, 2016 by May Teng Leave a Comment 
The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority’s proposed 2018 fiscal budget plan has raised concerns that its measures will result in increased fares, further affecting Metro’s ridership.
Presented to the Metro Board of Directors by General Manager Paul J. Wiedefeld on Oct. 30, the proposal calls for the downsizing of 1,000 positions — an unprecedented measure — as well as the fare hikes, cuts to certain employee healthcare expenses, slashes to services in low-ridership routes and increased subsidies from the Metro’s service areas. All these measures are in an attempt to offset an anticipated $290 million budget shortfall for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2017.
The $1.8 billion operating budget will require final approval by the board of directors in March; however, a series of public hearings and community outreach efforts will begin in late January.
Wiedefeld said that the budget reflects the harsh realities WMATA will need to confront if it intends to fund safety improvements, improve track quality and scale services to better match demand. Currently, the Metro rail system is undergoing the largest overhaul in its 40-year history through its maintenance plan SafeTrack, which shutters parts of the track weeks at a time in phases called “surges.”
Under the proposed budget, the rising fares would lift the rail boarding charge by 10 cents during peak hours and increase one-way local and express bus fares by 25 cents. However, the higher fares are expected to generate $21 million dollars more annually. Service cuts are expected to generate another $50 million from riders to balance the budget.
In WMATA’s Oct. 30 press release, it cited statistics that predict that ridership is down more than 20 percent from its 2009 levels.
WMATA Board of Directors Member Malcom Augustine acknowledged that the fiscal proposal’s plan to increase fares may exacerbate the downward trend in ridership, but said it is necessary due to the current low levels of riders.
“I think that there will be an impact on ridership. With that said, there has already been declining ridership over the past few years, which is part of the reason we’re in the situation that we’re in,” Augustine said.
In addition to personnel cuts, rail service will experience increased wait times as trains run every eight minutes in peak period compared to the current six minute waits.
Councilmember Jack Evans (D-Ward 2), Chairman of the Metro Board of Directors, expressed opposition to increasing fares and transferring money from the capital budget to the operating budget. He instead advocated for increased jurisdictional subsidies.
Evans’ Director of Communications Thomas Lipinsky said the councilmember fears increased fares might have adverse effects on the region’s economic development.
“There’s been a pretty significant drop in ridership over last three months,” Lipinksky said. “The goal is just not to increase fares to a point that it dips further. The majority of development in the region, both commercial and residential, is around Metro systems.”
Subsidies from jurisdictions would increase by $47 million from the District, $44 million from Maryland and $39 million from Virginia. The Metro Board of Directors, which ultimately must approve the budget, includes members from local governments.
Eno Center for Transportation Senior Fellow Jeff Davis estimated that $100 million dollars of $290 million shortfall are due to declining revenue and ridership, while another $100 million stem from the fact that temporary federal funding will expire at the end of fiscal year 2018. A further $90 million shortfall can be attributed to increased expenses.
Davis said that he is skeptical that the proposed budget will improve long-term conditions and effect long-term change. He said he hopes the involved parties devise a new plan for Metro, which takes into account the 2018 expiration of the federal subsidy to the service.
“A lot of this is just killing time until they can have the next great, big crisis that happens every 10 or 15 years,” Davis said. “Congress and the locals have to sit down and come up with some new plan for Metro and the impetus for that will probably be the expiration of the last ten-year funding plan in 2018.”
Andrew Hanson, a senior research analyst at the Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce, said increasing fares would mean bus commuters would have to pay an additional $10 a month for transportation while Metro riders would pay an additional $4 per month.
However, Hanson stressed that the recent increase in minimum wage from $8.25 in 2014 to the current $11.50 level provides an additional $500 per month in income, which will help absorb the shock of increased transportation costs.
“In the long run, decreased Metro ridership in favor of driving, ridesharing services like Uber, biking and walking, will lead to increased fares in the absence of additional direct subsidies from federal, state and local governments,” Hanson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Augustine stressed that WMATA finds itself in a difficult situation with its proposed budget because whatever choice the organization ultimately makes will face some level of opposition.
“No one is going to be particularly happy with this,” Augustine said. “We’re in a really rough situation and it’s going to be hard for everybody.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 8, 2016 by Hannah Urtz 1 Comment 
Since the Office of Global Education required students studying abroad to pay the same tuition as those studying on-campus in 2005, students have raised concerns about the fee structure.
According to Tori Costa (COL ’18), a Spanish and Portuguese double-major studying at the Complutense University of Madrid, tuition at her university in Spain costs 1,000 euros — roughly $1,096 — a semester. In comparison, Georgetown’s tuition is $49,968 for the 2016-17 academic year.
Costa said she was upset when she realized the disparity between what she was paying and what the program actually costs.
“I was livid,” Costa said. “It makes it inaccessible for students who can’t afford to not work for a semester, along with the endless pressure to travel and to finance local activities.”
According to Director of Strategic Communications Rachel Pugh, this fee structure was implemented in order to allow students to choose their overseas programs based on academics as opposed to cost.
Pugh said the fees are used to cover a wide range of costs, including overhead expenses related to the time and resources devoted to study abroad as well as the support students continue to receive from the university throughout their time abroad.
“While students are abroad they continue to have access to many Georgetown services and support programs while abroad. For example, students continue to require significant amounts of advising, before, during and after on site experiences,” Pugh wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Jared Ison (SFS ’17), who studied abroad in Argentina last year, said he does not view the university’s policy as reasonable.
“There was not in my mind enough of a connection to the university during my time abroad to justify the cost relative to the prices paid by other students,” Ison said.
Cassidy Gasteiger (COL ’18), who is currently studying abroad at the University of Botswana, said even though financial aid continued to apply to her study abroad program, other students should not pay full Georgetown tuition for study abroad if the tuition abroad is cheaper.
Under the policy, financial aid awards and other grants remain in effect while students are abroad.
“I guess in principle, the financial load seems ridiculous in that tuition here is way less than at Georgetown, but I’m still expected to pay full Georgetown tuition,” Gasteiger said. “At the same time, I’m on financial aid anyway and all of that transferred effortlessly, as promised.”
Costa said study abroad should be accessible to all those at Georgetown because it is a valuable experience.
“Everyone at Georgetown should have the opportunity to study abroad if they are interested in it, because it is such a good experience,” Costa said.
[…] students abroad raised these concerns last year, Rachel Pugh, Georgetown senior director for strategic communications, wrote an email to The Hoya, […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 8, 2016 by Tala al Rajjal Leave a Comment 
The Hilltoss has launched a new $1,000 sustainability scholarship, which funds the recipient’s project to improve the environment and foster sustainability over the academic year.
With applications due Nov. 9, the sustainability scholarship is part of Students of Georgetown, Inc.’s effort to increase its scholarship offerings and meet the financial need of more students on campus.
This year, The Corp awarded five scholarships, including the Dream Big scholarship, the Uncommon Grounds Arts Scholarship and the Midnight MUG textbook scholarship.
The Dream Big scholarship, sponsored by The Corp’s IT+Marketing Department, furnishes a MacBook Air equipped with AppleCare and Microsoft Office for a student who demonstrates substantial need, while the Midnight Mug textbook scholarship allocates $500 to three students to fund textbook purchases for the academic year.
The MUG scholarship application, due Nov. 21, seeks to award scholarships totaling $8,000 to students who have had defining international experiences, or are international students themselves and have an international purpose or project they wish to support.
This year’s recipient of the Dream Big scholarship Precious Blalock (COL ’19) said The Corp scholarships help mitigate the socioeconomic barriers students face at Georgetown.
“I thought that by attending [Georgetown] I would be able to escape the poverty that befell the community, but I found myself dealing with the same pressures I encountered back home,” Blalock said. “The Corp’s IT Scholarship was something that I could do to change my own situation. Winning this scholarship gave me the confidence to know that, ‘You made it here, of course you belong.’”
While the Dream Big scholarship received 30 applications, The Corp’s Philanthropy Chair Kobby Adu-Diawuo (COL ’17) said he aspires to achieve a larger volume of applicants to ensure all students who could benefit from scholarships have the opportunity to apply.
“I think one of the biggest issues that we have now is that it’s very hard to reach a wide audience in terms of getting as many applications as possible,” Adu-Diawuo said. “These are really cool opportunities and it would be nice to figure out a way to get as many people as possible. It might sound a bit lofty but I think [the Dream Big Scholarship] should be the kind of thing that receives over a hundred applications.”
The Corp’s Philanthropy committee has been looking into ways to increase student engagement in the scholarship program, mainly by collaborating with The Corp’s marketing department to launch campus-wide promotional campaigns.
According to The Corp’s Vice Chair for Philanthropy William Landi (COL ’17), each Corp scholarship needs greater visibility given that the scholarship program is the primary way the organization maintains its nonprofit status.
“This is what makes the Corp a nonprofit, and not enough people know about it,” Landi said. “Getting more people to where they need to be with their own goals and dreams and hopes and dreams and ambitions, whatever those may be, is exactly what we want to be working on.”
Midnight MUG’s scholarship will also kick off the Midnight MUG Lending Library, a plan to begin a textbook rental system with books donated by the Georgetown Community. Students who receive the textbook scholarship are encouraged to return the books supplied by the scholarship to Midnight MUG at the end of the semester to furnish the rental system.
Both the IT+Marketing Department and Midnight MUG scholarships are specifically geared to supporting students who demonstrate significant financial need, according to Adu-Diawuo.
“We’ve tried to focus on offering more need-based support,” Adu-Diawuo said. “That way we can make sure people who are receiving the Dream Big scholarship, as an example, are benefitting the most from it. We had the same goal for the textbook rental scholarship.”
Adu-Diawuo said each Corp scholarship is meant to embody the character of the service sponsoring it.
“The culture at the Hilltoss, for example, is very different from the culture at Midnight Mug, be it that they’re all under The Corp umbrella. We have worked a lot this year to make sure that scholarships really align with the culture of the store,” Adu-Diawuo said.
The Uncommon Grounds Arts Scholarship is given to students to fund original art projects that are then displayed inside Uncommon Grounds. They work with the Uncommon Grounds leadership to complete the project by Feb. 1.
Landi said that the arts scholarship provides a valuable outlet for the arts, something he believes is underrepresented at Georgetown.
“I think that the arts scholarship at UG is impactful, because I personally think that us as a school we don’t really support or celebrate the arts as much as we could,” Landi said. “There are a lot of amazing and talented people here and I don’t think they get enough credit for what they do.”
Landi said The Corp is looking to reach more students through its philanthropic efforts.
“I would like to reach more corners of campus. I think there are still plenty of underrepresented groups and I think there’s tons of students who have all these amazing individual project ideas. I just don’t think enough people know about it, and I think we need to become more of a presence on campus, a more visible stage,” Landi said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 8, 2016 by Paula Hong Leave a Comment 
Europe and the United States must work together to establish stronger migration and security policies, according to Sandro Gozi, in the office of the Italian prime minister, in a talk in the Bioethics Research Library on Wednesday.
“We have to sharpen our policies. If you want to win the challenge of migration, the right answer is to develop a new, common policy,” Gozi said. “We want and need to take back control. The wrong answer would be to go back to national policies.”
Before assuming his current position in the Italian government, Gozi served as the leader of the Democratic Party on the European Committee of Affairs and as a member of Italy’s delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe from 2013-15.
Europe must also build its security resources, according to Gozi. The French Parliament found multiple intelligence failures led to the 2015 terror attacks on French satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo, which left 12 dead and 11 injured, and the November 2015 terror attacks on the Bataclan concert venue and other targets in Paris.
“As Europeans, we need to do more in building up intelligence because it comes from inside and outside,” Gozi said. “We need to devise new security measures and need to make stronger emphasis on defense and in our military.”
Gozi said Europe and the U.S. share the similar task of creating policies surrounding migration.
“We are confronted with new challenges that are more common than we think. This requires a much stronger and deeper common analysis,” Gozi said. “We have lost control on one of the biggest challenges — migration and refugees.”
According to Gozi, Europe faces large challenges in generating more ideas and action on intelligence, given the internal economical turmoil and high levels of xenophobia in the region.
“Instead of increasing and integrating analysis under threats and crisis, Europe does not find solutions other than to arrest each other,” Gozi said. “There are big gaps we need to fill in and I am not naive in that I know that there is nothing but a strong uphill battle ahead for preventative measures.”
Gozi added that new policies should also look to address Europe’s current lack of economic growth, which has impacted many other issues such as weak employment.
“We must devise a new economical and social policy to strengthen policy and government through physical capacity and new governance,” Gozi said. “This will help control the democracy of the national policies.”
Gozi highlighted the coming year as the time to act on the issues facing Europe and enact new policies.
“We want to use a symbolic moment and focus on next year, March 2017, where we will propose a new vision with new political integration processes. We must rely on and use this occasion for a new process of integration and must take a new commitment,” Gozi said.
Gozi said by focusing on upcoming years, positive change can be affected.
“We must be very brave and focus not only on the past 60 years of hard work and accomplishments, but on the future 60 years,” Gozi said.
Pietro Candia (SFS ’19), who attended the event, said Gozi presented an optimistic view of Italy.
“I think Mr. Gozi gave an insightful discussion, especially on Italy and the European Union. I’ve actually heard him speak before in Italy and I think Mr. Gozi does a great job giving a positive vision of Italy’s future,” Candia said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

