
January 15, 2016 by Ashwin Puri 2 Comments 
The Georgetown University Student Association Mental Health Committee announced the creation of the Project Lighthouse mental health initiative Wednesday, which will implement a peer-to-peer online chat service to enable Georgetown students to anonymously communicate on issues such as stress culture, sleep problems and thoughts of self-harm.
The initiative plans to welcome its first class of peer supporters through an eight-week training period from February to March, garnering support and resources from professionals in Georgetown’s Counseling and Psychiatric Services and Health Education Services.
After training peer supporters, Project Lighthouse will conduct a beta test in early April to evaluate student interest and begin plans to transition into full-service by final exams in May. The initiative will tentatively be in operation every day of the week on evenings and nights, until 2 a.m.
While the Project Lighthouse initiative will exist separately from the GUSA Executive, President Joe Luther (COL ’16) said he plans to support the initiative and is excited about the expansion of mental health resources on campus.
“Mental health has been a serious issue for us since Connor and I first began our GUSA campaign,” Luther wrote in a press release. “We are thrilled that Hoyas are actively working to improve and expand the mental health resources available to fellow Hoyas.”
Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson also expressed his support for Project Lighthouse and acknowledged the importance of student initiative in increasing mental health resources.
“I really appreciate the students’ initiative and care in pursing this initiative,” Olson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I know they understand the importance of thoughtful training and strong preparation to assure that this is a valuable resource for our students.  I am enthused to see this moving forward.”
According to Director of Health Education Services Carol Day, Project Lighthouse comes as a result of thoughtful collaboration by mental health professionals and students.
“The students that have been working on the Project Lighthouse initiative have collaborated with many key individuals in the university as part of their planning process,” Day wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We expect the service that trained students will eventually be providing will be a valuable resource for students to get support and link to important resources.”
Director of CAPS Phil Meilman expressed CAPS’s continuing support for Project Lighthouse.
“We look forward to supporting this new and creative venture at Georgetown and hope it will be of great benefit to students,” Meilman said.
GUSA Vice President Connor Rohan (COL ’16) said Project Lighthouse increases awareness of mental health issues and will reach more Hoyas in a way that reduces negative stigmas.
“Project Lighthouse will allow more students to receive assistance, improve knowledge about professional resources on campus, and reduce the stigma associated with seeking out mental health resources,” Rohan wrote in a press release. “We will continue to fight for improved resources at Georgetown and are thrilled to help bring this program to Georgetown.”
Project Lighthouse is currently seeking applications for its first class of peer supporters, and will accept applications from freshman, sophomore and junior students until January 26th.

Harold A. Maio says 
January 16, 2016 at 4:39 am
https://www.thehoya.com/gusa-releases-mental-health-initiative/
—-GUSA Vice President Connor Rohan (COL ’16) said Project Lighthouse increases awareness of mental health issues and will reach more Hoyas in a way that reduces negative stigmas.
You fail- it is not your intention to do so/ Anyone l;ending credence to a “stigma” fails the issue. See rape/stigma. It failed the issue for generations.
Please: You educate people who direct that  prejudice, you do not join them in directing it.
Harold A. Maio, retired mental health editor
[email protected]
[…] GUSA Releases Mental Health Initiative The Georgetown University Student Association Mental Health Committee announced the creation of the Project Lighthouse mental health initiative Wednesday, which will implement a peer-to-peer online chat service to enable Georgetown students to … Read more on Georgetown University The Hoya […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 15, 2016 by Syed Humza Moinuddin 2 Comments 
Georgetown University’s first Sexual Assault and Misconduct Climate Survey opened to the student body yesterday to promote a better understanding of the prevalence of sexual misconduct on campus.
The survey, which was announced through an email to students by University President John J. DeGioia, was initiated by the Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity and Affirmative Action in partnership with the Office of Assessment and Decision Support and the Office of the Provost.
Students played a large role in the survey’s implementation, with administrative offices along with the Sexual Assault Working Group and the Climate Survey Working Group leading the survey’s development. Students will be able to participate in the survey until February 6th, and the survey’s final results will be published in May 2016.
The 20- to 30-minute online climate survey was garnered using a template from the Association of American Universities, and is specifically tailored to Georgetown. Twenty-seven other universities, including Harvard, Yale, Rutgers and Michigan have already utilized AAU sexual misconduct surveys.
The survey is designed not only to assess the prevalence and characteristics of sexual assault on Georgetown’s campus, but also to assess the effectiveness of the resources already in place for victims of sexual assault and misconduct. The results of the survey will be compared with other higher-education institutions and national data on sexual climate at universities.
“I am asking each of you to participate in the survey. Every response gives us important insight to enhance life here at Georgetown,” DeGioia wrote in an email to students. “Your participation in this survey will help us to better address instances of sexual assault and to fulfill our obligations to care for one another as members of this community.”
At other universities, research groups have had issues gathering enough information from students with climate surveys, which led the Georgetown working groups involved to devise methods to maximize student participation. Once the survey is submitted, some students will be entered into a drawing to win a $500 Visa gift card or one of five $100 Visa gift cards. Many students will also be offered a $10 Amazon gift card after they complete the survey.
Numerous posters and signs will be posted across campus, and a thermometer will be placed in Red Square to track the ongoing participation of the student body in order to compare Georgetown’s participation with that of other universities such as Harvard and Michigan.

Saurabh says 
January 16, 2016 at 10:37 am
How do we participate in the survey?

Sarah says 
January 21, 2016 at 9:23 am
An email with a link to the survey was sent out about a week ago. More info on how to take  the survey can be found here: sexualassault.georgetown.edu/survey/instructions
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

