
May 24, 2016 by Tara Subramaniam Leave a Comment 
National League of Nursing CEO Beverly Malone emphasized the importance of staying true to one’s values in achieving success at the commencement ceremony for the School of Nursing and Health Studies in the Leavey Center Ballroom on Saturday.
Before being appointed NLN CEO, Malone was the general secretary of the Royal College of Nursing from 2001 to 2006, and deputy assistant secretary for health in Bill Clinton’s (SFS ’68) administration.
NHS Dean Patricia Cloonan congratulated the graduates before introducing Malone, asking them to embody Georgetown’s values as they approach their futures.
“We call upon each of you to employ the knowledge and skills that you’ve gained in Georgetown as you go into the world, always remembering to reflect the deep tradition of values that are informed by our extraordinary university,” Cloonan said.
Malone, who was presented with an honorary doctor of science degree, said the graduates should view their education — and lives — as a journey.
“On any journey for a life-long learner, you will need a suitcase. I would suggest you pack your core values,” Malone said. “First of all, know where your north star is, keep it in view. I’m speaking of the north star of your energy, your passion or simply your way forward. Regardless of the next step you take, you will need these values to keep you oriented.”
Malone said the core values of care, integrity, diversity and excellence play vital roles in developing a person’s character. She particularly emphasized the importance of being caring for nurses.
“Caring is promoting help, healing and hope in response to the human condition,” Malone said. “You know I’m a nurse, so this is my bedrock. When I lose my caring, I lose a part of who I am.”
Malone said diversity is fundamental to the broader goal of crafting modern citizens.
“Diversity, or meaningful inclusion, is affirming the uniqueness of and differences among persons, values and ethnicities. It’s bigger than color,” Malone said. “This is truly required for your global citizenship and necessary to effectively live in this world where countries merge.”
According to Malone, graduates should value excellence and tenacity instead of fearing failure.
“Make sure you pack excellence. Co-creating and implementing transformative strategies with daring ingenuity, you might find a cliff that you just fall into,” Malone said. “It has never been about the fall, it’s always been about the getting up.”
Malone also said an open mind is a key factor for personal progress and growth.
“Relating to excellence, pack a world of possibilities. I never thought I could be general secretary of the Royal College of Nursing in the United Kingdom but I never thought I couldn’t,” Malone said. “Leave the could-nots. Let somebody else sweep them up. Leave your concept of defeat, knowing that I can be delayed, but not defeated. As long as I have breath, I have opportunities, possibilities that I have not yet explored.”
In closing, Malone encouraged the graduates to overcome stressful situations by being more reflective.
“Let’s try leaving your stress,” Malone said. “There are three types of stress: inevitable, imposed and chosen. You have the authority to make other choices when you understand your stress.”
Correction: This article previously stated the commencement ceremony took place in McDonough Arena; the ceremony was held in the Leavey Center Ballroom.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 24, 2016 by Owen Eagan Leave a Comment 
At a conference on the ongoing Colombian conflict hosted by the Mortara Center last month, a panel of policy experts discussed a war occurring more than 2,300 miles away — but one speaker brought the issue close to home.
“I myself also am a victim,” Camilo Azcarate, the event’s moderator and the manager of mediation services for the World Bank Group, said. “Both my father and my father-in-law were also killed in Colombia.”
The topic of discussion was the 52-year-long armed struggle between Colombian government forces and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, a left-wing guerrilla movement founded in 1964. During the conference, Azcarte and other experts reflected on the prospects of future peace incumbent upon current negotiations between the government and the FARC, instead of the casualties of past fighting.
The conference was organized by Georgetown Por Colombia, a student organization that unites young Colombians with others to promote the country’s heritage, culture and positive image. Speakers included Fr. Leonel Narvaez, director of the Foundation for Reconciliation in Colombia, who spoke over video conference, Adam Isacson, a senior associate at the Washington Office on Latin America, Mark Schneider, senior vice president of the International Crisis Group, Pamina Firchow, assistant professor of conflict analysis and resolution at George Mason University and Marc Chernick, director of Georgetown’s Center for Latin American Studies.
The Colombian conflict has claimed more than 200,000 lives since 1958, according to a 2011 report of the National Centre of Historical Memory, a Colombian government commission. Additionally, a 2015 Colombian government study estimated the conflict has displaced approximately six million people.
The FARC, fighting to dismantle the Colombian government, which it disparages as elite and corrupt, in favor of the rural poor, currently holds a force of around 7,000 fighters with 15,000 additional militants, according to the Americas Society and Council of the Americas, and is concentrated predominately in the remote rural areas in southern Colombia, according to the Crisis Group.
Previous attempts at peace negotiations between the Colombian government and the FARC have failed, but the current talks taking place in Cuba are now progressing relatively quickly toward peace, with the United States Institute for Peace projecting that a final agreement could be in place by the end of June.
According to Chernick, this speed is a positive sign for the country, as the patience of the populace for the issue has waned.
“From my interviews, the government and the FARC are acutely aware that patience has basically run out in the country, that this can’t go until the end of the year,” Chernick said. “This will happen.”
Isacson agreed that a peace agreement is in the offing for Colombia, but worried about the immediate after-effects for the country.
“I share the optimism of my colleagues here that there will be an accord signed some time this year,” Isacson said. “I do worry exceedingly about what will happen the next day when suddenly the Colombian government loses its historic excuse for not governing and offering basic citizenship rights to people in vast areas of the country where the FARC aren’t there anymore.”
The FARC historically occupy lands in Colombia’s southern territory where rough terrain and jungles exist and are therefore difficult to administer with basic services. Schneider affirmed that the administration of these areas might be accomplished through the integration of the FARC as a rural police force, but tempered the claim with the question of feasibly implementing such a program.
“For example, the FARC might in fact become a part of a rural police, under the national security police, within the containment areas, but then there’s two rings outside that: how that’s handled and the role of the [United Nations] monitors in that,” Schneider said.
Beyond questions of disarming FARC rebels in the short term, Narvaez mentioned the challenge of building peace in the country in the coming decades that would require a shift from the common urge for revenge among Colombians against FARC fighters toward one of solidarity.
“If you are talking about the peace-building in Colombia, we speak about decades,” Narvaez said.
Jorge Rincon (SFS ’18), news director for Georgetown Por Colombia, plans to return to serve his native Colombia after graduation. Rincon said that although it is imperfect, the current peace agreement should move forward, and that he is hopeful for the future of his country.
“I have been an idealist for very long, and I truly believe that if we want to someday make peace and stop killing each other … that we need a peace treaty, and it might not be a perfect one, but it’s the one we have and I think that we need to keep moving forward with it,” Rincon said.
Georgetown Por Colombia President Andrea Diaz (MSB ’17) said that the peace process is significant to her because of the opportunity it offers to generations of Colombians after her.
“Generations like mine don’t know anything different — I don’t know anything about what peace feels like — and hopefully we’ll get there for our kids,” Diaz said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 24, 2016 by Ian Scoville 1 Comment 
Humana President and CEO Brouce Broussard advocated the importance of work-life balance and caring for others in his commencement address to undergraduates in the McDonough School of Business in McDonough Hall on Saturday.
Broussard, who was awarded an honorary Doctor of Humane Sciences degree at the ceremony, became President and CEO of Humana, a health insurance company, in 2013. Before joining Humana as President in 2011, Broussard was the chairman and CEO of McKesson Specialty/US Oncology, Inc.
In his introduction of Broussard, MSB Professor Bill Novelli called Broussard an innovator in the healthcare industry.
“During his tenure, he has led both his company and the nation toward a model for integrated care delivery—one that puts and keeps the individual patient and not simply the disease at the center,” Novelli said.
Broussard urged the students to make the most of life by learning to balance family and career. Broussard said he realized his priorities were out of order after his mother died in a car accident.
“I regretted the time I was not able to spend with family members. I also regretted that I defined life success as career success,” Broussard said.
Broussard said it is important to devote energy to all the things that are important in one’s life, rather than focusing on one sole endeavor.
“So balancing priorities for me has been a lot like caring for tomato plants. First you have to pick your plants, but then you have to water them to grow them. Similar to life and time, water is limited, so you have to make some decisions,” Broussard said. “Do I water one plant to grow strong, or do I water multiple plants to remain healthy?”
Broussard said having courage and standing by one’s beliefs will result in success.
“Never compromise your non-negotiables. Have courage, ask questions, stand up for what you believe in, even when it is more difficult and is the longer and harder path. I promise you, there will be more doors that open than close,” Broussard said.
Broussard spoke at length of the importance of helping others. According to Broussard, developing trust and finding ways to help others is important for success in both the business world and day-to-day life.
“On a recent visit to a customer’s home with a nurse—she was a senior citizen—I asked, ‘What else can we do for you?’ This individual, not having family living with her, about 80 years old, answered the question ‘I’m lonely,’” Broussard said. “For me, loneliness resulted in the identification of a health problem. And asking that simple question, that I would not have been able to understand in the boardroom, in management reports or in meetings, it allowed me to identify that a health problem is a loneliness problem.”
Broussard said being successful comes in tandem with helping others be successful.
“I was listening to a tape and it had a profound impact on me. It was by the late Zig Ziglar, a motivational speaker and an author. He said, ‘You will get all you want in life if you help enough others get what they want,’” Broussard said.
Broussard reminded students to persevere and focus on achieving their own goals, rather than getting distracted by others.
“Remember your journey is your journey. Don’t waste time comparing it to others, things won’t go as planned and remember the four P’s—patience, persistence, passion and Pepto-Bismol,” Broussard said.
MSB Dean David Thomas said the 341 graduating students received a unique business education during their undergraduate careers.
“We have not simply been engaged in a process of certification. We have been engaged in a process of formation whose tenets are deeply rooted in our Jesuit heritage and the values that animate it,” Thomas said.
Hoya Staff Writer Christian Paz contributed reporting.
[…] I had the honor of serving as the commencement speaker for the Georgetown University McDonough School of Business in Washington, D.C. I have a personal connection to Georgetown, as my […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

