
August 7, 2016 by Ian Scoville Leave a Comment 
Actress and humanitarian Angelina Jolie has no plans on joining Georgetown as a visiting professor this year, despite reports about her professorship in multiple publications, according to a statement issued by the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security today.
Celebrity magazine Us Weekly reported on Friday that Jolie would teach a course at Georgetown on women, peace and security, citing an unidentified source. According to the article, this position would extend from her role as a visiting professor at the London School of Economics, which houses GIWPS’ sister program.
The LSE Centre for Women, Peace and Security announced in May that Jolie and former Foreign Secretary of the United Kingdom William Hague will serve as visiting professors in practice this fall.
In a statement to The Hoya, GIWPS Communications Manager Sarah Rutherford said while there are no plans for Jolie to teach at Georgetown, she and Hague are welcome on campus anytime.
“There are no current plans for Ms. Jolie to teach at Georgetown, but Angelina Jolie and William Hague have an open invitation to share their experiences and perspectives at
Georgetown anytime they’re able,” the statement reads.
GIWPS Executive Director Melanne Verveer (SFS ’66 and GRD ’69) said Georgetown is working closely with LSE’s newly launched center.
“We have been involved and continue to be involved in ongoing conversations with them about our collaboration. We are partners in this process,” Verveer said. “Exactly what that will mean, in terms of future events, potential lecturers, joint studies and research, that all remains to be seen.”
Representatives from Georgetown and LSE will be having meetings in the next several weeks about the nature of their partnership, according to Verveer.
Us Weekly’s report prompted similar articles from other publications, including Vanity Fair, New York Daily News and Daily Mail.
This post has been updated.
Hoya Staff Writer Tara Subramaniam contributed reporting. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

