
November 1, 2016 by Grace Lobo Leave a Comment 
More than 400 people protested the grand opening ceremony for the Trump International Hotel in on Pennsylvania Avenue to demonstrate against Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump’s stances on issues ranging from labor rights to concerns about his treatment of women last Wednesday.
Protesters remained outside the building while the opening ceremony occurred indoors. According to The Washington Post, Trump originally planned to hold a ribbon-cutting outside, going so far as to apply for a permit to use the sidewalk. The Tuesday before the event, Trump Old Post Office LLC withdrew their request for a permit.
The $212 million hotel made its official debut after the Trump organization won a 60-year lease from the federal government in 2012 to transform the Old Post Office Pavilion building on Pennsylvania Avenue NW into a 263-room hotel. Construction began in 2014.
The protest was officially organized by the group UNITE HERE, a labor union whose work focuses primarily on the hotel, food service, laundry and casino gaming industries. UNITE HERE has also organized a nationwide boycott of Trump products, an effort supported by the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations, the largest federation of unions in the United States, which represents more than 12 million workers across the country.
UNITE HERE called specifically for Trump and his business partners at Trump Hotel Las Vegas to recognize the unionization efforts of the workers there and begin negotiations for an official contract.
Last March, the National Labor Relations Board, an independent federal entity that oversees labor disputes, approved the union vote of around 500 Trump Hotel Las Vegas employees. However, since then the Trump Organization has unsuccessfully appealed the decision and refused to begin bargaining the contract for the union.
UNITE HERE represents Aramark workers at Georgetown, some of whom attended the protest last Wednesday.
Joshua Armstead, who works at O’Donovan Hall and attended the protests as a member of the local chapter of UNITE HERE, said the protests brought awareness to the plight of workers at Trump’s hotel in Las Vegas.
“I decided to attend because my brothers and sisters in Las Vegas have been looking to negotiate in good faith and make the most American choice possible in fighting for their rights, and Donald Trump has been running from that,” Armstead said.
UNITE HERE Organizing Director Sarah Jacobson said the protest aimed to spotlight the incongruity
between Trump’s attempts to block unions and his claims to champion the working class.
“By setting up a picket line in the grand opening of this hotel, we are asking people not to disrespect this ethical call for solidarity made by the workers in Las Vegas,” Jacobson said.
Trump Hotel D.C. Director of Sales and Marketing Patricia Tang dismissed the notion that protesters would have an adverse impact on the hotel’s business, which currently charges upward of  $900 per night.
“Protests happen all over America. As long as it happens peacefully, it’s fine,” Tang said in an interview with The Hoya. “There’s only a small portion of the population that would ever be able to afford the hotel. But the people who can afford us, they’re coming.”
Georgetown Solidarity Committee Member Esmeralda Huerta (SFS ’17), who did not attend the protest but knew people who did, said she appreciated that people came together to protest the hotel’s opening.
“During actions like these, we’re able to come together because these issues impact all of us. We are all complicit and affected by systems of privilege, oppression, and power regardless of whether we can afford to book a room at the Trump hotel or not,” Huerta wrote in an email to The Hoya. “It is our responsibility to hold giants accountable to the realities that they create in people’s lives.”
With less than two weeks until the election, the ribbon-cutting ceremony and accompanying press conference inside the hotel ballroom featured the nominee touting the opening of the hotel as a metaphor for his platform’s subversion of a broken political system.
“We turned a property that had been neglected for decades and which was losing huge sums of money for the federal government into a major producer and job creator,” Trump said. “This is what I want to do for our country and what we’re working so hard to do. Right now, just about everything our government touches is broken or they break it. It’s always over budget and behind schedule, and simply nothing works.”
Huerta said she recognized similarities between the labor disputes occurring at Georgetown and the protests at the new Trump hotel.
“While Georgetown and Trump might be different employers, the fact that both companies have the same history of disenfranchising workers speaks volumes,” Huerta wrote.
D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D), who participated in the hotel’s ceremonial groundbreaking in October 2014, was absent from the ribbon-cutting, saying she did not want to participate in a political campaign event.
“I decided it was a political event more than anything, and I’m not going to be involved in a political event,” Bowser said in an Oct. 26 interview with D.C.’s Channel 7 news.
Jacobson added that UNITE HERE is calling for a boycott of all Trump-related products until the candidate accepts the National Labor Relations Board’s decision to allow the unionization of workers at the Las Vegas hotel.
“Our union is asking people not to sleep, not to eat, not to spend money at this or any other Trump-owned property until he respects the decision and comes to the table and bargains with the workers in Las Vegas in a contract that addresses the concerns that caused them to create the union,” Jacobson said.
Georgetown University College Republicans Chair Megan Pohl (COL ’17) said she was not surprised at the amount of attention the hotel garnered in recent months.
“Given the controversy surrounding Donald Trump’s treatment of workers and contractors on several of his past projects, it is not surprising that the hotel’s opening attracted protesters,” Pohl wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Georgetown University College Republicans member Mike Parmiter (MSB ’18) said he thought American workers should be celebrating rather than protesting the hotel opening.
“Particularly for the unions, they should be happy he is opening up a hotel as he is for the workers and for your average American trying to live paycheck to paycheck,” Parmiter said. “I think that the unions should be on the other side of the issue and happy he’s opening up a hotel.”
Jacobson said she found it symbolic that the grand opening of the hotel saw nearly all the hotel’s doors blocked by metal barricades, secret service agents and protesters.
“I watched a little bit of the news story from Trump himself inside the hotel bragging about the opening of his business, even though functionally, that hotel was closed,” Jacobson said. “People were not moving in throughout the hotel, people were not celebrating the opening of the hotel, and that really reflects what I see as the future of that hotel. Trump’s actions are driving people’s business away from the places where he makes money.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2016 by Alfredo Carrillo Leave a Comment 
After five months of negotiations, the university reached a tentative agreement with the union representing Georgetown’s facilities workers Wednesday to increase annual wages by 2 percent, falling short of the 1199 SEIU’s original demand of a 6 percent increase.
The agreement, obtained Monday night by The Hoya, comes before yesterday’s contract renewal deadline between the university and facilities workers, who are currently reviewing the agreement for ratification.
The agreement is the same contract the university initially offered facilities workers in June.
The current contract expired Oct. 30 after it was extended from its initial June 30 contract end.
The workers will vote on the proposal in the next few weeks. If the vote passes, the negotiations on wages will come to an end.
In addition to a 2 percent annual increase in wages, the agreement denotes a $0.25 increase in wages every year until June 2019. The proposal requires all minimum wages to increase to $13.50 per hour by June 2017 and $14.25 per hour by June 2019, in line with Washington, D.C. minimum wage increases. The tentative agreement does not address workers’ health care and parking benefits.
The union originally demanded a 6 percent annual increase in wages and similar parking and health care benefits to what workers at the Georgetown University MedStar Hospital receive.
Facilities workers currently pay $140 per month for parking and $15 for health care visits.
Workers have argued the proposed wage increase does not sufficiently account for the rising cost of living in Washington, D.C. Facilities workers interviewed by The Hoya said they were disappointed with the university’s proposal and the union’s negotiation efforts.
A facilities worker who asked to remain anonymous said the university’s wages do not cover living expenses for the D.C. area even though he has worked for the university for over a decade.
“I have been here for over 10 years and only make $14.24 an hour,” the worker said. “That is below the standard in this area for any maintenance workers or housekeeping in this whole entire region and that is below living wages.”
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers in the Washington D.C.-Baltimore area has increased 0.8 percent from September 2015 to September 2016.
A second facilities worker who asked to remain anonymous said she is disappointed with the end result.
“If it was 2 percent, then I am really upset, because 2 percent really does nothing for us,” the worker said.
The worker also said she was disappointed by the administration’s lack of care toward the workers.
“We basically make it $40 a day for eight hours of work and I don’t think anyone has sat down and seen what small of an amount of money it is,” the worker said. “What I am really surprised at is how Georgetown is always in the news about helping employees become better overall, but they do nothing for the people here that are making the least amount of money.”
The worker voiced her displeasure at the efforts of the union, which she believes does not represent them properly for the high membership fee they charge.
“I have been here four years. We have had three different representatives. The main person who represents us comes in, introduces us to other people and we don’t see him anymore,” the worker said. “With the amount of money that we are making versus paying the union, as far as I am concerned, they can get rid of the union. It does nothing for us.”
In response to the university’s original offer, Georgetown Solidarity Committee, a student group advocating for workers’ rights, has organized protests and demonstrations both on the main campus and at the Georgetown University Law Center to support workers over the past month.
On Oct. 25, GSC led more than 50 students and facilities workers on a march from Red Square to University President John J. DeGoia’s office to deliver a petition signed by over 1,000 members of the Georgetown community.
The petition demanded “raises that cover the cost of living and inflation, sufficient staff assigned to each task and work order, accountability for managers that engage in intimidation or discriminatory tactics, workplaces that are healthy and safe and accommodation for the language needs of all workers.”
Senior Director for Strategic Communications Rachel Pugh said the university values its employees and hopes the agreement is satisfactory for facilities workers to ratify it.
“We are proud of our facilities workers and deeply appreciate all that they do to support our university community,” Pugh wrote in an email to The Hoya.
GSC held a meeting last night to discuss the agreement’s terms and the upcoming vote. GSC said despite the perception of dissatisfaction with the proposal among workers, it will stand by them and support them regardless of the vote’s outcome.
“While Georgetown Solidarity Committee has spoken to workers who are unhappy about the proposed contract, the next step is for workers to vote on it,” GSC members wrote. “GSC will support whatever decision they make.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2016 by Jeff Cirillo 2 Comments 
The Georgetown University Student Association senate addressed concerns with the plan to abolish the senate and establish a new assembly, during a public senate meeting Sunday in which two senators argued that the plan will make policy making less democratic and is being approached too quickly.
The senate is hoping to vote on holding a referendum on a constitutional amendment to enable the restructuring Sunday.
GUSA Senate Speaker Richie Mullaney (COL ’18) presented the most recent iteration of the restructuring plan to senators during the Sunday meeting. The plan has undergone significant changes since it was first reported by The Hoya on Oct. 21 in response to input from senators and stakeholders. According to Mullaney, the proposal will likely not be finalized until Friday.
If passed in a studentwide referendum, the plan would abolish the senate in its current form and replace it with an assembly consisting of elected representatives and appointees from club boards, which would consist of four elected students from each class year and delegates appointed by advisory boards. The assembly would be solely responsible for appropriating funds to Georgetown clubs, a role currently administered by the Finance and Appropriations Committee, known as Fin/App, within the senate.
In order to pass, a two-thirds supermajority of the senate must agree to put the plan forward to a studentwide referendum. The plan must then pass or fail with support by a majority vote of students in a studentwide referendum.
The plan would also shift the role of policy advocacy from the senate to policy teams in the executive, according to Mullaney. Policy teams consisting of leaders and members appointed by the GUSA executive were established to replace senate subcommittees and executive chiefs-of-staff at the beginning of the current administration under GUSA President Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) and Vice President Chris Fisk (COL ’17).
Mullaney, who has been involved in developing the plan, said policy teams are a much more inclusive system for creating policy and have largely overtaken the role of the senate.
“It’s a good system, and it’s much more inclusive than the old system,” Mullaney said. “Now that basically anyone can get involved if they really care and are passionate about something, the senate as a whole doesn’t serve the same purpose it necessarily used to.”
However, GUSA Senator Isaac Liu (COL ’20), who opposes the current plan, said removing elected representatives from policy advocacy is undemocratic.
“I’m more concerned with replacing the senate, and with taking the senate out of policy,” Liu said. “Although people have said that anyone can join policy teams, policy teams are still mostly run by the executive. I think people’s elected representatives should have a say in those policy teams and on policy in general.”
GUSA Senator Jasmin Ouseph (SFS ’19), who also opposes the current plan, said she is concerned that there will no longer be elected representatives working on policy decisions.
“Besides the president and the vice president, there aren’t really any elected representatives from the undergraduate body that are working on policy issues, which I think is a problem because that’s a huge part of what student government is,” Ouseph said.
Ouseph also said she is concerned that including delegates from advisory boards in budgetary negotiations to the clubs they represent could lead to conflicts of interest.
“The biggest issue to me is we’re adding members of advisory boards,” Ouseph said. “GUSA is supposed to be impartial in the budgetary process, and I don’t see how having members of advisory boards voting on the budget in any way makes that impartial.”
Fin/App Chair Owen Hayes (COL ’18) said advisory board members can contribute more knowledge than students to the appropriations process.
“There’s also a really high value in expertise, and the institutional knowledge necessary to make recommendations and changes,” Hayes said. “That’s something that’s very important, and that needs to be in the room and involved in making decisions that affect those advisory boards.”
Council of Advisory Boards Vice Chair Taylor Oster (SFS ’17) said advisory boards should have a central role in the funding process.
“Obviously, I think advisory boards should have a full vote when it comes to the budget process — we’re the most knowledgeable about what clubs and students by extension — need. I think that a vote provides accountability, agency, and makes advisory boards feel equally invested in the funding process,” Oster wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Mullaney said concerns about politicking and collusion by advisory board delegates have already been addressed in the most recent version of the plan.
“Those are all very legitimate concerns if we’re looking at the plan last week, before the revisions that we made, because we heard all of those concerns and we addressed them and fixed it,” Mullaney said.
Some senators also expressed concerns about the timeline of the reform, which is expected to be implemented in fall 2017 if students to vote to support the constitutional change.
“It’s way too fast, it’s way too early,” Liu said in an interview with The Hoya. “There’s a lot of freshmen in the senate, and we haven’t even been fully exposed to the process yet. Now really isn’t the time to think about restructuring, before everyone’s even settled in.”
Ouseph said the fast pace may not be fair for freshman senators who are still learning how GUSA operates.
“I think it’s easy to manipulate the fact that a lot of people here are new to this,” Ouseph said. “I feel like if I were a freshman senator, I don’t think I would be confident enough voting on something like this.”
Mullaney said the accelerated pace was necessary to avoid overlapping with the GUSA executive election this spring.
“We also just didn’t want this to be politicized,” Mullaney said. “People would take stances on it and it would be just muddled. It would be a second-rate conversation.”
Khan said even though some senators oppose the plan, the senate is largely united behind the proposal.
“I think within the senate there isn’t much of a dissenting opinion,” Khan said. “I think they are very much on board with the plan.”

Dick Pointer says 
November 1, 2016 at 10:46 am
Stop the Senate from devolving into a mix of financiers and special interests! Can you even imagine people running for such a joke Assembly with no more promises to fix Leo’s or WiFi or anything related to policy?
[…] found it somewhat difficult to get their proposed Constitution to pass the Senate, where its most vocal critics include Jasmin Ouseph (SFS’19), Isaac Liu (COL’20), and Saad Bashir […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2016 by Colin Maloney 1 Comment 
One hundred and fifty-five runners took part in Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity’s third annual Halloween 5K marathon Saturday to raise around $9,000 for Doorways for Women and Family, a charity that works to support victims of domestic violence and sexual abuse.
The 5K concludes a monthlong fundraising effort by SigEp as part of Domestic Violence Awareness Month.
This year’s run, which saw 40 fewer runners than last year’s turnout of 195, was co-sponsored by the Georgetown University Real Estate Club, the Georgetown University Student Association, Knights of Columbus, Georgetown University Alumni and Student Federal Credit Union, Blue & Gray Tour Guide Society and Students of Georgetown, Inc.
In addition to the $15 dollar race registration fee, the fraternity sold raffle tickets for the charity throughout the month.
SigEp’s Vice President of Philanthropy Christian DeRosa (COL ’17) said the amount raised has a significant impact on the charity.
“Doorways is a fairly small shelter in Arlington, Virginia. The money that we raise — we are a very large portion of the money that they have,” DeRosa said. “They don’t have necessarily massive channels of marketing like some other bigger charities may have. Each dollar definitely goes a long way for an event like this.”
According to Doorways’ Communications and Outreach Manager Linley Beckbridge, SigEp’s contributions this year are especially important given the organization’s current budgetary status.
“This gift is really essential to us year after year and especially now that the need is greater than ever,” Beckbridge said. “This gift is huge and makes a great impact.”
In addition to serving as Arlington’s only domestic violence emergency shelter, Doorways provides a wide range of services to help its clients in the longterm, including a court advocacy program to help victims obtain orders of protection against their abusers, child care services to help children adjust to the effects of homelessness and domestic abuse and an economic empowerment program, which educates Doorways’ clients on budgeting and managing debt.
Beckbridge said the money raised by SigEp will mostly go to supporting the charity’s long-term programs.
“All of the comprehensive support services, counseling and case management, the financial independence, education, kid services are covered though private support,” Beckbridge said. “So they are really going beyond our immediate response and our emergency shelter and are the key difference in helping our clients achieve the longterm safety and stability.”
Health Education Services Staff Clinician and Sexual Assault Specialist Jennifer Wiggins said SigEp’s annual 5K draws attention to domestic violence, a topic that often receives too little attention on campus.
“What often happens is domestic violence gets associated with married couples and couples that are having families, but we don’t always take a look at how domestic violence impacts college-age students,” Wiggins said.
Tara Smith (COL ’19), who ran in the 5K, said she hopes the community will continue to address the issue of domestic abuse.
“I think that it is a really important issue, so I think that members of our community should do something to support it,” Smith said.
DeRosa said he hopes the 5K helps raise awareness about domestic violence.
“Most of the brothers and people in Georgetown come from pretty solid families and don’t have to deal with these issues and come from a secure home, and even if not, many can consider Georgetown a secure home and that’s not something that these women and these children are facing,” DeRosa said. “To be able to again use our influence and use our manpower to make a difference is very important to us.”
[…] Jesuit credo of “women and men for others” through their charitable efforts. Last November, the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity hosted its third annual run to raise money for victims of domestic violence and sexual abuse. The Alpha Epsilon Pi fraternity […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2016 by Ben Goodman 1 Comment 
Unsung Heroes, a student-run initiative that shares the stories of workers in the Georgetown community using social media, is seeking nonprofit status to enable it to develop similar programs at other universities in Washington, D.C., and around the country.
After showcasing over 20 Georgetown workers in the past year and a half under its original name Unsung Hoyas, Unsung Heroes Founder Febin Bellamy (MSB ’17) said he wants to spread his model to other schools across the country, with Unsung Heroes acting as the overarching organization.
The project has been featured prominently in national press in recent weeks, appearing in The Washington Post, NBC News and CNN.
“We want to use Unsung Heroes as a platform that encourage every university across the U.S. to start chapters: Georgetown is Unsung Hoyas; Harvard could be Unsung Crimson; [the University of Pennsylvania] could be Unsung Quakers,” Bellamy said. “The whole point [of contacting press] was to get the attention of [The George Washington University] and other schools in D.C., but next thing you know it went viral.”
Bellamy said over 40 schools have contacted him to start chapters, including Duke University and Columbia University.
Before welcoming new schools into the fold, however, Bellamy and his team of five student staff members must obtain nonprofit status from the Washington, D.C. government, according to Unsung Heroes Chief Administrative Officer Julia Muzquiz (SFS ’19).
Along with reaching nonprofit status, Bellamy said the team is ironing out key details in its expansion plan necessary to expand a campus movement into a national one.
“Right now, we have to solidify our own structure first. We’re in the process of establishing some sort of toolkit: bylaws, chapter bylaws, all the stuff to start a club,” Bellamy said. “Once that’s finished, and we apply for a nonprofit for Unsung Heroes, we have all the contacts of the universities — we’re going to reach out to them immediately.”
Bellamy said it is important for Unsung Heroes to keep consistent branding across different potential chapters to successfully create and sustain a nationwide movement.
“We really want to keep it uniform, where, for example, Unsung Hoyas does something very similar to Unsung Crimson — maybe a month of appreciation just for custodians, or food and service workers or ‘get a cup of coffee for a worker’ Fridays,” Bellamy said. “That’s the best way to make an impact and create unity.”
Chief Development Officer Precious King (SFS ’20) said she is confident that Unsung Heroes will both strengthen its ties to Georgetown and also catch on rapidly at other schools nationwide.
“I see this going very far. This is a change agent. Other schools want to get in on the action and have that sense of full community,” King said. “[Unsung Heroes]  will have an impact that is longlasting and hopefully make our communities stronger and everybody appreciate each other in a more intimate way.”
The five members of the Unsung Heroes team work together on both executing recognition efforts and expanding the program to other universities.
For instance, when Unsung Hoyas featured O’Donovan Hall worker Umberto “Suru” Ripai, Chief Operating Officer Elizabeth Nalunga (SFS ’19) contacted dining hall staff extensively beforehand.
“For Suru’s story, we always made sure we were in tight communication with the dining hall staff and his boss, making sure we were not interrupting workers’ hours,” Nalunga said. “There’s lots of different things students might not be thinking about; it’s not very easy to just approach someone on the job and say ‘I want to take a picture of you.’”
As Unsung Heroes looks to expand beyond campus, Nalunga said Unsung Heroes hopes to continue its work on the Hilltop and allow interested Georgetown students to contribute in a multitude of ways.
“This is a community effort. … We’ve definitely had a lot of Georgetown students message us, and we’re getting a structure involved where they can start going out and doing interviews and writing stories and getting involved on that level,” Nalunga said. “We’re going to have training sessions for those who want to interview workers or take pictures.”
Bellamy said showing appreciation can be as simple as saying “thank you” and acknowledging a worker’s presence, but can also include going out of one’s way to strike up conversation with or buy a cup of coffee for a worker.
“Everyone can do their part, no matter where you are or where you come from,” Bellamy said. “It’s a change of mindset — you’re making visible the invisibles.”

Jeff Craven says 
November 1, 2016 at 1:53 pm
Dear Ben-
I would like to support the Unsung Heroes movement.  I am a DC-based (19th and K St) lawyer, COL ’81, GULC ’87 and would like to assist with the Non-Profit application, as well as the “tool kit” of By-Laws, etc.
I also think that this group should meet Mark Farr, President of Sustained Dialogue Institute
http://www.sustaineddialogue.org
I serve in their Board.  Lots of opportunities for sharing lessons learned….
Hope you can help me connect with the group’s leadership.
Thanks,
Jeff Craven
Thompson Coburn, LLP
1909 K Street NW
Washington DC 20006
o:202 585 6958
c:202 255 8238
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2016 by Olivia Chiu Leave a Comment 
Washington, D.C., is the third best city in the United States for building wealth in 2016, according to a report released Oct. 24 by consumer financial services website Bankrate.
The report identified the top 21 cities in America most conducive to building wealth, ranking the District behind San Francisco, Calif., and Minneapolis, Minn. The study has been conducted for two consecutive years and this year saw D.C. fall from second to third in the rankings.
Bankrate Mobile Editor and Analyst Claes Bell, who designed the study and completed most of its analysis, said an interest in household wealth creation and its widespread impact on daily life inspired the report.
“People think a lot about income, they can probably tell you what they made last year, and the year before that and the year before that, but they probably can’t tell you what their net worth is,” Bell said. “Wealth can be used to pay for college, a house down payment or saved in a retirement account. Accessible wealth allows individuals to pay for any needs they encounter.”
In the report, Bell identified five specific categories used to judge which cities promoted building wealth. These categories are savable income, which refers to the difference between money earned and the amount that can be saved and invested, human capital, which includes the skills and knowledge of residents, access to financial services, homeownership benefits and debt burden.
In D.C., the average savable income is the second highest of cities across the nation at $15,246. San Francisco ranked first in savable income with a difference of $16,657.
At 64.2 percent, the rate of homeownership in the District is slightly above the national average of 63.5 percent. The data for the homeownership analysis came from a combination of statistics from the 2016 U.S. Census Bureau and the National Association of Realtors.
Georgetown economics assistant teaching professor Mustafa Karakaplan said he thought homeownership had particular weight in D.C., where it may be harder to purchase a home.
“Land is scarce in D.C., and owning a house is a valuable form of investment. So that plays an important role in the homeownership benefits component of their criteria,” Karakaplan wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce Chief Economist Nicole Smith, who is also a research professor, said there is a connection between wealth building and education.
“A significant number of the jobs in Washington, D.C. definitely require education and training beyond high school, to the point beyond even a bachelor’s degree,” Smith said. “What that means is there’s a sort of rough rule of thumb: ‘The more you learn, the more you earn.’”
Smith said though the District should celebrate the reports of financial benefits in the city, Georgetown students should also give attention to D.C.’s income inequality.
“When we talk about the high incomes in Washington, D.C., we almost forget that there’s a great amount of inequality as well,” Smith said. “We have a social responsibility at Georgetown University. If we consider ourselves part of the affluent part of the city, there’s a social responsibility to give back.”
Smith said a key factor in D.C.’s wealth disparity is access to higher education.
“Georgetown University as a whole can reach out to more of our high school kids in Washington, D.C., to ensure that there’s a transition for D.C. kids to have an opportunity to have Georgetown education,” Smith said. “If you look at America’s poor and you look at some characteristics, a lot of our poor are not able to connect to jobs that can offer them a middle class wage, because they just don’t have the required education.”
Karakaplan agreed that income disparity and unemployment should be considered as well as the positive aspects of the report but said education and overall productivity could counteract these factors.
“It is true that the income disparity and unemployment rate in D.C. are larger than the national averages. These variables would impact the human capital component of their criteria,” Karakaplan wrote. “However, there are very good education opportunities in the D.C. area, and productivity is high.”
According to Bell, the report is important to help people understand how to increase overall wealth, which involves the different factors considered in the study.
“If you don’t have a positive net worth, if you don’t have the ability to access some household wealth, it’s going to make that much more difficult,” Bell said. “Wealth is tied up in all of these things, and it’s not something we think about much. I want to get people thinking about what are some things that help people build wealth and what are some things that are impediments to building wealth.”
Karakaplan said students should value the results of the report, even if they do not plan on staying in D.C. for a career.
“This is the second year that they have run this analysis and Washington, D.C., is once again one of the top cities, which definitely is good for everybody in the D.C. area including Georgetown students and the Georgetown community in general,” Karakaplan wrote.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2016 by Christian Paz 3 Comments 
The Georgetown University Police Department is investigating flyers posted on and off campus this weekend advertising a “Frito Bandito Party” to be hosted last night, which featured phrases misattributed to Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump regarding immigrants.
The flyers included the address of a private residence off Georgetown’s campus, as well as a phone number with a message to call for a sombrero that directed to American University’s Center for Diversity and Inclusion. Students reported sightings of the flyers in the Healey Family Student Center, the Intercultural Center, Red Square, hallways in Alumni Square residence halls and townhouse mail slots on N Street NW.
The image of Frito Bandito, a mascot for Fritos corn chips from 1967 to 1971, is accompanied by lyrics to a Frito Bandito commercial.
In addition, the flyers featured an image of Trump and a quote: “The Donald says, ‘You Illegal Aliens can come over the wall for this one! We didn’t invite ICE this time … and don’t forget your Taco, it’s Yuge!’”
The university administration has condemned the flyers. Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson said administrators are following up with any students affected by the messages the flyer communicated.
“We learned about these very troubling and offensive flyers earlier today, and have been following up with students who are affected and who have raised concerns,” Olson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
GUPD Chief Jay Gruber said the Criminal Investigations Unit is investigating the incident.
“As next week’s presidential election nears and national political tensions run high, we ask that all members of our community treat each other with respect and dignity,” Groves wrote.
Members from Casa Latina declined to comment on the flyers.
The flyers have also appeared at American University, according to Alumni Square resident Jawad Pullin (COL ’18).
Pullin said he was leaving his home when he noticed one of the flyers in his hallway.
“It’s actually the second time I’ve come across the photo. A friend of mine showed me the photo and said he first saw it from his friend at American University,” Pullin said.
Georgetown University Student Association President Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) said she was shocked to see the flyers.
“Seeing those flyers and getting some texts about them today, quite frankly, I’m shocked and it was disturbing to see something like that,” Khan said. “I think regardless of the source, whether this was something developed and disseminated off campus or on campus, it was upsetting. My heart goes out to and I stand with the students who felt affected. I think that kind of speech is not OK on our campus.”
Khan said GUSA has been in contact with Gruber, Olson and Assistant Dean for Student Engagement Erika Cohen-Derr on how to formally address the situation in a universitywide email sometime Thursday.
“We will be releasing something either very late [Monday] or [today] on our Facebook and we will be releasing a statement in our email, which comes out on Thursday,” Khan said. “I want to reiterate the point that there are certain conversations we need to have on campus about what is acceptable and what toes the line of free speech and hate speech.”
GUSA Free Speech Policy Team Chair D.J. Angelini (MSB ’17) said GUSA is planning on how to best support students following the incident.
“It’s been incredibly disheartening to see the offensive, crude and destructive posters containing targeted language posted in the ICC today,” Angelini wrote in an email to The Hoya. “GUSA is actively collaborating with administrators and members of policy teams to understand the negative implications of such a posting and how we move forward from here.”
GUSA Vice President Chris Fisk (COL ’17) said the flyers went beyond the boundaries of free speech.
“It’s disheartening,” Fisk wrote in an email to The Hoya. “No one’s against free speech, in fact that’s how we are able to constructively engage different ideas here. But openly making discriminatory or offensive comments targeted at a specific group’s identity and culture is just disrespectful. This wasn’t an example of someone expressing their point of view or opinion on an issue, it was, really, just a deliberate insult.”
Khan said she will push to raise awareness of the line between free speech and hate speech.
“Again, we will be expressing our disappointment with this kind of biased speech. Additionally, we will be outlining the resources we have on our campus for students who are affected and impacted by something so disturbing and hateful,” Khan said.
This post has been updated. 

Ok says 
November 3, 2016 at 1:28 pm
Maybe offensive, but hate speech? Come on.

SFS 2016 says 
November 3, 2016 at 6:03 pm
The Criminal Investigations Unit is investigating this? Good God people at this school are pathetic. Goodness knows the police have nothing better to do than track down people who a. didn;t commit a crime and b. were probably hoping for this hysterical reaction

The Real SFS 2016 says 
November 4, 2016 at 1:43 pm
This was flyer was a hoax to get attention and everyone knows it.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2016 by May Teng Leave a Comment 
Andrew Bazemore, an adjunct professor of family medicine at the Georgetown University Medical Center, was appointed to a National Academy of Medicine lifetime membership Oct. 17.
The independent nonprofit organization, which provides advice to policy-makers and the public on health care issues, elected 79 new members this year based on their achievements and commitment to service.
Bazemore, who also serves as the director of the Robert Graham Center, a family and primary care research institute, is involved with the Robert L. Phillips Jr. Health Policy Fellowship, a GUMC program that pairs primary care policy researchers with leading health care organizations.
He has published over 150 peer-reviewed works, including studies on the impact of medical schools on their communities and the relationship between health systems and population health.
In an interview with The Hoya, Bazemore attributed his success in the medical field both to his role as an adjunct professor at Georgetown and his collaboration with medical professionals at the Graham Center.
“It’s an excellent way for me to stay in touch with learners and the issues that really matter to them, and I’ll say that between the fellows and scholars here at the Graham Center, I’m really personally blessed with all of the ideas and energy that they bring to our shared work,” Bazemore said.
The National Academy of Medicine’s new members include 70 regular members and nine international members, who are added to its nearly 2,000 other members. In its selection process, the academy said it attempts to enhance diversity by requiring at least 25 percent of the new members to come from fields outside the health profession, such as law, engineering or the humanities.
The National Academy of Medicine Senior Media Officer Molly Galvin said membership in the organization is reserved for those who have made major contributions to the field of medicine.
“Election to the Academy is considered one of the highest honors in the fields of health and medicine and recognizes individuals who have demonstrated outstanding professional achievement and commitment to service,” Galvin wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Other current members of the Georgetown faculty who have National Academy of Medicine memberships include Lucile Adams-Campbell, Judith Feder, Jesse Goodman, Lawrence Gostin, Robert Groves, Patricia King and Ira Shoulson.
Douglas E. Henley, executive vice president and chief executive officer of the American Academy of Family Physicians, which established the Robert Graham Center in 1999, said the center has flourished under Bazemore’s leadership.
“We applaud his leadership at the Robert Graham Center in developing research into access to care for underserved populations, the health care workforce, training for primary care clinicians and social determinants of health,” Henley wrote in an Oct. 18 press release. “This work has become foundational to establishing health policy that affects all Americans.”
Bazemore said he was particularly proud of his recent projects at the center, which examine social accountability in medical education for institutions such as Georgetown.
“I’m very happy to keep exploring ways to bring out the power of the primary care function through innovative ideas that drive the richness of population and clinical data into the hands of providers to make more informed and effective policy,” Bazemore said.
Bazemore advised aspiring health care providers to stay intellectually engaged and keep in mind their motives for studying medicine.
“I think that looking to stay intellectually challenged is something that every health provider-in-training really needs to be successful, so finding ways to stay engaged in scholarly activity in any sort and showing curiosity in your everyday practice is really important,” Bazemore said. “Training in the medical field is a long but noble path, and making sure that you’re constantly keeping an eye on why you got into this very long road is key not only to sanity but also satisfaction.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

