
October 25, 2016 by Sophie Donnelly Leave a Comment 
Referendums are inefficient forms of democracy, according to Former High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs the Right Honourable Baroness Catherine Ashton of Upholland during a discussion at the Mortara Center on Friday.
The talk, co-hosted by the BMW Center for German and European Studies and the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security was moderated by GIWPS Executive Director Melanne Verveer.
Ashton said although democracy is important, referenda may not be the best vehicle to communicate popular opinion. Referenda prevent politicians from offering citizens detailed answers to complex problems, according to Ashton.
“Democracy is very important, but the instruments of democracy should be used wisely and well. I’m not of the view that a referendum is always the best way of showing democracy,” Ashton said. “Straightforward yes-and-no questions lead to slogan solutions rather than in-depth propositions.”
Ashton said there is a possibility for constructive relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union after the United Kingdom formally leaves the EU following its June 23 vote.
“The UK has just voted to leave the European Union, it hasn’t voted to leave the world.” Ashton said. “What is important is not looking at it as disintegration, but looking at it as a new way of working together.”
Ashton, who held the position of High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy from 2009-2014 – comparable to that of EU foreign minister – said some of reconciling the views of 28 individual member nations into one cohesive foreign policy approach, while still preserving the autonomy of those member states, was a constant challenge.
“You have to recognize that individual nations, when they have aid budgets and foreign ministries, have to prove the worth of those,” Ashton said.
Ashton, who was the first female European Union trade commissioner from 2008 to 2009, said women face significant challenges in politics.
“There is no road map for women. You’re on your own, so tread your own path, and do it with pride,” Ashton said. “Make sure to put the ladder down behind you.”
Ashton served as a chief negotiator in both the normalization of relations between Serbia and Kosovo and the P5 + 1 talks, which included China, France, the United Kingdom, the United States and Germany and led to the signing of the Iran nuclear deal in 2013.
Ashton emphasized three core tenets of negotiation as indispensable guidelines when approaching a global challenge: collaboration, the ability to think comprehensively and the importance of thinking long-term.
“You can’t understand one aspect of a crisis without understanding all of the interwoven underpinnings of what’s going on,” Ashton said. “We have to understand that processes take time, and be prepared to invest in that.”
In an interview with The Hoya following the event, Verveer said Ashton’s insights will help students find solutions to world problems as future leaders.
“I think the breadth of her experience, ranging from negotiating the agreement between the Serbs and the Kosovars, to the Iran talks, to her work in so many other trouble spots… what this represents for our students is the chance to sit with someone who has this wealth of experience and to learn lessons that can help us move forward into all the difficult, intractable challenges of tomorrow,” Verveer said.
SFS Events Manager Phoebe Koenigsberg said she welcomed the advice offered by Ashton to women seeking to forge careers in male-dominated industries and institutions.
“As a woman used to being the first at everything that she’s accomplished and done, who didn’t have an example to follow and who had to blaze her own trail – I found that perspective very interesting,” Koenigsberg said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 25, 2016 by Paula Hong 3 Comments 
The main campus of Georgetown University took another step toward becoming smoke-free, as the Georgetown University Student Association senate voted 26-0 Sunday to hold a studentwide referendum in December on the issue.
The referendum, to be held Dec. 1, will present students with three options: in support of a smoke-free campus, against a smoke-free campus and an entry for those undecided.
The university is planning to create a tobacco-free campus by the 2017-18 academic year, according to Associate Vice President for Benefits and Chief Benefits Officer Charles DeSantis. GUSA and the university sponsored a Hoya Roundtable discussion last night to allow students to discuss a potential smoking ban with administrators.
The current main campus policy prohibits smoking in all indoor locations, including all residence hall rooms, apartments and townhouses. Those who choose to smoke must do so in designated outdoor areas and are responsible for proper disposal of cigarette ashes and butts.
Both GUSA President Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) and GUSA Vice President Chris Fisk (COL ’17) advocated adding the third option to the referendum for students to identify as “undecided.”
Fisk said the referendum will enable GUSA to more effectively advocate for students as the university works to transition to a tobacco-free campus.
“[Enushe and my] job is to listen and advocate for whatever the student body wants and that’s why we feel so passionate about the fact that there should be a referendum on this issue so we know how to advocate best for the students,” Fisk said.
The senate voted in favor of providing a third option on a 19-to-seven decision, and approved the undecided response instead of a “no preference” answer on a 15-13 vote. One senator abstained from the vote entirely,
Hosted in the Healey Family Student Center’s Social Room, Monday’s roundtable discussion featured a presentation from DeSantis and included several senators from the previous night’s vote.
DeSantis said he is advocating for a smoke-free campus to help students who do not smoke but may be affected by secondhand smoking.
“Tobacco-related death is the most preventable cause of mortality with more than 400,000 Americans who are affected of it each year,” DeSantis said. “Unlike other health issues, smoking can affect those who choose not to smoke and it is my passion, my job at the end of the day to care for this community’s well-being. I’ve been trying for eight years to do this. This is a big deal.”
The university is currently undecided on where specifically smoking would be prohibited, according to DeSantis.
“As of right now, based on maps that we have come up with, the only plausible solutions for [smoking zones] that seem to not get in the 25-feet zone of indoor spaces are Healy Lawn and Cooper Field,” DeSantis said.
GUSA Senator Scott Lowder (COL ’17) pointed to negative experiences with secondhand smoke while walking to Lauinger Library.
“I have asthma and I do not always make note to carry my inhaler. I shouldn’t have to put myself and others should not have to put themselves at risk for the actions that those who do choose to smoke make in spite of knowing how their decision will affect those who choose not to smoke,” Lowder said.
DeSantis said the process to become a smoke-free campus should be run by the student body.
“We still have many decisions to talk about without constituents. There are many people to consider and I am meeting with everyone in a serious manner to hear decisions of those in favor and those not. Our job is to make sure we do this in the right way,” DeSantis said.

Manny says 
October 25, 2016 at 9:41 am
another Steward conspiracy. wow.

classmate says 
October 25, 2016 at 4:11 pm
when the Hoya talks more about the exec in an article about something the senate did

Unconvinced says 
October 28, 2016 at 7:25 pm
Because Healy Lawn and Cooper Field are exactly the right places for smoking. As always, the devil is in the details and this referendum seems to have more holes than a piece of swiss cheese.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 25, 2016 by Grace Lobo Leave a Comment 
The Washington, D.C. Council advanced a bill to raise the legal age of tobacco use in the District from 18 to 21 and limit its public use Oct. 11.
Cities including Boston, Chicago and New York City have implemented similar hikes in the minimum smoking age.
Under the proposed law, the possession of tobacco for those under 21 would be considered a civil offense and purchasing tobacco for those under 21 would be considered a criminal offense. It would also ban all forms of tobacco use from sporting arenas and other public venues in D.C.
The bill, initially introduced by Councilmembers Kenyan McDuffie (D-Ward 5), Mary Cheh (D-Ward 3), Elissa Silverman (I-At Large), Vincent Orange (D-At Large) and Jack Evans (D-Ward 2), encountered opposition from Chairman Phil Mendelson (D), David Grosso (I-At Large) and Anita Bonds (D-At Large).
The legislation must clear a second round of votes from the council before landing on Mayor Muriel Bowser’s (D) desk for consideration. Bowser’s office did not respond to a request for comment by press time.
Mendelson challenged the bill on the grounds that it arbitrarily raised the threshold for adulthood.
McDuffie, who has spearheaded passage of the bill since its original introduction in April 2015, said he supported it because of the hidden death toll of tobacco-related illnesses nationwide. According to data released December 2015 by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, cigarette smoking is responsible for more than 480,000 deaths per year in the United States.
“As an annual percentage, smoking accounts for almost 20 percent of all deaths in the U.S.,” McDuffie wrote in an email to The Hoya. “To give you a sense of how horrific a mortality rate this is, consider this: smoking cigarettes kills more Americans than alcohol, car accidents, suicide, AIDS, homicide and illegal drugs combined.”
According to McDuffie, the $2.50 economic loss in excise taxes collected by the city on each package of cigarettes will be more than offset by the $47.53 average gained by removing medical expenses and productivity losses per package.
McDuffie said he reasoned that by reducing access to cigarettes for people early in life, there will be lower rates of tobacco addiction later in life.
“Reducing the number of people under the age of 21 who become addicted to tobacco products may significantly reduce the morbidity and mortality rates from tobacco use later in life,” McDuffie wrote.
The bill coincides with an upcoming referendum to make Georgetown a smoke-free campus, which was approved by a Georgetown University Student Association senate vote Sunday.
Under current Georgetown policy, smoking is prohibited in residence hall rooms, apartments and townhouses, but otherwise permitted in designated areas outdoors that do not block entrances or transmit smoke into buildings.
Henry Callander (COL ’18), who founded the Smoke Free Georgetown campaign, expressed his support for the bill.
“I think [the bill] will drive students to be healthier altogether, because the main point of this directive is to stop people from starting cigarettes too early in their lives,” Callander said.
Krishna Upadhya, a specialist in adolescent health at Johns Hopkins University who testified on the bill over the summer, echoed this sentiment, affirming that limiting access for youths can decrease susceptibility to health risks in the future.
“One of the things that we know is that you’re much more susceptible to addiction or to substance use problems the earlier you start,” Upadhya said. “Tobacco obviously is a substance with a lot of potential health risks and so I think there’s good evidence that delaying initiation is protective.”
Upadhya emphasized that although the health risks associated with tobacco use are dangerous, the biggest reason for preventing use at a young age is the increased likelihood of developing an addiction.
“If you start smoking today, you’re not going to develop lung cancer tomorrow,” Upadyah said. “So a lot of the health risks that we worry about are things that are going to happen in the future from chronic use and you’re more likely to become a chronic user the earlier you start.”
Callander compared cigarettes and alcohol, noting how much easier it is to obtain the former despite tobacco’s being more dangerous.
“I think they’re aiming to help improve the health and safety of young people everywhere,” Callander said. “Kudos to them for being forward-thinking and caring about people’s lives.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 25, 2016 by Gaia Mattiace Leave a Comment 
Across the nation, law enforcement agencies are using facial recognition networks containing the photographs of about half of American adults, posing potential privacy and civil liberty violations, according to an Oct. 18 report released by the Center on Privacy and Technology at the Georgetown University Law Center.
The study calls for greater oversight from Congress and local government, as the current lack of regulation creates a climate in which officers can perform searches on the networks without warrants. Officers can also currently access a database that includes the driver’s license photos of people from 26 states.
The report, entitled “The Perpetual Line-Up: Unregulated Police Face Recognition in America” found that over 117 million people are included in the facial recognition network.
The network is compiled mainly from a database with state IDs, police bookings and real-time scans from cameras in public locations.
The report found that no agency required officers to acquire a warrant before conducting a search of the database and often did not require officers to suspect someone of committing a crime before using the database to identify them.
Law enforcement agencies use facial recognition systems to cross-reference existing images of people entered within the networks. The system produces a virtual lineup of suspects to help police identify suspects in a crime.
The report also claims that racial profiling runs rampant, as database algorithms disproportionately target black individuals.
The Supreme Court has yet to rule on any cases regarding the use of facial recognition in criminal cases, leaving broader questions about the system’s interference with Fourth Amendment rights, which protects citizens from unreasonable search and seizure.
GULC Dean William Treanor said the study, which is the result of a yearlong investigation, is not only a significant discovery, but also reveals the importance of continuing to examine the intersection between privacy, technology and law.
“[The report] represents a major step in how we think about the use of face recognition technology and how it is regulated,” Treanor wrote in an email to The Hoya. “This work once again highlights the critical need to have lawyers who understand technology and are well trained in various aspects of technology law.”
To conduct the report, the researchers requested records from more than 100 law enforcement agencies across the country. Only 52 agencies responded with an acknowledgement of using facial recognition services. Of these 52, only one provided evidence of auditing their officers’ searches on the facial recognition system for misuse.
Alvaro Bedoya, the Center on Privacy and Technology executive director and one of the study’s initiators, said this system gives law enforcement access to a massive lineup in fingerprint or DNA databases.
“You are not going to be in a criminal DNA database,” Bedoya said in an Oct. 23 interview with NPR’s “Weekend Edition.” “Yet by simply standing for a driver’s license photo, 26 states enroll you in basically a virtual lineup just like in the movies, except it’s not a human being pointing to the suspect. It’s an algorithm.”
One of the researchers for the project, Harrison Rudolph (GRD ’16), who is also a GULC Center on Privacy and Technology law fellow, said this was particularly disconcerting as most of the citizens included in the database are there regardless of previous criminal activity.
“Historically, law enforcement biometrics databases, like fingerprint databases, have been primarily made up of criminals,” Rudolph said. “But driver’s license photo databases are primarily composed of law-abiding citizens and I think that is really a startling finding.”
According to American Civil Liberties Union Senior Policy Analyst Jay Stanley, this technology could also potentially infringe on citizens’ privacy and exponentially expand the power of local law enforcement.
“Where you really get into the serious privacy issues is where you have real-time searches against people on the streets, attaching it to video cameras, and that really has a potential to add up to an infrastructure for total surveillance for everybody, all the time,” Stanley said.
GULC found that this inclusion of citizens into facial recognition databases has been happening for at least the past few years and has gone largely unnoticed because the information is predominantly kept private.
Rudolph noted that the lack of a historical precedent, in addition to a lack of Supreme Court rulings, has precluded any states from enacting comprehensive laws regulating facial recognition.
According to Rudolph, this has manifested itself in a lack of transparency from law enforcement, which has prompted an explosion in the use of facial recognition databases, most of which is unknown to the public.
“What we found was that, in short, face recognition is out of control. There are no rules, no audits, no transparency, few accuracy tests and no comprehensive laws, and so it’s difficult to find out about police use of face recognition when they’re not making their use public,” Rudolph said.
The report further cited a 2012 study co-authored by Michigan State University researchers and the FBI, which found facial recognition systems were significantly less accurate when identifying young people, women and especially African Americans.
African Americans are also disproportionately represented in the database because of the racial disparities in arrest rates. According to the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, African Americans are incarcerated nearly six times the rate of whites.
Rudolph said biases implicit in the system could result in a large volume of citizens being falsely identified as suspects.
“The concern is that facial recognition is less accurate than other biometrics technologies like fingerprints, it makes mistakes, and it doesn’t make mistakes equally on everybody,” Rudolph said. “If you belong to one of those groups, facial recognition technology tends to work less well on you and that means there’s a greater likelihood that you’ll be falsely identified as a suspect in a system that doesn’t give no for an answer.”
The Center on Privacy and Technology has provided proposals to combat these charges, including model legislations that could be passed by both state and federal governments as well as a model policy for police departments to adopt.
“The public should be put on notice about the use of facial recognition technology,” Rudolph said. “Another recommendation is that facial recognition companies should engage in accuracy tests of their algorithms to check for bias, particularly on the basis of race.”
Congressional Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) lauded the report for its proposed solutions and emphasized the importance of Congress acknowledging facial recognition as a tool, but also regulating its use.
“Safeguards must be in place to ensure its accuracy and to identify and eliminate any potential bias or deficiencies,” Chaffetz wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The technology must be used in a manner consistent with our Constitutional right of protection against unwarranted government searches. Continued legislative oversight is needed to ensure proper use of this powerful emerging technology. I applaud the good work that went into preparing this significant report.”
Stanley stressed that as facial recognition databases push law enforcement techniques into uncharted legal territory, the law will need to adapt to new questions about basic civil liberties.
“We have never seen anything like what facial recognition technology can do in all of human history. It’s got the potential to really change our country,” Stanley said. “We need to be very careful about how we allow it to be used.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 25, 2016 by Marina Pitofsky Leave a Comment 
More than 50 students from the Georgetown Solidarity Committee and campus facilities workers delivered a petition to University President John J. DeGioia’s office yesterday demanding better work and wage conditions as the university continues contract negotiations with 1199 Service Employee International Union, the labor union representing Georgetown’s facilities workers.
Students marched from Red Square to DeGioia’s office to deliver the petition carrying posters with messages including “Justice forFacilities Workers” and “Georgetown Gets an F in Labor Justice.”
The union and the university must reach an agreement on a new contract or agree to further extend negotiations by Oct. 30 to avoid a strike. The two groups have been negotiating a new contract since early September.
Signed by over 1000 community members online since Sept. 28, the petition demands “raises that cover the cost of living and inflation, sufficient staff assigned to each task and work order, accountability for managers that engage in intimidation or discriminatory tactics, workplaces that are healthy and safe and accommodation for the language needs of all workers.”
The petition drop comes after a demonstration on main campus the same day and a demonstration at the Georgetown University Law Center on Sept. 14.
Facilities workers are pushing the university for a 6 percent annual wage increase and similar parking and health benefits to workers at Georgetown University MedStar Hospital. Facilities workers currently pay $140 a month for parking and $15 for health care visits.
The university is currently offering workers a 2 percent wage increase alongside a 6 percent increase in health care benefits.
A facilities worker who requested to remain anonymous and who serves on the workers’ bargaining committee for contract negotiations, said the purpose of the march was to send a message to university administration that workers and students are standing together to promote justice and transparency.
“From my perspective, I’ve been here for a long time, most of the workers here at Georgetown do a great job, work really hard and are very diligent, and so we deserve these fair wages and working conditions,” the worker said. “It’s time that the university treats us with fairness. Just give us a decent wage that we can live by. That’s why we’re here, to make sure that we can get a decent living wage, a living wage that will allow us to provide and take care of our families.”
GSC member Sophia Bauerschmidt Sweeney (COL ’17), who helped organize the rally, said she was unhappy with the university’s unwillingness to compromise with workers.
“The negotiations have been going on since June, and the university has not given anything,” Bauerschmidt Sweeney said. “It’s been like five months now and the university has been completely unyielding in negotiations, and so we’re trying to exert some pressure from the outside so that they listen to workers’ concerns and so that they will be willing to cooperate in those conversations.”
Senior Director of Strategic Communications Rachel Pugh said the university is committed to reaching a fair agreement with university workers throughout their contract negotiations.
“We are committed to providing fair and competitive compensation packages for all University employees,” Pugh wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We have a long history of collective bargaining with 1199SEIU and we have reached mutually acceptable collective bargaining agreements with the union in every negotiation.”
Vincent DeLaurentis (SFS ’17), who attended the rally, said students support the workers in ensuring fair treatment on a universitywide scale.
“I think it’s important for students to act in solidarity with workers because our fates at this university are really tied up,” DeLaurentis said. “We have a common enemy: these leeches, these administrators who raise our tuition and exploit our workers. So I think as a student it’s important to come out and show that we stand with workers and not the people who sit in their offices and make six-figure salaries.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 25, 2016 by Hannah Urtz Leave a Comment 
The audience of Gaston Hall heard the stories of a media executive developing coverage for this year’s general election, a student reflecting on a recent suicide attempt and another on his diagnosis as being HIV-positive at the sixth annual TEDxGeorgetown event in Gaston Hall on Saturday.
The speakers included Executive Vice President of Editorial, CNN U.S. and Digital Worldwide General Manager Andrew Morse, Jeong Whan Park (SFS ’17), Amina Gerbbi (MSB ’17), Anthony Anderson (COL’18) and Mary Beth Bruggeman, executive director of the southeast region for The Mission Continues, a nonprofit that helps connect veterans with service opportunities in America.
The theme of the conference, which is based on the TED format but is entirely organized by students, was inspired by Malcolm Gladwell’s “The Tipping Point.”
TEDx Co-Chair Natalia Peña (COL ’17) said a tipping point is defined as something that can seem momentous or minuscule and can be experienced by anyone.
“A tipping point can be a huge life event or just making the decision to get out of bed this morning. That’s the beauty of it,” Peña said.
The 10 talks were broken up into three different sessions spread throughout the day. Each block was followed by breakout sessions, in which audience members were able to ask questions and hear from the speakers in a more intimate setting.
Agnes Lee
As an undocumented student, Agnes Lee (SFS ’17), shared her experiences with student group  UndocuHoyas and how they helped her embrace her identity.
“It didn’t take long for me to realize that I had arrived at home,” Lee said. “We uplifted one another and empowered one another because we knew that we were stronger together.”
Lee said the tipping point in her acceptance of the profoundness and commonality of the undocumented experience came as she sat in mourning with a friend’s undocumented mother in Los Angeles.
“This was one of those moments when I wanted everything around me to stop. Just all the noise, I wanted it to be silent and I wanted to just hold one another, and just understand what that grip meant,” Lee said. “But that grip, its very essence means that we must keep going, that the fight must continue.”
Andrew Morse
Remaining competitive in the media industry requires constant evolution, according to Executive Vice President of Editorial, CNN U.S. and Digital Worldwide General Manager Andrew Morse.
Morse said CNN’s goal in the run up to this November’s election was to make CNN the best political coverage team — not only on TV, but across all platforms.
“We wanted to create the best political team. Period. We wanted to set ourselves up with an unprecedented team and an unprecedented focus, and let ourselves be the best again,” Morse said.
However, Morse said changes in the media landscape are not over.
“You’re never done. In an effort to be the best, in an effort to continue, you’re never done. Especially at a time like this, with a race like this. We’re experiencing a completely staggering paradigm shift in media right now, so you’re never done,” Morse said.
Summer Durant
Summer Durant (COL ’18) performed a spoken word piece about balancing the multifaceted nature of her mixed black and Indian backgrounds.
Durant said she struggles with balancing and embracing the various aspects of her identity, which often feel like direct opposites.
“I’ve never presented as black, so I felt a lot of pressure to act black, surely perpetuating stereotypes along the way,” Durant said. “But when my Indian family asked me why I neglected our culture, I told them that it did not feel genuine to me.”
Durant said her worries about cultural appropriation are embodied by Rachel Dolezal, a white woman who claimed to be black and served as the president of National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Spokane, Wash., before she was forced to resign in 2015 over questions over her race.
“She was my worst fears realized. I was not about to let her undermine everything I had worked so hard just to balance,” Durant said. “I realize now that she marked a tipping point in my life. She provoked me to write slam poetry.”
Febin Bellamy
Unsung Heroes Founder Febin Bellamy (MSB ’17) said his tipping point came after his father suffered a massive stroke following his high school graduation, forcing him to refocus his priorities on others.
“I realized that it forced me to snap out of my high school mindset, to become the man for my family and to actually apply myself in school. To think about the future, not just for myself but for my mother and family,” Bellamy said.
Bellamy said his inspiration for Unsung Heroes, which seeks to spotlight workers on campus, came from late nights studying in the MSB and the lack of interaction he noticed between students and facilities workers.
“I remember seeing these workers late at night, and students would never thank or even acknowledge them,” Bellamy said. “These individuals inspired me to start Unsung Heroes, in an initiative to acknowledge and appreciate workers on college campuses.”
Bellamy invited two of the Unsung Heroes, Facilities Worker Oneil Batchelor and Facilities Worker Evans Arthur-Williams onstage with him, to acknowledge their impact on his time at Georgetown.
“These two have honestly changed my whole experience here at Georgetown,” Bellamy said.
Elizabeth Ferris
Elizabeth Ferris, a research professor in the School of Foreign Service and senior fellow in the foreign policy studies program at Brookings Institution, said tipping points do not occur frequently enough to solve global tragedy.
Ferris said the humanitarian crisis in Syria, where world leaders have frequently called for the need to find a resolution to the fighting, highlights this problem.
“When I think of Syrian refugees, I think of a lot of almost-tipping points, where I thought things were really going to change and they really didn’t,” Ferris said.
Ferris said it is important to remember the plight of refugees when working to address humanitarian crises.
“Over and over again in my work with refugees I have felt very humble. You see the struggle and the courage of desperate people who have made it somewhere,” Ferris said. “They are survivors. They are heroes.”
Jeong Whan Park
Jeong Whan Park (SFS ’17) shared with the audience the thoughts he had leading up to his suicide attempt last spring, highlighting the danger of depression on college campuses.
“There were no extenuating circumstances to answer the question why I would try to kill myself, but that is where the danger lies,” Park said. “It can happen to anyone, anytime, for any reason.”
Park said thinking of his parents and all those in his life that would be affected by his decision inspired him to keep going.
“My life, though it may sound as if it is mine, is not my own,” Park said. “It is a big puzzle, composed of little pieces belonging to everyone who has endeared me and who, reversely, find the strength to live on through the ups and downs of their lives, with the knowledge that there are people, like me, who support and care for them.”
Amina Gerbbi
Amina Gerbbi (MSB ’17), who lived in Benghazi, Libya, during the Arab spring of 2011, shared how her fleeing the country resulted in both her greatest failures and greatest successes.
Gerbbi said being in a war forces one to confront questions they would never have previously considered.
“We would talk about what we would do in case we were about to be raped. Would we kill ourselves in order to avoid being raped?” Gerbbi said. “During times of war, you see things you never thought you’d see.”
Upon her return to the United States, Gerbbi struggled in school, taking both junior and senior year classes during her third year of high school. She graduated with a low GPA, having not gained acceptance to a single university to which she applied.
Gerbbi said this failure ultimately set her on her path to Georgetown, as she worked diligently to overcome her past failures.
“My tipping point caused a revolution in myself which allowed me to create a reality that would not have come into existence had I listened to society,” Gerbbi said. “And I’m here now.”
Jonah Reider
Jonah Reider, a recent Columbia graduate who started a restaurant in his dorm room, said combining food with art helped create a more engaging social experience.
“This was a dining experience that prioritized accessibility and social interaction, just as much if not more than the food itself,” Reider said. “All this dorm room cooking taught me that the satisfaction that people derive from an experience had less to do with the fanciness or quality of the food that they were eating, but rather the extent to which they could participate and engage with that process of creating and consuming.”
Anthony Anderson
To Anthony Anderson (COL’18), the statistic that one in two gay and bisexual men will be diagnosed with HIV became a reality recently.
Anderson cited the fact that HIV disproportionately affects gay and bisexual men, compared to a rate of one in 48 women diagnosed annually with HIV.
“HIV is something that we can change as a community,” Anderson said. “The statistics have always been there, but I think fear really hinders people.”
Despite his fear of speaking out, Anderson said he understood the importance of sharing his story with others.
“I know this is a story that goes beyond me. This is a narrative that need to be told, not only in our community but outside our community,” Anderson said. “These numbers are already here, and they’ll continue to get higher if we do nothing about it.”
Mary Beth Bruggeman
Mary Beth Bruggeman, executive director of the southeast region for The Mission Continues, a nonprofit that helps connect veterans with service opportunities in America, advocated the need for diversity in the workplace.
Bruggeman said that as a young platoon leader and the only female in her Marine Corps cohort, she struggled to find her place amongst her fellow marines.
“I realized that many of those marines didn’t see me as a leader. They couldn’t see past the fact that I was a woman,” Bruggeman said. “In the interest of self-preservation, I started to let many pieces of myself fall away. I made myself one-dimensional. I was a marine. Not a woman marine; a marine.”
Bruggeman said this served as a tipping point to the realization that she was not living her most authentic life.
“I invite you to take a hard look at yourself and decide, like I did, to embrace a new reality. Know the truth that every organization needs diversity and authenticity not just to survive, but to thrive,” Bruggeman said. “Be bold, know who you are and have the power to let yourself shine through.”
 
 
 
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 25, 2016 by Will Linde 2 Comments 
Georgetown University has always been closely associated with national politics throughout its history. But this year’s election holds particular resonance for Georgetown students: Both Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump have familial ties to the university.
While neither Clinton nor Trump attended Georgetown, both the candidates and their families have maintained connections with the university. Hillary Clinton’s relationship with the university is established by her husband, former President Bill Clinton (SFS ’68), while Eric Trump (MSB ’06), the second son of Donald Trump, has also remained actively involved with his alma mater since his graduation.
The Clinton Family
Hillary Clinton has continued to work with Georgetown long after her husband’s graduation from the university. Hillary Clinton has made regular visits to Georgetown since the 1990s, both as first lady and secretary of state, prior to this year’s election.
Clinton sees herself as a member of the Georgetown community, according to Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security Executive Director Melanne Verveer. Clinton serves as the institute’s honorary founding chair.
“She once described herself at GU as ‘a Hoya by marriage,’ and on another occasion said her husband ‘still bleeds blue and gray,’” Verveer said.
Hillary Clinton gave a major speech at Georgetown in 1998 on human rights when she was first lady and has made several appearances at Georgetown in recent years.
Clinton gave a speech on energy diplomacy in October 2012, and spoke at a GIWPS event on women participating in peace efforts Dec. 3, 2014, among others.
Hillary Clinton’s involvement with the university has not extended to this election cycle, however. Given the close connections to Georgetown during this election cycle and the general campus interest in politics, Insitute of Politics and Public Service invited all presidential primary and general candidates to speak. However, only Senator Bernie Sanders and independent candidate Evan McMullin accepted the offer; Sanders spoke Nov. 20, 2015 while McMullin spoke Sept. 23.
Verveer said she hopes for Hillary Clinton to return to campus after the November election.
“If she’s elected in November, one can hope that she will return to the Hilltop only this time as President of the United States,” Verveer said.
Clinton’s presence on campus extends beyond speeches. In her position on GIWPS, Clinton presented the Hillary Clinton Award for Advancing Women in Peace and Security on campus in 2014 and 2015 and by video in 2016.
The university has also created three fellowships in her name, which entitles recipients to year-long research positions at GIWPS.
Besides Hillary Clinton’s individual connections, many of her advisers throughout her career have had ties to Georgetown. Verveer was a classmate of Bill Clinton and served as Hillary Clinton’s chief of staff while she was first lady and as United States ambassador-at-large for Global Women’s Issues while Hillary Clinton was secretary of state.
Executive Director of IPPS Mo Elleithee (SFS ’94) also worked as Hillary Clinton’s spokesman during her 2008 presidential campaign.
The Trump Family
Like Clinton, Donald Trump’s staff contains several Georgetown alumni. Former Trump Campaign Chair Paul Manafort (MSB ’71) and current Trump Campaign Senior Adviser Boris Epshteyn (SFS ’04, LAW ’07) both attended Georgetown.
CNN Commentator Kayleigh McEnany (SFS ’10), a Trump surrogate, studied in the School of Foreign Service, while Donald Trump’s son Eric Trump graduated from Georgetown. His daughter Ivanka Trump attended the McDonough School of Business for two years before she transferred to the University of Pennsylvania, her father’s alma mater.
According to MSB professor James P. Moore, who taught Eric Trump when he studied at Georgetown, Donald Trump has not sustained particularly close associations with the university.
“I think it would be incorrect to connect [Eric’s] father into today’s Georgetown somehow,” Moore said. “Eric has been the one who has maintained his loyalties to the university and business school.”
Eric Trump now serves on the board of advisors of the MSB Business, Society and Public Policy Initiative, which seeks to offer a greater understanding of problems facing businesses today.
This summer, current Georgetown students were given the opportunity to meet with Eric Trump at a private Georgetown breakfast during the Republican National Convention in Ohio.
According to Elleithee, Eric Trump offered the students a unique insight into the political process.
“He and his wife spent over an hour with our students,” Elleithee said. “He gave an interesting talk about what it’s like to participate and sort of be a first timer in the political process,”
Aaron Bennett (COL ’19), who attended the RNC as videographer and photographer for GU Politics, said the breakfast with Eric Trump was surprisingly straightforward and genuine.
“It was very clear that they wanted us there and were looking forward to speaking with us,” Bennett said. “He was very straightforward and answered everything that we asked, unlike his father who has a tendency to sort of spin things and not answer questions.”
Bennett said Trump and Clinton’s connections to the Georgetown community demonstrate Georgetown’s influence on politics.
“I think it is great visibility for our school and representation for the Hoyas,” Bennett said. “Either way, I think it just goes to show that Georgetown University produces people of great stature and people that find people of great stature.”

DL says 
October 25, 2016 at 9:21 am
The author of this article missed Steve Bannon (GRD 83) who runs the Trump campaign.

SFS 2016 says 
October 25, 2016 at 12:34 pm
We must call upon President DeGioia to condemn Trump and remove Eric from any boards or other advisory roles related to Georgetown.  To do otherwise is to be complicit in Nazism, racism, sexism, homophobia, Islamophobia, and xenophobia.  I call upon The Hoya to issue an editorial condemning Eric Trump at the same time they publish their editorial endorsing Hillary Clinton for the presidency.  
#LoveWins #NoH8 #NotAllWomenHaveVaginas
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 25, 2016 by Hashwinder Singh Leave a Comment 
The Advisory Board for Affordability and Access, established this fall to evaluate resources for low-income and first-generation students, will meet for the first time today.
A joint effort between the Georgetown University Student Association, the Georgetown Scholarship Program, the Division of Student Affairs and the Office of Student Financial Services, the advisory board consists of students, faculty and administrators.
The advisory board will also develop policy recommendations to further include low-income students on campus.
Director of the Center for Social Justice Andria Wisler and GSP Student Board President Jason Low (COL ’17) will co-chair the board.
According to GSP Director Melissa “Missy” Foy (COL ’03), the advisory board will be an additional partner for the GSP program’s mission to facilitate inclusivity.
“GSP is so fortunate to feel real support on campus, but it’s sometimes difficult to enact widespread change because, like any other non-profit with thin resources, we sometimes work in silos,” Foy wrote in an email to The Hoya. “In GSP, we’re always trying to identify supportive partners on campus, and this brings many of those people together in one room.”
GUSA Vice President Chris Fisk (COL ’17) said the board was designed to be a long-term structure to critically examine the experiences of the low-income and first-generation community on campus.
“Our administration has made socio-economic inclusivity one of our top priorities, which is pretty uncommon for GUSA,” Fisk said. “And this is just one of the concrete ways we’re seeking to make work on this topic a campus-wide conversation for years to come.”
Apart from giving students a platform to express their concerns and experiences, the board, which was developed over the summer, will examine possible barriers to low-income students, including laundry costs, internship transportation, textbook prices and commencement expenses.
Georgetown estimates textbooks cost students, on average, $1200 per year, while the costs of internships have come to the fore of conversation in recent years. Government agencies and nonprofit organizations are not required to pay their interns.
Low said the board will work to address these concerns.
“We have a formalized opportunity to have conversations that critically examine the experiences of low-income and first-generation students and create specific process, structural and policy recommendations that ensures Georgetown is more welcoming and more inclusive for all students,” Low said.
GUSA President Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) said while addressing students’ concerns about their socio-economic status is a priority for the GUSA executive, the topic will require years of focused attention to be properly addressed.
“We recognize that this is an ongoing conversation,” Khan said. “Ultimately it comes down to conversation with financial aid and multiple parties across campus. We just wanted to show that even after our administration, this continues to be a conversation.”
Foy said the board will also continue the work that GUSA and the GSP Student Board have been doing to create a more inclusive campus community.
This fall, Counseling and Psychiatric Services began offering free services for GSP students. In July, GSP streamlined the online grant submission process in an effort to make the process easier for scholars.
“This new board builds on their progress by walking through a student’s entire experience ensure that the university provides at least the opportunity to have the same high quality of experience,” Foy wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Fisk said while the university has made efforts to mitigate socio-economic obstacles, the university must still strive to create a more welcoming and supportive community for low-income and first-generation students.
“Working to level the playing field on the Hilltop is not just beneficial for GSP students like myself, but, really, for everyone at Georgetown,” Fisk said.
Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson and Dean of Student Financial Services Patricia McWade did not reply to a request for comment as of 2:30 a.m. Tuesday.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 25, 2016 by Cecia Soza Leave a Comment 
Georgetown’s Alliance for the Low-Income, First-Generation Narrative was recently featured in The Atlantic for its efforts to empower and connect first-generation and low-income students.
Four members of the Georgetown Scholarship Program co-founded AL1GN, an initiative sponsored by the GSP, in spring 2015. The organization aims to provide resources and a forum through which members can construct their own narratives and address issues associated with labeling students with terms such as “low-income,” “first-generation” or both. 
As part of a larger discussion on the conflation of the terms “low-income” and “first-generation,” Melissa Young’s Oct. 15 article opened with the story of Chris Lam (SFS ’17), one of AL1GN’s four co-founders and followed him from his acceptance into Georgetown through the founding of AL1GN.
AL1GN’s efforts support students nationally beyond Georgetown’s campus.
In an interview with The Hoya, Lam said that his sister’s experience as a first-generation, low-income student at the University of Miami inspired him to create the organization.
“After hearing how frustrating it was for my sister back at the University of Miami, I started reaching out to staff at schools near Georgetown, including American University and George Mason University and asked them what it’s like being first-generation, low-income students and what it’s like being a staff member who supports those students,” Lam said. 
According to Young, who is also a professor at American University and a former first-generation student herself, many of the stories told by first-generation or low-income college students revolve around the conflation of the terms “low-income” and “first-generation,” and the reduction of students to these labels. 
“From many conversations with students and based on my own experience as a first-gen, I see that for universities it’s convenient to conflate labels. Sometimes the categories fit and sometimes they don’t,” Young said. “We need to see the whole student if we want to help them succeed. First-gen students often struggle to navigate university bureaucracies — I do as a professor too — and we need to clear those paths.”
Young is scheduled to be the opening keynote speaker at AL1GN’s inaugural conference at Georgetown in the spring. 
AL1GN is one of several organizations in the United States supporting first-generation and low-income students. In January 2014, Brown University launched 1VYG, an organization whose efforts target first-generation and low-income students at Ivy League schools.
According to Lam, 1VYG was part of the inspiration for the creation of AL1GN. However, AL1GN aims to expand their efforts beyond elite institutions like Brown and Georgetown. 
“We were inspired by what 1VYG was doing at the time with their very first conference at Brown. The original mission on paper was to reclaim the narrative,” Lam said. “We noticed that these stories were centered around people who went to Georgetown and Brown and Harvard, so elite schools, and we want to try to expand the orbit of the narrative that was centered around those schools to include other schools, not just from an elite versus nonelite standpoint, but from geographical, regional standpoints, et cetera.” 
GSP Program Director Missy Foy said the AL1GN conference aims to strengthen the broader collegiate community of low-income and first-generation students. 
“I think that conferences like AL1GN, which offer opportunities for first-generation students nationally to get together, are extremely valuable. One thing that I noticed when I was following the news about 1VYG when it first started was how students were realizing that there were other students out there like them who were actually having similar experiences,” Foy said. 
Foy also said she hopes there will be increased collaboration and conversation by joining together students from different schools in the conference.
“First-generation college student experiences are certainly not the same for every student, but many of them are universal,” Foy said. “These kids are breaking glass ceilings, so I think that there’s a lot of power in bringing together people who have those things in common in one room.”
Young said first-generation and low-income students are a valuable contribution to the intellectual diversity of colleges.
“Organizing AL1GN is ambitious. They’re very passionate, and I find their work inspiring,” Young said. “I hope universities see first-gen students as the asset they are. First-gens are resilient and brave.”
According to Executive Director of AL1GN Jennifer Chung (COL ’18), who is also a member of GSP, organizations and programs like GSP and AL1GN are integral to college campuses. 
“Me and a couple of other students recognized the struggles that low-income, first-generation students face at Georgetown,” Chung said. “We have this incredible program, the Georgetown Scholarship Program, so if we have this incredible support system and we’re still struggling, we can only imagine what students at other universities are facing.”
Chung said that GSP is a prime example of institutional support for first-generation and low-income students and expressed hope that AL1GN can use those resources to help these students at other schools.
“When one of the founders of 1VYG came to Georgetown last year to talk to us, they told us that GSP was the best program for first-generation, low-income students that they’ve found, based on their research,” Chung said. “So, because we have the resources to do this, why wouldn’t we be the leaders and help do it for others?” 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 25, 2016 by Tait Ryssdal Leave a Comment 
The right to vote should be restricted to those with a certain amount of knowledge, according to an essay written by McDonough School of Business Associate Professor Jason Brennan in the Princeton University Press blog Sep. 29.
Brennan argued that as the voting population increases, so does the number of misinformed voters.
“Individual votes no longer matter, and so most voters remain ignorant, biased, and misinformed,” Brennan wrote in the article.
The proposal has been criticized by some members of the Georgetown community.
In an interview with The Hoya, Brennan said the United States should implement a system of “epistocracy,” in which the right to vote in elections is withheld from citizens who do not demonstrate a certain level of social scientific knowledge.
“Voters are largely ignorant and misinformed which leads to sub-par politics,” Brennan said. “So it’s worth exploring the idea that certain kinds of restrictions on voting might actually lead to more just outcomes.”
Brennan’s op-ed cited recent points of contention in America for which solutions would have already been found had “high-information voters” — voters with a high enough level of knowledge to vote — been the only ones with a voice in politics.
The rise of Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, as well as the United Kingdom’s vote to leave the European Union on June 23, are the result of the voting population consisting of voters who do not demonstrate a high enough level of social scientific knowledge, according to Brennan.
On Oct. 5, New York Magazine’s Science of Us blog published an op-ed by Jesse Singal, a journalist with a background in public policy, entitled “What a Georgetown Professor Got Wrong When He Argued That Maybe Dumb People Shouldn’t Be Allowed to Vote,” which claimed that Brennan’s proposal could further increase inequality in the United States.
“Perhaps most obviously, there’s a very good chance that an epistocratic system would vastly increase the power wealthy people have in society, even relative to the already-quite-unequal system we currently have,” Singal wrote.
In an interview with The Hoya, government professor Hans Noel said he sees holes in the system that Brennan has proposed.
“I think that the proposed cure is worse than the disease,” Noel said. “That is, anything that you would do to restrict the right to vote or give extra votes to people who are apparently more qualified would create much more serious problems.”
The primary problem with implementing a knowledge-based test to determine who has the right to vote is that it can be lead to the suppression of certain minority groups’ views in politics, according to Noel.
“Some people are going to be systematically and demographically less likely to do well on this test,” Noel said. “I think it’s important to think back to when we had literacy tests in the South that were designed to disenfranchise black voters. I think that this test might inadvertently disenfranchise certain groups.”
Brennan said this suppression would only have a minimal effect on political decisions.
“In a sense, if you’re a small minority it doesn’t really matter whether you have the right to vote because your voice is going to be drowned out by others anyways,” Brennan said. “It’s a very pessimistic thing to say, but unfortunately it’s true.”
Noel said that he is confident that there will be no restriction of the right to vote any time soon.
“It is politically infeasible and with too many hurdles to leap, so I don’t think many politicians would take this direction, even if they like the idea,” Noel said. “I am critical of this, but I think it’s important that we play out different ideas.”
Matt Lettiero (COL ’20) said he recognized the benefits that Brennan highlighted but took issue with the idea of prohibiting “low information voters” from voting.
“Personally, I don’t agree with Professor Brennan. He argues that an epistocracy would result in more effective policies and more beneficial elected officials, which may be true, but that would be at the cost of taking away equal say in government, which is a fundamental part of our democracy,” Lettiero said.
Atreya Tadepalli (SFS ’19) said he sees Brennan’s proposal as a potential threat to those who are already disadvantaged in society and as running contrary to the bedrock of American politics.
“The proposal of an epistocracy underscores the need for greater civic education amongst our citizens,” Tadepalli said. “In a system where wealthy individuals can already influence elections by contributing more money to candidates, the addition of a vote significance level can reduce the influence that low income communities have within our electoral system.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 25, 2016 by Ben Goodman Leave a Comment 
Georgetown slipped from 112th in 2015 to 126th place out of 140 universities this year in Trojan’s annual Sexual Health Report Card, narrowly edging out placement in the bottom ten schools.
Released Oct. 11, the report examines the sexual health resources on college campuses across the United States, grading schools in eleven categories, including condom availability, contraceptive availability, sexually transmitted infections testing, sexual assault programs and sexual health outreach.
Trojan has conducted the study with research firm Sperling’s BestPlaces since 2006.
Georgetown previously ranked 93rd in 2014 and 96th in 2013. This year, the University of Georgia clinched first place, trailed by Oregon State University in second and University of Michigan in third.
Bert Sperling, founder and owner of Sperling’s BestPlaces, said the drop does not necessarily indicate Georgetown’s sexual health environment has worsened over the past year — other schools might have simply improved faster, jumping over Georgetown on the list.
“Because this is a ranking, some of the decline might be due to some schools improving more than Georgetown,” Sperling said. “Georgetown is doing a great job of providing health service to the students. But not so much when it comes to providing information for students to make informed, safe, healthy choices when it comes to sexual health issues.”
Sperling said problems persisted with Georgetown’s sexual health outreach programs, particularly the Student Health Center website. Currently, the website lists common first signs of pregnancy and directs students to the Health Education Services.
“We’re seeing some slippage in the category of sexual information on Georgetown’s Student Health Center website, and in our ‘extra credit’ category, which scores the quantity and quality of unique programs, initiatives and services that help enable students to make smart decisions and stay healthy,” Sperling said.
Trojan, which will donate more than 100,000 condoms to various schools throughout the country in 2016, said in the report that the findings often motivate schools to improve their sexual health services.
“Comparing year-over-year rakings, it is clear that schools continue to make sexual health a priority,” the report reads. “Since its inaugural report, the Trojan Sexual Health Report Card continues to grow and positively impact college campuses as students continue to push to improve their rankings. Schools continue to elevate their standing as they strive for better offerings on campus.”
Assistant Vice President of Student Health Vincent WinklerPrins did not respond to The Hoya’s request for comment.
Under current university policy, Georgetown does not offer contraceptive devices. H*yas For Choice, a student-run organization unrecognized by the university, is the only campus-based resource for contraceptives.
According to H*yas for Choice Co-President Brinna Ludwig (NHS ’17), Georgetown administration stifles access to sexual health services by prohibiting the sale of condoms in the student-run store Vital Vittles and in nearby Wisemiller’s Grocery and Deli.
“Compared to a lot of the other schools on the Sexual Health Report Card who are actively trying to promote sexual health and well-being, Georgetown is actively deterring sexual health and well-being,” Ludwig said. “A lot of our day-to-day operations are just filling gaps that I believe the university should already be providing for.”
H*yas for Choice Co-President Emily Stephens (SFS ’17) said their organization’s role as the only provider of contraceptives on campus is unique among colleges, which typically have residential advisors provide condoms.
“We’re the only source for contraceptives on campus — free or otherwise — and we’re also the only source of comprehensive sexual health information, so everything from oral contraceptives to places where you can get an abortion,” Stephens said. “That’s completely out of the ordinary for most non-religious schools.”
When H*yas for Choice announced its yearly goals to the Georgetown administration last spring, Stephens said it remained careful to set realistic goals it hoped the university would agree with.
“We aren’t asking them to provide abortions on campus, but these are things that the university can provide: clarity over what they will provide contraceptives for, and create anonymous STI screening,” Stephens said. “Those are things that they have no real reason to not provide other than concerns over cost or just apathy.”
Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson declined to comment on Georgetown’s dip in the Trojan rankings.
Despite frustration with the administration, Stephens said she was hopeful about recent advances in Georgetown’s sexual health services, including hiring a new assistant vice president of student health last March.
“Last spring, the university hired Vince WinklerPrins, who’s been very, very helpful in meeting with us,” Stephens said. “The Student Health Center is hiring a new director this semester, so we’ll see what happens with that.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

