
April 15, 2016 by Jack Lynch Leave a Comment 
American whistleblower Edward Snowden, wanted in the United States for leaking classified National Security Agency information in 2013, emphasized the importance of privacy and downplayed the national security risks of his document leak in a virtual interview from his asylum in Moscow, Russia in Lohrfink Auditorium on Thursday.
During the interview, which was sponsored by the Georgetown University Lecture Fund and lasted approximately 75 minutes, Snowden fielded questions from moderator on the circumstances of his asylum, the FBI-Apple controversy surrounding iPhone encryption, his thoughts on accusations that he endangered national security and the long-term considerations about personal privacy and consumer protection.
Snowden, a former CIA agent who released classified NSA documents to journalists Glenn Greenwald, Laura Poitras and Ewan MacAskill, was charged with two counts of violating the Espionage Act and one count of theft of government property by the U.S. Department of Justice. He was granted asylum in Russia in summer 2013, and he has lived in an undisclosed location in Russia since.
Professor Alvaro Bedoya of the Georgetown University Law Center conducted the interview, which was attended by approximately 400 students.
The start of the interview was delayed by 45 minutes due to technical issues surrounding Snowden’s Google Hangout account and Internet connection, according to Lecture Fund Executive Chair Helen Brosnan (COL ’16).
“A representative with Snowden’s team told us that, ‘the call was being blocked in that region [where Snowden was located],’” Brosnan said.
Brosnan said while there was no evidence presented of outside interference to cause the blocked call, she acknowledged that the problems were an unprecedented obstacle in Snowden’s experience of doing Google Hangout lectures.
Throughout the interview, Snowden stressed the importance of privacy, which he contended is an essential part of human development.
“Privacy is the right to the self. And how does that happen? That happens by trying things and failing. And then trying again and succeeding,” Snowden said. “But when you’re making mistakes under observation, under prejudice, it’s quite dangerous to have a permanent record of every mistake you’ve ever made.”
Snowden said the right to privacy is especially important for political and racial minority groups, as there is a fundamental inequality in the types of people the government chooses to surveil.
“Because just like we have an unequal distribution of resources, just like we have an unequal distribution of debts, we have a foolish and unequal application of surveillance techniques,” Snowden said.
Snowden said he was particularly concerned by the FBI’s most recent attempts to force Apple to unlock the phone of the San Bernardino, Calif., shooter Syed Rizwan Farook.
“Does the government deputize every private structure — whether it’s you, whether it’s a university, whether it’s a corporation — to perform surveillance on their behalf?” Snowden said. “There is no precedent for doing that in this creative way, in which the government compels you to create a new capability for surveillance.”
Snowden said the audience should consider the ramifications of corporate data collection on the privacy of private consumers.
“If the CEO of Google wanted to look at your email box today, just because, if they wanted to see everything that you’ve ever typed in a Google search box, what could you do about it?” Snowden said. “Same thing for Facebook. Same for Verizon. Same for AT&T.”
Snowden downplayed suggestions that his actions compromised national security. According to Snowden, the responsibility lies with the news outlets who published his information.
“I never published a single story. They all went through independent journalism outlets: The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Guardian. The most trusted names in print media. And they were charged with making an independent assessment of the public interest for any given story prior to publishing,” Snowden said.
Professor Bedoya pressed Snowden on his suggestion that independent journalists, rather than his own data leaks, compromised national security.
“You can’t be saying that there is a zero national security cost to what you did, right? That’s not what you’re saying,” Bedoya said.
Snowden said there is no evidence his leaks have damaged national security.
“I’m saying the risk exists,” Snowden said. “But evidence of harm does not yet exist when we’re sitting here in 2016.”
Snowden said he would have come forward sooner if he were to leak the documents again. Snowden came forward in June 2013, after first leaking the documents a month earlier.
Mitali Mathur (SFS ’19) said Snowden’s responses showed his commitment to privacy.
“I think the biggest thing that stuck out to me was when the professor asked what he would do differently and he said, ‘I would have come forward sooner.’ I thought that really showed what he believed in and why he thought that was valuable,” Mathur said.
Christina Nangy (GRD ’16) said Snowden’s role in the international discussion around surveillance and privacy makes him role model to many millennials, which lent his talk particular relevance.
“A lot of us are millennials or early post-millennial youth, and a lot of us see him as a hero. So I was really interested in hearing what he had to say,” Nangy said.
Tina Cheesman (SFS ’19) said she was impressed by the straightforward nature of Snowden’s answers.
“I think Snowden made a number of really great points, from addressing how his actions affected himself and others to the ways in which what he started isn’t completely finished yet. He addressed issues bluntly and offered clear examples to illustrate his points,” she said.
Hoya Staff Writer Christian Paz contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 15, 2016 by Lisa Burgoa 1 Comment 
Georgetown University Counseling and Psychiatric Services will permanently offer free semester-long services for sexual assault survivors and accused perpetrators, which has been in effect since April 4.
Developed by Georgetown University Student Association and university administrators, the policy — which will be formally announced next week — will allow students to use CAPS as a resource on sexual violence with financial coverage even if they notify the service late in a semester; students will still receive a semester’s worth of treatment regardless of when they begin.
GUSA Deputy Chief of Staff Olivia Hinerfeld (SFS ’17), who specializes in mental health and sexual assault sustainability, said the policy was implemented to combat the lesser-known economic strain associated with sexual assault.
“There are a lot of costs you can incur from medical costs, to tutoring to catch up to classes you may have missed, to seeking counseling, and it can really become expensive,” Hinerfeld said. “Under Title IX, you are guaranteed equal access to education, so if these extra costs that you are facing because of this violence is denying you access to education, we want to continue to make it less expensive for you to get the care you need.”
Georgetown’s Title IX Coordinator Laura Cutway, who was hired in January in consultation with GUSA, said the new service has significant healing potential.
“I am very excited that Georgetown University’s Office of Counseling and Psychiatric Services will be offering a free semester of services for both survivors and respondents of sexual assault,” Cutway wrote in an email to The Hoya. “This type of support is important for the healing process of both parties.”
GUSA Secretary of Safety and Sexual Assault Maddy Moore (SFS ’17) said the free services will be offered to students regardless of whether they choose to utilize university or police reporting processes.
“This conversation allows for options that don’t maybe entail going out to the police and reporting or going out and seeking services, and continuing to build on this idea of what justice means and what healing means,” Moore said.
Former GUSA Chief of Staff Abbey McNaughton (COL ’16) stressed that every reform must be introduced responsibly.
“The policies or practices that are in place are not intended to cause additional issues, but sometimes well intentioned of things do, so it can be challenging to explain how a well-intentioned thing is actually hurting students,” McNaughton wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We have to make sure that each solution or reform is viewed with a critical eye and is actually going to have the effects that were intended. These policies can have detrimental effects on people’s lives, they need to be handled with the utmost responsibility to survivors.”
Expansion of CAPS for sexual assault survivors represents the passing of one policy reform regarding sexual assault brokered by the university and GUSA in their six-point Memorandum of Understanding released September.
Borne out of conversations surrounding The Hoya’s publication last July of former student Willa Murphy’s (COL ‘16) account of sexual assault and subsequent expulsion from the university written by Zoe Dobkin (SFS ’16), the MOU enumerated a three-pronged plan of hiring a full-time Title IX coordinator, spearheading a marketing campaign for campus sexual assault resources and creating a new bystander intervention program.
Some of the initiatives that have reached fruition include launching the inaugural Campus Climate Survey in January, printing GOCards with the contact information of resources such as the Georgetown University Police Department, CAPS and the D.C. Rape Crisis Center starting with the class of 2020 and amending the Code of Conduct to include a more flexible definition of relationship violence.
GUSA will host a Sexual Assault Open Forum with six administrators April 20 to discuss the updates.
GUSA President Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) said she hopes to further advance sexual assault policies during her administration with new projects including an online portal for reporting violations and drafting a new bystander intervention program by next spring.
“This is a great year for our administration to set the tone with Laura [Cutaway] that we want to be great partners with her going forward,” Khan said. “What’s important this year is that the administration kind of had planned in advance that it was time to start touching up on things, but in terms of urgency, that’s what student government does best. Joe [Luther (COL ’16)] and Connor [Rohan (COL ’16)] did a great job of highlighting the urgency of different issues, and Chris and I are committed toward doing the same because the conversation does not end here.”
Luther said the university has made significant progress in improving resources available for survivors during his term, but that more work still needs to be done.
“I think we made a lot of great strides institutionally to make sure that Georgetown’s bureaucracy is accessible and accountable for survivors,” Luther wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Culturally, there is still much work to be done. A lot of the issues, such as culture and stigma, are things that can’t be fixed overnight.”

Dr. Necessitor says 
April 18, 2016 at 3:51 pm
Shouldn’t that read: “Georgetown University Counseling and Psychiatric Services will permanently offer free semester-long services to sexual assault accusers and to the accused, which has been in effect since April 4.”
Labeling the former “sexual assault survivors” and the latter as “accused perpetrators” biases the process. You can and should do better.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 15, 2016 by Tara Subramaniam 3 Comments 
Approximately 30 Georgetown University Fossil Free members and supporters gathered to demand socially responsible investments and more transparency from the board of directors’ Socially Responsible Investments Committee — including restricting investments in gun manufacturing and fossil fuel companies — at a rally hosted by GUFF in Red Square on Wednesday.
The rally, which was titled “Follow the Money” and previewed by an event page and introductory video on Facebook, was co-sponsored by 10 student organizations, including Georgetown Against Gun Violence, Georgetown University Amnesty International, H*yas for Choice, Georgetown Israel Alliance, Georgetown Refugee Action, Georgetown Secular Student Alliance, Georgetown Solidarity Committee and Georgetown Students for Justice in Palestine.
Members of GUFF, accompanied by a group of protestors, met after the protest with Chief of Staff of the Office of the President Joe Ferrara and Vice President for Public Affairs Erik Smulson to deliver a list of written demands.
The protestors’ requests primarily included the creation and development of a university-wide socially responsible investment policy, which would include a public list of companies and industries the university should refrain from investing in based on its core Jesuit values.
After action by GUFF, the university voted to cease direct investment in coal companies in June 2015, and currently does not provide a public list of energy companies in its endowment.
Additionally, GUFF requested that the university reconstruct the Committee on Investments and Social Responsibility and institute an additional institute an additional board of directors working group to uphold the policy and include students in the process.
Protestors are also seeking the development by the university of an investment transparency website to publicly disclose any connections between Georgetown’s investments and personal connections within the board of directors or other major donors.
According to GUFF member Caroline James (COL ’16), the purpose of the rally was to raise awareness for the lack of clear and public university policy on investment.
“We’ve had a lot of frustration with the university bureaucracy and basically finding that there isn’t a university-wide policy about what we will and will not invest in,” James said. “So we decided to have a ‘follow-the-money’ rally to show that other groups have a vested interest in seeing the university have this policy.”
According to a statement issued by Ferrara following the rally, the board of directors will review the list of demands.
“We will share the demands with the board of directors committee that is reviewing socially responsible investing,” Ferrara wrote in a statement to The Hoya.
GUFF member Grady Willard (SFS ’18), who attended the meeting, said the group’s conversation with Ferrara was a step in the right direction, but hopes the administration will continue to be receptive to students’ demands in order for progress to be made.
“I thought it was a very effective meeting. We elaborated on our demands and engaged in a discussion of topics related to student engagement, socially responsible investment, board transparency, and CISR reform,” Willard said. “We feel like both of them were very receptive to our overall argument, and look forward to engaging more with them and the board of directors in the future.”
Aaron Bennett (COL ’19), who attended the rally, said the protestors’ messages and demands for change were moving.
“I think it’s great that Georgetown students are deciding to speak out against some of the lack of transparency and socially irresponsible funding on behalf of Georgetown University,” Bennett said.
GUFF member Brendan Stelmach (SFS ’19) said the demands are essential to better align the university’s policies with Jesuit values, and hopes the university will more carefully consider the ways it utilizes its endowment in the future.
“One of the most meaningful ways that, as students, we can show our support for protection against climate change is by campaigning to change how we invest our endowment,” Stelmach said. “It’s a direct representation of us as students and I think that by putting some of these changes in place we can move towards being more representative of what Georgetown is truly about.”

Jane Hoya says 
April 15, 2016 at 8:55 am
Can someone explain why they are protesting against investment in gun manufacturers? Last I checked we have a second amendement.

SFS 2016 says 
April 15, 2016 at 2:45 pm
The Hoya needs to start interviewing people who think that these people are insane and wasting everyone’s time so that they can feel special

Matt Martin says 
April 17, 2016 at 4:45 pm
It’s telling how “Jane Hoya” and “SFS 2016” were unwilling to reveal their names and stand by their comments. Maybe they realize that they are propagating an unjust status quo wherein dogmatism, apathy, and inaction disadvantage victims of gun violence and environmental degradation.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 15, 2016 by Matthew Larson Leave a Comment 
Mayor Muriel Bowser’s (D) plan to replace the D.C. General Family Shelter with eight smaller sites in each ward of Washington, D.C., has come under fire throughout March due to concerns over transparency, cost and proposed shelter locations.
Bowser announced Feb. 9 that the city would fund new shelters to enable homeless citizens to move out of the D.C. General shelter, where around 280 families currently reside. The council is expected to vote on legislation approving closing the shelter on April 19.
D.C. General came under public scrutiny after the disappearance of 8-year-old Relisha Rudd, who police say was kidnapped from the shelter by a janitor in March 2014. The Metropolitan Police Department recently renewed the search for Rudd based on information investigators received, focusing on the U.S. National Arboretum in a two-day effort beginning April 6 that met no success.
In addition to safety concerns, the shelter has been criticized for staff misconduct, unsanitary living conditions and a lack of high-quality facilities.
Seven of the proposed shelters, which will each house up to 50 families, are set to open during 2018. The Patricia Handy Place for Women in Ward 2 has already been completed and opened Feb. 10. The sites are located on property that the city already owns as well as newly purchased or leased land.
In her State of the District address delivered March 22, Bowser defended the proposed plan as a necessity to reduce D.C. homelessness, which has increased by 12 percent in the last five years.
“I urge us not to be distracted by arguments that are based on fear or convenience, or apples and oranges comparisons that falsely represent the cost of lifting our families out of homelessness,” Bowser said. “Because make no mistake, if we fail to act, we will fail.”
Critics, however, have claimed Bowser is intransigent in her desire to pass the bill. To pass the plan quickly, the mayor’s administration said it is unwilling to make changes to any of the proposed locations.
Washington Legal Clinic for the Homeless Executive Director Patricia Fugere, who is also a Georgetown University Law Center adjunct professor, said that Bowser’s refusal to consider alternatives to certain shelter sites may harm the people her plan seeks to help.
Fugere pointed specifically to the proposed Ward 5 site, which is located in the New Canaan Baptist Church on Bladensburg Road Northeast, immediately adjacent to a large Metrobus depot. In the proximate area there is also a nightclub, a strip club and a waste-treatment facility.
Fugere stressed that this environment is not conducive to housing those who are currently homeless, particularly pointing to implications for children suffering from asthma. D.C. has one of the nation’s highest asthma rates at 18.5 percent, compared to the national average of 9.5 percent, according to data from the Children’s National Medical Center.
“We were really concerned about air quality problems especially with the incidence of asthma of young children in poor families being so high. It’s not a good sign,” Fugere said. “The more we learned about the area, the more concerned we grew.”
However, Fugere said that the mayor is maintaining an uncompromising stance on the plan’s components.
“We’re hopeful that the admin will recognize that the Ward 5 site is problematic and that it will be open to suggestions for alternative sites,” Fugere said. “The position of Mayor Bowser and her folks has been that this is a package deal and if one site gets peeled off the whole deal collapses.”
Critics of the plan have also focused on the proposal’s cost, which is estimated to reach $660 million over the next 30 years. This largely originates from plans to lease five of the eight proposed shelter buildings rather than use government-owned property.
Fugere, who has lobbied for design improvements that would incorporate more privacy in the shelters, expressed satisfaction that the District is willing to spend a large sum but voiced concern that the money will not be used to create the best spaces possible.
“We do have concerns about the money,” Fugere said. “We think due to the amount of money being paid to the developers they should be able to incorporate some greater amenities in their design.”
Additional concerns revolving around transparency and a potential conflict of interest stem from an article published March 16 by The Washington Post indicating that mayoral donors own many of the planned private property shelter locations. The leases would increase the value of these properties by up to 10 times.
Despite the rancor over elements of the plan, Andrew O’Brien (COL ’18), a member of Hoyas/Homeless Outreach Programs and Education, highlighted multiple advantages to decentralizing housing facilities for homeless families.
“The plan decentralizes [homeless shelters] and allows the families to be in more cohesive units that aren’t as sporadic or spread out as D.C. General. And it’s just a bad place,” O’Brien said. “A lot of people actively avoid D.C. General.”
O’Brien noted criticism of the plan has generally come from a genuine desire to improve the situation of the homeless population. He emphasized this resolve as a welcome change from the “not-in-my-backyard mentality” some have about sheltering homeless people in their neighborhoods.
“When you read the concerns of Ward 5, it wasn’t that they were concerned that they would be in danger of those who are homeless but rather the people experiencing homelessness would be in danger because of where it was,” O’Brien said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 15, 2016 by Ian Scoville and Christian Paz Leave a Comment 
A panel of journalists and experts involved in the reporting of widespread child abuse in the Catholic Church reflected on their experiences before and after the 2002 Boston Globe report, which was documented in the film “Spotlight” at an event in Lohrfink Auditorium on Wednesday.
Lecture Fund member Aiden Johnson (COL ’19) moderated the discussion between former priest and author Richard Sipe, canon lawyer Tom Doyle, former Boston Globe editor and current Washington Post editor Martin Baron, Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and Spotlight team member Mike Rezendes and U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops National Review Board member Robert Bennett (CAS ’61, GULC ’64). Approximately 300 students attended the event.
“A Spotlight on the Church: What This Means for the Ordinary Catholic,” which was sponsored by the Lecture Fund, was introduced by Fr. Matthew Carnes, S.J., who began with a reflection on his experience with the child abuse crisis before explaining the role of the ordinary Catholic.
“We certainly had no idea of the scope of this. We really didn’t understand just how deep it is, although we could feel in those very early days what a terrible betrayal this was of trust and the kind of justice the church talks about,” Carnes said. “We have so much more to do. We are just starting to scratch the surface with this.”
Carnes said he has realized the church needs outsiders to prevent complacency.
“The church, like so many other institutions, fails to live up to its calling when it starts to become, as Pope Francis has said so many times, self-referential. It’s point of reference is itself,” Carnes said. “This can lead to the misperception that we are our best judges. By our own standards we can have a sense that in some way secrecy would be better.”
The role of outsiders is to provide an independent perspective of the church’s role, Carnes said. He also stressed the church’s need to ask for forgiveness for betraying believers’ trust.
“The sin of clerical abuse is a sin for which we can never fully apologize. We need to beg forgiveness from survivors from abuse, from their families, from the people we have driven away from the church when they heard about this, from those who turned away from God when they could not believe,” Carnes said. “We ask forgiveness from God himself. In some sense, the lives of priests in my generation need to be lives of penance, lives of constantly seeking some kind of atonement for this. It’s part of our mission.”
Following Carnes’ remarks, the panel discussion was divided into analysis of the process before, during and after the Spotlight team’s investigation into child abuse in the Boston Archdiocese.
Doyle said his legal involvement in investigating the church abuse coverup originated when a family in Louisiana filed civil charges against the Catholic Church.
“One of the families that was brought into this, that was signed up for an ironclad confidentiality agreement, backed out and went to court,” Doyle said. “Criminal charges were filed and the media got ahold of it and a very brave, insightful, Georgetown graduate named Jason Berry [CAS ’71] wrote a series of articles for a local newspaper in the Louisiana area.”
Doyle said he knew how terrible the situation was when he met the family of a child abuse victim in Louisiana.
“My life was changed when I saw that little boy and knew what had happened to him. I knew that it was not just wrong, it was evil,” Doyle said. “I cannot find words in the English language that can adequately describe the pain that I saw in these men and women when they tried to describe what went through their hearts when they first learned that their little boy or little girl had been sexually violated and even worse by a man that they had trusted with everything.”
Rezendes said the church must have been aware of what was happening.
“This happened countless times, and at one point, we got Cardinal Law’s personal calendar and we saw that he had personally met with dozens of these priests and essentially forgiven them and reassigned them. How could they not know? Of course they knew,” Rezendes said.
Baron said The Boston Globe’s work in gaining access to all the Catholic Church’s documents through a court motion was a particularly important moment.
“We were able through that motion, I think it is important to say that we were able to get the entire church documents so that was something that was sort of a treasure — for us journalistically but also absolutely critical in terms of establishing a precedent as you were saying, so you could actually see how the church were officials were responding as risk control people, how they were responding almost like an insurance company, form letters essentially,” Baron said.
Doyle said it is important to remember the victims all represent the church.
“I say see those people over there, the victims? They are the church my friend. And don’t you forget it. That’s the core issue. These people who’ve been violently abused, their parents, their friends, their associates, those who defend them, those who support them, they are the body of Christ,” Doyle said.
Hoya Staff Writer Elisabeth Neylan contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 15, 2016 by William Zhu Leave a Comment 
The Metrorail system will not be closed for six months at a time for maintenance and repairs, Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority General Manager Paul Wiedefeld announced at a Congressional House Oversight Hearing for the Subcommittee on Transportation and Public Assets held April 13.
The subcommittee is an investigative body that has oversight jurisdiction over multiple federal departments, including the Department of Transportation, the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Transportation Security Administration.
At the hearing, Wiedefeld stated that WMATA is currently considering alternatives to a complete months-long shutdown.
“We are working to prepare that plan and will present it to you and the public in the next four to six weeks,” Wiedefeld said.
Wiedefeld said the plan may include limiting rail schedules to allow for overnight work, only closing certain sections of the systems between stations at a time and specifying which lines require attention first.
Wiedefeld’s statement came after the public backlash in light of Metro Board Chairman Jack Evans’ (D-Ward 2) March 30 suggestion of a potential six-month long shutdown.
Drew Morrison, senior legislative aide for chairman of the Council of Governments for the D.C. metropolitan area Roger Berliner, said WMATA is facing both large-scale and small-scale issues, ranging from train reliability to public safety at stations.
“There are both micro- and macro- scale issues that Metro is facing,” Morrison said in an interview with The Hoya. “The issues they face are ensuring the public that they can provide a reliable and safe service to the public.”
According to Morrison, the weekend track work WMATA currently does is burdensome for riders and ineffective at fixing issues.
“The way we do maintenance now on the system is that we do these weekend partial shutdowns,” Morrison said. “It just inconveniences folks but still doesn’t get a huge amount of work done.”
Instead of closing entire tracks of the Metrorail system for months at a time, Morrison said WMATA intends to focus on specific areas for extended repair, which might result in limited shutdowns.
“There may be certain places where you’d have to do that in a targeted way in a short duration,” Morrison said. “The general manager has made pretty clear to us that he does not want to have months and months of shutting down a line.”
WMATA has also faced funding problems, which Wiedefeld testified to at Wednesday’s hearing, stressing the agency’s need for more funding to effectively maintain and upgrade its systems.
“Our financial systems as a whole are substandard compared to other transit authorities and require continued efforts to modernize,” Wiedefeld said.
Morrison agreed, emphasizing that WMATA’s financial issues could be partially attributed to a decline in ridership caused by a lack of customer confidence in Metro reliability and the advent of new transportation options, such as Uber.
“Some of that ridership loss is due to those first issues of not being able to provide a reliable service,” Morrison said. “If they don’t have enough riders, they may have funding challenges and have to consider cutting service or increasing fares.”
The majority of WMATA’s $1.8 billion operating budget currently comes from the local governments of Washington, D.C., Virginia and Maryland.
WMATA Chairman Jack Evans (D-Ward 2), who testified alongside Wiedefeld, asked the subcommittee for an additional $300 million in federal funding to match the amount state governments contribute. If approved, the request would give the agency the most expensive operating budget in the country.
“We need $300 million from the federal government,” Evans said at the meeting. “Each jurisdiction is giving that. The federal government needs to do that as well.”
Chairman of the Transportation and Public Assets Committee Congressman John Mica (R-Florida) denied Evan’s request for more funding, stating that WMATA required better leadership, rather than an enlarged budget, at the congressional hearing.
“I am not going to bail you out,” Mica said. “We don’t have leadership. We don’t have management, and these people need to step up to the plate.”
According to Morrison, WMATA is unlike other public transportations systems, as it is not funded by a consistent revenue source and instead must request grants each year from state and federal governments
“We are unique among public transit systems in the United States in that there is no dedicated tax that goes to Metro,” Morrison said. “That means every year, WMATA has to go back and ask for the money instead of having a stream of revenue that they can rely on.”
Kevin Perez (SFS ’19) defended WMATA’s reliability, but highlighted the convenience of alternative modes of transportation, including the Georgetown University Transportation Shuttles bus.
“Generally every time I have taken the Metro, it’s been a reliable service,” Perez said. “The only reason I have converted from using the Metro more frequently to using the GUTS bus is that the GUTS is generally even more convenient.”
George Donaldson (MSB ’18) said he has had primarily positive experiences riding Metro.
“I have never had a problem with the Metro, I think it is pretty nice,” Donaldson said. “In my person opinion, I really like the Metro.”
However, Michael White (COL ’19) critiqued WMATA’s recent performance, specifically pointing to the unprecedented 29-hour-shutdown of all D.C. Metro lines March 16.
“I am disappointed with the Metro and how lately, things have just not been going right — all these shutdowns and all that. That is very disappointing,” White said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 15, 2016 by Patricja Okuniewska Leave a Comment 
Speakers discussed race relations in America at the Lannan Center for Poetics and Social Practice’s “A Dream Deferred: Black in the USA” symposium April 11 and 12.
The two-day symposium featured a series of events dedicated to addressing and battling structural racism, microaggressions, police brutality, civil rights and many other issues. The symposium sought to expose the experiences that are inherent with being black in predominantly white institutions.
The inaugural event took place on Monday evening in Gaston Hall with a conversation between Director of the Institute for African American Studies at University of Connecticut Jelani Cobb, who also contributes to The New Yorker, and the Lannan Foundation’s Chair of Poetics Aminatta Forna.
Director of the Lannan Center Carolyn Forché introduced the event with a quote from James Baldwin about society and its governance by hidden laws.
“It is up to the American writer to find out what these laws and assumptions are. In a society much given to smashing taboos without thereby managing to be liberated from them, it will not be an easy matter,” Forché said.
Cobb said it is important to understand race and its role within the greater context of American history.
“We have a sense that race is a kind of side dish to the entrée of American history, that we can talk about American history without engaging race, without confronting the complexities of race within this country. The country’s history and its present is unintelligible without an understanding of race,” Cobb said.
Cobb said the United States must consider how to deal with racism in the future.
“The question is not when we’ll be done with racism as a country, the question is when will racism cease to be useful in this country?” Cobb said.
He also stressed the importance of understanding not only the law but human interactions when confronting institutional racism.
Cobb praised the Black Lives Matter movement as an example of the potential of democracy.
“These people actually believe in the potential of democracy, because if people did not believe in their constitutional right to petition their government, then they would be doing something completely different,” Cobb said. “When people are protesting, they believe that there is some sort of possibility.”
Cobb emphasized the importance of using anger in movements, something for which the Black Lives Matter movement has faced criticism. Cobb also said he has optimism for the progress that America has the potential to achieve.
“When I see young people getting together and organizing around the way that we treat undocumented people, and the way that we see people who have organized and said ‘there is a problem that we’re not talking about the violence that is directed at trans people and that this has to be visible.’ That is the thing that gives me a basis for my optimism,” Cobb said.
In the third event, which took place Tuesday afternoon, professor Marcia Chatelain moderated a conversation between Cobb and poet Claudia Rankine.
Rankine said trauma caused by oppression, a topic she addresses in her acclaimed and award-winning poetry book, Citizen, must be addressed through conversation.
“I am very interested in the ways in which living through trauma, living through terrorism perpetuated by white supremacy, destroys the internal ability to address the life, and that has to be addressed through conversation,” Rankine said.
Cobb said dialogue has had great power for him in addressing the question of the lack of recognition of black humanity.
“Having been in some way traumatized by being in Ferguson, being in Charleston, being in Baltimore, being in New York … I looked and said this other more disturbing question of ‘What if they do recognize your humanity and they just don’t care?’” Cobb said.
Cobb said African Americans may be full citizens, but their rights as citizens fluctuate.
“But I think that probably a more accurate description would be something I have been calling ‘contingent citizenship’ which is that under certain circumstances, with the proper barometric pressure, and the temperature is within a certain range on a particular day, what you have functions as citizenship,” Cobb said.
Rankine advocated for the power of poetry in addressing social justice issues during a seminar following the discussion.
“For me, poetry is the doorway to feelings. Poetry allows privileges, honors, has at its center, internal feelings. I think that is the piece that sometimes gets lost inside of academia, people have agendas. They forget that in the end it’s just you and me and how we feel,” Rankine said.
Zachary Hughbanks (COL ’18), who has read Rankine’s work, said her presentation was particularly powerful.
“Rankine’s reading of her work conveyed the sense of power and resistance present in her written work. However, her reading took away one of the most powerful aspects of her writing in Citizen. In Citizen her use of the second-person narrator allows the reader to project their own feelings and experiences fully on the piece. With the addition of Rankine’s voice and supplemental anecdotes, it becomes harder for the audience to project themselves on her work,” Hughbanks said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 15, 2016 by Taylor Harding Leave a Comment 
As the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service approaches the end of its inaugural year on campus, its leaders, fellows and student participants reflect on the institute’s accomplishments since it opened its doors in August 2015.
In the past year, the institute, an affiliate of the McCourt School of Public Policy, hosted more than 60 speakers, launched its fellows program and created the student strategy teams program. GU Politics also established a mentorship program, matching students with professionals pursuing careers in line with their own ambitions.
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Martin O’Malley (D-Md.), former Hewlett-Packard executive Carly Fiorina and former senior advisor to President Barack Obama Dan Pfeiffer (COL ’98) among many others, have spoken to students and community members throughout the year.
Funded by the McCourt gift, GU Politics is modeled closely off the Institute of Politics at Harvard University and the University of Chicago Institute Of Politics.
According to Executive Director of GU Politics Mo Elleithee (SFS ’94), there was a commitment upon founding the McCourt School in 2013 to eventually launch a program like GU Politics.
“There has never been one in Washington, let alone at Georgetown. If there was ever a town that needed to study how politics is really applied, it’s this one,” Elleithee said.
Having served as the communications director of the Democratic National Committee, Elleithee and the GU Politics Staff were given 11 weeks to get the program off the ground before the beginning of the academic year. Although they were crunched for time, the team solidified its major goals from the beginning: to provide students with behind-the-scenes access to prominent political figures so they understand how politics works.
According to Elleithee, today’s college students are not engaged with politics and do not see it as a vehicle for public service.
“The notion that I’m going to come in here, with my gray hair and after 20 years in the business, to teach you how to do politics is actually quite laughable. I’m one of the guys who broke it,” Elleithee said. “So our approach it to pull back the curtain and provide the access. I’ll bring in everyone I know from both sides of the aisle, and we’ll help you understand how it’s done.”
GU Politics created several speaker series, including Reflections On Running, which hosted former presidential candidates, Women & Politics, which featured prominent female politicians, and the HIPPsters Series, which brought Georgetown alumni in politics back on campus to share their experiences.
GU Politics Operations and Student Engagement Manager Hanna Hope said conversations with former advisors for Dr. Ben Carson’s presidential campaign Barry Bennett and Doug Watts exemplified the institute’s goal of engaging in honest conversations.
“They just gave such unvarnished thoughts on what it was like to work for Ben Carson during the election cycle and then [two days later] Bennett was in the news because he had become a senior advisor to Donald Trump. They said things that I don’t think you would normally ever have a chance to hear because they just didn’t filter their thoughts,” Hope said.
The institute’s fellows program was another highlight from this year. The five fellows, including former White House Deputy Director of Political Affairs Patrick Dillon and former Deputy Campaign Manager of the Romney 2012 campaign Katie Packer, frequently engage in discussion sessions and weekly office hours where they share their opinions and experiences with students.
Washington bureau chief for The Daily Beast Jackie Kucinich is one of the fellows this semester, and held discussions focused on the presidential primary process. Kucinich said she was impressed with the engagement and interest she saw from students and the larger community.
“[GU Politics] has a reputation already for being a premiere place to be and a premiere place to speak. Part of that is Georgetown’s reputation already, but you can’t discount the people who are working here and how extraordinary it is that they’ve gotten this thing off the ground and that people are talking about it in a positive way and want to be a part of it,” Kucinich said.
As part of Kucinich’s student strategy team, which is responsible for promoting and organizing interactions between fellows and the rest of the student body, Ellie Singer (COL ’18) expressed how working directly with GU Politics fellows and programs has exposed her to ways politics and academic can intersect.
“Becoming part of the GU Politics fold, I’ve been exposed to a lot of people who are downtown and do this for a living, and it’s really interesting to see how things we’re studying here actually play out in real life,” Singer said.
Agustin Porres (GRD ’16), who serves as chief of staff on the strategy team of fellow and former President of the Republic of Costa Rica Laura Chinchilla, said he enjoys how GU Politics explores international topics in depth and values the direct interactions he has had with political figures.
“You may think someone like a former president is so far away from you, and then suddenly you’re having dinner with them. GU Politics gives you the experiences that make you feel prepared to discuss with politicians,” Porres said. “This experience has strengthened my capabilities for sure.”
Elleithee said he experienced uncertainty heading into GU Politics’ first year as to how he could involve individuals with different political backgrounds, especially considering his personal ties to the Democratic Party. According to Elleithee, others encouraged him to establish a nonpartisan identity as a solution, which he objected to.
“Why would we want to dissuade people from fighting passionately for what they believe in? So what happens today, when one side wins and one side loses, and we can’t find a common ground? Everyone takes their ball and goes home, or they start tweeting insults at one another,” Elleithee said. “The answer is not to lose our passion or our world views. The answer is to figure out how to work through them.”
Georgetown students have already felt the impact of GU Politics on campus. Many have participated in strategy teams for the institute’s fellows while others have also had opportunities participate in GU Politics’ sponsored events, including Republican and Democratic presidential debate watch parties, which drew crowds of approximately 400 people in October and November.
As the semester comes to a close, GU Politics continues to grow and increase its footprint on campus. Over the summer, GU Politics will construct a permanent office space in the basement of Healy Hall, with a designated political living room with televisions constantly streaming news. According to Hope, the room serves as a space for students to study and chat about politics with fellows.
The initiative will also continue to host several small programming events throughout the year, with an added goal of expanding its programming scope to include international and local politics.
“I also want to do a local politics vertical – not just D.C., but generally. If there’s a place where politics and public service meet, it’s on the ground in local governments around the country,” Elleithee said.
As the institute continues to develop, Hope said believes GU Politics will grow to be an integral part of the Georgetown experience.
“I think that has really been our goal, to make GU Politics feel like a part of Georgetown in such a way that people can’t remember what their Georgetown experience was like before GU Politics,” Hope said. “I think we have found that, in many ways, maybe we’re accomplishing that a little sooner than we thought.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 15, 2016 by Jesse Jacobs Leave a Comment 
Leaders from the Black Lives Matter movement, including Baltimore mayoral candidate DeRay Mckesson, encouraged students to engage in issues of racial injustice in a panel in Copley Formal Lounge hosted by the Lannan Center for Poetics and Social Practice on Tuesday
The panel, titled “Black to the Future: Activism, Community, and the Movement,” featured Morgan DeBaun, founder of media startup Blavity, civil rights activist Johnetta Elzie and Samuel Sinyangwe, a data analyst on online research project Mapping Police Violence, who reflected on the evolution of modern-day civil rights struggles and barriers to current progress. The event was part of the Lannan Center’s annual Spring Symposium speaker series.
Mckesson began his remarks by explaining the role and nature of impatience as an impediment to the most progress in the fight for racial justice.
“I think there are some people who are more interested in fighting than winning and that worries me when I think about the movement space sometimes,” Mckesson said. “There is something that wakes us up and I think there is sometimes impatience when we think about this work.”
Elzie recounted the origins of her involvement in the Black Lives Matter movement, which occurred after the shooting of teenager Michael Brown and the resulting riots in Ferguson, Mo., in 2014.
“I had my revolution on August 9, and unfortunately, not everyone came to Ferguson. So if you missed it, you missed it. I have earned my stripes and have done all these horrific things like fighting the police and cursing out the national guard. I don’t have to prove to anybody, so if I feel like my way to get black people free is the way that I go, then that’s what it is,” Elzie said.
DeBaun said there were major discrepancies between the news coverage of the Black Lives Matter movement in Ferguson and that in San Francisco. This led her to quit her job and expand the reach of Blavity, a website serving as a platform for minority voices and exploring issues across different cultures.
“My Facebook feed was blowing up from people in St. Louis, but in the [San Francisco] Bay no one knew it was happening and no one was covering it,” DeBaun said. “Black publications weren’t covering it, major newspapers weren’t covering it, like CNN or Vice. Seeing that disparity and that asymmetry is what made me quit my job and I think access to information is one of the challenges that we have.”
When the discussion centered around barriers to progress and addressing racial injustice, Sinyangwe explained how there continues to be a disconnect between academics and those who are participating in protests and movements actively.
“One of the barriers that I see is the ability to move together and in solidarity across generations and across spaces. This means working with academia to not just produce papers that get produced by other professors but also produce work that other people on the ground can actually read and understand and use in action,” Sinyangwe said.
Influenced by the protests in Ferguson, Sinyangwe said the Black Lives Matter movement continues to divide younger activists from the older generations.
“On August 9, the world changed for our generation, but many folks who had been doing this work for 20 or 30 years just didn’t see that, didn’t feel that, weren’t connected to it, so there was this divide that formed, whereby it was like business as usual in the workplace, while the world was changing outside, and I think, ‘How do we bridge that divide?” Sinyangwe said.
Following the events closely, many students expressed their appreciation for the diversity of views brought forth by the panelists. Ellen Singer (COL ’18) found value in the range of issues discussed and believed all the speakers brought nuance to the discussion of how to tackle racial injustice in the 21st century.
“I thought it was valuable to hear speakers from such different backgrounds, professions, and regions come together around the same goal,” Singer said.
Chris Wadibia (COL ’16) specifically found the views expressed by McKesson to be nuanced and reflective of what activists must overcome in order to successfully achieve their goals.
“I especially enjoyed the insights of Deray McKesson. At one juncture, when highlighting the need for authentic, justice-oriented leadership, McKesson stated that what is important is not always popular. This offering is deeply relevant for my generation. I hope these words were noted by many and will be honored by even more,” Wadibia said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 15, 2016 by Lisa Burgoa Leave a Comment 
The D.C. Council narrowly passed the first reading of a permanent ban on private pot clubs April 5 by a seven-to-six margin, leaving the marijuana lobby seething as the bill inches closer to becoming law.
Though the bill must still clear a second vote in order to land on Mayor Muriel Bowser’s (D) desk for approval, the decision marks a departure from the Feb. 2 unanimously passed compromise, which upheld a temporary ban for up to 225 days but established an exploratory task force to investigate the feasibility of allowing cannabis clubs in Washington, D.C. The task force was scheduled to meet for the first time April 22.
When Council member Brianne Nadeau (D-Ward 1) motioned to table the vote until after the task force completes its work in September, the measure was defeated by Councilmembers Yvette Alexander (D-Ward 7), Anita Bonds (D-At Large), Mary Cheh (D-Ward 3), LaRuby May (D-Ward 8), Kenyan McDuffie (D-Ward 5), Brandon Todd (D-Ward 4) and Chairman Phil Mendelson (D). The same seven councilmembers later voted in favor of the permanent ban.
At the hearing April 5, Nadeau said the legislation, which was implemented before the task force had met, interferes with the force’s purported work.
“While this body established a task force in good faith, to vote today to establish a permanent ban and tie the hands of the task force,” Nadeau said. “This legislation would actually prevent the work of the task force.”
Critics of the ban claim a prohibition of pot clubs constrains users to consuming cannabis in their homes, which poses problems for residents whose leases forbid the possession of marijuana, potentially driving them to illegally smoke in public spaces. Privately owned restaurants, nightclubs and musical venues, which are open to the general public, face confiscation of their business licenses if owners knowingly serve patrons consuming marijuana.
Since Initiative 71 went into effect February 2015, District residents over 21 can legally possess and consume up to two ounces of cannabis. Just a week after its legalization, however, Bowser introduced emergency legislation banning all marijuana consumption outside private residences, a measure repeatedly renewed by the D.C. Council through emergency and temporary bans, most recently in February.
Adam Eidinger, who spearheaded Initiative 71, argued that the permanent ban represents a regression that could be potentially irreversible. Eidinger pointed to a congressional omnibus spending bill passed in December 2014 that prohibited the allocation of any District funds to legalizing or reducing penalties for marijuana possession or consumption.
“First we’re treated like children by Congress when they’re the actual children, and then we’re bowled over by politicians who think they know better,” Eidinger said. “Chairman Mendelson is standing in the middle of the path to legalization, and he is blocking us at every turn. He doesn’t care that people are arrested for smoking marijuana outside their homes outdoors, when cigarette use outdoors is perfectly legal. He doesn’t care that medical patients are living in public housing and they have leases that prevent them from smoking weed on the premises even if they have a legitimate medical condition.”
However, at the April 5 hearing, Mendelson defended his vote in favor of the ban, stating that the task force would not be constrained by the decision.
“The duties of the task force are broader than has been portrayed by those who wish to defeat this bill,” Mendelson said.
Though Eidinger maintained that the vote should have occurred after the task force was able to meet, he expressed skepticism that it will fairly present its findings due to the mayor’s influence over the task force.
“The task force is rigged, because it’s set up so the mayor really controls the task force,” Eidinger said. “The mayor keeps pointing to the task force as ‘Look, we’re doing something about it, but we’re still going to ban them [private pot clubs].’”
Bowser’s office did not respond to The Hoya’s requests for comment.
According to The Washington Post, Bowser affirmed her support for the ban on pot clubs as she watched the Council vote at the legislative meeting.
“They are doing the right thing,” Bowser said.
However, Kaitlyn Boecker, policy associate for the Drug Policy Alliance, an organization that advocates for drug reform, said the ban on private pot clubs would exacerbate racially imbalanced drug enforcement policies in D.C.
According to the DPA, African Americans constituted 82 percent of the 259 arrests for public marijuana consumption in the District between July 2014 and the end of 2015, despite the fact that they represent 49 percent of D.C. residents and consume cannabis at rates comparable to those of their white counterparts.
“The racial disparities in public consumption arrests highlight the need to create safe venues for residents to consume marijuana, but such spaces will be forbidden if the permanent ban passes,” Boecker said in a DPA press release April 5. “If the council moves forward with the ban, they are all but guaranteeing that the disproportionate arrests of black residents will continue.”
While D.C. is embroiled in a political dispute over acceptable locations for cannabis consumption, the Drug Enforcement Agency is considering plans to reclassify the drug entirely. Under current DEA policy, marijuana falls under a Schedule I designation, along with substances such as heroin, LSD and methamphetamines.
DEA guidelines describe Schedule I drugs as the most dangerous of all drug schedules, as they incur potentially severe psychological or physical dependence.
In a letter to senators signed by DEA Administrator Chuck Rosenberg and sent April 4, the agency outlined its plans to potentially assign marijuana a new classification by midyear. While rescheduling the drug may not impact its legality in states where it is prohibited, the new categorization could result in reduced penalties for marijuana offenders and fewer restrictions on research.
“We support research on marijuana and its components that complies with applicable laws and regulations to advance our understanding about health risks and potential therapeutic benefits of medications using marijuana or its components or its derivatives,” the letter states.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 15, 2016 by Christian Paz Leave a Comment 
Georgetown Right to Life has scheduled anti-abortion advocate Abby Johnson to speak in Dahlgren Chapel on April 20, the same day Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards is scheduled to address students in Lohrfink Auditorium.
Johnson, who is a former Planned Parenthood clinic director, will discuss her experiences at 7:30 p.m. in Dahlgren Chapel as part of Georgetown Right to Life’s annual Life Week programming.
Right to Life President Michael Khan (COL ’18) said the group hopes to offer students an alternative to Richards’ visit, which is scheduled for 2 p.m. the same day.
“The Abby Johnson event is for students who don’t think Cecile Richards represents Georgetown or Georgetown values, which we don’t believe she does,” Khan said. “We think she is an extremist on this issue and wanted to provide programming for students that day in the evening.”
Johnson, who was named the “Employee of the Year” at Planned Parenthood in 2008, worked at a clinic in Bryan, Texas for eight years before reversing her pro-abortion rights stance. Johnson said it is important an anti-abortion presence responds to Richard’s visit.
“Anytime Planned Parenthood shows up on a university campus to spread their anti-life propaganda, we should always hope for a strong, pro-life response,” Johnson said in a press release. “In this case, because a Catholic university has asked the president of the largest abortion corporation in our country to come and speak, we are more than happy to respond with life-affirming truth.”
H*yas for Choice Vice President Michaela Lewis (COL ’18) said that her belief in free speech and her feelings as a pro-abortion rights supporter make her question Right to Life’s methods of protesting.
“I cannot and will not lie about how I feel with regards to the way in which RTL is handling this, the first situation of such significance in which a pro-choice voice is publicly being given the floor at Georgetown,” Lewis wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Lewis added that she thought Vita Saxa’s treatment of Cecile Richards is disrespectful and rooted in fabrication.
“For whatever reason, I think I was optimistic enough to assume that, regardless of their feelings on abortion, RTL would not resort to such a profound show of disrespect as to reduce Cecile Richards, a prominent woman in politics and a champion for reproductive healthcare including and excluding abortion services, to the amalgamation of the anti-choice movement’s fabrications about abortion regret and the selling of fetal parts,” Lewis wrote.
Khan said he plans to attend both the Richards and Johnson events and hopes all students, whether they are pro-choice or pro-life, will do the same while remaining respectful.
“I encourage [pro-choice students] to attend if they really value dialogue, which [pro-choice students] claim to do. I should see them at these events. That is how true dialogue happens,” Khan said. “I think the basic message is if they value free speech, obviously nothing we are doing is contrary to that. Abby will probably be with us during the day on Wednesday, but we are keeping everything respectful.”
Lewis said she hopes Right to Life changes its activism to respect pro-abortion rights students.
“This is my plea to Vita Saxa: Invite whomever you want to campus, hold whatever private events you choose, but please, if you care for women and your fellow students the way you claim to, please, end your hateful, shaming methodology,” Lewis said.
Khan said Vita Saxa will continue to represent the university’s position on abortion.
“That should all be part of our Jesuit mission as a university to uphold the dignity of each human life. That is part of our problem with the Cecile Richards event. She really strikes at the very heart of our institution and our Jesuit values: the care for the whole person and the value of all human life,” Khan said. “We do that each Life Week.”
Right to Life member Amelia Irvine (SFS ’19) said she opposed the Lecture Fund’s invitation to Richards and believes hosting Johnson will balance dialogue.
“The Lecture Fund should sponsor events that present a fair, balanced perspective, and this event is not balanced. Richards will be speaking unopposed, and I am quite confident that pro-life voices won’t be heard during the question and answer section of the event,” Irvine said. “We hope that pro-choice activists will offer us the same courtesy — come to our events. I’m interested in having a real dialogue, because passive-aggressively staring at one another across Red Square just isn’t good enough anymore.”
Sam Granville (COL ’17) said she hopes both anti-abortion and pro-abortion rights students respect each other’s voices.
“I think its good to hear both sides and would encourage students to go listen to both sides, because both sides have something important to say and valid arguments,” Granville said. “As a woman, I am still undecided and I agree with opinions on both sides. That being said, students need to be respectful of the speakers. I hope that there are no vulgar words being shouted out at the speakers and that everyone can just take the opportunities to learn and hear what they have to say without being too aggressive.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 15, 2016 by Marina Pitofsky Leave a Comment 
Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) spoke on the key elements of conservative ideology, the urgent need for poverty alleviation and the state of the 2016 presidential election in a discussion hosted by the Georgetown University Institute for Politics and Public Service in Old North on April 12.
Lee began his term in the Senate in 2010 and is currently a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee as well as chair of the Senate Antitrust, Competition Policy and Consumer Rights Subcommittee.
Lee also serves as chair of the Water and Power Subcommittee of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee and serves on the Armed Services Committee and the Joint Economic Committee. Last week, he became the first senator to publically endorse Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) in the presidential election.
The event started with an introduction by political commentator and GU Politics advisor Sarah Elizabeth “S.E.” Cupp, who said Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump’s effects on the Republican Party are irreversible.
“I think that the damage he has done to the party is going to be long and difficult to unwind,” Cupp said. “We’re going to have to figure out who his supporters are and how to interact with them and meet their needs without completely abandoning some of our principles and values.”
GU Politics Executive Director Mo Elleithee (SFS ’94) moderated the discussion and began by asking Lee about conservatism and what makes it a cohesive political ideology.
Lee cited two major factors that tie the party together and help fuel the sense of upward mobility in the United States.
“I’m a conservative because I believe that there are two things that can do more to elevate the human condition than anything else, two things that have helped get more people out of poverty than anything else could, two things that have done more to build the middle class than anything else could. Those are free markets and voluntary institutions in civil society,” Lee said.
Lee noted the challenges faced by the poor and middle class in the United States, arguing that the government is not doing what it should to support this portion of the population.
“The problem is that we have a system that is increasingly rigged against America’s poor and middle class,” Lee said. “We’ve had this great engine in America that has been the greatest influence on the most number of people leaving poverty and entering the middle class than almost anywhere in the world. Some of that has been challenged by government policies that make it harder for people to do that.”
Lee added his thoughts on Trump, attributing the businessman’s popularity to the appeal his candid persona holds for the electorate.
“There’s anger. Anger based on a perception that the Republican Party is out of touch and that Republican office holders and aspiring candidates cannot engage in a frank, honest discussion,” Lee said. “So he comes in and speaks in very frank terms, and that is very attractive to a lot of people.”
GU Politics Director of Programming Sophie Goldmacher said the event demonstrated the spirit of bipartisanship that the organization tries to foster by inviting Elleithee and Lee to engage in dialogue.
“Another important goal of GU Politics is to bring partisans — people with different viewpoints and perspectives — together. They may not agree on everything, but they’re willing to have a conversation, debate, and disagree,” Goldmacher wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Max Magid (COL ’19) said Lee was an engaging speaker, but noted that Lee’s remarks about the role of public officials potentially conflict with his decision to join many Republican congressmen in refusing to consider President Barack Obama’s nomination for Supreme Court Justice, Merrick Garland.
“He’s well-spoken, seems to have a good understanding of where he stands and his views on the Constitution,” Magid said. “I find it interesting that he spent so much time talking about doing his job and how congress-people have been comfortable not doing their job when he’s part of the strong Republican majority who refused to consider any nomination by Obama, and therefore not doing his job.”
Cole Horton (SFS ’18), an attendee, said Lee insightfully identified distinctions within the Republican Party in today’s political environment.
“I was not familiar with Senator Lee before the event, but I enjoyed it. I think he made good points. I think he’s right that there’s a difference between conservatives and Republicans,” Horton said.
Horton also said although he enjoyed Lee’s optimism about the future of the Republican Party, he expressed doubt that the senator’s solutions will be easy to implement.
“Looking towards the future of the Republican Party that he talked about a little bit, I’m not quite as optimistic,” Horton said. “I think there’s quite some damage being done right now by the Trump campaign, so I don’t think it’s quite as easy as he made it sound.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 15, 2016 by Taylor Harding Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Bookstore will switch vendors from Follett to Barnes & Noble when the university’s contract with Follett expires at the end of June 2016.
The decision to switch from Follett, which has been the bookstore’s vendor for the past 20 years, came after a year of deliberation by Georgetown University’s Auxiliary Business Services, which contracts all vendors on campus.
Associate Vice President of Georgetown’s Auxiliary Business Services Joelle Wiese said the decision was made in agreement with hired consultants, faculty and students.
“Last March, we put together a working group with 12 faculty administrators and five students to talk about potential vendors,” Wiese said. “We tried to figure out what do we want from a new bookstore and what students want, what makes sense for Georgetown.”
After sending out requests for potential vendors in the fall, Auxiliary Business Services received responses in December from the current vendor Follett and Barnes & Noble, which currently serves 786 other colleges and universities across the country.
Auxiliary Business Services held additional stakeholder meetings and conducted surveys across campus before making a final decision. Wiese said the university considered a variety of factors before it chose to switch vendors to Barnes and Noble.
“A lot of things went into the decision to ultimately switch: what students are looking for, what makes sense, the pricing, the retail, look and feel,” Weise said.
According to Wiese, shifts in demand and technology over the past few years have been a driving force for the changes.
“Over the past 10 years we’ve seen a lot of changes in the market from the digital perspective. Students might have classes that don’t have textbooks,” Wiese said. “There’s a variety of things that play into the market itself, and what students are looking for.”
Despite the changes, the bookstore merchandise will remain the same. The university’s contracts with retailers including Nike, Ping, and League #47 will remain in place while the store switches to Barnes & Noble.
The university and Barnes & Noble will also make physical changes to the space. A new entrance will be added where the Office of Campus Ministry is currently located, and glass windows will be added to the perimeter of the store along with improved lighting.
Wiese said the new improvements to the bookstore will also include offering more technology in the store and other locations where students can receive tech support and GOCard assistance.
“You’re also going to see more technology in the store. We’re going to have a GOCard kiosk, so if you have any questions with your GOCard, you can pop in there and get a new one,” Wiese said. “We’re going to have a UIS [University Information Services] help desk and more Apple product services, so if you have any questions or issues with your Apple products, you can have someone there.”
One major issue the Auxiliary Business Services considered when choosing Barnes & Noble over Follett was the price of books. The Business Manager of Auxiliary Business Services Adam Ramadan said they will continue to work with vendors to keep book prices low.
“We know how expensive books are and so whatever we can do with the vendor, or our faculty in terms of getting book lists in as soon as possible, we will do,” Ramadan said. “Whatever we can do to keep book prices down is all in our best favor.”
Georgetown University Student Association Deputy Chief of Staff Garret Williams (COL ‘18) said he supported the bookstore changes and was glad students were involved in the decision making process.
“We’re thrilled to see this transition from Follett to Barnes & Noble in the university bookstore management. Students have been involved with this process every step of the way,” Williams said.
Sienna Mori (COL ‘18) said the improvements are necessary. “These renovations sound like they could provide much needed improvements to the current store. Additionally, the possibility of lower prices would be great,” said Mori.
Emily Kong (SFS ’16) said she supports the changes but also said students need more information on the rationale behind the changes.
“I guess it would be nice, but it kind of depends on why they are upgrading or at what cost,” Kong said.
Hoya Staff Writer Jesse Jacobs contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 15, 2016 by Owen Eagan Leave a Comment 
Immigration and anti-abortion activists advocated for the increased need to protect migrants, the unborn and other vulnerable individuals in the face of a prevailing “throwaway culture” at a discussion sponsored by the Initiative on Catholic Social Thought and Public Life in Lohrfink Auditorium on Tuesday.
ICSTPL Director John Carr moderated the panel, which included George Mason University School of Law professor and anti-abortion activist Helen Alvaré, Fordham University associate professor Charles Camosy and Executive Director of Catholic Charities of the Rio Grande Valley and immigration activist Norma Pimentel.Around 200 people attended the event.
In his opening remarks, University President John J. DeGioia said Georgetown is dedicated to free discussion and the open exchange of ideas.
“There’s a core set of values that animate an institution that calls itself a university. Among these values are academic freedom and freedom of speech and expression,” DeGioia said. “Respect for this ethos of openness is a condition for sustaining an authentic university.”
DeGioia also said the university is committed to the inherent dignity of all life.
“The work to systematically address the threats to life, the urgency of building a civil society with a shared vision of what human sacredness demands, continues to be our work today,” DeGioia said.
Before opening the discussion, Carr defined the ‘throwaway culture’ Pope Francis notes in his encyclical “Laudato Si,” and justified the Catholic response.
“We’re not talking about throwing away cups or our garbage. We’re talking about throwing away human beings, about treating people as things,” Carr said. “And our tradition, our Catholic tradition offers a different vision: We insist every person is precious. We affirm life — all life.”
Alvaré, who founded the anti-abortion female empowerment campaign Women Speak for Themselves, contested the argument that abortion rights are tied to women’s health, autonomy and empowerment.
“Your own child is actually the key to empowerment. [Abortion] pushes so clearly against the tides of reason and it goes against the tide of a person’s natural inclinations to care,” Alvaré said. “When you base an argument for human rights on denying someone else’s, it just doesn’t fit. It’s not beautiful. It’s not pro-human. It can’t be pro-woman.”
The talk also centered on migrant issues. Pimentel said migrants are undervalued in the throwaway culture when they are turned away from a border crossing.
“They are fleeing and they come to us asking for protection. I don’t see how they are illegals or why we would not help them,” Pimentel said. “It’s hard to understand when somebody says, ‘No, we shouldn’t help.’”
Pimentel encouraged attendees to seek encounters with devalued individuals in society to reach their own conclusions about the inherent worth of life.
“Really engage yourself in seeing that face, that child, that mother, and make your own opinion on that, not from what you hear from others,” Pimentel said.
Camosy said immigrants, unborn children and animals are victims of the throwaway culture because society refuses to adjust its preferences to accommodate their dignity.
“The people who are being thrown away, the beings that are being thrown away, most predominately, are those for whom our culture finds their dignity most inconvenient,” Camosy said. “And you could talk about immigrants, you could talk about the animals that we eat and do research on, you could talk about prenatal children.”
Georgetown Right to Life Co-Chair for On-Campus Service Mylan Metzger (COL ’19), who attended the event, said the discussion concerned her in advance of Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards’ upcoming speech on April 20. The announcement of Richards’ speech, which is organized by the Lecture Fund, sparked ire among the local Catholic community in March.
“I personally [would say that] we talked today about how throwing away human life is bad and to have someone on campus who very much supports this culture of throwing away human life is very upsetting,” Metzger said.
James Pennell (SFS ’18), another member of Georgetown Right to Life who attended the event, said the Georgetown community should reflect upon its values in the abortion debate.
“I really think that modern society and Georgetown more specifically needs to really do some introspection, some serious moral reasoning to see where the truth comes down on this debate,” Pennell said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 15, 2016 by Ellen Baker Leave a Comment 
President Barack Obama hosted the sixth and final White House Science Fair of his administration Wednesday, marking the largest fair to date with more than 130 student winners and competitors from across the country.
The White House welcomed students from science, technology, engineering and math competitions across the country, as well as previous science fair participants. Obama launched the first science fair in 2010 as part of his “Educate to Innovate” campaign, which seeks to improve American students’ scientific and mathematic achievement.
The fair was streamed live online on the White House official website. According to a statement released by the White House, Obama sought to honor youth comprising the next generation of scientists, engineers, mathematicians and innovators.
“As a society, we have to celebrate outstanding work by young people in science at least as much as we do Super Bowl winners,” Obama said. “Because superstar biologists and engineers and rocket scientists and robot-builders… they’re what’s going to transform our society. They’re the folks who are going to come up with cures for diseases and new sources of energy, and help us build healthier, more successful societies.”
The event began with a video message from NASA Space Station Commander Tim Kopra and his crewmate Jeff Williams from inside the International Space Station.
“It is you, the students of today, who will be instrumental in achieving some of our nation’s biggest goals of the future, including bringing the first men and women to the surface of Mars,” Kopra said.
The majority of the participants set their projects up on the White House lawn where attendees mingled and viewed the exhibits.
Senior Policy Advisor for the Science Division of the White House Knatokie Ford, American fashion model and creator of “Kode with Karlie” Karlie Kloss and “Black-ish” sitcom star and STEM advocate Yara Shahidi conducted interviews with fair participants on the lawn.
One of the students, 17-year-old Olivia Hallisey of Greenwich, Ct., developed the Ebola Assay card, a temperature independent, portable and inexpensive test for the detection of the Ebola virus that provides results in less than thirty minutes.
Hallisey said her intent is to use her project to help those in countries afflicted by Ebola.
“I wanted to find ways to limit the spread and the best way to do that was through diagnostic tools,” Hallisey said. “My goal is to have this test be used in the field and have it actually help people because that was really my end goal from the beginning.”
The event also incorporated a discussion with alumni of the White House Science Fair, including Amy Chyao, Joey Hudy, Kiona Elliot, Payton Karr, Elana Simon and Karissa Cheng. Senior Advisor to President Barack Obama and chair of the White House Council on Women and Girls Valerie Jarrett led the discussion.
In the discussion, Jarrett stressed the importance of integrating more females into STEM fields.
“Only 22 percent of students in AP computer science are women.13 percent are African American and Latina girls. Only 37 percent of the STEM graduates from college are women. For careers in STEM, only 28 percent are women,” Jarrett said. “If we increase the number of teachers and are able to put the spotlight at a young age, then we are going to be able to build some momentum and balance it out, because we know that many of the high-growth jobs of the future are in STEM.”
After the panel, Obama viewed selected science projects from the fair and spoke with the participants about their findings.
15-year-old Hannah Herbest presented her ocean-energy probe prototype, BEACON, which she created to provide a source of power through untapped ocean current energy to her nine-year pen pal, Ruth, who lives in Ethiopia.
“In the future, I’m going to replace the lights with batteries so that Ruth can have charged batteries to use to study by at night, or use for medical supplies, water osmosis pumps to generate freshwater: theoretically, anything you could imagine,” Herbest said.
After viewing the projects, Obama addressed the fair attendees, highlighting some of the specific projects and experimenters. He specifically mentioned 9-year-old Jacob Leggette of Baltimore, Md., who created toys and games using 3D printers and dreams of creating artificial organs in the future.
Obama applauded Leggette for his ingenuity, citing a personal suggestion the young inventor made to him.
“Jacob had a great idea that, in addition to my science advisory group, we should have a kids advisory group, that starts explaining to us what’s interesting to them and what’s working and that could help us shape advances in STEM education,” Obama said. “Way to go Jacob, we’re going to follow up on that.”
Throughout his speech, the president called for a transformation in the way people perceive science, encouraging them to view it as both accessible and fundamental to education and progress.
“Science isn’t for the few — it’s for the many as long as it’s something we are weaving into our curriculum and it’s something we value as a society,” Obama said.
In particular, Obama stressed the need for more women and minority groups involved in STEM, specifically in regards to recent efforts to expand computer science education.
The president also discussed the growing community of education, business and nonprofit leaders who are responding to the call in his State of the Union Address to harness technology in efforts to address global issues.
“Together, through science, we can tackle some of the biggest challenges that we face,” Obama said. “Whether you’re fighting cancer, combatting climate change, feeding the world, writing code that leads to social change, you are sharing in this essential spirit of discovery that America’s built on.”
Obama concluded by expressing amazement at the accomplishments of the science fair participants and emphasized the pivotal contributions they are making to the United States as a whole.
“By following the trail of your curiosity wherever it takes you, you are continually adding to this body of knowledge that helps make us a more secure, more prosperous, and more hopeful society,” Obama said. “Science has always been the hallmark of American progress.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 15, 2016 by Gaia Mattiace Leave a Comment 
Inspired in part by a proposal from high school student Nicholas Stauffer-Mason, D.C. Councilmember Jack Evans (D-Ward 2) introduced the D.C. Voting Rights Notification Act of 2016, which would require Washington, D.C., to notify released felons of their reinstated right to vote, on April 5.
The act proposes mandating that the Mayor’s Office on Returning Citizen Affairs, which provides reintegration support for previously incarcerated residents, provide felons who have completed their sentences with oral and written notification of their ability to vote.
D.C., along with 38 states, renews incarcerated citizens’ right to vote upon their release. In other states, felons can be permanently disenfranchised or may be required to apply for voting rights.
In order to be implemented, the bill must be voted on by the D.C. Council Committee on the Judiciary before it moves to the full council for approval.
Evans said it is common for ex-offenders not to vote, since they are often unaware that their right is restored upon release.
“The District does not allow those incarcerated of a felony to participate in elections while serving their sentence. We do, however, automatically restore that right the moment that the person completes their sentence,” Evans wrote in an email to The Hoya. “A number of District residents with a felony conviction are not aware of the fact that, as ex-offenders, they may participate in the Democratic process.”
According to Communication, Culture, and Technology graduate program associate professor of Political Science Diana Owen, the bill marks a positive step toward combatting voter disenfranchisement, but it is hard to predict its future impact.
“The bill’s goal is admirable, as it is likely that many people who have been incarcerated for felonies are not aware that their citizenship rights will be reinstated in the District of Columbia after their release,” Owen wrote in an email to The Hoya. “It is difficult to tell how much influence the bill will have on voter involvement in future elections, but it takes an important stand on behalf of democratic governance.”
Stauffer-Mason, a student at the District’s School Without Walls High School, completed a paper last fall regarding the issue of voter eligibility as part of his senior project. He decided to send the proposal to the D.C. Council in March in the hopes of addressing voter disenfranchisement in the District.
“There’s a lot of misinformation out there,” Stauffer-Mason said to the Washington City Paper. “I didn’t know I could write laws. I’ve never done that before.”
Chair of the Committee on Education David Grosso (D-At Large) contacted Stauffer-Mason a week later to set up a meeting. Before Grosso and Stauffer-Mason had the chance to meet, Evans expressed his interest in proposing a bill on the topic and Grosso decided to co-sponsor.
According to Grosso, the bill fosters a much-needed sentiment of civic engagement, which supports ex-felon reintegration.
“I think the work he did is great and that encouraging our returning citizens to be involved civically and through elections is a great way to help them reengage with society,” Grosso wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Evans lauded Stauffer-Mason for his detailed research on the topic and for bringing the issue to the attention of the council.
“Nicholas did great research on this topic and made me aware of this issue. He even provided my office with draft language for this bill,” Evans wrote. “It is an honor to introduce this bill, and I hope that Nicholas continues his civic engagement and his great work.”
Grosso expressed his support for students involved in politics and emphasized his goal to encourage increased participation from younger citizens.
“I fully support high school students—and all students—contributing to politics in as many ways as possible,” Grosso wrote. “I support (and co-introduced a bill) to lower the voting age in D.C. to 16, I have done voter registration drives with students and I welcome students to my hearings and my office. As the Chairperson of the Committee on Education I am very interested in greater civic engagement by students.”
According to Owen, Stauffer-Mason’s contribution to politics demonstrates the importance of political engagement and the impact students can have on public service.
“It demonstrates the importance of civic education that gives young people the knowledge and skills that encourage them to take part in the political world,” Owen wrote. “High school students have accomplished a range of civic achievements from getting towns to create parks, to getting a plastic bag tax passed to promote reusable bags, to getting government officials to take action against cyber bullying.”
Although the process of notifying former felons of their reinstated right to vote is complex and potentially difficult to implement, Owen said the bill’s passage is plausible.
“Some may argue that the notification process will be difficult to implement and involve administrative costs,” Owen wrote. “However, the law reinstating citizenship rights is in place, and the bill has the support of a powerful member of the DC council in Jack Evans, which could work in favor of it passing.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

