
October 4, 2016 by Will Linde 1 Comment 
A majority of the Georgetown University College Democrats have thrown their support and endorsement behind Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton after a primary season that saw many Georgetown students back Clinton’s formal rival Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.)
GUCD Chair Mattie Haag (COL ’18) said the club is actively supporting Clinton to the best of its abilities.
“We are in support of Hillary and are actively campaigning for her,” Haag said. “We are doing literally whatever we can to make sure she gets elected.”
In its efforts leading up to the election, GUCD phonebanks every Wednesday night at the Democratic National Headquarters and conducts voter registration in Arlington, Va. GUCD also plans to participate in a college canvassing weekend Oct. 8 and Oct. 9 and a “Get Out the Vote” weekend Nov. 5 to Nov. 8, both of which are in Philadelphia.
GUCD’s Vice Chair and Directory of Advocacy Meredith Forsyth (SFS ’19) said GUCD’s campaign efforts start local.
“We are doing a lot of grassroots work, since we are students, and we are able to do things like get out there, walk around, knock on doors, since we have the energy to do that,” Forsyth said.
Unlike the College Republicans, the GUCD leadership is united behind Clinton. Haag said she trusts Clinton and believes Clinton would be a dedicated president if elected.
“I see a woman who has dedicated her entire life to making America a better place, bettering the lives of women and children and everybody, and, after every single vicious, hateful attack on her, she’s gotten back up and said, ‘I don’t care, I’m going to keep fighting for what I believe in,’” Haag said. “To me, when I see a person who has dedicated their entire life to making this country a better place, I don’t think there’s anything there not to trust.”
For Forsyth, voting for Clinton is especially important given that her home area, Staten Island, N.Y., is likely to vote for Trump.
“To me, being on Hillary’s side is so important, because I’m from Staten Island, N.Y., and Staten Island, N.Y., is probably going to vote majority Trump in this election,” Forsyth said. “So it’s really frustrating for me to see a lot of my family members, a lot of my peers, succumb to the fearmongering that Trump has so viciously promoted.”
Hoyas for Hillary President Grant Olson (COL ’19) said he joined the organization out of a deep-seated desire to see Clinton elected. Hoyas for Hillary is an independent student group campaigning for Clinton.
“I have been a fan of Hillary Clinton since I was 11 years old, and I was inspired then to join her campaign,” Olson said. “There is no one else like her. She will put herself out there, time and time again, for 30 years, to do good for the country.”
Alex Coopersmith (COL ’19), who has supported Clinton since the beginning of the primary season, said Clinton will be an effective president, even if she has displayed weaknesses on the campaign trail.
“Is anyone more qualified to lead the most powerful nation on earth? She has the resume and skills that are required for the office,” Coopersmith wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Additionally, she prides herself on working across the aisle and is far more comfortable governing than she is campaigning.”
Matthew Bernstein (SFS ’19) said, even though he is not completely supportive of Clinton’s policies, it is important to support her over Trump.
“I’m a pretty moderate Democrat, so I’m not fully comfortable with 100 percent of Hillary’s positions, but I think in this election the choice couldn’t be easier,” Bernstein wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I try to focus more on policy than rhetoric, so it isn’t Trump’s words that scare me but rather his shockingly incoherent lack of foreign policy knowledge and isolationist, protectionist policies.”
Some Democrats at Georgetown who supported Sanders in the primary election have now united behind Clinton.
 
Allison Ross (NHS ’20), who formerly supported Sanders, said Clinton has begun to earn her vote.
“When Bernie was out, I was like, Hillary is the second best,” Ross said. “With the rise of progressivism and Bernie Sanders’ campaign, [Clinton] has moved further left now on a lot of issues like income inequality and keeping money out of politics, and I like a lot of her policies there now.”
According to Marshall Webb (SFS ’20), some Bernie supporters were not convinced that Clinton was the right choice for president.
“Quite frankly, Bernie Sanders is just a different kind of politician,” Webb said. “There is this sincerity about him.”
Andrew Adams (NHS ’20), who recently joined GUCD, previously supported Sanders but accepted Clinton in the name of party unity after Sanders formally lost the nomination in July at the Democratic National Convention.
“You support the nominee, because you want to support progressive values,” Adams said.
Bernstein said he hopes Clinton is able to find common ground if she is elected.
“I feel that a lot of this anger is misguided, and moving away from free trade and global engagement would be a grave mistake for the United States and European countries like the UK,” Bernstein wrote. “It upsets me that Hillary was forced to the far left on issues like the TPP, something that is a cornerstone of Obama’s foreign policy legacy, but I am hopeful that she will seek tangible, bipartisan efforts once elected.”
Correction: This article previously identified Allison Ross (NHS ’20) as Allison Webb (NHS ’20).

Mary says 
October 18, 2016 at 9:03 am
For those students who are yet not so completely deceived by Hillary, because she had made her position totally clear: she suports abortion the killing of human beings while still in the womb through all nine months, and pledges to appoint Supreme Court justices who agree with her, you as a Catholic may not receive Holy Communion unless you first go to Confession. Its a mortal sin.  Grandma
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 4, 2016 by Ben Goodman 2 Comments 
A tense Republican primary season leading to the nomination of Donald Trump as the Republican presidential candidate has pushed the Georgetown University College Republicans to refrain from endorsing any candidate this presidential election, citing the club’s desire to avoid alienating members of its club.
Members have expressed unease and uncertainty about both Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and Trump.
GUCR Chair Megan Pohl (COL ’17) said the decision to withhold an endorsement fulfills the organization’s commitment to various ideas and perspectives.
“Our job is not to support or denounce the Republican nominee,” Pohl said. “Our purpose isto provide an outlet for people to express their conservative ideals.”
Pohl said GUCR general body members hold various opinions on the general election. Some members plan to vote for the Republican Party nominee Donald Trump, some favor Democratic Party nominee Hillary Clinton, others support third-party candidates and still others have yet to make up their minds.
“We thought not going one way or the other on Trump would also provide the best environment for our members to feel comfortable being a conservative on a college campus, where it is becoming increasingly difficult to identify as conservative,” Pohl said.
GUCR Director of Membership Hunter Estes (SFS ’19) said that GUCR, in holding its neutral stance, is following the guidelines originally given to the organization by the Student Activities Commission.
Estes said SAC has traditionally asked organizations that receive university funds to abstain from making political endorsements, because these political activities might risk the university’s non-profit status.
The Hoya reported Sept. 13 that previous SAC leaderships had communicated misaligned university policies for clarification purposes. According to Senior Director for Strategic Communications Rachel Pugh, student political organizations may endorse their party’s candidates, as long as the students or student organizations are clear that their views are not representative of the university.
SAC has clarified the university’s policies since that reporting.
Estes said that, while administrators do condone endorsements from political clubs, GUCR took the best stance for its club’s stability.
“If we’re going to lean one way, we’re going to the group that’s funding us,” Estes said.
According to Estes, when the Harvard University Republican Club refused to endorse Donald Trump this summer, Georgetown students — especially the Georgetown University College Democrats — began to inquire about GUCR’s position.
The Georgetown University College Democrats had specifically tagged GUCR’s Twitter handle in a tweet commenting on Harvard’s decision, according to Estes.
“All the College Democrats were trying to do in this case was to put us in a position where we’re forced to endorse someone,” Estes said., “and we’re just not going to respond to that kind of pressure.”
Meanwhile GUCR members and non-members expressed similar dismay about the state of the election. These conservatives represent different plans come Nov. 8.
GUCR member Peter Hamilton (COL ’20) said he supported Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) in the Republican primary election but will now reluctantly back Trump for the Oval Office.
“I would not exactly describe Trump’s temperament as presidential,” Hamilton said.
Hamilton said the possibility of future Supreme Court nominations motivates him to support the Republican nominee. He said a Clinton win would guarantee a swing in the ideological balance of the court away from conservatism.
“If Hillary is elected, that will shift the Supreme Court left for the next 50-something years,” Hamilton said.
Chase Wagers (COL ’20), who formerly volunteered for Rubio in the primary, said he will also vote for Trump due to his contempt for Clinton.
“I told myself I would never vote for Trump,” Wagers said. “But I think he truly cares about restoring America to being a great power. But I’m really motivated by my dislike of Hillary.”
Some GUCR members plan to support Clinton. Casey Doherty (COL ’20), who interned for New York Congresswoman Elise Stefanik (R-N.Y.), said despite identifying as a conservative, she will vote for Clinton.
“Hillary has a personality that would much better suit the White House than Trump, although she has an entitlement issue,” Doherty said.
Doherty said she believes Clinton’s experience with leadership makes her a better candidate than Trump.
“I don’t love her — she has been in politics almost all her life, so she’s bound to make some mistakes — but  Donald Trump hasn’t even had the chance,” Doherty said.
Sean Lerner (SFS ’20), who identifies as a libertarian-conservative and originally planned on voting for Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson, said he will vote for Clinton after commentators questioned Johnson’s foreign policy knowledge for not being able to identify the Syrian city of Aleppo, a flashpoint of the Syrian refugee crisis, in an MSNBC interview.
Lerner said Trump’s character has helped push him to support Clinton.
“I think Trump is just a really bad character,” Lerner said. “He’s selfish [and] doesn’t care about the welfare of everyone.”
Regardless, Lerner said he still harbors distrust for Clinton.
“Hillary’s been untrustworthy in the past, and I’m not happy to be voting for her,” Lerner said.
Some Georgetown conservatives remain undecided. Havens Clark (COL ’20), who identifies as a social moderate and strong fiscal conservative, said she is torn in the choice between either her preferred candidate or her preferred ideology.
“I think Hillary is less of a loose cannon than Trump, so I want to vote for her,” Clark said. “But if I’m voting for Hillary, I’m voting against all my beliefs.”
Clark said she is uncomfortable voting for Trump, but believes Clinton would provide stability.

SFS 2016 says 
October 4, 2016 at 7:52 am
Any CR who votes for Clinton because they don’t like Trump’s personality is a fool.
If you’re sick and need surgery and the doctor is a jerk, are you going to say, well, he knows what to do to fix my problem and make me well, but he sometimes says things that aren’t presidential, so I’m going to with another doctor who wants to amputate my leg when the real problem is with my burst appendix?
Come on, people.

Carolyn Kirshec says 
October 4, 2016 at 9:08 am
This is a brilliant article that does a good job covering a very complex topic. Well done, Ben!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 4, 2016 by Hashwinder Singh 1 Comment 
The defacement of a bathroom wall with racially charged messages — including the letters “KKK” and a swastika — in a Georgetown University Medical Center building is being investigated as a hate and bias incident by the Georgetown University Police Department.
The vandalism was first reported on the wall of a ground floor bathroom in the Pre-Clinical Science Building on Sept. 21 and announced to the GUMC community in an email from Executive Dean of the School of Medicine Edward B. Healton.
GUPD has no
leads on the incident and has asked for anyone with information to report it on the GUPD website or the universitywide bias reporting system.
According to GUPD Chief Jay Gruber, if apprehended, the suspect could be barred from campus after a warrant is issued. If the suspect is a Georgetown student, they would be subjected to disciplinary action determined by the university. The Center for Multicultural Equity and Access and the Office of Mission and Ministry also respond to bias reports.
Gruber said although the vandalism constituted a hate and bias incident, it did not appear to pose imminent danger to the Georgetown community.
“The students and staff shouldn’t be alarmed at all,” Gruber said. “There was nothing written that was threatening and that charted a course of action. It was unfortunate, but I don’t think people should be alarmed over it.”
Healton condemned the recent vandalism as contradictory to the university’s values of inclusivity and respect.
“This hateful action will not be tolerated,” Healton wrote in the email. “We are a community that is welcoming to all people and that values understanding, dignity, inclusion and respect.”
Georgetown Director for Jewish Life Rabbi Rachel Gartner said the graffiti serves as a reminder that anti-Semitism is still prevalent in this country.
“In the context of all the things that are going on in the contemporary Jewish scene, this is a powerful and important reminder both to Jews and to others as well,” Gartner said in an interview with The Hoya. “If there is any good that can come of it, it will remind people that unfortunately we need to stay vigilant against anti-Semitism and to check ourselves for it too.”
Gartner said the incident compromised the feeling of Georgetown as a safe space for its Jewish members.
“I think it’s rearing its head in a way that I didn’t experience when I was in college,” Gartner said. “We’re starting to see blatant anti-Semitism pop up in some circles that used to feel safe for Jews. I feel this security on one hand as Jew in this country, but this ever-awareness of the contingency of that security.”
Medical student Allix Hillebrand (GRD ’19) said she was taken aback by the graffiti, especially if it was another student in the GUMC community.
“It was very surprising, given that most of the stuff that takes place in that building is specifically for medical students, and there are a lot of graduate student classes in there too, but most of the people have dedicated their lives to helping other people and it’s surprising that someone among us would think that was an appropriate thing to do or that they feel that way about some of their peers,” Hillebrand said. “To that end, I was talking to someone about it, and we’re almost skeptical it was someone who was in our community, but, regardless, it was frustrating, especially for my friends who are of color and who are really shocked that this happened.”
Black Student Alliance member Justus Pugh (MSB ’20) said the vandalism changed his perception of the university as a safe space.
“Being a freshman and coming into an institution like Georgetown, you just wouldn’t expect that. It just shifted my view of what I perceived Georgetown to be before coming here, what I thought Georgetown to be while I’m here,” Pugh said. “It would feel a lot better to know that it wasn’t a fellow Georgetown student that did that, but it doesn’t change the hate behind it.”
In April, graffiti bearing messages including “Support Officer Wilson”  — a reference to Darren Wilson, a former Ferguson, Mo. police officer acquitted of the fatal shooting of unarmed black teenager Michael Brown — and “Trump ’16 Build the Wall” previously surfaced on six on- and off-campus buildings.
Pugh said, although the incident was not violent, it served as an act of aggression and intimidation to minority students.
“Those symbols were meant for me to see and for me to not feel safe, to not feel comfortable, to not feel good about the space that I’m in,” Pugh said. “That is what it was meant for.”
Gartner added that she wanted people to examine carefully their internal biases in order to make sense of the anti-Semitism in the world.
“I feel Jews, as people like anyone else, should be taken seriously when we ask that people look inside themselves and ask hard questions regarding the possible presence of unexamined anti-Semitism,” Gartner said.

malib says 
October 4, 2016 at 3:15 pm
maybe it was art?  did you think of that?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 4, 2016 by Eric Jubber 1 Comment 
When an earthquake struck Haiti in 2010, Mark Henderson (COL ’17) jumped into action to help survivors. As an enlisted member of the 82nd Airborne Division of the United States Army’s Global Response Force, Henderson and his fellow soldiers at Fort Brag, N.C., were deployed to aid civilians in the Caribbean country.
“I was part of the Global Response Force for anything that happened outside of Iraq and Afghanistan, so we were on alert 24/7,” Henderson said. “I had no real-world experience, and I quickly became immersed in this third- world country.”
Henderson remained in Haiti for 59 days before returning to the United States.
“We were living among Haitians and it really changed my mindset and taught me to be grateful with everything I approached,” Henderson said.
Henderson served in the Army for four years before coming to Georgetown. He is one of 120 student veterans currently enrolled at Georgetown who receive financial benefits from the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act. This program finances a college education for any veteran who has served three years of active duty.
On Sept. 13, Georgetown did not qualify for the U.S. News and World Report list of best colleges for veterans, despite increasingly available resources for military veterans at Georgetown.
This significant drop — Georgetown was ranked first in the nation just two years ago and 16th last year — was due in large part to a technical error, according to Veterans Office Director LeNaya Hezel (“Ranking Reports Mixed Outcomes,” The Hoya, Sept. 20, 2016, A1). U.S. News declined to comment on Georgetown’s lack of inclusion in the rankings.
A change in U.S. News’ process for collecting data and an error in submitting the appropriate number of students receiving GI Bill benefits caused an incorrect number of students to be reported for Georgetown’s submission, according to Hezel.
The ranking inaccurately reflects resources available to student veterans on campus. According to student veterans interviewed by The Hoya, the university’s support for them has grown over the last few years.
This has resulted in an active Georgetown University Student Veteran Association membership body and a number of faculty members dedicated to helping student veterans assimilate and thrive. Georgetown also has a Veterans Support Team, a group of students, faculty and administrators interested in veterans’ issues.
Among these resources, GUSVA has developed into an active advocacy organization for student veterans.
Student veteran and GUSVA President Cristine Starke (SFS ’18) said the size and stature of the group has significantly increased over the past few years.
“The GUSVA has become a vehicle to advocate for student veterans’ issues. Veterans on campus have a lot more power now with this organization,” Starke said.
Henderson said joining GUSVA facilitated his transition to Georgetown, a process that challenged his identity ,after having gone through extensive training while joining the Army.
Before Georgetown
For Henderson, enlisting was an opportunity to mature.
“I wanted to be a part of something bigger than myself and had a calling to service,” Henderson said. “I’m from a small town where there aren’t a lot of opportunities to do big things. This was a way to try to get the next level when I had the right mindset.”
The hardest part of transitioning to civilian life for Henderson was adjusting his worldview. Henderson said military life is regimented, and obedience is paramount; soldiers are trained to follow orders, so acting as an individual is not a realistic option.
“I think the hardest part was the lack of your own sense of agency. You don’t really have to think much beyond being told what to do, because you’re told where to be and what to think,” Henderson said. “Maybe that’s why I wasn’t the world’s greatest soldier. I had an officer who told me I think too much.”
After being discharged, Henderson said he was overwhelmed by the options he had. He considered becoming a teacher and a baseball coach.
“I definitely struggled when I first got out,” Henderson said. “A lot of vets go through difficult transitions. Your identity becomes wrapped up in your service, community, uniform and you know who you are and what you’re doing and, all of a sudden, you have this new freedom. I was one of those people. I remember waking up the first few days and wondering what I was going to do.”
Prior to applying to Georgetown in 2014, Henderson had coached a baseball team in his hometown of Lynchburg, Va., then enrolled at James H. Faulkner State Community College, a community college in Alabama, before transferring to the University of South Alabama.
“My first class was an Intro to Gov. course, and from then I knew that I wanted to study government. I wanted to pursue politics,” Henderson said. “It’s kind of ironic to swear to defend a constitution that you don’t know much about.”
Henderson contacted his congressman for an opportunity to intern at his Washington, D.C., office. Once in the District, he applied to Georgetown.
“I sold everything I owned, came up here and moved in with a stranger and fell in love with D.C. and didn’t want to leave and applied to Georgetown on a whim,” Henderson said. “I almost didn’t even apply, because I knew I wouldn’t get in, and then I got an acceptance letter in May [2015], and the rest is history.”
Life at Georgetown
When Henderson joined GUSVA, he met Starke, a Marine Corps veteran who came to Georgetown from a different background. Starke enlisted in the Marine Corps when she was 17 and served as an Arabic linguist and translator for the majority of her time in the military. Starke faced some difficulties applying to Georgetown.
“I got a lot of pushback from my command, and this is true regardless of your job,” Starke said. “I had trouble getting a recommendation from my commanding officers. If they’re trying to keep retention numbers, it’s hard to get out. I had to really advocate for myself in the college application process, because they really want you to stay in.”
Once Starke was admitted to Georgetown, she took the advice of former student veterans and immersed herself in student life: She joined the professional foreign service sorority Delta Phi Epsilon and became part of the OWN IT Summit team for women’s leadership.
Still, Starke said she was not prepared for the stigma associated with being a veteran.
“It’s definitely case by case. Some faculty and administrators are ambivalent, but I feel like many of them are uncomfortable sometimes,” Starke said.
Starke said this environment encouraged her to become involved in GUSVA. As the president, Starke said she wants to help other student veterans in as many ways as possible. This includes providing veterans with similar networking opportunities available to other students.
“At Georgetown, everyone has alumni connections. Some veterans are often not tied into those connections because they transfer in. So I think about how we can get them connected to alumni or tied into various programs on campus they’ve felt excluded from,” Starke said.
Along with advocating for veterans’ issues, GUSVA also plans events and gatherings for both its members and the broader Georgetown community. On Nov. 10, GUSVA will host a Veteran’s Day ceremony honoring student veterans on campus and Georgetown alumni who have served.
GUSVA will also host a panel discussion on Oct. 21 called “Women Who Write About War.” The panel will bring together professional women writers whose work focuses primarily on war. Professor of Spanish and Portuguese Barbara Mujica, who serves as GUSVA’s faculty advisor, will speak at the event.
Mujica is also an associate facilitator of the Veterans Support Team. Mujica played an important role in strengthening GUSVA’s role on campus, especially in the acquisition of a central office for the organization.
“Georgetown was very active in the anti-war movement during the Vietnam War, so I feared that I would not get great reception. But the exact opposite happened. The receptions from the provost’s office, the president’s office, and the dean’s offices were all very supportive and helpful,” Mujica said.
Currently, hundreds of both undergraduate and graduate students make up GUSVA’s membership.
Henderson said veterans should immerse themselves in everything Georgetown has to offer.
“As I got more comfortable, I became involved on campus, which made the adjustment much easier,” Henderson said. “I’ve since made some incredible friends here.”
Like Henderson, Starke said she would urge new students to be resourceful.
“You can’t force a student to use his or her resources or to identify as veterans. That being said, I’d encourage every student here to get involved with anything and everything,” Starke said. “I’d also tell them not to hide who they truly are, either.”
Mujica said she hopes veterans and non-veterans will continue to interact and that the issues surrounding student veterans — including a potential stigma and transitioning to civilian life — will continue to be addressed.
“Student veterans make tremendous contributions to campus life. They’ve been all over the world and really add different and important dimensions to our campus,” Mujica said.
For Henderson, being at Georgetown after serving in the military is a privilege.
“To me, Georgetown is a miracle. Every day I walk up, and I see Healy [Hall]: I have to pinch myself,” Henderson said. “I ask myself if that’s really where I get to spend my time.”

Hoya BN Alum says 
October 4, 2016 at 8:07 pm
To the editors, those are not “Student Veterans,” those are cadets from the Army ROTC program. Though some of them are members of the Guard and Reserve, it is inaccurate to characterize everyone in that photo as “Student Veterans” and the caption should be changed accordingly.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 4, 2016 by Ben Goodman Leave a Comment 
The new filing date for the Free Application for Federal Student Aid will benefit current high school seniors applying for financial aid, according to United States Secretary of Education John B. King Jr. at a White House press briefing Thursday.
The new opening date, Oct. 1 — three months ahead of the application’s former Jan. 1 opening — delivered on President Barack Obama’s promise announced last September to provide a greater window for timely financial aid information to high school students and their families.
The FAFSA, released annually, determines the eligibility of college students for federal grants, loans and work-study funds based on information provided from a family’s tax returns from the previous year.
According to King, moving up the FAFSA release will contribute toward making the college process easier, more accessible and more affordable for American families by allowing them to provide the federal government with information confirmed by the IRS.
“These changes to the FAFSA will help provide better information to families earlier to inform their decisions about where to go to college and also how they’ll be able to afford college,” King said. “These changes also mean accessing financial aid for a good-value school will be easier and faster, because students will be able to complete the FAFSA with information directly from their 2015 tax returns, information that the IRS has already verified.”
Previously, when the FAFSA was released in January, families either waited for their tax return from the just-completed calendar year or filled in the FAFSA with guesswork and estimation.
King framed the new FAFSA release date as the next step in Obama’s efforts to make higher education more accessible.
“These critical steps have helped open the door to a college education for millions of Americans,” King said. “But they’re just one piece of the administration’s long track record of fighting to expand educational opportunity for Americans of all ages.”
King claimed since Obama’s arrival in office in 2009, students have filed more than 160 million FAFSAs, and the average completion time for the FAFSA has been cut nearly in half.
King said the Obama administration is not only seeking to make applying to college easier. It has also worked on reducing the cost of college for middle and low-income Americans at a time when tuitions are on the rise.
“The administration has also made historic investments to keep college affordable for hard-working students and families, ending wasteful subsidies for banks and giving tens of billions back to students,” King said. “Pell Grants are more generous and are helping more students. The American Opportunity Tax Credit is cutting taxes for millions of families who are trying to afford college each year.”
King touched upon other Obama administration initiatives concerning higher education, such as the Every Student Succeeds Act signed last winter, which modified the No Child Left Behind Act leftover from the presidency of George W. Bush. ESSA transferred many of the accountability provisions allotted to the federal government in NCLB to individual states.
Since Republicans generally support limitations on federal power, preferring to grant state and local governments more control over policy, King said Obama’s education initiatives have bridged political divides and achieved bipartisan support.
King said the Obama Administration considers graduation rates important as well. Obama has proposed financial incentives to needy students who enroll in at least 15 credits per semester — thereby staying on track to graduate.
“We know even as we grapple with issues of access and affordability, ensuring that students who start college actually finish is critical to ensuring that they are able to manage their debt,” King said.
Government professor Douglas Reed, who is also the new director of Georgetown’s Educational Transformation Master’s Program, a program that prepares students to teach, advocate for education and understand policy, praised the Obama administration for easing some of the incongruities that occur when financial aid deadlines do not align with FAFSA deadlines.
“I think the good thing about this is it gives families more time to get the FAFSA in, but it also means that there’s not a big scramble in January when you have to look at last year’s income and figure out what you’re going to do,” Reed said. “Any time you get more time to fill out the forms, that’s a good thing.”
However, Reed said other problems persist with the Obama administration’s record on college financial aid.
“I’m worried we’re not paying attention to the real goal, which is making sure everyone who is able to go to college can afford to go,” Reed said. “While it’s good to make some bureaucratic adjustments on FAFSA, we have to really pay attention to the real problem, which is access and tuition.”
Luis Gonzalez (COL ’19), who is pursuing a career in education, lauded the Obama administration for implementing policies allowing low-income families more time to weigh different options for financial aid.
“From personal experience, I have seen how much disparity there is between schools with a high percentage of low-income, minority students compared to schools in more affluent communities,” Gonzalez wrote in an email to The Hoya. “In terms of the Obama administration, I think they’ve done a great job pushing for high school graduates to be ready for college and for a career.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 4, 2016 by Will Linde Leave a Comment 
Last Wednesday and Thursday, the Georgetown University Institute of Politics and Public Service voter registration initiative, GU Votes, registered more than 1,000 students to vote as part of its “Storm the Dorm” event. The drive helped students request their absentee ballots at dorms across campus.
The student-led initiative is now looking to register 1,500 students before the middle of October. More than 20 volunteers from various student organizations sat at tables in New South Hall, Village C West, Harbin Hall, Darnall Hall and Pedro Arrupe, S.J. Hall to help register students.
Students founded GU Votes last year as they sought out a means to register more voters and to increase political participation on campus in preparation for November’s presidential election between Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton and Republican candidate Donald Trump.
GU Votes co-founder and Undergraduate Outreach Co-Chair Bethan Saunders (SFS ’17) worked with members of the GU Politics Student Advisory Board to find a way to revitalize the use of online voter registration program TurboVote after the Georgetown University Student Association used it in 2014.
Co-Chair for Undergraduate Outreach for GU Votes Omar Torres (COL ’18) said this initiative focuses on first-year students since they are most likely to be both eligible to vote and not yet registered.
“We thought of ‘Storm the Dorms’ to hit the freshman dorms, because those are the people who are turning 18 this year,” Torres said. “Those are the ones who maybe don’t know how to get registered or they don’t know what to do.”
Millennials have the lowest voter turnout of any age group. According to the Pew Research Center, only 46 percent of eligible voters between the ages of 18 and 35 voted in the 2012 presidential election. This is in stark contrast with eligible voters over the age of 71, of which 72 percent voted.
According to Saunders, GU Votes’ current voter registration methods employ a greater use of technology than those of previous presidential campaigns, much like similar nationwide voter registration efforts.
“This is a very online-focused platform that makes it accessible to everyone,” Saunders said. “The online efforts to register voters is a national trend. Twitter, too, promoted National Voter Registration Day on Tuesday, Sept. 27.”
GU Votes sought to connect and engage with undergraduates and student organizations through campus and social media.
“This was our way of reaching out to the freshmen and sophomores and being very present,” Saunders said. “So we had our signs, we had our computers, we had all these flyers, and it was a way to get people registered.”
Various campus organizations worked with GU Politics to raise awareness of the program. Students of Georgetown, Inc. catered brownies to attract students, while GUSA, the Asian American Student Alliance, the NAACP chapter at Georgetown, Delta Phi Epsilon, Georgetown Weeks of Welcome, Students for D.C. Statehood, GU College Democrats and GU College Republicans all partnered with GU Votes to encourage students to register to vote.
A partnership with the Students of Color Alliance sought to increase voter registration rates among minority students.
GU Votes also received administrative guidance and support from the Office of the President, the Office of Community Engagement and the Office of Government Relations.
Jacqueline Beveridge (SFS ’19), a GU Votes member responsible for student volunteer engagement and coordination, tabled during the event Thursday evening and said she was pleased by the general enthusiasm and excitement.
“Voting can be intimidating because it seems like an intense process, but I was really impressed by how many students came up and asked questions about what they could do to vote and get their absentee ballot,” Beveridge said.
Torres, who is from Puerto Rico, cannot vote in presidential or congressional races, but said he recognizes the importance of civic engagement.
“I feel like it’s really important to make people participate because you have a right, and some people maybe have that right limited, so you might as well take advantage of it and try to affect the outcome of an election,” Torres said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 4, 2016 by Jeff Cirillo Leave a Comment 
A bill presented to the Washington, D.C. Council aims to prohibit employers from asking prospective employees about their wage history, a provision intended to combat the wage gap between men and women working in the District.
The Fair Wage Amendment Act of 2016, which is currently under council review, lists 11 of the 13 D.C. councilmembers as co-sponsors. If passed, D.C. would join Massachusetts, the only state in the nation that prohibits employers from asking job applicants about salary history.
At-Large Councilmember David Grosso introduced the bill on Sept. 20, saying it would help D.C. residents get the salaries they deserve for the work they do, regardless of their gender. According to a report released by the National Partnership for Women and Families in April of this year, women in D.C. make 90 cents for every dollar men make. The wage disparity is even more evident in the District’s minorities, with African-American women making 56 cents and Hispanic women making 50 cents to every dollar made by white men.
“Historically, what we’ve seen happen is that the wage gap between genders is exacerbated and continued, because, if someone asks a woman what her salary was at her former job, it’s often lower than what it should have been,” Grosso said.
Grosso said he introduced the bill to further efforts in Washington to reduce gender pay inequality.
“I spent a big part of my career trying to create a society where everyone is treated with respect, and everyone is treated equally,” Grosso said.
Kalmanovitz Initiative for Labor and the Working Poor Director of Research Joseph McCartin, explained that, without this provision in place, employers can ask prospective employees what they were paid at their last job before making an offer. This then allows the employer to offer the lowest wage they think the employee will accept rather than what the employee’s labor is actually worth.
“When employers know what workers earn, they have a little bit of an advantage in the labor market, in terms of setting prices,” McCartin said.
Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce Director of Research Jeff Strohl said there are a number of subtle factors also perpetuating wage gaps during a job search. The discrimination, he said, is not necessarily intentional.
“There are a lot of ways wage gaps can continue, especially during job interviews,” Strohl said. “Men are more likely to inflate their previous wages — if they made $65,000 at their last firm, they’ll claim they made $70,000. Women are less likely to do that.”
McCartin said this bill, if it passes, will build on other recent workers’ rights legislation passed by the council.
“Simply this provision alone won’t solve the problem, but it’s a help,” McCartin said. “But you need to match that with the other things that the council has tried to do, which is raise the minimum wage to something more like a living wage.”
Three months before Grosso introduced the Fair Wage Amendment Act, the D.C. Council made headlines by passing a bill gradually increasing D.C.’s minimum wage to $15 an hour by 2020.
McCartin said the District’s recent legislative push has compensated for a lack of leadership on the federal level.
“The cost of living has increased in recent years, but the federal minimum wage has stuck,” McCartin said. “The federal minimum wage is no longer anything like a living wage, so what has had to happen is that localities have had to step into the breach. Cities have stepped up and tried to enact wage laws, like D.C. has done, to rectify the problem.”
Justin McCartney (SFS ’19), a student involved with the Center for Social Justice, said the bill addresses the problem of wage inequality head-on.
“You hear a lot of talk about how it’s important to close the wage gap in presidential campaigns, but [this amendment] actually takes action to do it,” McCartney said. “I think that’s really important.”
McCartney stressed the importance of Georgetown students engaging themselves in issues of gender and racial equity.
“There’s a sociological disconnect between Georgetown students and their experience for four years or longer in Georgetown versus the whole broader community of D.C.,” McCartney said. “Students being educated and aware that awesome initiatives like this are being worked out in local government is super important.”
Councilmember Grosso said that the D.C. Council always benefits from a student perspective, particularly on a bill that could be relevant to Georgetown students pursuing careers in the District.
“Anytime I can get more engagement from students in the District of Columbia, and, certainly, from Georgetown students, it’s a big help here at the legislative offices at the D.C. Council,” Grosso said. “The fact is: Engagement from students gives us a different perspective that I think we can use more of.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 4, 2016 by Tait Ryssdal Leave a Comment 
The Environmental Futures Initiative, a group of students and faculty committed to making change in environmental policy, recently attended two international environmental conferences in Nairobi, Kenya, and Merida, Mexico. Following these trips, EFI advocated the importance of the current generation in addressing climate change and outlined plans for an upcoming speaker series with the Georgetown University Lecture Fund in a debrief event Sep. 29.
The group is looking to host a speaker series centered on environmental challenges with the Lecture Fund this semester. In conjunction with the Global Futures Initiative, the EFI will host, among others, Anote Tong, the former president of Pacific Ocean island nation Kiribati and an environmental advocacy icon, this fall.
The group also plans to partner with the Undergraduate Journal for Global Citizenship at Fairfield University to create a special issue dedicated to the problems that were explored by the delegation to Nairobi.
The EFI was able to send a delegation to Merida, Mexico, for the Commission for Environmental Cooperation in September, funded by the Office of the Provost and the Office of the Vice President for Global Engagement.
The students and faculty who attended the CEC were given a thirty-minute session with Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Gina McCarthy and were able to meet the Canadian Minister of Environment and Climate Change Catherine McKenna.
EFI founder Aaron Silberman (SFS ’18) said the EFI delegates to Mexico were able to make an impact on policy at the conference.
“While in Mexico, Justin McCartney and Sophie Faaborg-Andersen helped lead a push with youth delegates from Mexico and Canada, where they drafted a list of demands to environmental ministers there, focused specifically on how sincere youth engagement should be built into the fundamental process of the CEC,” Silberman said.
The EFI also sent three students and one faculty member to the United Nations Environmental Assembly in Nairobi, Kenya in May where they met with world leaders in the field, including the former Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Program Achim Steiner. The EFI delegation to UNEA was the only one at the assembly comprised in part by students.
According to Silberman, the trip was successful in furthering the initiative’s mission to find space at the table for student voices in environmental policymaking.
“They brought back a good amount of knowledge and clarification for how we, as a group, can direct our efforts to be able to attend to our mission,” Silberman said.  “We are trying to do the work today that is necessary to have a viable tomorrow.”
UNEA delegate and professor Randall Amster said the size of the conference proved effective for conference attendees.
“The interesting thing at UNEA was that it was an event big enough to hold both the policy and the activist sensibilities, and it was fascinating to see how they wove together,” Amster said.
Sophie Faaborg-Andersen (SFS ’18) and Justin McCartney (SFS ’19), the only two members of the EFI to attend both conferences, said this generation of young people has incredible potential to make a difference on environmental work.
“What I have taken out of these two trips is that there is so much capacity for youth particularly to get involved in these kinds of issues and make a meaningful change on the ground and in policy making,” Faaborg-Andersen said. “To me that’s what the EFI is all about — to allow students to engage in these opportunities.”
McCartney said bringing interested students together to work on pressing environmental issues can yield unexpected results.
“What can we do if we can harness this energy for engagement from students across the U.S.?” McCartney said. “Bringing together students who are passionate about these issues and who have such amazing ideas into one collective can produce incredible results.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 4, 2016 by Alfredo Carrillo 1 Comment 
This year’s Georgetown University Student Association Senate swearing-in ceremony, held in Dahlgren Quad on Sunday, featured an unusual sight: A Wisemiller’s Deli Chicken Madness sandwich, represented by Matthew Gregory (SFS ’17), attempted to assume the off-campus electoral district position it won during last Thursday’s elections.
However, before Chicken Madness could pledge to assume the Senate seat, it was officially unrecognized by the previous senate through an almost unanimous vote, as its status as a non-undergraduate violated GUSA’s bylaws regarding candidacy.
Chicken Madness’s seat was transferred to fifth-placed candidate Alejandro Serrano (MSB ’17).
This year’s election also saw an increase in turnout from 19 percent to 24 percent compared to last fall’s election. Senate Speaker Richard Mullaney (COL ’18) attributed this to last year’s redistricting — which consolidated the number of districts from 11 to 7 — and a general increase in interest towards GUSA.
Matthew Gregory (SFS ’17), who assumed the de facto leadership role of the Chicken Madness movement this year, delivered a speech to the rest of the newly-elected senators arguing that the satirical movement was a representation of what he called the average Georgetown student’s unfulfilled desires.
Anirudha Vaddadi (SFS ’16) represented the Chicken Madness ticket in the GUSA Town Hall last year during the executive election.
Chicken Madness was previously a candidate in last year’s executive elections, where it lost to current GUSA President Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) and Vice President Chris Fisk (COL ’17). The election saw the Hot Chick and Chicken Madness ticket come in second, with 878 votes in the final round of voting.
Gregory said its recurrent appearance as a candidate signifies much more than an attempt to make students laugh.
“We see the campaign as a symbolic movement that represents the fact that for the vast majority of students, GUSA does not represent the concerns that they care about,” Gregory said. “It doesn’t represent the factors that impact daily student life. It doesn’t represent anything that students have a reason to care about.”
Khan, who attended the ceremony, said she saw Chicken Madness’ victory as a reflection of the student body’s humor.
“I think it also shows that GUSA can continue to be engaging with the student body and showing that it is a serious body,” Khan said. “It’s important for GUSA to also take itself not too seriously at times and to have fun.”
Gregory said the fact that many students were willing to vote for a sandwich in lieu of a regular student candidate for GUSA is illustrative of the gap that exists between them and the government that represents them.
Although the Election Commission reported an increase in turnout, fewer than 50 percent of students in each district casted their vote. In spite of a 10 candidate increase with respect to last year, some districts had no candidates for available seats.
South Campus Senator Christopher Grocki (MSB ’17) said a variety of factors, beyond perceived misrepresentation, could potentially account for these phenomena.
“As time goes on and Georgetown students settle in their niche in different social circles, they just find less of a desire to participate,” Grocki said.
Grocki said voter turnout declines as students grow older, because freshmen are more enthusiastic about getting involved. Upperclassmen are usually busier and miss out on the short fall senate election period, according to Grocki, while the longer executive election campaign season allows more students to be involved.
“While the information’s out there, it becomes an oversight,” Grocki said. “Ultimately, I think it’s important. There are issues that matter, there’s a body that can deal with those issues, and it would be really great to have input from as many students as possible. For us, trying to increase that is going to be a priority.”
Mullaney, who is representing the at-large seat, said he believes the election’s results indicate the success of previously implemented measures such as redistricting but also pose new challenges for this year’s administration.
“A lot of people laugh at the Chicken sandwich. I don’t,” Mullaney said. “I take it seriously. I know it represents apathy and exhaustion. A lot of people know that GUSA exists, but they don’t know what GUSA does. This year, my task as Speaker of the Senate will be to address the concerns of the Chicken Madness cohort and make sure that they know that the students in GUSA are actually working to make Georgetown a better place.”
Mullaney said students incorrectly believe that GUSA does not represent them. According to Mullaney, this is partly the result of students not seeing the executive and the senate as separate bodies.
“Last year, Enushe and Chris restructured all of GUSA, so, instead of committees, in the Senate, we now work in policy teams,” Mullaney said. “It used to be that the Senate worked on the same things that the Executive worked on but in a completely different sphere.”
This year, besides managing the Finance and Appropriation Committee which assigns over $1 million to the different advisory boards that further divide them among student organizations, senators will also work to enact policy concerning a wide array of areas, from residential living and dining to mental health and security.
Mullaney said he hopes this strategy, combined with a higher degree of outreach, will make the Senate’s actions more tangible to the rest of the Georgetown community. He also considers the inclusion of more communities on campus in policymaking a primary objective for this year.
“[These students] don’t necessarily feel that they can be a part of the Georgetown community,” Mullaney said. “I want to make sure that everyone makes sure that they have a place in GUSA, because GUSA does not belong to people in GUSA, GUSA belongs to all Hoyas.”

John says 
October 4, 2016 at 7:58 pm
GUSA starts out the year strong; after stealing an election from Chicken Madness earlier, the powers that be now just decide they will bar it and its supporters from ever having a voice in GUSA politics, and also insult them on Facebook. And these same members of GUSA wonder why there is so much political apathy present on campus and why no only takes these pretentious twats in suits seriously.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

