
April 8, 2016 by Marina Pitofsky and Syed Humza Moinuddin Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University announced the launch of the Undocumented Student Resource website — an online portal meant to provide information and resources for undocumented current and prospective Georgetown students — in a campus-wide email from Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson on Thursday.
The announcement arrived on the same day as National Institutions Coming Out Day for undocumented students. The annual celebration, created by the United We Dream Network in 2015, recognizes higher education’s commitment to students under undocumented status.
In his email, Olson cited Georgetown’s responsibility as a Jesuit institution to welcome undocumented students and to recognize the challenges they face across the country.
According to Olson’s email, approximately 65,000 students born abroad who are not U.S. citizens or legal residents graduate from U.S. high schools annually, and it is Georgetown’s responsibility to support all students in the spirit of growing globalization.
“I’m writing today to express the university’s support for undocumented students in our Georgetown community,” Olson wrote in an email to students. “As a Catholic and Jesuit institution, we have a unique responsibility to welcome and support all of our students, regardless of immigration status.”
The website includes resources relating to admissions, financial aid, legal aid and advising available to both campus members and prospective students. It also highlights various initiatives on campus meant to serve undocumented students, including student organizations such as Hoyas for Immigrant Rights and the Georgetown Solidarity Committee, along with campus resources such as the Multicultural Equity and Access Center and the Georgetown Scholarship Program.
The website’s creation comes after a history of support for undocumented students by University President John J. DeGioia, who has sent letters in support of the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors Act and has encouraged Catholic members of the House of Representatives to pass immigration reform rooted in a path to citizenship.
University administrators and members from UndocuHoyas, a student group dedicated to advancing the issues and voices of undocumented students, formed a working group in June 2015 after activism from UndocuHoyas and collaboration with administrators, including Olson and Associate Dean of Students Dennis Williams.
Members of the working group included various deans, admissions officers, financial aid officials, members from campus ministry and undocumented students. The group first sought to address the lack of a centralized resource for undocumented students by developing a website.
For UndocuHoyas member and undocumented student Clara Mejia (COL ’16), the consolidation of resources into a single website reflects over two years of work. She attributes much of the progress to the activism and efforts from UndocuHoyas to expose the community to the experiences of those with undocumented status.
“UndocuHoyas was leading the conversation since the beginning. We were activists first, then we were students,” Mejia said. “It was us going to offices and talking to the administration and saying ‘Hey, this is my story and this is how I need to be supported.’ We are students and we are sharing our struggles and narratives at Georgetown, and they really showed they cared.”
Mejia hopes many members of the community, from undocumented students to undocumented allies, will appreciate the work done by the working group and hopes the administration is recognized for its accomplishment and progress over the course of the past few years.
“We’ve come a very long way since five years ago, where there wasn’t anything to just having so much happen in the past two years,” Mejia said. “There should be a recognition from a place of pride, that Georgetown actually came out as an institution to support undocumented students. It’s a huge deal nationally.”
While the website’s implementation reflects a significant achievement for those seeking greater resources for undocumented students, Mejia said there is still a need for advocacy from all sides of the community. She said she hopes the website’s visibility and existence will spur increased awareness for those seeking more resources specific to their own situation.
“The job is never done and there are still ways to advocate. We want both undocumented students to come here and also have the resources they need to find success. The website is there but now we have to increase visibility and get it out there. We have to tell people Georgetown is an ‘undocu-friendly’ institution and we have to pride ourselves in that,” Mejia said.
Adisha Kashikar (COL ’16) said the university’s initiative represents welcome progress and needed change, adding that she hopes the awareness it raises will encourage student support and further increase available resources.
“Above everything, what it will do is raise awareness more,” Kashikar said. “Besides helping undocumented students, the rest of Georgetown will understand more about others’ reactions, others’ experiences. I think they should do this more, because it’s good for the school to know more and want to know more about these students.”
Junjie Chen (GRD ’16) said she sympathizes with the situation of those with undocumented status and expects the new initiative to make such students feel more welcomed in the community.
“As an international student, I feel really empathetic and also feel very positive about these resources that the university provides for them,” Chen said. “[Undocumented students] may not be as comfortable identifying their status, believing their status might detriment their future careers, and this might be a step forward in making them more comfortable and feel less like they have to hide.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 8, 2016 by Jack Lynch 4 Comments 
 
The Center for Social Justice and the Georgetown Program Board saw their funding cut by $12,000 each in the Georgetown University Student Association Finance and Appropriations Committee’s student activities budget for fiscal year 2017.
Passed by the GUSA senate on Sunday, the budget also included increases for the club sports budget, the Media Board, the Georgetown University Lecture Fund and the Performing Arts Advisory Council.
The Fin/App committee allotted $998,202 from the Student Activities Fee for the 2017 fiscal year. Requests from the 14 committees and student groups totaled $1,607,311.
Fin/App Chair Betsy Johnson (COL ’16) said the decrease to the CSJ’s allocation comes in large part from Fin/App’s concern over the use of Student Activities Fee funds to financially support international travel scholarships. In its official budget report, Fin/App urged CSJ Advisory Board for Student Organizations to cut or reduce international travel scholarships, or find a different way to fund international ventures.
“In my opinion and the opinion of a lot of people on the committee, doing an alternative break program in a different country is not that much better of an experience than doing it here [in the U.S.],” Johnson said. “But obviously it is up to them how to spend their money.”
CSJ ABSO Chair Antara Joardar (SFS ’16) said that while the CSJ ABSO understands and appreciates the Fin/App Committee’s input, she stands by the importance of international travel scholarships.
“Given growing student demand for such experiences, we strongly believe that providing scholarships is important in giving students, regardless of financial situation, the opportunity to have an international service experience,” Joardar wrote in an e-mail to The Hoya.
The committee had originally cut $17,000 from GPB’s budget, but lessened the decrease after GPB filed an appeal to $12,000, or an 11.3 percent decrease from last year’s allocation.
Johnson said the Fin/App ommittee decreased the GPB allocation out of concern that funds from the student activities fee could be more effectively used elsewhere.
“We felt that other groups could spend the money better, that [GPB] was getting enough to do what their purpose is, that [GPB] was not our priority this year,” Johnson said.
GPB Chair Josh Kang (COL ’16) believes the funding cuts will have a noticeable impact on the group’s ability to hold events throughout the year. In particular, the group’s hiring of big-name artists for the annual Spring Concert could be harmed.
GPB has already been forced to delay the announcement of this year’s headliner Wiz Khalifa due to extended contract negotiations over payment, Kang said.
“If we take more cuts it’s going to become even harder to get artists to come to campus for concerts,” Kang said. “Artist costs are rising every year, but our budget is not rising to meet that demand.”
Kang said GPB was particularly frustrated that the Lecture Fund received a $3,000 increase in its allocation while GPB’s budget decreased.
“Lecture Fund caters to a specific type of audience, and GPB does that too, but our committees try to cater to as much of Georgetown as possible, so we try to have something for everybody,” Kang said “We feel that we could have done a lot with that money to cater to a wide audience.”
Johnson, however, maintained the committee’s decision to make cuts to GPB while increasing the Lecture Fund allocation.
“Overall the committee decided that having speakers from academia, speakers from media, from sports, from politics, wherever they come from, adds more to campus life than some of the things that GPB does,” Johnson said.
Club sports received a $33,200 increase in their annual allotment. In addition to funds to facilitate non-Kehoe Field practice space, much of the club sports increase comes from funding the club sports athletic trainer, a position created during fiscal year 2016.
This marks the first year the allocation for the club sports trainer will be contained within the club sports budget, and not be allocated as its own line item. Johnson said Fin/App hopes that in the future club sports will be able to fund a higher percentage of the club sports trainer salary through alternative fundraising, rather than though Fin/App.
The Performing Arts Advisory Council received a 9.3 percent increase to its budget, or just under $7,000. Much of the increase will allow PAAC to fund the refurbishment of Poulton Hall’s lighting and sound grid.
In the official budget report, Johnson stressed that certain allocation choices had to be made because of deferred maintenance on the part of the university.
Both the Kehoe Field closing and the PAAC’s funding of renovations to Poulton Hall, the committee said, are areas that should have received university funding but have instead been cast upon the student advisory boards.
“This has been an issue for several years in a row,” Johnson said. “The university should be paying for a lot of these things and it’s not. It’s getting pushed onto the Student Activities Fee.”

Involved Hoya says 
April 9, 2016 at 12:55 am
I’m very happy to see the budget being allocated more fairly. GPB is one of the most wasteful organizations I have seen on campus. Our student activities fee should be spent directly on students and not on the self-serving delusions of GPB’s board. OUR money into OUR hands. Give more to clubs!

Airton says 
April 12, 2016 at 3:50 pm
Leave it to Georgetown to have an entire school devoted to foreign service but yet devote minimal efforts to getting students to do service or engage with communities abroad.

Involved Hoya says 
April 26, 2016 at 10:23 am
International experiences are great, but should the student activities fee (which we all pay) be used for a handful of people get the privilege of traveling abroad? I think the fee can be put to better use and the kids that need to travel so badly can find other sources of funding.
Also Georgetown doesn’t devote “minimal efforts” to engage students. 1) Just because it’s not free doesn’t mean the opportunity isn’t there, and 2) The $1m student activities budget and the advisory boards are managed 100% by students, so it was our decision, not the administration’s.

SFS '17 says 
April 26, 2016 at 5:46 pm
And the $95,000 to the Media Board goes by without mention in the article? Isn’t that up about $40,000 from last year?
All this hoopla about the GPB but it seems like The Hoya itself should be the center of its own story.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 8, 2016 by Kshithij Shrinath Leave a Comment 
Former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright explored the integral role of religion in foreign affairs — both as a positive force for peace and as a contributor to violence around the world — in her keynote address at the 10th anniversary celebration of the Berkley Center for Religion, Peace and World Affairs in Gaston Hall on Thursday.
Albright’s speech kicked off the celebration, a two-day affair entitled “Rethinking Religion and World Affairs,” comprised of panel discussions around the intersection of religious understanding and international affairs.
The symposium reflects the work of the center, which was founded in 2006 by a donation from William R. Berkley partly in response to the 9/11 attacks. According to Vice President for Global Engagement and Berkley Center Director Thomas Banchoff, who introduced Thursday’s event, the center believes that a greater emphasis on religion can help academics, policymakers and civil society better understand the violence and hope that arise in response to religion.
“We’ve sought to address religion’s complex role in the world and, over the long term, to advance peace in practice,” Banchoff said. “This critical work thrives here at Georgetown … in our mission as a global university committed to the global common good.”
University President John J. DeGioia echoed Banchoff after his introduction, lauding the Berkley Center’s work as critical to the spirit that animates the university.
“This ethos come[s] alive in our community with our identity as a Catholic and Jesuit institution and in our commitment to genuine dialogue, to the exchange of ideas especially with those different than our own and to the idea that we arrive closer to the truth when we presume the best in one another,” DeGioia said.
Through this frame, DeGioia said there was “no one better” to discuss the role of religion in global affairs than Albright, who has been a part of the Georgetown community since 1982 in various professorships and who, in 2006, published “The Mighty and the Almighty,” a book that directly confronts the intersection of religion and international affairs.
Albright began her speech by tracing the history of religion in international relations theory, noting that secularism was dominant throughout the Cold War. An emphasis on realism and rational decision making shunned religious warfare as a remnant of the past.
“It’s not that religion was forgotten as much as it was compartmentalized,” Albright said. “It was personal, not public, and local, not global.”
Yet, beginning in the 1970s with the Iranian Revolution, followed by Afghanistan in the 1980s and the Balkans in the 1990s, religion became a resurgent feature of international affairs. This required policymakers to understand religion to comprehend the nuances of foreign policy, according to Albright.
“In today’s world, presidents simply must take religion into account when they speak or act in global affairs. The question is how to do this without creating new problems,” Albright said. “It’s a challenge that a friend of mine has compared to brain surgery: necessary to do but disastrous if you slip up.”
To counter the prevailing notion that religion was solely a divisive force, however, Albright emphasized the unifying nature of religion, referencing the work of Archbishop Desmond Tutu in South Africa, Martin Luther King Jr. and Pope John Paul II in Poland.
“Religion has always been a globalizing force,” Albright said. “The borderless nature of religious faith often makes it easier for leaders to talk to one another, easier for nations to agree on common values and easier for people of vastly different backgrounds to reach a consensus about moral standards. We know from our modern experience that faith can serve as a source of inspiration and healing.”
At the crux of Albright’s argument was a recognition that religion, like democracy, respected each human being as valuable. She thus condemned terrorism as a perversion of religion for tokenizing the individual.
“Terrorist groups such as al-Qaida and Da’esh see history as a twilight struggle between cultures in which the individual as a disposable pawn. They value not ideas but obedience, leaving no room for any vision but their own,” Albright said. “We must do more to defeat those who pour poison into the ears of young people, turning humans into robots.”
Part of the fight against these extremist organizations, according to Albright, is promoting unity among religions in place of creating divides. She recognized this as difficult to do in a virulent campaign season, condemning — without explicitly referencing the candidates by name — Donald Trump’s proposal to keep Muslims out of the country and Ted Cruz’s proposal to patrol Muslim neighborhoods.
“The first rule of public life is to frame a choice,” Albright said. “We will win if people believe that the great divide in the world is between those who believe it is okay to murder innocent people and those who think it’s wrong. We will be in for a very long struggle if people believe the choice is between the supporters and defenders of Islam. This is exactly the fight Da’esh wants to have.”
Albright concluded by stating that the Berkley Center and other nongovernmental institutions were critical to affirming the importance of religion in civil society and opening the space for dialogue.
“We have no greater task than to build bridges of understanding and tolerance before mutual ignorance and insecurity harden into an unbridgeable chasm of hate,” Albright said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 8, 2016 by Aly Pachter and Matthew Riley Leave a Comment 
Washington, D.C. legislators and Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) have introduced legislation banning city-funded travel to states with laws discriminating against LGBTQ individuals.
Bowser signed an order March 31 prohibiting the official travel of city employees to North Carolina in response to the state’s Public Facilities Privacy and Security Act, which went into effect April 1 and requires transgender people to use public restroom facilities corresponding with the gender stated on their birth certificates.
Additionally, the law, also known as House Bill 2, prevents local municipalities from implementing their own regulations prohibiting discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity in public spaces.
North Carolina Gov. Pat McCrory (R) signed the act after North Carolina Republican legislators — who comprise a majority of the state’s general assembly — unveiled the bill March 23.
In a press statement released March 23, McCrory explained his decision to enact the legislation in response to an ordinance passed by the city council of Charlotte, N.C., that would allow people to use restroom facilities based on the gender they identify with, rather than their biological gender.
“The basic expectation of privacy in the most personal of settings, a restroom or locker room, for each gender was violated by government overreach and intrusion by the mayor and city council of Charlotte,” McCrory wrote. “As a result, I have signed legislation passed by a bipartisan majority to stop this breach of basic privacy and etiquette which was to go into effect April 1.”
According to Bowser’s order, the ban was enacted to add the District’s voice to the ongoing national conversation about LGBTQ rights. The order has already caused the cancelation of a trip five District Department of Transportation employees were planning to take to attend a symposium in Raleigh, according to DCist.
“To ensure a constant voice in policy and practice in the District of Columbia in favor of equal treatment for members of the LGBTQ communities, no officer or employee of the District of Columbia is authorized to approve any official travel to North Carolina until such time that the Public Facilities Privacy & Security Act is permanently enjoined, repealed, or amended to allow local jurisdictions to enact laws protecting the LGBTQ communities from discrimination and to enact laws allowing persons to use restrooms that correspond to their gender identity,” the order reads.
D.C.’s legislation comes after the governors of Connecticut, New York and Vermont also enacted travel bans to North Carolina on March 31, 28 and 30, respectively.
The D.C. Council also introduced the Government Travel and Human Rights Act of 2016 on Tuesday, which bans District-funded travel to any state with laws discriminating against LGBTQ people. The act will be implemented if it receives mayoral approval and undergoes a 30-day period of congressional review.
Chairman Anita Bonds (D-At Large), along with Councilmembers David Grosso (I-At Large), Brianne Nadeau (D-Ward 1), Brandon Todd (D-Ward 4), Jack Evans (D-Ward 6), Charles Allen (D-Ward 6) and LaRuby May (D-Ward 8) co-sponsored the bill.
The act was a response to Mississippi Gov. Phil Bryant (R) signing legislation allowing businesses, institutions and individuals with religious objections to deny services to gay couples.
Grosso said at Tuesday’s D.C. Council meeting that the District does not condone discrimination and that the bill will combat such discrimination in states such as North Carolina and Mississippi.
“Let us be clear — transgender people are not the threat, but rather it is bigots who are emboldened by legislation like in North Carolina and Mississippi who are harassing and assaulting our transgender friends and neighbors,” Grosso said. “In the District of Columbia, we stand against such hate, and that is why I am pleased to present this bill today.”
In a statement released March 29, McCrory responded to the criticism of the bill and defended North Carolina, instead blaming politicians for dividing the country over the issue.
“Some have called our state an embarrassment. Frankly, the real embarrassment is politicians not publicly respecting each other’s positions on complex issues,” McCrory said.
Co-sponsor of House Bill 2 Rep. Dan Bishop (R – N.C.) wrote in a statement to WBTV that the law was not intended to single out a certain section of the population.
“As you have noticed, there are no enforcement provisions or penalties in HB2,” Bishop wrote. “Its purpose is to restore common sense bathroom and shower management policy in public buildings, not to pick out people to punish.”
GU Pride President Campbell James (SFS ’17) expressed support for the District’s actions and the effect they can have as a demonstration of leadership.
“I really appreciate the support that the D.C. government is showing LGBTQ citizens from across the country,” James said. “I think it’s a great leadership example for protecting citizens’ rights and protesting and condemning the behavior of some state legislatures in trying to disenfranchise American citizens.”
James stressed the importance of combating state efforts to enact anti-LGBTQ legislation.
“I think it’s difficult for a city government to really step in where I think the federal government should be saying something,” James said. “To me, this is a great demonstration of solidarity in protesting what I think are terribly illegal actions by a state government.”
Secretary of Ally Engagement for GU Pride Russell Wirth (COL ’19) said the D.C. government’s response to the legislation marked a step in the right direction.
“I think it’s appropriate. It’s an interesting way of protesting,” Wirth said. “I think we need to make sure that we are supporting the transgender movement.”
Wirth added that although the District’s legislation is a step forward, federal laws are still needed to clarify anti-discrimination legislation.
“I think what we need to do is have a federal law passed so that across the nation, we have clear protections,” Wirth said.
Vice President of Community for GU Pride Willem Miller (COL ’17) spoke of his personal experiences and emphasized the need to make progress in anti-discrimination policies.
“I don’t think people who aren’t trans can understand what going to the bathroom is like for a trans person. There were months when I just didn’t because I was too scared,” Miller wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The trans movement doesn’t have unreasonable goals. We want to be safe and respected as fellow humans.”
Hoya Staff Writer Lisa Burgoa contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 8, 2016 by Ellen Baker Leave a Comment 
Panelists discussed journalist Austin Tice’s (SFS ’02) 2012 kidnapping in Syria, the challenges of reporting in combat zones and the need for swift advocacy on Austin’s behalf as part of the Salim El-Lozi Lecture series in the Intercultural Center on Wednesday.
The panelists included Austin Tice’s parents, Marc and Debra Tice, former Middle East Bureau Chief for McClatchy Newspapers Nancy Youssef and the U.S. Director of Reporters Without Borders Delphine Halgand. Veteran journalist, free speech expert and Georgetown University Distinguished Scholar in Residence Sanford Ungar moderated the event.Austin Tice, a freelance journalist published by McClatchy Newspapers, The Washington Post and CBS, among other media, travelled to Syria to report on the region’s conflict in May 2012 and disappeared Aug. 12, 2012 as he prepared to travel from Daraya, Syria, to Beirut, Lebanon. Tice is suspected to have been kidnapped by Syrian government forces.
Austin graduated from the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service in 2002 and later attended the Georgetown University Law Center. He traveled to Syria to pursue freelance journalism in 2009 the summer between his second and third years of law school.
According to a 2016 annual assessment by Reporters Without Borders, at least 54 journalists are currently missing and 150 are detained, mostly having been taken from Syria, Yemen, Iraq and Libya.
In the last 10 years, almost 800 journalists have been killed while reporting. Ninety percent of these journalists are local journalists. All of the journalists were taken captive while reporting, and were targeted specifically because of their reporting.
Debra Tice said Austin wanted to go to Syria to capture the human effects of the war.
“The compelling thing for him, having been really on the ground in a war zone, was he wanted people to feel what it was like to be a child living in a war zone that’s undefined, no front line,” Debra Tice said. “Your mom may not come home from the grocery store, your baby brother might have a bomb dropped through the ceiling on his crib. Austin wanted people to have a feeling of what this new urban warfare, what it lives like, day in and day out.”
Austin served as a marine infantry officer after graduation from the SFS, and due to his background in the military and his confident, self-assured personality, Debra said she and her husband did not worry extensively when he initially told them of his plans to go to Syria. “He doesn’t give you the kind of feeling that you need to worry about him. When he was applying to Georgetown, he started his application essay with ‘I believe I am caller number 7.’ Because if he tried, he won,” Debra Tice said. “It was very catching. It was just like, ‘Well if he’s going to do it, it’s going to work out.’”
Youssef, who served as Austin’s direct supervisor in Cairo at the time, said she started feeling like something was wrong after four days without contact from Austin, who had previously been in daily contact. Youssef contacted Austin’s editor at McClatchy, who was on vacation at the time, and they began making inquiries into Austin’s whereabouts.
Youssef said at the time she could not imagine that Austin had disappeared. “Even then, I didn’t have the imagination that it would become this. We were just so naive,” Yousef said. “I honestly thought I was being a little paranoid myself, because I just didn’t have the imagination to think it would become what it became.”
Marc Tice officially heard about the situation from a call from the State Department that began, “Mr. Tice, this is the State Department, are you sitting down?”
The Tices received two indications of what happened to their son. First, the Czech ambassador to Syria went on a Czech news broadcast in which, when asked about Austin Tice, responded that they understood that he had been arrested.
Marc said at that point, the decision concerning being public about Austin’s situation was taken out of the family’s hands.
The second indication was a YouTube video titled “Austin Tice is still alive,” which showed Austin being taken up a hill by a group of armed men.
Over the three years of Austin’s captivity, the Tices’ strategy has changed from a global to a more personal effort, as they garnered more contacts and connections in Syria.
Throughout the search, the Tices and their colleagues have looked for any possible pieces of information. Youseff even checked Words with Friends, a popular mobile game, to see if Austin had been on his phone.
Youseff said Austin’s parents have played a fundamental role in guiding the investigation.
“They were supporting us and they really guided us in terms of tone, tenor, strength,” Youseff said. “You never felt like you could indulge in your own frustration, when you’re watching the strength that you see here before you.”
Halgand said Reporters Without Borders’ #FreeAustinTice campaign, which uses black blindfolds with “Free Austin Tice” written on them in white letters, is intended to ensure the public realizes the impact of reporters being kidnapped.
“The idea of the campaign is that when a journalist is kidnapped, often he is blindfolded, but when a journalist is kidnapped, we are all blindfolded, because we are all deprived of information. That is a very strong image and powerful message,” Halgand said.
The Tices said raising awareness through social media posts, letters to Congress and physical demonstrations are important in getting Austin Tice home.
“We need to get Austin home before this election ramps up any more. It is our government that needs to have the will to get him home,” Debra said. “Whatever influence you have, however many friends you can get, if you want to go stand outside the White House with posters. … The pressure right now needs to be on the White house that we want this done, and it needs to be done sooner rather than later.”
Halgand said journalists face danger because of the nature of their job.
“Freedom of information, freedom of the press, is the freedom that allows all of us to verify the existence of other freedoms.” Halgand said. “And that’s why they are targeted. And that’s why they deserve specific safety principles.”
Youseff said journalists are important in order to better understand war.
“If we’re going to deploy other people’s children in my name, the least I could do was to try and find out why, and whether it was worth it, and whether we were doing it responsibly,” Youseff said. “There is no other way to truly understand it, other than to be in that Humvee with them.”
Delegate of the Student Bar Association of Georgetown University Law Center Ata Akiner, who proposed a unanimously passed resolution in support of Austin Tice, said it is important the university works to support Austin Tice.
“Both the main campus and the law school have a lot of influential people who teach there … if we can spread the word, I think that’s probably the most we can do at this point but hopefully that will have a further domino effect,” Akiner said.
Teresa Eder (GRD ’17), who attended the event, said the media industry may be less willing to take risks.
“People going into war zones as freelancers, they themselves take a huge risk and I think less and less the media industry is willing to take accountability for people,” Eder said.
Bridget Mcelroy (COL ’18) said the event made her want to help more.
“I didn’t expect to react as strongly as I did. I think having the Tices here added a very personal aspect to it, and humanized it. It made me want to get involved more,” Mcelroy said.
Correction: This article previously incorrectly stated that Tice had dropped out of law school to pursue journalism.  He left for Syria during the summer and was registered for his final year when he departed. 
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 8, 2016 by William Zhu Leave a Comment 
Georgetown’s Wi-Fi outage on March 31 was the result of a cyberattack launched against the university, according to interim Vice President and Chief Information Officer of UIS Judd Nicholson.
Nicholson said the cyberattack overwhelmed university firewalls causing disrupted Internet service.
“Our outage occurred because our network firewalls were unable to handle an exponential surge in network traffic and that is characterized as a cyberattack,” Nicholson said.
UIS discovered the cyberattack a couple days after the initial outage and has reported the attack to GUPD. Chief of Public Safety Jay Gruber said he received word of the cyberattack Monday. The perpetrator of the cyberattack is not yet known.
According to UIS, the cyberattack was unrelated to the MedStar hack, which affected Georgetown University Medical Center’s operations this week.
Nicholson identified the cyberattack as a “denial of service attack,” which caused the firewall to respond by blocking Internet connectivity to protect critical data.
“The large influx of network traffic caused our firewall to basically to drop all of the connects and to block all of the traffic,” Nicholson said. “It keeps everyone out of our infrastructure, but it also basically disrupts our online connectivity.”
According to the U.S. Computer Emergency Readiness Team’s website, a “denial of service attack” occurs when an attack floods a server with so many requests that the network fails to process them and crashes as a result.
Nicholson said the university network had functioned as intended in response to the cyberattack by shutting off Internet access.
According to Nicholson, no data was compromised and there was no lasting damage.
“It did what it was designed to do. It was designed to recognize this flood of traffic and to shut it down so it didn’t get into the enterprise,” Nicholson said.
Gruber said the large amount of evidence to process led GUPD to begin working with the FBI for assistance in the investigation, since the deal with many similar incidents across the country.
“It is a lot of information to glean through and we need federal support at this point in time. We will see how the FBI will help us out,” Gruber said. “There are a lot of these types of incidents that happen nationally, so we will work with them to see where we fit in.”
Nicholson said UIS is continuing to work to update the firewall to prevent similar incidents, and vendors and external consultants are working with UIS to update the firewall and review overall network security.
“We are taking the opportunity to bring in our vendors, like our Cisco vendors, and look at our entire Wi-Fi infrastructure and look at ways we could improve it,” Nicholson said. “Our goal is so that we have better processes and mechanisms to deal with it so that we don’t experience a whole institutional outage.”
Although the outage is over, Wi-Fi throughout campus continues to be unreliable and slow.
Nicholson said UIS is continuing to investigate the network but has not discovered the cause of these issues.
“We are still investigating,” Nicholson said. “We are dedicated to working this out because it is unacceptable.”
GUSA Chair of Technology Yafet Negash (COL ’19) said that the lack of dialogue between GUSA and UIS has led to diminished communication to students about Wi-Fi issues.
“The ambiguity surrounding the state of the Georgetown wireless network recently stems from the fact that there has not been much admin-student discussion around technology these past few months,” Negash wrote in an email to The Hoya.
GUSA intends to reform the Student Technology Advisor Board to allow for a better dialogue to be established between UIS and students.
GUSA President Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) said she plans to have regular discussions with UIS to keep students and the administration up-to-date on all relevant information and concerns.
“Regular meeting times will help students check on the status of various projects and initiatives, as well as provide feedback and complaints for UIS to take into consideration,” Khan wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Nicholson said UIS has not been able to reach out to students effectively using social media when it comes to technology-related issues and hopes it can play a more active role in the future.
“We don’t do a good job of monitoring those social media outlets or enabling that two-way communication between students and my department,” Nicholson said. “We are very reactive now and we need to be more proactive.”
Nicholson currently uses Twitter to send out updates on technology related issues at his handle @GU_UIS.
Blake Spangler (MSB ’19) said the Wi-Fi outage prevented him from properly completing his schoolwork.
“I had a paper due that morning, and it made printing impossible. I had to find the only person in my dorm with a printer at 8:45 a.m. in the morning and had to set up a Wi-Fi hotspot with my phone in order to submit the essay to Blackboard,” Spangler said.
Dion Hipolito (COL ’18) said he was disappointed in the university’s response to the Wi-Fi outage and stated the university should have been better prepared for such a situation.
“I think there should have been proper parameters set up for these kind of situations because as students of an elite university, we should have access these sort of things,” Hipolito said.
Hoya Staff Writer Jack Lynch contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 8, 2016 by Christian Paz 1 Comment 
When the Georgetown Scholarship Program was founded 10 years ago, GSP Program Director Melissa “Missy” Foy said she could not have anticipated the impact it would have on first-generation and low-income students from around the country who apply to Georgetown every year.
At the time of its founding, GSP was working out of the Undergraduate Admissions Office in White-Gravenor Hall and Foy was volunteering her time to help organize the program, of which program offerings were limited, according to Foy.
“The programming elements that you see today are very different than they were back in 2005 when we gave students pizza on paper plates that said, ‘Have Fun at Georgetown!’” Foy said.
What began as a fundraising project for increasing scholarship money has evolved into a national model for how top-tier universities connect to historically disadvantaged students, facilitate their admittance to top schools and provide the means for them to graduate.
The First 50
GSP was founded in 2004 through the partnership of Dean of Undergraduate Admissions Charles Deacon (CAS ’64, GRD ’69) and Dean of Student Financial Services Patricia McWade as an organization dedicated to raising scholarship money to reduce loans in financial aid packages and redirect them toward low-income students.
“Very quickly, [Foy] identified that students had a lot more needs than simply getting in and getting a scholarship,” Deacon said. “Students from first-gen background don’t really have the support at home in the same way as other classmates do, whether that be financial or just the understanding of what going to college really means.”
Foy realized the need for GSP to grow beyond a scholarship fundraising organization after an encounter with Amy Hang (COL ’09), a GSP student.
“At one event in the spring we did phone calling from current GSPers to newly-admitted GSP students and one of the students found me. She said, ‘Thanks so much for the money, but I almost drowned here. It was a very difficult adjustment. I really don’t feel like there are a ton of first-generation students and I feel like I’m the only one like me at Georgetown, and it would be really nice if we could do something around this program so it is more than scholarship,’” Foy said.
Hang suggested GSP develop a peer mentorship program and create a student board, as well as a weekly email to inform students about different opportunities on campus. Additionally, rival schools were offering fewer loans in their financial aid awards and filling financial needs with scholarships. Georgetown needed to keep up.
Foy, Deacon and McWade began increasing their fundraising efforts to raise more scholarship money and establish a network of alumni to contribute five-year pledges through the Alumni Admissions Program. Eventually, the Office of Advancement added the GSP fundraising efforts to their “1789 Scholarship Imperative” and raised $500 million in scholarships.
A Growing Scholarship Program
Slowly, the program hired more full-time employees, adding Associate Director and Assistant Director positions and moved to the basement of Healy Hall, where it currently shares space with the Student Financial Services offices. Foy and Deacon began to develop new programming and craft new projects to help GSP students feel comfortable at Georgetown.
From 2005 to 2008, GSP grew from 50 to 200 students and needed full-time management.
“That’s when Dean Deacon went to the Provost’s office and said he needed to make this a full-time position. There was some talk about making it a position out of the advancement office,” Foy said. “But he said no, that it is important to put a stake on the main campus. This is a student-focused program. The person needs to be here, interacting with students if we want this to be successful.”
Deacon and Foy began developing smaller projects and bringing in alumni to provide assistance. One example of such assistance occurred during Thanksgiving, when many students from California or Texas could not afford to go home, the dining halls were closed and alumni offered to host dinners.
Over time, other programs began to sprout, including partnerships with Jos. A. Bank and Ann Taylor LOFT to provide GSP students with professional attire for internship and job interviews as well as graduation ceremony attire.
To and Through
The GSP now includes 640 current students as well as 606 graduates. The majority of GSP programming is covered and sustained by private philanthropy, including employee wages, events and other budgetary necessities.
Yet without a long-term plan, the vast majority of GSP programs are vulnerable to budget cuts, since most donations are temporary and depend on alumni giving each year. Among the programs sustained by donations is GSP’s winter housing initiative, which finances housing for students who are unable to return to their homes during the semester break.
“When students are forced out of their dorms, we rent an Airbnb home. This year we partnered with the [Students of Georgetown Inc.] Philanthropy and a couple different campus organizations to fund that,” Foy said.
Such philanthropy also funds extra flights home for freshmen, emergency funding to cover medical bills, grocery grants when the dining hall is closed, winter coats and a senior graduation grant to offset the cost of a cap and gown. For GSP, they are constantly tied to donations, the goodwill of others and the support of the university.
“To keep the lights on in this office, for this program, we depend on philanthropy,” Foy said. “Our board recognized that financial resources at the university are really strapped, and we’re really lucky that Georgetown’s current leadership is so supportive of our program. To have one employee in my position at a top 30 university is trailblazing. To have three, that’s like an outstanding show of support from the university.”
Ensuring GSP for Future Generations
Though still heavily reliant on donations, GSP is taking the next step in securing resources for first-generation and low-income students by seeking to establish a $25 million endowment to fund the program in perpetuity.
Currently, the GSP Fundraising Committee, headed by Lisa Gentil and Paul Goodrich (COL ’65), has secured about $9 million in donations and pledges. A $25 million endowment would yield $1.25 million a year, which would cover a dramatic increase in the GUSA Summer Fellows Program, which helps financial aid students cover student housing costs during summer internships, provide more money for graduation-related expenses, and cover the GSP Necessity Fund while allowing more money for students’ professional development opportunities and expanded funding for enrichment events.
Goodrich said such an endowment would secure GSP’s sustainability for future generations and continue to support every GSP student’s needs.
“We want to endow the cost of sustaining the GSP administrative team and the critical Necessity Fund and all the items we assist GSP students in purchasing that might not be in their budgets for obvious reasons,” Goodrich said.
As progress continues, Goodrich hopes to follow the structure of the Alumni Admissions Program, which is now 6,500 members large and retains its members each year, in order to attain further funding.
“We discovered that by letting the prospective donors know exactly what we are doing and getting to know the students, and inviting donors to participate in meetings with the students, that rather than a 20 percent retention rate with donors, we were in the 80s. That indicated that we had a fundraising model that would work,” Goodrich said.
A Reason to Give
For Foy, the GSP sees great success in its graduation rate. Ninety-seven percent of GSP students graduate from Georgetown in four years, compared with the general 91 percent graduation rate in four years for all students. Currently, GSP has graduated 606 students and supports 625 students on campus.
“GSPers graduate at a higher rate than your typical Georgetown student, which is amazing, not to mention significantly higher than first-gen or low-income students nationally where the range is between nine and 33 percent. If you are first-generation or low-income, the chances that you will ever get a college degree is only nine percent,” Foy said.
GSP Student Board President Josi Sinagoga (SFS ’16) said Georgetown’s commitment to GSP — especially given its relatively small endowment — is praiseworthy and necessary for the program to continue impacting the lives of its students.
“GSP focuses on providing support to not just getting students to college, but through it as well. It’s truly incredible that GSP has become the incredible program it is today considering the fact that we don’t have an endowment,” Sinagoga said. “As we compete for the brightest students with institutions such as Harvard, which could feasibly go tuition-free due to its endowment, the sustainability of Georgetown’s place as a top institution is infinitely more secure with an endowment supporting GSP, the keystone of its scholarship.”
Former GSP Strategic Partnerships and Advocacy Co-Chair and current Georgetown University Student Association Vice President Chris Fisk (COL ’17) said GSP plays an integral role in the Georgetown community.
“In creating GSP, Georgetown has committed not just to making sure that the most talented students, regardless of their backgrounds, can come to the Hilltop, but also that they are provided with a dedicated community of support to allow them to really thrive and excel here,” Fisk said. “Endowing GSP assures the permanency of this commitment and recognizes that this program provides our university community with some of its most integral members.”
Within GSP, there are hopes that with a safe endowment, GSP can grow and develop new ways to reach out to students as well as provide for their needs. Deacon pointed toward the possibility of a GSP house to house the GSP office while potentially providing housing for GSP students.
“In my own mind, if we have a Casa Latina, why not have a GSP house? So that there would be space for staff, space for events, maybe even a couple of people who could live there. Space is one thing,” Deacon said. “When you do what you can together, we can make a difference.”
As GSP leadership continues its efforts to develop an endowment, Foy said she constantly appreciates the generosity and philanthropy of past alumni. She attributed their influence and support to the overall success of so many initiatives and programs embraced by the GSP and its participants.
“These donors are good Samaritans, many of them caring about the well-being of students they’ve never even met,” Foy said. “Their generosity has already been a game-changer for hundreds of students by alleviating some of the enormous financial burden they carry, be it groceries for freshmen when the cafeteria is closed, a winter coat or a suit to feel totally confident when walking into an interview.”
As Sinagoga approaches the end of her tenure as board president, she said she is looking forward to the moment when it is time for her to give a donation to GSP. Sinagoga expects the moment to reflect much more than a simple donation to one community group.
“Over the past four years, I’ve had the pleasure of witnessing GSP grow in amazing ways, and I know that an endowment would ensure that continued success,” Sinagoga said. “When Georgetown calls me for a donation, I’ll be allocating my gift to the endowment for GSP.”
[…] fundraising campaign to increase GSP’s reach and alleviate outlier cases through an endowment. Launched last year, GSP’s endowment fundraising has secured $19 million of a $25 million […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 8, 2016 by Haley Snyder Leave a Comment 
A group of 13 Georgetown University students joined 1,000 others to attend the ninth annual Clinton Global Initiative University at the University of California, Berkeley from April 1 to 3.
Established by former President Bill Clinton, CGI U was created in 2007 to bring leaders together from across the world to explore current challenges in modern society.
The Georgetown students who applied were accepted to attend the meeting by proposing a plan called “Commitment to Action.” The proposal addresses a pressing global issue in one of CGI U’s five focus areas: education, poverty alleviation, public health, environment and climate change and peace and human rights.
Each commitment, which can either be presented individually or in groups of up to three, must set forth a new idea and have specific quantitative or qualitative goals.
At the conference, students participated in skill-building, networking and working group sessions. A total of $900,000 in funding was available this year to support students’ commitments.
Since the conference held its inaugural meeting in 2008, students have implemented over 3,400 commitments that have impacted 430 million people in over 180 countries.
Georgetown Vice President for Government Relations and Community Engagement Christopher Murphy (GRD ’98), who also serves as CGI U’s campus liaison, praised the conference as an important opportunity for Georgetown students.
“It’s a really exciting opportunity for Georgetown students to be able to share some of their innovative ideas for changing the world, and I think it was also an opportunity for them to receive the kind of support and recognition that we want them to have,” Murphy said. “It really illustrates the variety of students and what they’re clearly united in — a desire to change the world and a commitment to finding a practical way to do just that. That’s what we really wanted to honor.”
Febin Bellamy (MSB ’17) was first invited to the conference in 2014 while attending Rockland Community College in New York. His commitment, named “Just Save One: Project India,” raised over $5,000 worth of medical supplies to send to three hospitals in Goa.
This year, Bellamy, who served as Georgetown’s student representative at the conference, proposed a commitment titled “Unsung Heroes,” a Humans of New York-style social media platform dedicated to highlighting the facilities workers of Georgetown University and sharing their stories.
Bellamy said his commitment’s purpose is to highlight the work of employees that often goes unnoticed on campus.
“‘Unsung Heroes’ is trying to show appreciation for the workers who do so much for our campus behind the scenes, but often times they don’t get recognized or appreciated for it,” Bellamy said. “Once we get students to learn about their stories, we’re going to try do custodian appreciation days, particularly to show awareness.”
Bellamy was raised in rural India until he was five years old. He said he plans to return to the country after graduation and use his undergraduate business background to complete consulting and service work.
“My long-term goal is to start a nonprofit that helps some of the poverty alleviation in India, where I’m from originally,” Bellamy said. “As far as directly after graduation, I want to develop the skills of becoming a successful nonprofit leader.”
Another “Commitment to Action” was called “Students Applying Technology and Coding for Human Rights” by Alex Luta (COL ’16), Amin Gharad (COL ’16) and Joseph Lanzilla (SFS ’16), which proposes using geospatial technology to advance human rights.
The commitment by Alexander Wheeler (COL ’17), Jennifer Ding (COL ’17) and Martin Vanin (SFS ’17) attempts to use microfinance to reintegrate demobilized members of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, a guerilla movement involved in the country’s ongoing armed conflict.
Rocio Mondragon Reyes (SFS ’19) began “Students Equipped for Tomorrow” with Diego Tum-Monge (COL ‘19), an education proposal looking to motivate minority students to pursue post-secondary interests. They are currently partnered with a local high school in the District’s Ward 4.
Reyes said his status as a first-generation American has guided his commitment to social justice and plans for the future.
“We’re both first-generation minority students, so we’re looking to test our own theories how to help students like ourselves,” Reyes said. “I feel like social justice work is something that I won’t do as a career because it’s more a part of my life. Regardless of what my career title is, I will continue doing it and make sure that I’m doing it throughout my life.”
Hannah Gerdes (SFS ’16) spent the summer between her junior and senior year of college in Vidarbha, India, working with a research unit on mental health. Her commitment is named “Qualitative Research on Individual-Level Protective Factors,” which works to train and utilize the way health workers provide psychosocial intervention.
Gerdes reflected on the connections she made during the conference and the impact they had on her perspective of her proposal.
“The most important thing that I took away were from casual interactions, not from a particular program or panel, but from waiting in line for lunch or dinner, or waiting in line to catch a shuttle, striking up conversation with other students who were there and getting ideas and feedback about our commitments,” Gerdes said.
Three other students, Sarah AbdulRazak (COL ’18), Sebastian Nicholls (SFS ’16) and Katherine Schmidt (SFS ’18), also attended the conference.
Bellamy lauded CGI U’s encouragement of student leadership and innovation.
“I like [CGI U] because it inspires students to not be followers but be leaders, actually start your own project, actually go out of your comfort zone and do something totally innovative,” Bellamy said. “That’s what I like most about CGI U. It takes us out of our comfort zone. You have to be innovative every single time you go there. You have to do something different.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 8, 2016 by Ian Scoville Leave a Comment 
The 18 housing groups who were unable to select housing during phase one of selection because of a system error will be offered housing based on their original time slot, according to Executive Director of Residential Services Patrick Killilee.
Groups with average housing points over 3.00 were unable to select apartments after 1:40 p.m. Tuesday, forcing them to select suites instead of apartments. Those junior groups selecting suites later created a shortage in suites for sophomores, resulting in the last 10 housing groups of phase one being unable to select housing.
Killilee said the shortage was the result of errors made by the Office of Residential Living. According to Killilee, Residential Living miscounted the number of apartments that were available for selection. The error was not computer-based but was an error by Residential Living staff.
“It’s not the computer, it’s us. It’s just our figuring out how to use the new system. We ran a report, we said all these apartments, there should be enough apartments and suites for these groups, and somehow we probably ended up being about 5 short,” Killilee said.
Killilee said Residential Living also failed to properly remove holds on five apartments, resulting in students not being able to see them for selection.
“There were about 5 apartments that we took the hold off, but there was a sub hold that we forgot to take off. And that is just on our part. We’re using the new Hoya Housing system and it was just an oversight on our part of not being really, not being as comfortable in the new system as we will be in time,” Killilee said.
Residential Living approached the 18 groups affected by the housing selection glitch on a group-by-group basis to offer them the housing they would have received had the glitch not occurred.
“Our commitment is that that first group of juniors, because they were in that initial 322 groups, we are committed to giving them an apartment. And then for the remaining sophomore groups, we are committed to giving them a suite,” Killilee said.
The apartments and suites required will come from removing additional holds that prevented students from seeing five apartments, and the opening up of apartments as certain students are pulled into other apartments. This process will then make suites available for the remaining sophomore groups to select.
Killilee said redoing the entire housing process would not be practical.
“I know there’s been some, on social media and trust me we’re getting a lot of the emails and phone calls of students, going all well you should redo everything because it’s going to effect everything up the line, it really doesn’t. And it’s just a small number that it’s impacting, that that level of response isn’t warranted,” Killilee said.
GUSA Residential Living Policy Team Chair Christopher Holshouser (MSB ‘18) said GUSA decided advocating to redo the entire housing process would not be best for students after meeting with Residential Living.
“Once we determined that the glitch did in fact happen at a time where there was only one certain apartment that was left, that was when we decided that pushing for an entire redo of the phase was not the best course of action for everyone because proportionally the number of students who got the apartments that they would have gotten anyways is incredibly high,” Holshouser said.
Former GUSA Secretary of Residential Living Connor Maytnier (COL ’17) said he was not surprised Residential Living encountered challenges.
“There have been some hurdles along the way as Georgetown has worked with StarRez to incorporate all of the features that the university would like to see in the system. I am not entirely surprised that there have been some issues with selection, given that the new system is being used for the first time,” Maytnier wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Holshouser said the glitch should never have occurred in the first place.
“I definitely think now they are much more comfortable with it, it was definitely a learning experience, I think it’s a learning experience that absolutely shouldn’t have happened,” Holshouser said.
Holshouser said GUSA is looking to work with Residential Living in the future to address issues with the new housing system.
“But you know we are paying thousands of dollars to be on campus; this is something that shouldn’t happen, and that’s something we’ve strongly emphasized,” Holshouser said. “In the meeting we brought up issues with the system that students were running into, and that’s definitely something that we’re looking forward to working with them on in the future, just making sure it is a much smoother process and making sure this doesn’t happen again.”
Dan Ross (COL ’18), whose group had a selection time after the glitch occurred, said the lack of communication was problematic.
“I mean I’m sure the situation that I’m going to get is nice, it was just annoying to have to deal with the fact that there was a glitch. Then I didn’t actually hear from the school that there was a glitch, I heard from a friend that was like, ‘oh, you should call, there was a glitch,’” Ross said.
Eliza Wheeler (COL ’18), whose group is trying to pull a person from the affected groups into their Henle apartment, said the confusion has been challenging.
“So it’s sort of been a struggle of when we can pull her up, if she can be put back down if her group ends up getting an apartment, and the housing office obviously is overwhelmed with emails and so it’s been very hard to communicate with them what there going to be lenient on and stuff like that,” Wheeler said. “So it’s been a bit of a mess.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 8, 2016 by Sabrina Fincher Leave a Comment 
In honor of its 10-year anniversary this spring, Common $ense, a student run financial literacy and money management program on campus, has promoted its commitment to financial management on campus increased through outreach and events.
Common $ense is sponsored by The George R. Houston Memorial Fund, the Office of Student Financial Services, and the Georgetown University Alumni & Student Federal Credit Union, and strategic program coordinator Ayo Aruleba (COL ’17) has further developed event partnerships with active student organizations such as GUASFCU, New Student Orientation and the Black House during the 2016 school year.
“We are really reaching out to a broad range of student groups,” Aruleba said. “[We want] to make sure that lots of different students are exposed to the workshops Common $ense holds on campus.”
To mark its 10-year anniversary, Common $ense will releasing a video titled “Everything We Did Wrong in Our Twenties” this spring, in an attempt to teach students to avoid financial mistakes. The video will showcase older faculty and staff members recounting their poor financial decisions earlier in life. Common $ense will hold an event April 15 on Healy Lawn with food, prizes and games regarding money management.
According to Common $ense staff advisor and Executive Assistant to the Dean of Student Financial Services Candace Holmberg, Common $ense’s mission is spread through their monthly workshops covering various topics including investing, budgeting and entrepreneurship.
“It is easy for us to count our successes how many people come to our workshops which is a great deal,” Holmberg said. “But for us, [success] is when we know that a student is able to make a different and a better financial decision about their lives and feels comfortable navigating money post-graduation.”
Common $ense student program coordinator Kevin Durham (MSB ’19) said he believes Georgetown students should place a greater emphasis on learning about money management on campus rather than solely focusing on classes and extracurricular activities. He argued students will not be able to have proper financial self-sufficiency without financial literacy.
“The same emphasis we put in classes and in clubs is all for the focus of what we can do in the future,” Durham said. “And without that foundation in financial literacy you can’t ensure your future if you do not have the skills to live on your own and be self-sufficient.”
Common $ense has structured a three-step initiative to increase their outreach on campus. The leadership of Common $ense plans to survey the student body to better understand their needs. As part of this effort, the group will try to increase its presence on campus.
“We are the best-kept secret on campus,” Holmberg said. “Those that know about us utilize us and continue to use our services. But getting the word on campus that there is help with your money and it’s important that you manage your money is the one message we want to get out to students.”
Common $ense team members will additionally run small, more individually focused workshops to create a more personal environment for learning. The third step of their three-step process will be to establish new partnerships in the Georgetown community as part of an attempt to give Georgetown students more discounts.
“Everybody, in whatever stage, whether they are freshman or senior, wants to know how to manage their money, [which] has a different meaning for each student,” Holmberg said. “So, know that there is someone out here that will help you. A 10-year anniversary is fun, but we want you to know that we can help.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 8, 2016 by Jack Lynch Leave a Comment 
Arlington, Va., and Washington, D.C., were named the first and third best cities, respectively, for recent college graduates out of the 100 largest cities in the country, according to personal finance website NerdWallet’s annual list of the best cities for post-bachelor’s degree students released March 28.
NerdWallet determined the rankings based on economic indicators and data obtained through census reports and unemployment numbers from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Arlington boasts the highest percentage of college graduates in its 25-and-over age bracket of any city in the country at 71.5 percent. Arlington residents also have the highest portion of jobs in management, business, science and the arts at 67.1 percent, as well as the highest median salary of $72,406 for those with bachelor’s degrees 25-and-older.
D.C. ranked third, based on the 55 percent of its 25-and-older population that possesses a bachelor’s degree or higher. According to the list, the District attracts recently graduated professionals with its surprisingly high number of high-skill, nongovernmental job options. Of Washington’s residents, 60.5 percent work in management, business, science or the arts. D.C. residents 25 and older with bachelor’s degrees earn a median salary of $62,475.
Also high on the list were Madison, Wisc., Boston, Mass., and Minneapolis, Minn., ranking second, fourth and fifth, respectively. Twenty percent of each top-five city’s population is between the ages of 20 and 29.
NerdWallet noted that both Arlington and Washington are notable for their high rent costs, but contended that high salaries in both cities largely offset these costs.
Both Arlington and Washington are popular destinations for Hoyas after graduation. According to the Cawley Career Education Center’s First Destination Report, which details postgraduation outcomes, 26 percent of students who graduated in 2014 started full-time employment at a job in the District after graduation, the highest percentage of any city nationwide. Another 7 percent of Georgetown graduates found full-time work in Virginia.
The District was also the most popular location for students in the Class of 2014 pursuing graduate degrees after their undergraduate education, with 20 percent of students enrolling in postgraduate studies in D.C.
According to Cawley Career Education Center Executive Director Mike Schaub, the prevalence of federal jobs in the District, as well as the accompanying positions in government contractor and consulting firms, attracts many students after graduation.
Schaub also recognized that the potential benefits of life in Washington go beyond job opportunities.
“The D.C. culture, like Arlington, is vibrant and attracts recent graduates,” Schaub wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Theater major Elly Straske (COL ’16) said she plans to remain in the District after her graduation in May, even though she is a Florida native.
“I’ve loved being up north for school — there’s something about D.C. that makes every season beautiful, and that’s one of my favorite things about the place,” Straske said. “But more than that I still feel like I haven’t ‘done’ D.C. yet. Georgetown has been my life for the past four years, but I’m looking forward to actually living here and feeling more like a part of the city.”
Ryan Shymansky (COL ’16) will attend the Georgetown University Law Center starting next fall. He acknowledged that attending Georgetown as an undergraduate was a nice taste of the Washington, D.C. experience but said that pursuing a Juris Doctor at Georgetown’s law campus will bring a new experience of life in the capital.
“Going downtown to the law center next year is consequently going to seem much more evolutionary than revolutionary for me,” Shymansky said. “I’ll already know D.C. well enough, but I’ll be living much more as a part of the city at large than as part of the campus community I’ve become used to as an undergraduate.”
However, Staske also emphasized that high real estate prices and relatively sparse housing opportunities were a concern for seniors planning on staying in the D.C. area postgraduation.
“The idea of finding housing is super stressful, mostly because the cost of living is so high here,” Straske said.
According to Schaub, however, the popularity of the District and Arlington among young professionals can help alleviate difficulties with real estate.
“Many colleges throughout the United States have alumni chapters in the D.C. area, which creates an instant community,” Schaub said. “There are many options for shared housing and efficiency apartments in D.C.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 8, 2016 by Jack Segelstein Leave a Comment 
Former Director of NASA’s Mars Exploration Program Doug McCuistion outlined the historical evolution of Mars exploration and discussed its future challenges in Reiss Science Building on Wednesday. The lecture was moderated by Georgetown professor of planetary science Sarah Johnson and presented by the School of Foreign Service’s science, technology and international affairs program.
According to McCuistion, the original purpose of the Mars Exploration Program was to find evidence of running water on the planet’s surface. Scientists have long observed patterns on its surface resembling dried-out riverbeds and deltas like those on Earth.
However, it was not until last September that NASA confirmed traces of liquid water on the planet’s surface.
“Mars had an atmosphere much like Earth’s, we believe, and it needed to to be able to have water present in a liquid form on the surface. It’s lost its atmosphere and one of our big questions … is where did it go,” McCuistion said.
Many scientists theorize that the planet’s magnetic field deteriorated to such an extent that Mars’ atmosphere, along with its water, was blown away by solar winds. Some suggest that the Earth will undergo a similar process of desiccation billions of years from now.
According to McCuistion, NASA’s next program objective is to determine the existence of Martian life. He is cautiously optimistic that Mars has sufficient water to support life given what the scientific community has discovered in analogous terrestrial environments.
“We find life in the Arctic and Antarctic that comes alive during a few short, warm summer months and then goes dormant again. Sometimes you may not even recognize it except for the long-chain carbon compounds and proteins that identify it as life when it’s in its dormant state,” McCuistion said. “There’s nothing to say that stuff is not living below the surface here. The question is getting to it.”
As the study of Mars continues, existing technologies are revealing new discoveries. The most recent Mars rover, Curiosity, is the size of a Toyota Corolla, making it the largest of all Mars rovers sent up in the past. McCuistion described the final landing stage of the rover’s eight-month journey to Mars, which began on Nov. 26, 2011.
Curiosity landed within a designated 8-mile-by-3-mile oval on Mars’ surface, a dramatic improvement in precision over the Spirit’s target 93-mile-by-12-mile landing area.
McCuistion also stressed that NASA will soon have the capacity to put a human on Mars.
“We can do this,” McCuistion said. “We put a metric ton on the surface safely and accurately, and nobody’s ever done anything like that. We know how to do this.”
McCuistion explained that getting a human to Mars would require a landing mass of 60 metric tons. Despite the higher costs and risks associated with human missions, the potential scientific rewards are immense.
He argued that NASA’s future efficacy depends largely on the willingness of Congress in appropriating funds for its budget.
To better utilize its current funding, McCuistion suggested that NASA hand over the operational costs of the international space station to the European Space Agency, saving NASA $3 billion per year.
When a student asked how civilians could help NASA, McCuistion argued how the public both needs to re-engage with the excitement of space and continue to push legislators.
“Talk to your neighbors. Talk to people about the things that are going on that we’re doing and how exciting it is. And talk to your congresspeople; they’re the ones that really make the difference,” McCuistion suggested.
Deep Dheri (MSB ’16), who attended the event, said the possible evolutionary parallel between Earth and Mars is one of the most important takeaways from the lecture because it might illuminate our planet’s future.
“Mars can actually be a blueprint for what the Earth will look like,” Dheri said. “And if that’s actually true … what does that mean for us? Do we need to leave, can we adapt, can we do something differently?”
Alexander Coopersmith (COL ’19), who attended the event, said the future for space exploration is bright.
“There’s so much more to explore. We’ve done so much already, the future is amazing up there. Be excited for what’s coming next.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 8, 2016 by Gaia Mattiace Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University Law Center professor David C. Cole argued that citizenry drives constitutional change more than the U.S. Supreme Court justices in his book “Engines of Liberty: The Power of Citizen Activists to Make Constitutional Law,” published on March 29.
Cole, an Honorable George J. Mitchell professor in law and public policy who has been a constitutional lawyer for more than 30 years and a constitutional scholar for 25, said he wrote the book to remedy gaps in the way constitutional change is conceptualized in the United States.
“I think we tend to think that the Supreme Court changes constitutional law, not the people,” Cole said. “The people can change constitutional law by amending the Constitution, but that’s remarkably difficult to do. It has only been done 27 times in our history.”
Cole contended that there is an alternative to constitutional amendments, stating that this comes in the form of citizens transforming the lens through which constitutional law is interpreted.
“The Constitution changes not because the court decides to interpret the Fourth Amendment differently, but because of citizens who come together around a shared vision of a constitutional right that does not exist but that they believe should exist,” Cole said. “They work strategically and persistently over the long haul to change public opinion sufficiently so that arguments that one time were thought of as crazy can in fact succeed.”
GULC Dean William Treanor praised Cole’s work for highlighting a salient argument that is an essential component of shaping constitutional law.
“Professor Cole’s book convincingly challenges conventional understanding about how constitutional law is made. While scholars and others focus on the role of courts, Professor Cole looks at the power of individual citizens,” Treanor wrote in an email to The Hoya. “He offers a series of case studies from both the right and the left of the political spectrum that show how individuals can, through hard work and vision, fundamentally transform the Constitution’s meaning.”
According to Cole, the role of the Supreme Court is not to decide on its own how to alter constitutional law, but rather to identify and make official the adjustments necessary to accommodate an ever-evolving society.
“For example, in 1972 when gay and lesbian couples sued to argue that they had a constitutional right to get married, the Supreme Court rejected their suit in a one-sentence dismissal, saying it didn’t raise a substantial federal question,” Cole said. “In 2015, the Supreme Court recognized that in fact the Constitution does protect the right of gay and lesbian couples to marry.”
Cole said significant changes in the Supreme Court’s view of law originate from transformations in the people’s perception of the law, which in turn is driven and made known by civil society organizations.
“What explains that shift is not members of the Supreme Court, but the work of gay rights groups in a variety of arenas, from state legislatures to state courts to local municipal governments to public opinion, providing conversations and the like to shift Americans’ attitudes about gays and lesbians and about their right to marry, so the claim went from being unthinkable in 1972 to inevitable in 2015,” Cole said.
Cole said civil society groups are only able to achieve broader constitutional change by mobilizing a greater part of the citizenry.
“When you trace back, what you see are a variety of initiatives undertaken by people, by citizens who care about particular values and are willing to engage in the long-haul fight that is needed to bring constitutional law to their vision,” Cole said. “They only succeed if they can in fact prevail upon a number of their fellow citizens — then their claims become possible.”
In his book, Cole covers three successful instances of constitutional change: the campaign for marriage equality, the National Rifle Association’s push for the right to bear arms and human rights groups’ resistance to the Bush administration’s counterterrorism initiative, the war on terror.
Cole interviewed the principle figures in each of these three changes to determine the factors behind their victories. Cole said the groups involved used innovative means to build support for their causes.
“If federal constitutional law is against you, as it was for all of these groups, you can’t just file a lawsuit in federal court and hope you make a clever argument and prevail, because if the constitutional law is against you, you will lose,” Cole said, “What you need to do is find alternative forums to press your normative claims. For the gun rights groups and the gay rights groups it was principally the states, and for the human rights groups it was principally the international forums.”
Jameel Jaffer, deputy legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union, a nonprofit that aims to preserve individual liberties, lauded the book as an accurate depiction of how change can occur in Constitutional law.
“It’s a provocative and fascinating book, and it supplies a persuasive theory of how constitutional change actually happens,” Jaffer wrote in an email to The Hoya. “At a time when many of us are frustrated with the dysfunction of our political system, it’s god to be reminded of the extent to which ordinary citizens have the power to change the way that the Constitution is understood.”
Cole said he hopes his book will encourage people to push for the change they seek in constitutional law.
“I hope it inspires people to get engaged and to get involved in fighting for the values that they believe should constitute us as a society,” Cole said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

