
February 28, 2016 by Aly Pachter 1 Comment 
The Georgetown University Police Department apprehended two individuals in the process of stealing a bicycle outside of the Car Barn on Saturday evening around 7 p.m. The Metropolitan Police Department was also on the scene.
One of the suspects, who had a knife on him, was arrested for possession of a concealed weapon by GUPD on Prospect Street near Village A. The other suspect was not arrested.
GUPD Chief Jay Gruber said the arrest of both suspects on the grounds of theft is pending.
“As soon as the owner of the bicycle comes forward both of the suspects will be arrested for theft,” Gruber wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Jacob Pachter (SFS ’17), who was walking past Car Barn with friends, witnessed the scene. Pachter said that he initially believed there had been a bicycle accident.
“We saw four or five police cars with their lights flashing. At first, we thought there had been an accident because we saw a bike on the ground,” Pachter said. “But then, there was a guy who had a ski mask and was handcuffed sitting on the sidewalk. So, I figured it most likely was not a bicycle accident.”
Village A resident A.J. Serlemitsos (COL ’17) witnessed GUPD at the scene of the crime with the two suspects.
“[I] saw two African-American gentlemen sitting down on the stoop with ski masks on and looking kind of sketchy and two bikes perched on the stoop next to them,” Serlemitsos said. “I saw two GUPD cars and three GUPD officers in the area.”
Serlemitsos said that he also saw an officer find equipment in one of the suspect’s backpacks.
“The one GUPD officer started going through a backpack and then as he was going through the backpack, he took out his flashlight and started looking through it and as he started going through the pockets smaller to biggest,” Selemitsos said. “In the biggest pocket, he found a, I guess it’s a bolt cutter, I don’t know what the exact word is, used for cutting the locks on bikes.”
Pachter said he was relieved by GUPD’s response to the incident.
“To me, it seemed like the police handled the situation well and kept everything under control,” Pachter said.
The Metropolitan Police Department did not respond to requests for comment.
This story will be updated as more information becomes available.

Shelly Patterson says 
February 29, 2016 at 5:19 pm
Glad to see GUPD is keeping an eye out for crime!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

