
March 27, 2016 by Taylor Harding Leave a Comment 
Former 2016 Democratic presidential candidate and Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley spoke on his campaign and career — and played some guitar — with Huffington Post Senior Politics Editor Sam Stein and Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service Executive Director Mo Elleithee (SFS ’94) in McShain Lounge on Tuesday night.
The interview was part of a recording for the Huffington Post’s podcast series, “Candidate Confessional,” which features candidates who did not succeed in their bids for elected office.
Elleithee began the conversation by addressing the terrorist attacks in Brussels on Tuesday morning, for which the Islamic State group has since claimed responsibility. O’Malley, who was in the midst of campaigning when the Islamic State group attacked Paris last November, said he disagrees with the efforts of presidential candidates Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) and Donald Trump regarding the Muslim population.
“Democracies are very vulnerable in the wake of attacks like these. In our fear, we turn upon ourselves, and I think you certainly saw that in the rhetoric of Sen. Cruz and Mr. Donald Trump, talking about creating new police forces to police Muslim-American neighborhoods and sealing the border,” O’Malley said. “Those things will actually play right into the hands of those who commit these attacks.”
Stein then asked O’Malley about his first presidential campaign experience in 1984 during Sen. Gary Hart’s (D-Colo.) bid for office. O’Malley worked on Hart’s campaign while he was a student at Catholic University. During his time in Iowa prior to that year’s caucuses, O’Malley said he discovered the ability of candidates to defy expectations and succeed with the right campaign efforts, which could propel them to the top of the polls.
Hart finished second to former Vice President Walter Mondale in the 1984 Iowa caucuses, but the former governor of Maryland’s 2016 presidential bid did not see the same success. O’Malley failed to meet the 15-percent threshold required to receive delegates to advance to the party’s national nominating convention, and suspended his campaign shortly after on Feb. 1.
O’Malley said he has since had time to reflect on what went wrong with his campaign.
“The biggest challenge we saw every day was fundraising. Raising money as an incumbent governor is very different from raising money as a challenger for president of the United States with a 1-percent national name recognition,” O’Malley said.
O’Malley also responded to Elleithee’s question about the effectiveness of a “shake-hands-with-every-voter” campaign strategy in the context of today’s political climate.
“I think every year is different. So much is timing, in politics and in these times, this race has been so far characterized by people wanting to express their fear on one side and their anger on the other side,” O’Malley said. “But I don’t think that means that the one-on-one contact and that way of campaigning is an antique of the past.”
Though O’Malley discussed his failed campaign with a sense of lightheartedness, he was candid about his displeasure with the compressed debate schedule put forth by the Democratic National Committee, which set four debates compared to the Republican Party’s six.
O’Malley said he knew from the moment the DNC released the debate schedule his campaign would be an uphill battle.
“One of my trusted advisers said to me, ‘On that day when they came out with the schedule and said that there would only be four debates, and that most of them were going to be on Saturday and Sunday nights, hidden by NFL playoff games and the like, that’s when I knew our goose was cooked,’” O’Malley said. “As a challenging candidate, you depend on the earned media, and as part of our strategy to break through, we were counting on those debates.”
When asked whether he would seek the presidency again in the future, O’Malley remained ambiguous in his answer, recalling telling one voter he could not promise another presidential campaign.
“In terms of whether or not I would do it again, my son William was with me when, in the last couple of days in Iowa, a gentleman coming out of one of the coffee shops shook my hand and said to me, ‘Gov. O’Malley, you’ve got to promise me you’ll run again,’ and I said to him, ‘No!’” O’Malley said.
Several students in the audience asked O’Malley questions on topics ranging from what his desired cabinet position would be to what Jesuit values he learned during his time at the District’s Gonzaga College High School and how they helped him in his political career.
O’Malley particularly urged students to enter the field of politics as a form of public service.
“I encourage you to do it. Your country and your world has never needed you more. You’re in the greatest country on the planet to effect change. I hope you all considering running. This country needs you,” O’Malley said.
The event organizers also surprised O’Malley after the interview with a guitar and microphone. As the lead singer of the Baltimore-based folk-rock band O’Malley’s March, the former presidential candidate picked up the guitar and strummed away.
MacKenzie Foy (COL ’19) said she enjoyed hearing O’Malley’s perspective on his campaign in a more informal setting.
“I had only heard him through the debates, so it was really interesting to hear him talk about the [problems] with the schedule. I was really impressed, and I wish he had gone further,” Foy said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 27, 2016 by Aly Pachter 1 Comment 
Vice President Joe Biden addressed President Barack Obama’s nomination of Chief Judge Of the United States Court of Appeals Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court, the so-called “Biden rule” and the consequences of an eight-member court in a speech at the Georgetown University Law Center on Thursday.
Around 300 students, faculty and staff gathered to listen to Biden’s remarks, which highlighted the divisiveness currently permeating the political climate. GULC professor Victoria Nourse introduced the vice president, emphasizing his ability to bridge this gap between parties.
“He knows how to forge consensus when that system has faced deep division,” Nourse said. “Each day for 40 years, Joe Biden has served the public life. He has lived up to both the word and spirit of the Constitution and the oath of office he swore to uphold. We are lucky he is here at Georgetown to talk about what that means for our government today.”
Biden opened by lauding Garland as Obama’s choice for the nomination, focusing on the judge’s bipartisan support.
“You notice, you’ve heard no one — no one — question his integrity. You’ve heard no one question his scholarship. You’ve heard no one question his open-mindedness,” Biden said.
Biden also called attention to Garland’s reputation as a moderate, something he said was a conscious choice because of current political polarization.
“We did our duty. The president did his duty. We sought advice. And we ultimately chose the course of moderation because the government is divided,” Biden said. “Merrick Garland intellectually is capable as any justice, but he has a reputation for moderation. I think that’s the responsibility of the administration in a divided government. It’s about the government functioning.”
The vice president argued that the attempts of Republican senators to block Garland’s nomination endorse partisanship and have the potential to destabilize the government itself.
“What Republican senators say they will do, in my view, can lead to a genuine constitutional crisis, borne of the dysfunction of Washington. I’ve been here a long time. I’ve been in the majority, the minority, the majority, the minority,” Biden said. “But I’ve never seen it like this. Washington right now — the Congress is dysfunctional. And they’re undermining the norms that govern how we conduct ourselves. They’re threatening what we value most, undercutting in the world what we stand for.”
Biden also addressed the Biden rule, which draws from a speech the then-senator delivered during the 1992 presidential election season urging the Senate to refrain from Supreme Court confirmation hearings until after the election. Recently, many Republicans have been referencing this speech to back their decision not to hold hearings in Garland’s case.
“They completely ignore the fact that, at the time, I was speaking of the dangers of nominating an extreme candidate without proper Senate consultation,” Biden said. “They completely neglected to quote my unequivocal bottom line.”
Biden went on to repeat his remarks from the 1992 Senate floor in an attempt to clarify their meaning, before dismissing the Biden rule as a fictional concept.
“I said, and I quote, ‘If the president consults and cooperates with the Senate, or moderates his selections, then his nominees may enjoy my support.’ End of quote. So now I hear all this talk about the Biden rule. It’s, frankly, ridiculous. There is no Biden rule. It doesn’t exist,” Biden said.
Biden transitioned to speaking on the importance of the Supreme Court in everyday life, quoting the late Justice Antonin Scalia (CAS ’57) in arguing for a ninth member to ensure no tied votes on major cases.
“I don’t believe anybody in their right mind would propose permanently returning the Court to a body of eight,” Biden said. “This is all the more true in an era when Congress has become almost entirely dysfunctional. And no one other than the deceased Justice Scalia wrote, if you have eight justices on a case, it raises the possibility that, ‘By reason of a tie vote, [the Court] will find itself unable to resolve the significant legal issues presented by the case.’”
Biden said another risk of a split court is the potential for lower rulings to stand, despite these rulings being uneven across state lines. He cited cases currently pending Supreme Court rulings, including those dealing with abortion rights, affirmative action and Obama’s health care law.
“Pressing controversies that prompted the Court to grant review in the first place, in many cases because of different decisions in different circuit courts, would remain unresolved,” Biden said. “The issues the Court believes were too important to leave in limbo are going to remain in limbo, suspended in midair.”
Biden expressed a desire to see a full court as means of preventing the spread of political divisiveness and the dysfunction that accompanies to the judicial branch.
“The American people deserve a fully staffed Supreme Court of nine. Not one disabled and divided, but one that is able to rule on the great issues of the day,” Biden said. “Dysfunction and partisanship are bad enough on Capitol Hill. But we can’t let the Senate spread that dysfunction to another branch of the government, to the Supreme Court of the United States. We must not let it fester until the vital organs of our body politic are too crippled to perform their basic functions they’re designed to perform.”
Avani Uppalapati (LAW ’18) described the atmosphere in the room during Biden’s remarks as intense because of the reality of the problems he outlined, and added that she saw Biden’s remarks as a means of uniting a divided country.
“I think we all knew the gravity of what he was going to say and we pretty much had an idea of this is what he was going to talk about,” Uppalapati said. “It was very interesting that he kept referring to the Republican senators as his friends because he’s trying to show that he’s trying to put people above politics, so it was interesting to hear that.”
Biden ended his remarks by challenging the law students to reflect on his remarks and discuss them, even if they disagree with him.
“One of the reasons I came to a law school  —  a great law school  —  to deliver these remarks is I want you, when you go back to class, to challenge what I’ve said,” Biden said. “Take a look and see whether the argument I’m making is right or wrong. Make your voices heard. Make your voices heard.”

J Russ says 
March 27, 2016 at 8:16 am
OK after 7 years we’re not stupid we get your small minded prejudice to our President, but this is bigger than that.  Republican’s this is the United States of American and we haven’t become number one by insisting on staying in the 18th century.  Get off your cans and get something done to get America moving ahead again.  While Republican’s stomp their feet, hold their breath and turn blue in the face like small spoiled children, our world competitors move up to pass. Quit concentrating on how you’re going to steal the nomination from your front runner and do your job.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

