
April 1, 2016 by Emily Tu 3 Comments 
Georgetown accepted 3,276 of 20,002 applicants to the Class of 2020 at an overall admissions rate of 16.4 percent, consistent with that of last year.
The Office of Undergraduate Admissions sent out decisions for the regular application cycle Friday.
Of the total applicants, 2,384 were accepted through regular decision and 892 were admitted through early action. The overall acceptance rate of 16.4 percent marks a slight drop from the rates of the past five years, which hovered between 16.5 and 16.8 percent.
This year’s accepted class saw the second-largest pool of regular applicants since the 20,100 received in 2012. Dean of Undergraduate Admissions Charles Deacon (CAS ’64, GRD ’69) pointed to various factors behind the high number of applications, but emphasized the university’s focus on the quality rather than quantity of its pool.
“We are not in the business of trying to build a huge pool, but rather to get a solid group of applicants,” Deacon said. “The combination of the Georgetown brand, name and location, and of course the themes of social justice and the Jesuit person for others seems to be resonating with these kids more and more as an attractive option.”
Both the Georgetown College and the McDonough School of Business saw slightly higher acceptance rates than last year. The College admitted 1,877 students at a rate of 16.1 percent, an increase from the previous year’s 15.9 percent, while the MSB accepted 536 applicants at a rate of 16.2 percent, a rise from last year’s 15.7 percent.
The School of Foreign Service and the School of Nursing and Health Studies saw a decline in acceptance rates. The SFS admitted 654 students at a rate of 17.2 percent, a slight decrease from the Class of 2019’s 17.6 percent. The NHS had the largest drop in acceptance rate, admitting 209 applicants at a rate of 17 percent compared to last year’s 19.7 percent.
Deacon stressed the need to reduce emphasis on application numbers and acceptance rates. He also pointed to Georgetown’s unique characteristics that allow it to attract high-caliber students.
“There is too much of a focus on that kind of a number that’s not healthy, I don’t think, in the long run,” Deacon said. “I don’t think we need to, because we’re increasingly one of those places that’s got kind of this very strong niche, where we don’t have many competitors in this particular space, if you will, which is Washington.”
Students from all 50 states were accepted to the Class of 2020. Continuing the trend of past years, New York, California and New Jersey were the top three states, with 436 students, 381 students and 238 students admitted respectively.
As with last year, nine percent of admits were international students. This year’s class originated from 70 different countries, compared to 72 last year. The majority of foreign applicants came from China, the United Kingdom and South Korea.
“I marvel at how lucky Georgetown is to have such a diverse set of people. You sit here and watch the presidential campaign going on, and you say, ‘Don’t these people realize the changing America?’ We see it right in front of us, it’s inexorably happening,” Deacon said.
Eleven percent of admitted applicants identified as black, while 17 percent identified as Asian, the same percentages as the previous year. Eleven percent of the accepted class identified as Latino, a slight decrease from last year’s 12 percent.
The acceptance rate for legacy students saw a sharp decline from 37 percent last year to 25 percent for the Class of 2020. Deacon said that, similarly to previous years, legacy students comprised around 10 percent of all admits.
Around 220 students were also offered the opportunity to join the Georgetown Scholarship Program, which provides financial aid to those from low-income backgrounds and first-generation college students.
Deacon anticipated a yield rate of 47 percent for this year’s class, keeping with trends in the past 10 years in which the rate has ranged from 43 to 48 percent. The enrollment target for the final class is 1,580, the same as previous years and consistent with the cap of 6,675 undergraduates laid out in the 2010 Campus Plan.
Deacon noted that yield rates in the MSB and the NHS in particular have increased to over 50 percent in the past several years. He attributed this to rising competition in the job market and student desire for employment security.
“Both [the MSB and the NHS], I think, are probably reflecting the job market issue. They are schools that seem to more directly confer an outcome,” Deacon said. “We do see pressure on students as they’re completing high school to worry about outcome on the other end.”
Similarly to previous years, around 2,000 students were offered a spot on the waitlist. Deacon anticipated that roughly 70 to 100 students will be accepted when final decisions are released by May 15.
He emphasized that this year’s waitlist is strong, noting that the average waitlisted student had nearly identical SAT scores to the average admit.
“We purposely try not to make the waiting list large and not put anybody on there as a gesture,” Deacon said. “The only people on the waitlist are people we would be accepting if there were room for them.”
Admitted students will be invited to attend Georgetown Admissions Ambassadors Program Open Houses on the weekends of April 15 and 22. Final enrollment decisions are due by May 1.
Correction: An earlier version of this article stated that 3,276 applicants were accepted through regular decision and 892 were admitted through early action. 2,384 students for the Class of 2020 were accepted through regular decision and 892 were admitted through early action.
[…] Link […]
[…] acceptance rate has decreased dramatically. The 15.4 percent acceptance rate marks a full point percentage drop from the rates of the last five years, which hovered between 16.4 percent and 16.6 […]
[…] plummeting from 20% after the 2010 application cycle, the Georgetown acceptance rate has held steadily at 16% ever since. It’s a very competitive school based on that number alone. Of the 11,645 applications Georgetown […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 1, 2016 by Tara Subramaniam Leave a Comment 
The Jesuit vow of obedience has been a powerful force in the career of Vice President for Mission and Ministry Fr. Kevin O’Brien, S.J. (CAS ’88). After eight years as a member of Georgetown’s faculty, the same call to service that brought O’Brien to Georgetown will bring him to Santa Clara University as its new dean of the Jesuit School of Theology, starting in the 2016-17 school year.
From Litigation to Liturgy
Prior to joining the Jesuits in 1996, O’Brien obtained his bachelor’s in Government from Georgetown in 1988 and attended the University of Florida Levin College of Law from 1988 to 1991. From law school, he practiced corporate litigation in Florida until deciding to enter Fordham University in 1998 to obtain a master’s in philosophy.
“I went to law school with the hopes of getting involved with politics and government service, but in my mid 20s, I questioned whether politics was how I was meant to serve. So in my late20s I joined the Jesuits,” O’Brien said.
O’Brien was ordained in 2006, 10 years after joining the Jesuits. Two years later, he joined Georgetown as executive director of campus ministry after teaching at St. Joseph’s, a Catholic university in Philadelphia, and serving as an associate pastor for the Holy Trinity Church in Washington, D.C.
In his role as vice president for mission and ministry at Georgetown, which he has held since 2011, O’Brien has strived to emphasize social justice programs and foster partnerships between campus ministry and other organizations.
“My largest commitments have been with the Jesuit refugee service and issues on migration,” O’Brien said. “During the course of my time here, a former student Mike Meaney (SFS ’12) and I started a program, the Kino Border Immersion experience, that still exists as part of the Alternative Breaks Program. We’re now in our sixth year. We go with students to southern Arizona and meet with communities on both sides of the Arizona-Mexico border. That’s just one example of how I try to be rooted in the justice, as well as through my teaching.”
Under O’Brien’s leadership, the Office of Mission and Ministry has worked closely with the Center for Social Justice Research, Teaching and Service, along with other academic centers committed to interreligious understanding, and has increased the university’s resources for faculty and staff to better engage with Jesuit and Catholic traditions.
University President John J. DeGioia hailed O’Brien for his important influence on the community in his eight years at Georgetown.
“Kevin O’Brien has been a wonderful colleague now for several years and as vice president for mission and ministry. He has done so much to advance the Catholic and Jesuit identity of Georgetown,” DeGioia said.
Santa Clara University Provost Dr. Dennis Jacobs said O’Brien’s work at Georgetown makes him well-suited for his new position.
“As the Vice President for Mission and Ministry at Georgetown University, Fr. O’Brien has been very successful introducing students, faculty, staff, and alumni to Ignatian spirituality and the Jesuit philosophy of education. Fr. O’Brien’s gift and passion for Jesuit ministry has engendered strong financial support from benefactors and he brings a wealth of talent and experience to his new role,” Jacobs wrote in an email to The Hoya.
A Passion for Teaching
O’Brien’s role within Georgetown extends beyond his position as vice president for mission and ministry. O’Brien is also the Jesuit-in-residence for Copley Hall and teaches a theology course each semester, called “The Church and the 21st Century.”
“One way I characterize my ministry here is as one of presence. It’s in being available to people where they are — in the residence hall, at the play, at the game, at [O’Donovan Hall] — that’s where I come to know people, just by being present to people,” O’Brien said.
O’Brien said his work, including his opportunities to teach, has also helped him to stay grounded.
“Education and social justice have defined a lot of what I’ve done. Universities can be a very rarefied atmosphere where it can be very easy to be disconnected from the problems of the real world,” O’Brien said. “In both my work in higher education and training as a Jesuit, I wanted to make sure I didn’t become too distracted with the privileges that come with higher education.”
Engaging with Campus Life
O’Brien has not only left his mark on campus ministry but also on many individual members of the Georgetown community, particularly students.
“His positive engagement with students, faculty and staff has been amazingly impactful. He has made a real difference in so many people’s lives,” DeGioia said.
Zahid Syed (COL ’16), former president of the Muslim Student Association, said O’Brien’s work has positively influenced the situation of the Muslim community at Georgetown.
“During the winter, Fr. O’Brien’s letter calling on all of us to denounce Islamophobia and not give into fear was especially notable. It made so many of us in the Georgetown Muslim community feel safe and secure,” Syed said.
Kathleen Osea (NHS ’16) highlighted O’Brien’s impressive and personal commitment to his students.
“He’s the vice president of mission and ministry and he always makes time for students. I’ve had friends who’ve invited him over for dinner, like to a university townhouse,” Osea said. “And at least on three occasions that I’ve been present for, he’s offered the 10 p.m. Copley Crypt Mass in honor of somebody’s relative who has passed away. In addition to all he does for this university, he really at the heart of it all truly cares about the university and the students.”
Jose Madrid (COL ’14) said O’Brien exemplifies Georgetown’s values.
“If I had to choose one person who represents all of Georgetown, I think Kevin O’Brien would be that one person. He personifies what all of us that graduate from Georgetown try to achieve, which is this fire for the world,” Madrid said.
Leaving the Hilltop, Looking Ahead
For O’Brien, his work at Georgetown is fueled by his love for and commitment to the school.
“I have great love for Georgetown. One of the reasons I became a Jesuit was because I went here. My years here, what I learned here and who I met here, both faculty and mentors and my friends, were formative to who I am,” O’Brien said. “My world opened up so dramatically when I came here. When I was asked to return here eight years ago, it was an easy mission to say yes to.”
O’Brien said his commitment to Georgetown stems from the importance the Jesuits place on fostering love within their community, seen through their three vows of poverty, chastity and obedience.
“Ultimately, all of the vows are done out of love, so I can better serve people. About the vow of obedience, in one sense I give up some independence, but I do that so I can be more free to serve, and it is love that motivates that call to service,” O’Brien said.
Although he chooses not to speculate on what the future might hold, he said he will approach Santa Clara as the start of the next stage of his life, which he is excited to begin.
“The cost of the vow of obedience is leaving the people and places I love very much. That’s the hardest thing. But God has always been faithful to me by sending people to me who filled my life in unimaginable ways. I could not have imagined the last eight years when I arrived,” O’Brien said. “In the same way, I know that however long I’ll be at Santa Clara, I can’t imagine what God has waiting for me there.”
While O’Brien looks forward to his new start at JST, he hopes that the work he’s begun at Georgetown continues to develop after his departure.
“When our students graduate, they say the Jesuit character at Georgetown is one of the things they’re most proud of,” O’Brien said. “It’s not about me; it’s about the tradition that’s bigger than any of us. I leave and I just trust that I’ve made this place just a little better during my time here.”
 
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 1, 2016 by Christian Paz Leave a Comment 
Students in the School of Foreign Service will be able to pursue language minors within Georgetown College beginning this fall, according to a Tuesday announcement from the SFS Dean’s Office.
The introduction of the new language programs, which will be open to all years starting with the Class of 2017, will mark the first time the SFS has permitted minors in any subject outside the SFS undergraduate core. Previously, students had to exclusively pursue majors in one of eight programs in addition to pursuing interdisciplinary certificates, the SFS equivalents to minors.
The Bachelor of Science in Foreign Service Curriculum Committee and the SFS Faculty Council do not foresee any plans to permit students to double major or declare nonlanguage minors in the future.
The new minors program will follow the structure established by the College that requires students to take six unique courses. Each language department will set the requirements for the minors and audit students to ensure they fulfill requirements.
The current SFS foreign language proficiency requirement will remain in place. Students fulfill the requirement by passing an oral proficiency examination, successfully completing an approved direct-matriculation study abroad program or fulfilling native speaker status.
The SFS Dean’s Office has been considering ways to restructure the SFS’ curriculum in the run-up to its centennial celebration. In addition to language minors, the SFS may explore adding additional science and technology classes to its core, among other proposed changes, but at this time no other plans have been cemented.
Senior Associate Dean for Undergraduate Affairs Daniel Byman said pursuing a language minor would allow SFS students to go beyond proficiency and learn finer points of a foreign language.
“Minors enable students to gain a credential they desire and help them advance even further in the study of a foreign language,” Byman wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Georgetown offers a wealth of language opportunities, and I hope SFS students will learn more about world literature, how to do serious writing in a foreign language and other valuable knowledge and skills.”
SFS Faculty Council and Bachelor of Science in Foreign Service Curriculum Committee Chair Jeffrey Anderson said students who achieve proficiency would easily be on their way to achieving a minor.
“Because a minor is more intensive than proficiency, students who pursue a minor would have the transcript notation for proficiency that is currently awarded and have the designation of a minor appear on their transcript,” Anderson said.
Anderson also said there is an element of fairness involved in allowing language minors.
“We looked at a large set of data and what struck me is that a large group of students, tens on tens, qualify for a minor already, every year in a graduating class. They qualify, but are unable to get one because of the way we structure things in the school,” Anderson said. “This was all about fairness for students who do the work. They deserve the credential their College compatriots are getting. It doesn’t make sense to deny them the opportunity to demonstrate a minor on their transcript.”
According to Anderson, faculty had reservations about permitting a blanket policy that would allow students to pursue minors in nontraaditional areas like mathematics and physics.
“That was deemed to be a bit too ambitious, and in a way the language minors was a palatable compromise because most everyone understands the importance of languages to the philosophy and spirit of the BSFS degree,” Anderson said. “We didn’t want to disadvantage students coming out of the SFS when it comes to the job search and their career aspirations.”
SFS Academic Council President Anna Hernick (SFS ’16), who worked with the council as well as the BSFS Curriculum Committee and the Dean’s Office to help craft new offerings in the SFS, said the new minors would complement the work students put into achieving proficiency.
“Students in the SFS have always been dedicated to foreign language study, and receiving a minor in a foreign language is an easily understood recognition of all the hard work required to pass the SFS oral proficiency exam,” Hernick said.
Hernick said she participated in academic restructuring talks after gauging student interest.
“After hearing students ask for minors across the curriculum, the SFS Academic Council conducted a survey to quantify student requests for minors in different subject areas. We identified foreign language as a field that both fits with the interdisciplinary nature of the SFS and is a huge interest area for students,” Hernick said.
Hernick, former Academic Council President Megan Murday (SFS ’15) and Academic Council member Roopa Mulpuri (SFS ’18) presented the results of their surveys to the BSFS Curriculum Committee and advocated for the language minor change.
The three also serve as voting members of the committee along with the field chairs of the eight majors in the SFS and two representatives of the Dean’s Office.
After a nearly unanimous vote in the BSFS Curriculum Committee in December, the proposal was passed on to the SFS Faculty Council where an overwhelming majority of tenure-track faculty approved the change in January.
Faculty who objected to the change raised concerns about students pursuing minor credentials, which might be less lucrative than a full BSFS degree.
“It’s a valid point, but I think the problem is that it is all anecdotal evidence. Some can talk about anecdotal evidence that minors don’t matter, others can bring evidence that they do matter, and my feeling was that we should err on the side of caution and the side of doing right by our students,” Anderson said.
SFS Dean Joel Hellman praised the SFS for its unique scope of its studies of different countries, regions and cultures.
“SFS students go on to work in a variety of different sectors all over the world, and whether it’s in business, diplomacy, development or technology, having strong language skills is key. We want SFS students to communicate with others, no matter where they are or what they’re doing,” Hellman wrote in a statement.
Spanish and Portuguese Department Chair Gwen Kirkpatrick said the minor program will incentivize students to pursue language studies more passionately.
“To move beyond basic proficiency in a language and to learn more history, culture, linguistics, etc. can only be good for students who want to be globally aware,” Kirkpatrick wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Arabic and Islamic studies Department Chair Felicitas Opwis added that SFS students already make up a large portion of Arabic language students.
“We at the Department of Arabic and Islamic Studies are enthusiastically welcoming this new and long overdue opportunity for SFS students to minor in Arabic. The SFS students are already an important component of our Arabic students and now their commitment to Arabic is acknowledged by their ability to declare it as a minor,” Opwis wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Enrollment in language courses is not expected to change drastically and faculty and class sizes are also expected to remain the same, according to Opwis.
Grady Willard (SFS ’18) said he believes the Dean’s Office should go further than permitting language minors.
“I’m not sure why they decided to stop at language minors. Dean Hellman noted in his quote that SFS students go into business, technology, diplomacy and development, and we know they go into government and academia as well. There’s no reason why people shouldn’t be able to obtain a minor in computer science or a minor from the [McDonough School of Business] or something like that,” Willard said.
Mulpuri said language minors should be a first step in allowing SFS students more opportunities in other schools.
“Many students in the SFS would eventually like to see flexibility in being able to minor across schools,” Mulpuri said. “However, this announcement is an enormous first step in that direction. The ability to minor in foreign languages fits with the interdisciplinary mission of the SFS and gives us the opportunity to receive the same credential that students in other schools completing the same coursework would receive.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 1, 2016 by Gaia Mattiace 1 Comment 
Former Georgetown University School of Medicine professor Seth Gortler has drawn media attention with his current lawsuit against the Scottsdale, Ariz. Southwest Wildlife Conservation Center over its nighttime noise and the road damage brought by center visitors.
Gortler taught pharmacology at Georgetown before purchasing property adjacent to the sanctuary in 2012.
The center, which has been in operation for almost 22 years, aims to rehabilitate native wildlife such as coyotes, bears and the endangered Mexican gray wolf.
The currently pending suit terms the noise and visitors brought by the center’s operations a “criminal nuisance” and asks that a judge order the SWCC to relocate its noisemaking animals and ensure the county’s road is not damaged by visitors.
Gortler is also urging the Maricopa County Planning and Development Department, which oversees the region where the center is located, not to issue a permanent special-use permit to the SWCC until the sanctuary complies with his requests.
The center currently holds a temporary-use permit, which allows a limited number of tours. The permanent permit, which the center is seeking, would allow tours and educational programs to continue for an elongated period.
According to SWCC Founder Linda Searles, the litigation places pressure on the center that could interfere with the care of its animals.
“We have no money, we have no other land to move to. Certainly, it’s something you don’t even want to think about that there would be all these animals with no place to go,” Searles said. “He’s saying that we are a private nuisance and also a public nuisance and under a public nuisance that allows the government to come in and seize property. The property being the wolves and the coyotes, because he wants them removed from the property and he wants us to be banned from ever having them again.”
Gortler said the noise has been a persistent problem and suggested alternatives to the current situation.
“The zoo has the ability to move the noise-making animal cages to a different part of their vast 10+ acre property. I have no issue with the animals that don’t make noise all night – just the canines,” Gortler wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Alternatively, SWCC has the option of moving or giving their noise-making animals to one of the many other wildlife preserves where they don’t have to be locked in cages and on display for the entertainment of paying tourists.”
Gortler also took issue with SWCC’s self-designation because of the permanent residence of some of animals at the center and the tours the sanctuary offers.
“SWCC sells itself as a ‘wildlife rehabilitation center’ but they’re actually licensed by the state as a zoo—which allows them to keep animals permanently (the wolves and coyotes) and to conduct tours,” Gortler wrote.
However, Searles said that the tours differ from those provided by zoos in that they are guided and seek to educate visitors.
“We do tours, which are not like a zoo where you walk in, take a ticket and you walk around,” Searles said. “We have somebody that guides them through so they don’t disturb the animals and our animals that are on exhibit are animals that have been confiscated by law enforcement from cruelty situations.”
Along with the nighttime noise, Gortler raised issues with the road damage brought by center visitors.
“The other problem is that we live a mile down a dirt road, and the center brings in thousands of paying tourists each year, which takes a tremendous toll on the road,” Gortler wrote. “They perform no maintenance on the road, and it’s rutted and torn apart as a result of all their traffic.”
Searles said that the SWCC has made several efforts to address Gortler’s complaints.
“In order to appease him when we have people out, because we still have people, we now have tours 30 days in a six month period under the temporary special use permit, so we bought an old water truck and we are watering the road’s parking lot to try and keep the dust down, which is not an easy thing to do in the desert and we are not the only ones to use that road,” Searles said.
Gortler claimed that he has made several attempts to resolve the issue without litigation.
“Before approaching SWCC, I tried installing triple pane windows in my bedroom as well as, insulated metal roller shutters, heavy, sound-blocking curtains, earplugs, white noise machines, basically everything I could think of,” Gortler wrote. “I gave up trying to negotiate and proceeded with the lawsuit only after I attempted 1) my own noise mitigation efforts failed, 2) trying to speak civilly to them failed and 3) after I attempted to donate generously to the Zoo to build a wall or relocate the canines, and made the offer in writing.”
Richelle Fatheree, another neighbor of the center, created an online petition against the lawsuit. The petition will be delivered to the Maricopa County Board of Supervisors on April 6 and currently has over 167,000 signatures.
“We believe that since the sanctuary had already been at its current location for 18 years before Mr. Gortler purchased the property next door, it was his responsibility to investigate the neighborhood before investing in real estate in the area,” the petition reads. “Dirt roads and animal noises are two of the many joys of living in rural unincorporated Scottsdale. If people don’t appreciate a natural environment, they should avoid moving into it.”
Gortler expressed displeasure at the way the petition described the context of the lawsuit.
“Honestly SWCC’s and Rachelle Fatheree’s petition is so grotesquely biased and misrepresentative, I thought to myself, ‘Who is this guy?’ I almost felt like signing it myself! I can understand how others have been duped into doing the same,” Gortler wrote.
According to Maricopa County Supervisor Steve Chucri, the sanctuary serves an essential function and its tours are helpful to the community.
“The Southwest Wildlife Conservation Center is critical to our community. Their mission to rescue native wild animals is an integral part of living in Arizona,” Chucri wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I fully support the Special Use Permit and will continue to work with my colleagues on the Board and the planning department to complete this process as quickly as possible.”
Correction: An earlier version of this article was titled “Former GUMC Professor Attempts to Close Wildlife Center.” This was a mischaracterization of the lawsuit and we apologize to Mr. Gortler for the error. 

Sandy Kramer says 
November 12, 2016 at 8:33 am
Bah !  Humbug !
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 1, 2016 by Matthew Larson Leave a Comment 
Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) submitted the Fiscal Year 2017 Budget and Financial Plan, which includes a record $13.4 billion spending proposal, to the Council of the District of Columbia on March 24.
The budget, entitled “A Fair Shot,” calls for a growth of about $400 million from last year’s plan and includes increased expenditure for modernizing D.C. public and charter schools, hiring more Metropolitan Police Department officers and buying more emergency vehicles.
The plan proposes a growth in overall spending by three percent, which is lower than the average rate of six percent of the past several years, to accommodate tax cuts passed by the D.C. Council two years ago.
The Council has the ability to make changes to the plan and will prepare the amended budget for its second reading process and passage by early May.
The budget also calls for a city-wide minimum wage increase to $15 per hour by 2020. In her annual State of the District Address March 22, Bowser attributed this decision to a desire to keep as many workers living and working in D.C. as possible.
“In a city as prosperous as ours, we can level the playing field, and we can make sure our residents are paid a good wage so fewer families are forced to leave,” Bowser said. “And as we raise the wage, I will also assemble a task force of leaders – from workers, to organized labor and the business community — to spend six months looking at how we work together to create a worker- and business-friendly environment in which we maintain our regional competitiveness.”
A central component of the budget is a $220 million school modernization project. Instead of receiving small, incremental increases in funding as under the previous plan, some schools will now be offered complete modernization construction packages. As a result, other schools will not receive full upgrades until after 2022.
D.C. Office of Budget and Finance Director Matt Brown explained the mayor’s decision to allocate funding to some schools and not others.
“In last year’s budget, schools were programmed for phase one renovations,” Brown said. “Rather than do short-term projects, the mayor made the decision to do full modernization. That $200 million was dedicated to schools that had already been promised money.”
The total operating budget of schools will grow by $75 million. The main reason for the increase is a surge in enrollment by more than 2,800 to nearly 91,000 students enrolled in D.C. public schools for the coming academic year. Additionally, the “per-student” funding formula used to determine schools’ operating budgets required more funding due to inflation.
Brown pointed to the factors behind the increased allocation of funding to schools and stressed the importance of this expenditure for the education of District students.
“The $75 million goes to public and charter schools based on enrollment and then an inflationary increase, and that covers the cost of education from administration to instruction,” Brown said. “It covers the total cost of educating kids.”
The budget also gave middle schools priority in funding, which Deputy Mayor for Education Jennifer Niles said aims to encourage students to stay in the District until high school graduation.
“We don’t have all families staying through middle school,” Niles said to The Washington Post. “We know that middle school is where we need to make these investments to make sure that we have our families staying in middle schools and high schools.”
An extra $2.5 million of the budget was allocated to the MPD for hiring new officers. MPD has experienced a recent drop in its ranks due to many officers retiring around the same time. Some of the money will also be used to complete implementation of the body-worn cameras program, which was introduced in October 2014.
“We’re trying to attract officers who have experience to join the D.C. police force,” Brown said. “There was a big recruiting program about 20 years ago where we recruited a lot of officers who are now retiring, and we’re trying to backfill those positions as quickly as we can.”
Bowser also proposed taking over the D.C. Jail’s Correctional Treatment Facility, which is currently run by the Corrections Corporation of America. The plan will cost the District around $6 million.
Notably, Bowser’s plan does not include funding for a crime bill approved by the D.C. Council in February that would provide training for at-risk youth likely to commit crime. At the time of the bill’s passage, Bowser had criticized it for not addressing criminal activity directly.
Brown said it is up to the D.C. Council to find funding for the program.
“It was the mayor’s decision to advance the budget in ways she thought best to keep residents of the District safe,” Brown said. “And you’ll see throughout the police department and public safety cluster investments that the mayor has made to make the city as safe as possible.”
In the closing remarks of her State of the District Address, Bowser praised the budget and the work the people of D.C. had done over the past year to help the city, promising that the District would continue to remain accountable to its citizens.
“My fellow Washingtonians, I am pleased to report tonight that the state of the District of Columbia is strong. These days are bright. Our best days are still ahead of us,” Bowser said. “Thank you very much for your trust, for believing in our vision, for challenging us to do better each and every day.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 1, 2016 by Jesse Jacobs Leave a Comment 
Long-time Democratic media consultant and former “House of Cards” actor, David Eichenbaum, discussed aspects of truth behind the Netflix original series, during an event hosted by the GU Politics Student Advisory Board in Old North on Tuesday night.
“House of Cards” depicts the political rise of a U.S.-Senator-turned-President Francis Underwood, played by Oscar-winner Kevin Spacey, and his relationship with his wife Claire, played by Golden Globe winner Robin Wright. Through four seasons, the show documents the fictional couple’s tense relationship and their rise to power through corruption, violence and murder.
Chris Maloney (GRD ’17), a student in the School of Continuing Studies and GU Politics representative, began the event with a series of questions and answers between Eichenbaum and moderator Rachel Hirsch, a first-year student at the McCourt School of Public Policy.
Hirsch began by showing a compilation of clips of Eichenbaum in his role as Frank Underwood’s campaign manager in season two of “House of Cards.” She noted similarities between his TV role and his career as a media consultant for Democrats, including his role in the 1996 Bill Clinton presidential campaign. She also said that his character has the difficult job of supporting the controlling President Frank Underwood, played by Oscar-winning actor Kevin Spacey.
“As a director I am used to giving orders, you do this, you move that and for the most part people listen to me, but the way the script is written, no one tells Frank what to do and he is the one giving the orders,” Eichenbaum said.
Eichenbaum highlighted his experience in political campaigns and explored his uncommon decision to transition from the political world to the entertainment industry. His first forays into acting were influenced by one of his friends in entertainment.
“Since the year 2000 I have been a media consultant. Almost exclusively, I have worked for campaigns. I have been a media consultant for lots of different campaigns,” Eichenbaum said. “A few years ago, I thought it would be nice to mix things up in my career. Let me try some other things that I wanted to try. And at the same time I had a friend of mine who was involved in television, who said you know you should come back to acting.”
Eichenbaum spent much of his career working on sets, both as an actor fresh out of college, and as consultant for political campaigns. He explained how he found similarities in both roles and adapted to life on a production set easily.
“Being a director, in my political career, what I do is I write, direct the advertising and after spending years behind it directing the candidates being in front of the camera was different but I am used to being on a set and I know the lingo. It was not a completely foreign experience,” Eichenbaum said.
Eichenbaum said there are parallels between the show’s signature couple, Frank and Claire Underwood, and the Clintons, but does not think the Underwoods are a direct emulation.
“The issues were different. The Clintons were certainly accused of a lot of things,” Eichenbaum said. “I don’t know if it based on them at all. I don’t think it was … but you could certainly make an analogy to two powerful spouses.”
Josh Levitt (MSB ’17) said he really enjoyed hearing about Eichenbaum’s unique perspectives from the political and acting worlds.
“I think David brought a lot of experience and answered questions and he came about it with a perspective on politics that I was not as familiar with from the media side of a campaign,” Levitt said. “It was interesting to hear the sort of behind-the-scenes workings of how to target voters and to learn about which things in the shows he has been in,”
Helen Brosnan (COL ’16) said she appreciated hearing someone involved in two industries separate fact from fiction.
“The event was another example of how politics and entertainment often can create some blurry lines on what is real and what is not,” Brosnan said.
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 1, 2016 by William Zhu Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University experienced campus-wide Wi-Fi connectivity issues beginning at 8 a.m. Thursday morning.
According to UIS, the outage occurred due to a faulty firewall. Community members experienced intermittent connection to SaxaNet, EduRoam and GuestNet, as well as campus-wide Internet loss for segments of time.
Around 1 p.m., the University Information Services resolved initial network connectivity issues caused by bugs in the firewall. However, by 7:50 p.m., network outages returned and UIS resumed work on fixing the issue. Campus-wide text message alerts were sent out to inform students and faculty of the outage.
The outage has continued as of press time.
According to Interim Deputy Chief Information Officer Beth Ann Bergsmark, UIS is in communication with the firewall’s vendor, Palo Alto Networks, to continuously monitor and evaluate the situation. Palo Alto Networks is continuing to provide technical support to UIS and is prepared to replace the firewall if necessary.
“We have Palo Alto providing senior engineering to review their systems. If we need to replace any of these firewalls, we will do so promptly in a way that does not cause any outages,” Bergsmark said.
The current network connectivity issues are caused by a similar firewall bug that was attributed to a Wi-Fi outage March 1.
Bergsmark explained that the firewall aims to examine all Internet connections for the purpose of protecting the university from viruses and cyberattacks. The current firewall, installed last year to replace an older Cisco model, is a recent upgrade capable of handling newer threats, according to Bergsmark.
“The Cisco firewall blocked about 50 million security threats per month, whereas the Palo Alto [firewall] has been blocking 1 billion threats per month,” Bergsmark said.
Working with Palo Alto, UIS is considering a complete replacement of the university firewall to resolve Internet and connectivity outages all together.
Bergsmark emphasized that the current Internet outage is not related to the cyberattacks the MedStar hospitals in the region have been experiencing. On March 28, the MedStar Georgetown University Hospital experienced a cyberattack and suffered severe system outages.
“This has nothing to do with the outages that have been going at the MedStar health network,” Bergsmark said. “MedStar’s architecture is entirely different from Georgetown. We’re completely separate. That is also why what happened at MedStar did not bleed into our environment.”
Universities are common targets for cyberattacks because of the open nature of their networks. Bergsmark explained that the installation of the new firewall is a proactive step to prevent future intrusions.
“All universities are at risk, we are a large, open environment,” Bergsmark said. “The number of security threats continues to increase. What is critical is that you are proactive.”
UIS attempts to achieve a balance between security from cyber threats and maintaining reliable access to information on the Internet, which Bergsmark said is a crucial challenge for UIS.
“It is very important for us that we’ve got the state-of-the-art best technology to protect against security, but at the same time we have to make sure that that does not disrupt daily operations,” Bergsmark said.
Bergsmark added that during a Wi-Fi outage, individuals on campus do not have viable options to bypass the issue. Additionally, while the outage is campus-wide, Bergsmark stated a few are still able to access the Internet.
“You did see that some individuals might be able to get in,” Bergsmark said. “At any given point in time, maybe only 20 to 40 percent of the traffic at any point in time.”
For students on campus, one of the best ways to assist UIS is to report all issues with network connectivity so UIS can properly identify and address the problem.
“If they experience problems at any time to contact us, we want to be responsive there,” Bergsmark said.
Dan Zager (COL ’18) said the outage prevented him from doing his work and he had to resort to using data on his mobile phone.
“This morning was a nightmare because I woke up early to get work done, but everything was down, so I just hung out for three hours on my phone using up all my data until we finally got Internet and Blackboard back,” Zager said.
Montunrayo Adenuga (COL ’18) said she is disappointed at the quality of campus Wi-Fi and the frequency and duration of outages.
“That is something that shouldn’t be a problem for hours on end, and today isn’t the only time it happens. It happens quite frequently. There are times my Blackboard isn’t working for a week,” Adenuga said. “It’s a little below Georgetown.”
The network connectivity issues have forced Anna Teitler (COL ’18) to go off campus to do her work. She said she wishes students were better updated on the current situation.
“I had to walk to a coffee shop in order to get Internet and send in an assignment,” Teitler said. “It’s very frustrating because when the system is down for an entire day, they do not give us a timeline of when it is going to be coming back on. It’s a detriment for everybody who relies on the system to get everyday work done.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 1, 2016 by Ellen Baker Leave a Comment 
The Initiative on Catholic Social Thought and Public Life sponsored a dialogue titled “Faith, Francis and the 2016 Campaign” that featured journalist speakers in the Intercultural Center auditorium Wednesday.
The panelists included Washington Post columnist and McCourt School of Public Policy professor E.J. Dionne, Jr., The Atlantic writer and editor Emma Green (COL ’12), National Catholic Reporter author and columnist Michael Sean Winters, EWTN Global Catholic Network Nightly White House correspondent Lauren Ashburn and Pew Research Center Associate Director of Research Gregory Smith.
John Carr, director of the Initiative on Catholic Social Thought and Public Life, which seeks to promote Catholic social teaching at Georgetown, moderated the event.
In his opening remarks, Carr described the initiative’s mission as well as its connection to Pope Francis.
“We think that Pope Francis’ strong words and humble way are the best available example of how to connect Catholic social thought and public life,” Carr said in his opening remarks. “In many ways, he is a walking, talking parable of these principles.”
Carr highlighted the importance of politics within the realm of the Catholic faith.
“Politics is a duty. It is essential, because it involves the common good. None of us can say we have nothing to do with politics, though that is a temptation, especially these days,” Carr said. “It is one of the highest forms of charity.”
Carr concluded by tying unique characteristics of the ongoing 2016 presidential campaign to religion, particularly referencing Sen. Bernie Sanders’ (I-Vt.) focus on Pope Francis.
“You couldn’t have predicted any of this,” Carr said. “Who would have thought that it would be a Jewish, socialist, secular Senator who would talk the most about Pope Francis?”
Green, who covers religion and public life at The Atlantic, expressed the belief that religion directly affects one’s political views.
“Not only how you self-identify, but also how much you are ingrained with your religion is an indicator of how you interact with politics,” Green said.
Smith addressed the concern and shock among evangelical leaders regarding the emerging trend of evangelical voters supporting Donald Trump over Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tx.). Smith said this trend is perhaps a result of citizens voting for Trump without taking into account his religious views.
“Almost one-fifth of all Republican voters who say they think Donald Trump would make a good or great president, say they don’t think that he’s a particularly religious person,” Smith said.
Ashburn redirected the conversation, focusing on the strong emotions that have permeated the 2016 campaign.
“This campaign is about anger. Anger has trumped religion. Anger has trumped politics,” Ashburn said. “And Trump has trumped religion and anger and politics.”
Dionne, Winters and Smith each discussed the tendency of some Catholic voters to base their political preferences solely on the issue of abortion.
“The change that Pope Francis has brought about, not changing the Church’s position on abortion but making a case that abortion is not the one and only issue on which Catholics should vote, is not novel,” Dionne said.
The dialogue then shifted to the voting and religious tendencies of millennial voters, as well as the Pope’s popularity with the younger generation for his seemingly revolutionary teachings.
Green argued that Pope Francis’ ideas cannot exactly be described as new, instead highlighting the Pope’s unique style by appealing to the younger generation as well as to people across all age groups.
“People say, ‘When did the church become cool?’ This speaks to a lack of religious literacy perhaps among a certain generation,” Green said. “Popes have been saying this stuff forever.”
Winters highlighted the Pope’s ethnic background as another factor behind the Church’s increased popularity.
“The Pope is a Latino,” Winters said. “The best thing happening to the Catholic Church is not Pope Francis, it’s the influx of Latinos because we were in danger of becoming an upper-middle class club. And the Latinos are bringing us life and relationships and vitality and families.”
American University professor Shyam Chidamber, who attended the event, said he found the dialogue engaging and educational. Chidamber particularly underscored the speakers’ inclusion of information from the Pew Research Center.
“We don’t talk enough about how religious life and politics combine, and what’s behind it. Sharing some of the Pew data on how the demographics are shifting is very useful to know, you don’t hear that in the typical press stories,” Chidamber said. “It gives you a deeper perspective on what’s going on.”
Taylor Colwell (SFS ’15) expressed disappointment with the event’s portrayal of authentic Catholicism.
“It seemed to present a picture of Catholicism that is too dictated by someone’s prior political beliefs,” Colwell said. “They used the terminology ‘conservative Catholics,’ ‘liberal Catholics,’ for me the general tone of the conversation was too focused on politics as prior to religion rather than religion prior to politics.”
Audrey Fangmeyer (NHS ’17) said she enjoyed the multitude of topics on which the speakers touched.
“I enjoyed the span of topics addressed. For me the main issue would be abortion, but also social justice,” Fangmeyer said. “And I was very happy to see them addressed in the same place.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 1, 2016 by Cecia Soza Leave a Comment 
During the month of March, Students of Georgetown, Inc. implemented its Citizenship Scholarship, a collaborative project from The Corp’s Social Impact Committee, the Kalmanovitz Initiative for Labor and Working Poor and the D.C. Schools Project, which aimed to fund U.S.-citizenship processes for on-campus facilities workers.
The citizenship scholarship was partially funded through the sale of the Rosebud drink at Uncommon Grounds in March as well as funds from Corp Philanthropy. Proceeds will go towards assistance with English-language skills and filing and application fees, among other processes needed for citizenship.
The Corp’s Social Impact committee, which implements initiatives dedicated to philanthropic ventures serving the wider campus community, is headed by chair Harrison Williams (COL ’16) and vice chair Nick Pavlovic (COL ’17). Over the course of the academic year, Williams and Pavlovic shaped the initiative as a link between community members and The Corp, assisting various groups on campus to obtain support and resources.
“The Corp has had philanthropy since its conception. It’s been a huge part of what we do,” Pavlovic said. “The goal of the Social Impact Committee was to bring The Corp back to its roots of being an advocate on campus. We take a more active role in our philanthropy than The Corp has traditionally done.”
The idea to develop the scholarship stemmed from Pavlovic’s personal experience as a Corp employee and interacting with many facilities workers who were attempting to gain permanent U.S. citizenship. For Pavlovic, seeking a way to give back to those who help The Corp function on an everyday basis is a central goal of the Citizenship Scholarship.
“Here at The Corp, we couldn’t really do what we do without the facilities workers,” Pavlovic said. “Every single [Corp employee] is so appreciative of everything [facilities workers] do on campus because we interact with them every day. For me, it was really wanting to give back to them in that way and develop personal relationships with them.”
For many facilities workers on campus, gaining U.S. citizenship is a difficult ordeal due to factors including a lack of fluency in English, inability to pay the application fee and lack of access to resources allowing them to study for the test.
“We started to stop and talk to them more about their personal lives and found out that a lot of them didn’t have citizenship. A lot of them are refugees from El Salvador during the civil war and so I understood that [citizenship] is a very difficult thing for them to get on their own because they’re really just trying to survive,” Pavlovic said.
Through the scholarship, The Corp aims to eliminate barriers for workers so they can complete the citizenship process with ease. By collaborating with the D.C. Schools Project, workers receive assistance with their English language skills, practice test questions, filing applications and paying the application fee.
Alex Taliadoros, the project coordinator for the Kalmanovitz Initiative, explained that the project continues to be a predominantly student-led initiative and that the KILWP’s role is mainly advisory.
“Our role in this project was merely to facilitate a bridge of communication between Corp Social Impact and D.C. Schools. The students came up with the idea, brought it to fruition, and are getting the word out to ensure that the scholarship achieves its purpose,” Taliadoros said.
Taliadoros also emphasized the role that the Citizenship Scholarship plays in relation to Georgetown’s commitment to Jesuit values and the Just Employment Policy, especially when it comes to students serving their greater community by being men and women for others. “One of the ways Georgetown lives out its Catholic faith and Jesuit heritage is through the Just Employment Policy, which guarantees a living wage and worker rights for all campus workers,” Taliadoros said. “We hope that the Citizenship Scholarship can become another way we realize our commitment to the men and women who sustain our campus.”
Pavlovic said he expects the Social Impact Committee to grow from this project and become a more integral resource for improving the rights of campus workers.
“On a macro level, I think this is a good jumping-off point for developing a more comprehensive worker-rights platform to improve the condition of facilities workers on campus,” Pavlovic said. “Social Impact was created not just to fund small projects here and there, but to actually be a very vital force on campus.”
Crystal Bush (SFS ’19), a frequent Uncommon Grounds customer, praised the initiative and said she hopes to see an expansion of the program.
“I feel like what The Corp is doing is a great start to a lot of initiatives that Georgetown should take being that the majority of their workers are minorities,” Bush said. “While I do feel that aiding them in their citizenship is a good motive, I think they should also encourage workers to pursue higher education so that they may be able to gain more income and provide themselves with the better life that they desired when they moved to this country.”
Esther Iyanobor (COL ’19) also voiced support for the program.
“I think what The Corp is doing is great because these people came here for a reason. They came here to make a better life for themselves and The Corp is providing them with more opportunities to do that,” Iyanobor said.
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 1, 2016 by Lisa Burgoa Leave a Comment 
MedStar Georgetown University Hospital is now slated to break ground on its $567 million pavilion by December after the State Health Planning and Development Agency approved its certificate of need March 25, despite criticism from the Old Georgetown Board regarding potential conflicts.
The certificate of need — a document required for health care providers to establish or expand their facilities — advances the proposal announced last July to construct a 477,000-square-foot, six-floor surgical pavilion complete with a new emergency department, patient rooms and a helipad by 2020.
The decision took into account recommendations by the Statewide Health Coordinating Council, which approved the hospital’s application under the condition that it provide free cancer screenings for at least 500 underinsured patients annually in Washington, D.C. The SHCC, which is composed of mayor-appointed health care consumers and providers, reviews project proposals for certificates of need.
MedStar Georgetown President Michael Sachtleben said the certificate of need’s approval represents a major stride forward in the hospital’s development.
“We are pleased that there was clear agreement with the need to improve and update our health care facility in order to continue to provide state of the art health care services,” Sachtleben wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We are more confident than ever that this project is what’s right and needed for the patients we serve and to support ongoing excellence in both medical education and research with our University partner.”
Nevertheless, Georgetown’s Vice President of Planning and Facilities Management Robin Morey said a number of regulatory hurdles remain before the project can be undertaken, including the acquisition of building permits and the approval of the Old Georgetown Board.
According to the Old Georgetown Act of 1950, all proposed building projects must be reviewed by the OGB, which is an advisory committee composed of architects appointed by the U.S. Commission of Fine Arts. The board, which is a federal entity, conducts monthly reviews on all construction proposals in the district of Georgetown.
“The project must also be included in Georgetown University’s campus plan, which is being advanced by the university in collaboration with our community partners and MedStar,” Morey wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Advisory Neighborhood Commissioner Kendyl Clausen (SFS ’16) said these obstacles have pushed back the negotiation timeline for the campus plan until late summer as community members deliberate the proposal’s implications.
According to Clausen, these considerations hinge on disagreements over the design of the building, which would replace Kober-Cogan Building and one of St. Mary’s Hall’s wings with underground parking and increased lawn space. The proposal features a two-road entrance to the parking garage intersecting a potential green space.
“There is a lot of green space that could exist, and instead you have two roads going through what is called the north-end version of Healy Lawn,” Clausen said. “I feel like the students and community members should have a place that they can go and enjoy the green space without risking running into cars and having that green space cut by two trenches that make the cars go underground. Even though we have long-term benefits from the hospital, the short-term does have the potential to cause harm to student life.”
Clausen further anticipated that the construction could be disruptive to students and faculty who access the northeast part of campus near Burleith.
Morey stressed that one of the university’s main concerns is minimizing the impact on the community, but said that normal construction effects like noise, altered traffic patterns and the rerouting of pedestrian pathways should be expected.
Though the plans for the new pavilion have not been altered significantly since they were first proposed last year, Morey suggested that the designs are adaptable to the needs of the community.
“The design teams are working with constituents and various stakeholders in the regulatory process and accordingly, the design is adjusted to incorporate various feedback received,” Morey wrote. “This iterative process will continue until the project receives final approval.”
Alexis Bankhead (COL ’19), who lives in Darnall Hall, a dormitory adjacent to the hospital, said given that current construction on campus has not disturbed residents in her dorm, she does not believe creation of the pavilion will greatly alter students’ quality of life.
“I do think the new and improved hospital facilities present enough benefits to warrant slight inconvenience to students,” Bankhead said. “The residents who live in this part of campus are in the minority for sure, so while it may be inconveniencing for some, I doubt many other students regularly traverse the areas near the hospital. I think it’ll be OK as long as a pathway is kept open to connect to more central areas on campus.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 1, 2016 by Charlotte Allen Leave a Comment 
Assistant professor at the University of Michigan School of Information Joyojeet Pal discussed the impact of social media and political rebranding on Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s global image during an event in the Intercultural Center on Wednesday.
The event, titled “Narendra Modi, Twitter, and the Selfie State” focused on social media and the use of technology in politics, specifically regarding its use as an inspirational force in developing countries.
“What does it mean for a politician to be seen with a computer all the time? Or to be seen taking selfies?” Pal asked. “We are looking at the technology artifact and what that means, specifically in the larger Indian context.”
Pal said social media is an increasingly relevant factor in developing countries, as it grows more popular.
“We were able to come up with at least 38 countries in which both a leading head of government and at least one leading opposition figure has an excess of 100,000 followers,” Pal said.
Pal said even though countries like India, Ghana, Columbia, and Kenya may be relatively poor, if they have a large upper class with strong social media access, social media can be an effective political tool.
“The reason that social media is important in the case of Narendra Modi is that the political actor can choose to use the social media as their primary line of output,” Pal said.
According to Pal, country size, elite affiliation and media logic are important in a politician’s decision to use social media as a tool for discourse.
Pal said social media and technology can be used as a form of publicity that also ends up benefitting the populace.
“Ideas of technology as being intricately tied to development have been prevalent for the past two decades,” Pal said. “One of the best indicators of how closely technology is tied to aspiration in India is the fact that movie stars in movies are often playing computer engineers.”
Pal said Narendra Modi was originally depicted by the media in a negative light, particularly for his role during the Hindu-Muslim riots of 2002. Modi was criticized for failing to stop the riots in a timely manner as Governor of Gujarat, a northern Indian state.
“He was pretty close to what you might think of as a political pariah for many years following the 2002 riots, and this was also how he was seen in the mainstream English-speaking media,” Pal said.
According to Pal, Modi was able to change his reputation through a strategic social media presence that includes a LinkedIn profile, a Facebook, an Instagram, a Pinterest and a YouTube channel where he puts his official radio speeches as well as other videos on topics such as how to live well.
“His fashioning is not just as a political person, but as a guru who will tell you how to use yoga for stress management, for example,” Pal said. “His is an attempt to re-brand not only through strategic speech, but also through strategic imaging.”
Pal said Modi’s social media tactics are multifaceted as he makes his messages ubiquitous, associates himself with celebrities, crafts his messages in first person, and strategically uses “follow-backs” as political means.
“He provides a vision of somebody who is not only driven by technology, but also has command over technology coming through channels other than social media,” Pal said.
Pal’s research shows that Modi’s sarcastic and ironic tweets are re-tweeted the most, a phenomenon shared by 2016 Presidential candidate Donald Trump.
According to the research, Modi also tweets about international relations in the language of the countries he visits.
“He shows a real sensitivity to what the key topics are in that country in the ‘twitter-sphere’ when he goes there,” Pal said.
Pal said Modi has successfully built a social media profile that appeals to a variety of different constituencies, including both those attracted by conventional values and those wowed by fame.
“He is still someone who gets blessings from his aged mother as well as is comfortable posing next to a film star,” Pal said.
Emily Paragamian (SFS ’16), who attended the event, said she appreciated the comparison the talk presented between the poor in developing countries and the use of social media to appeal to the masses.
“I am really interested in the juxtaposition of the ‘selfie-state’ with the 600 million Indians that are off the grid, and I think that social media is a really useful tool but it can also probably be a detriment if there are so many people that can’t see what is going on,” Paragamian said.
Mark Giordano, the director of the science, technology and international affairs program and organizer of the event, said social media is playing an increasingly more important role in politics.
“Technology is such a key part of politics now that understanding how it is used around the world is important for us in the U.S. but also how we understand how the rest of the world is working,” Giordano said.
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 1, 2016 by Patricja Okuniewska 2 Comments 
The Washington Metro transit system may suspend operations for as long as six months for repairs and maintenance, D.C. Metro officials announced March 30.
The announcement follows the unprecedented 24-hour shutdown of the entire Metro system for emergency track inspections March 16.
At Wednesday’s symposium for the Metro’s 40th anniversary, Board Chairman Jack Evans said commuters should expect the closure of certain rail lines for extended periods of time.
“There may be decisions where we have to close down whole lines and repair them, which are going to be very unpopular,” Evans said. “But the only way that we are going to get this system fixed is to make unpopular decisions.”
Until now, repairs to the transit system have taken place at night and on weekends in shifts lasting for only several hours at a time.
According to Evans, in order to complete the necessary repairs, there will need to be more time-extensive periods of maintenance.
General Manager Paul J. Wiedefeld said at the symposium that he has not yet made a decision about the lengthy closures, but is considering various options in terms of the time frame for repairs. Wiedefeld is expected to release a potential plan for the system in four to six weeks.
Mayor Muriel Bowser’s spokesman Michael Czin expressed the mayor’s discontent with the decision to halt Metro operations for a longer period of time.
“Shutting down Metro for one workday was an inconvenience; shutting it down for months at a time will have far-reaching consequences for riders and the entire region,” Czin said to The Washington Post.
 

Concerned Citizen says 
April 4, 2016 at 9:48 pm
It should be pretty clear.  These shutdowns are a way to bring the region to its knees so that people will make the decision to throw more money at metro.  Of course these things could be fixed over nights and weekend, and of course it would take longer.  But that would be ok.

Tun says 
April 4, 2016 at 10:26 pm
I think it is a great ideas to shut down lengthy time to complete the necessary repairs. Look at all these roads. I’m sure if people in DC really want to go to work, they will find a way. Being proactive and fixing these necessary repair will pay off in long run.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 1, 2016 by Matthew Riley Leave a Comment 
old an emergency vote to determine whether or not to include Sen. Bernie Sanders’ (I-Vt.) name on the Democratic Party ballot for D.C.’s June 14 primary after the party submitted the candidate’s registration paperwork one day after the March 16 deadline.
In order to be added to the primary ballot, a candidate must either collect 1,000 signatures or submit a check for $2,500 to the D.C. Democratic Party. Sanders submitted a check to the party March 16.
However, the party did not submit his name to the D.C. Board of Elections until March 17. As a result, an activist filed a legal challenge to keep Sanders off the ballot, arguing his name was received late and therefore should not be included for consideration in the District’s primary.
The council’s resolution would allow a political party to submit a candidate’s name to the Board of Elections 24 hours after the filing deadline. It is expected to pass easily, allowing Sanders’ name to be placed on the ballot.
Councilmember and D.C. Democratic Party Chairman Anita Bonds (D-At Large) said that for the past four elections, the party had submitted candidates’ names the day after the deadline and there had never been an issue.
“Bernie will be on the ballot,” Bonds said to CNN. “This has been kind of a tradition in the District of Columbia, that the party would notify the board the following day.”
The party had also submitted former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s name to the board the day after the filing deadline. As there has been no legal challenge to her eligibility, she will be certified without issue.
The D.C. Democratic primary is the final primary contest of the 2016 election cycle, during which 45 delegates will be awarded. The Republican Party primary took place March 12 with a victory for Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), who has since dropped out of the race.
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 1, 2016 by Haley Snyder Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University Institute of Politics and Public Service welcomed three Chiefs of Staff from the Office of the First Lady, along with ABC News contributor Claire Shipman, to discuss the evolving role and challenges faced by the First Lady and her Chief of Staff in the Healey Family Student Center on Wednesday night.
Chief of Staff to first lady Michelle Obama Tina Tchen, former Chief of Staff to first lady Laura Bush Anita McBride and former Chief of Staff to first lady Hillary Clinton Melanne Verveer (SFS ’66, GRD ’69), who also serves as Executive Director of the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security, conversed on their separate but similar experiences in the East Wing of the White House.
Verveer began the discussion by reflecting on the close interaction between the President and first lady’s staffs.
“You have no idea on the outside everything that’s involved on the inside,” Verveer said. “We were very well integrated into the overall operations of the White House. We all worked for the president; that was very clear. We might be specifically engaged in the first lady’s office, but first and foremost we worked for the president.”
McBride said she was surprised at how different the realities of the position were from her expectations prior to assuming the role.
“When I was invited by Mrs. Bush to have an interview with her to consider being her Chief of Staff for the second term, I didn’t expect the first words out of her mouth to be, ‘I want to go to Afghanistan,’” McBride said. “And right then I knew that this would be a very different experience and opportunity than what I had envisioned.”
All three women discussed the difficulty of operating with the limited resources allocated to the Office of the First Lady, especially in light of the intense national scrutiny placed on the president’s spouse.
“I think it’s really interesting to think about the position, because there is no job description, there is no salary, there is no appointment, there is no election and everybody in the United States has an opinion of what the first lady should do, and they’re all in contradiction with each other,” Verveer said.
The first lady’s position is unique in that she has the opportunity to determine which issues with which she wishes to engage and which initiatives she plans to push. Each Chief of Staff stressed that agenda-setting and the establishment of the first lady’s authenticity and credibility are crucial.
Shipman noted that, over time, first ladies have set a pattern of concentrating on international women’s issues.
Verveer highlighted the significance of the topics on which first ladies place emphasis, expressing frustration that they often fall by the wayside.
“These are absolutely critical issues,” Melanne Verveer said. “We call them soft issues – they’re often marginalized, but they’re significant issues, and if there isn’t leadership targeted to those issues, it’s not likely they’ll be addressed.”
Giving advice to students who are interested in pursuing a similar career path, the three Chiefs of Staff discussed the importance of being prepared for the unpredictable and the need to pay attention to detail.
McBride pointed to the multiple areas a first lady must take into consideration, including her public appearance.
“The wardrobe memo was as important as some of the speeches, and for us the equivalent of a nuclear football was that makeup bag,” McBride said.
As the floor was opened up to questions, the three women reflected upon how the role could potentially shift if the gender of the president’s spouse changes.
Rachel Morota (SFS ’17), who attended the event, stressed the difference in position for first ladies in the United States as opposed to partners of leaders in other countries.
“I’m an international student, so the way that the first lady’s role is defined in the United States is very different as opposed to the first spouse anywhere else in the world,” Morota said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 1, 2016 by Patricja Okuniewska Leave a Comment 
Pulitzer Prize-winning historian Jack Rakove discussed the benefits of historical originalism, a school of thought that interprets the United States Constitution’s meaning as fixed in time, in the annual Philip A. Hart Lecture at the Georgetown University Law Center on Wednesday night.
Rakove is a professor of history and American Studies at Stanford University and an author of six books. He won the 1997 Pulitzer Prize for History for his book “Original Meanings: Politics and Ideas in the Making of the Constitution,” which questioned the validity of originalism as an exhaustive means of interpreting the Constitution.
U.S. Senator and Georgetown alumnus Philip A. Hart established the annual lecture to encourage dialogue on topics that interested Hart throughout his career. More than 50 people attended this year’s lecture.
Rakove began his speech by identifying himself as an old originalist, which he characterized as a way of thinking that involves grappling with the nuances and complexities of the historical record. He said only a few other people are concerned with this line of thinking about the Constitution.
“I think most of our colleagues would be happy to write it off as so much law office history. That is to say, if lawyers are going to do it, they’re going to do it with their own expedient, ulterior purposes in mind, and historians do not take that kind of activity seriously,” Rakove said.
Rakove offered two options as a means of interpreting the Constitution according to originalism. The first was to use the analysis historians offer, and the second was to think linguistically and engage in close analysis of individual clauses, key words and phrases.
Rakove structured his lecture by supporting historical originalism and opposing linguistic originalism through several arguments. He noted four objections to linguistic originalism, also known as new originalism.
In his first objection, Rakove said that one cannot be sure of the type of person interpreting the Constitution.
“In fact, there doesn’t seem to be that much agreement among new originalists as to who is the ideal type of reader that we’re trying to conjure up. Is he an informed citizen? Is he a juror?” Rakove said. “Who is this person who is reading the Constitution? We don’t know.”
Rakove’s second objection argued that even when the ideal reader is defined, he is not a real person who existed in the past but is instead manufactured in the present. The historian followed this with a further objection contending that the modern creation of the reader is a constraint on judicial discretion.
Rakove said the use of a set of linguistic rules to determine the Constitution’s meaning would surprise most historians.
“There’s no simple linguistic way to reconstruct the meanings without reconstructing the debates in which those meanings were being discussed,” Rakove said.
Rakove’s defense of historical originalism rested on seven points, the first of which noted that old originalism does not claim to know how the Constitution should be interpreted and that historians cannot be legal interpreters.
Rakove further contended that historical originalists must engage critically with the historical reasoning in which lawyers and jurists engage for their personal purposes. Rakove also said the purpose of history is to distinguish the present from the past and that historians must resist oversimplification.
Rakove’s fourth point argued that every statement made about the Constitution does not have equal value.
“The primary positive purpose of historical originalism is to describe a set of divides involving a diverse set of actors,” Rakove said.
Rakove’s last three arguments in defense revolved around the need for a realization that the multiple parties within texts were often not involved in direct conversation with each other, that American constitutional tradition has its own history and that the meaning of a text cannot be locked into it at the time of its legal adoption.
Rakove said the American Constitution is a political story, and that historians must conceive of constitutionalism as more broadly defined.
“If you’re thinking historically, the way that I do, one way to try to tell the story is to understand that American constitutionalism is, in many significant respects, essentially a political story,” Rakove said.
Jillian Casey (LAW ’17) said the topics Rakove discussed are important ones to address.
“It’s very important after Scalia’s death and the talk about attempting to replace Scalia, and what type of judge we want to replace Scalia with,” Casey said. “I actually was very surprised that there was such a distinction between the different types of originalism, so it was a very interesting talk.”
Brendan Kearney (LAW ’18) noted the importance of deciding how the Constitution should be interpreted.
“It seemed like it’s all about the meaning of the Constitution, which is our founding document, and whether the meaning of the Constitution evolves over time or whether it has some sort of fixed meaning,” Kearney said. “Figuring out how it should change and how it should stay the same seems pretty crucial for the legal system.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

