
February 17, 2016 by Suzanne Monyak Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association Constitutional Council instructed the GUSA Election Commission to include five write-in slots instead of one on the election ballot, following a petition Wednesday evening by write-in candidates Reed Howard (SFS ’17) and Courtney Maduike (SFS ’17).
“A ballot with one write-in slot would have severely limited student choice.  Given the ambiguity of the bylaws, the CC chose to protect choice and instruct the EC to add more write-in slots,” GUSA Constitutional Council Chief Justice Josh Shinbrot (COL ’16) wrote in a text message to The Hoya.
The Constitutional Council is tasked with interpreting all cases under appeal, and all decisions made by the council are binding. If the party presents a case to the Election Commission and disagrees with its decision, the party can then appeal to the council.
Howard and Maduike petitioned the Election Commission on Tuesday to include their names on the ballot, and after the commission ruled against them, the candidates appealed to the Constitutional Council who ruled in favor of the commission’s original decision.
On Wednesday evening, the council heard the appeal for a second petition from Howard and Maduike requesting extra write-in slots on the ballot.  The council ruled against the Election Commission’s original decision in favor of adding extra write-in slots.
Shinbrot said that given the last-minute nature of the case, the Constitution Council will take a few days to draft the opinion urging the senate to modify the bylaws, which will be written as justification for the council’s ruling Wednesday evening.
Voting for this year’s GUSA executive elections began Wednesday night at 10 p.m.
Hoya Staff Writer
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 17, 2016 by Ian Scoville Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association Constitutional Council rejected Reed Howard (SFS ’17) and Courtney Maduike’s (SFS ’17) appeal to be placed on the executive election ballot yesterday.
Howard and Maduike appealed to the GUSA Election Commission that it does not have the authority to set deadlines for submitting registration forms and that the bylaws do not require candidates to attend a mandatory meeting to receive a registration form. The petition was originally submitted Sunday.
After the Election Commission denied their request, Howard and Maduike appealed the decision to the Constitutional Council.
GUSA Constitutional Council Chief Justice Josh Shinbrot (COL ’16), who serves on the three-person council with Justices Victor Malof (SFS ’17) and Natalie Brown (SFS ’17), said the Election Commission does have implicit authority to set deadlines in order to ensure a fair election.
“That power is obviously implicit, because if you don’t have a deadline then what you have is the potential for individuals who are interested in running to submit their candidacy up to 11:59:59 before the election, and actually if you don’t allow them to set a deadline at all, that means that people could theoretically file candidacy forms throughout the election,” Shinbrot said.
Shinbrot also said the GUSA bylaws give the Election Commission the freedom to decide how to distribute the candidacy form.
“What I ultimately argue is that the bylaws essentially leave it up to the Election Commission to decide how they want to deal with the distribution of this candidacy form,” Shinbrot said. “And if the Election Commission chooses to use a pre-election meeting as a conduit to access this candidacy form, they’re able to do so.”
Maduike wrote in an email to The Hoya that she appreciated the Constitutional Council’s decision to review the case.
“Students, including current GUSA President and Vice President Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Connor Rohan (COL ’16), expressed concern regarding the single ticket race and were looking for additional options for the student body,” Maduike wrote. “I appreciate and respect the time and effort the Constitutional Council spent reviewing our case in contrast to the dismissive responses we received from the Election Commission.”
Shinbrot said Reed and Maduike can still run a potentially successful write-in campaign.
“They can run a write-in campaign — we’ve seen successful write-in campaigns in the senate in the past,” Shinbrot said. “In the senate there have even been cases where candidates have beat people who are on the ballot, so I don’t think that it’s a death sentence so to speak if they’re not allowed ballot access.”
 
Hoya Staff Writers Mallika Sen and Christian Paz contributed to reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 17, 2016 by Christian Paz 3 Comments 
Georgetown University Student Association Presidential and Vice Presidential candidates Reed Howard (SFS ’17) and Courtney Maduike (SFS ’17) hope to provide an alternative ticket to candidates Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) and Chris Fisk (COL ’17) by presenting themselves as a partnership focused on concentrated, pragmatic solutions.
The pair entered the executive election on Monday and hosted an informal town hall the same day. On Tuesday, the ticket cross-endorsed the Hot Chick-Chicken Madness ticket and hosted a campaign rally in the Intercultural Center galleria.
The two write-in candidates appealed a decision on Sunday by the GUSA Election Commission to not include their names on the ballot to the Constitutional Council on the grounds that the GUSA Constitution bylaws do not empower the Election Commission to require attendance at interest sessions.
In a response Tuesday, the Constitutional Council granted that the bylaws do not explicitly empower the Election Commission to create new rules, but did uphold the commission’s decision not to include their names on the ballot. The candidates plan to continue their run as a write-in ticket to the ballot Thursday.
Originally from Virginia Beach, Va., Howard, the oldest of four siblings, attributes his commitment to leadership to the impact his father and his public elementary school played in his upbringing.
“My father was a teacher, and he was actually a teacher in the same elementary school where I went to school,” Howard said. “Growing up, my dad always worked multiple jobs to support our family, and I think that’s something that really shaped who I was.”
The daughter of Nigerian immigrants, Maduike hails from the West coast. Growing up in Los Angeles, Calif., Maduike was not aware of what Georgetown or the School of Foreign Service were and expected to remain in California after she completed high school.
After applying early to Stanford and receiving a rejection, Maduike considered applying to Georgetown as a Hail Mary.
“I actually submitted Georgetown the day before it was due,” Maduike said. “My mom thought it wasn’t going to get there on time, she thought I ruined everything. People would ask me where I applied, and I would list things, and I was like ‘I’m missing one.’ I blocked [Georgetown] out of my mind.”
To her and her mother’s surprise, the small envelope that arrived shortly before Easter informed Maduike she had been accepted. Maduike said her mother consistently taught her that she should not allow herself to be trampled over by others.
“I have very strong women in my family who are very vocal and will be very upfront and blunt about how they feel,” Maduike said. “A lot of who I am today is because of my family, and my mom and my culture and my background, and having to advocate for myself and fight for myself.”
Both candidates’ backgrounds strongly influenced the organizations they joined once at Georgetown. Drawn toward the realm of service and leadership, Howard is a leader in Chi Alpha, the student-run ministry, previously served as a GUSA deputy chief of staff and works as a New Student Orientation coordinator. Howard is also one of two advisory neighborhood commissioners for district 2E, representing students in campus planning negotiations.
Maduike is a sister of Delta Phi Epsilon Professional Foreign Service Sorority, leads tours for Blue and Gray and serves on the board of GU Women of Color. She is also a director of the Georgetown African Business Conference. A self-described GUSA outsider, her only experience with GUSA was serving as a ‘What’s A Hoya’ coordinator during her sophomore year.
The two candidates said they were initially uneasy about launching a GUSA bid and began discussing the possibility of running early last semester.
“I initially did not want to be associated, for all the reasons most students do not want to be associated with GUSA and I didn’t want to be a part of GUSA executive campaign chaos,” Maduike said. “What initially prompted me to get involved was the student activism that has been going on on this campus in the past year. I feel that is how GUSA should look like.”
Maduike said another factor that discouraged her from running was the chaos of past GUSA campaign seasons and the potential fallout from challenging a unified GUSA ticket.
“I definitely was not interested in the messy and dirty politics that come as a result of various power grabs or students trying to make themselves feel important,” Maduike said. “From the potential of me entering the race, there was already messy politics that happened, that I personally thought was unjustified because the prospect of my actions of wanting to serve this community shouldn’t cause an uproar if it is coming from a genuine place.”
Howard said he and Maduike were discouraged by some GUSA members from entering the race last semester.
“We were treated pretty brutally when we decided we wanted to get into the race last semester and it was straining on relationships. That was hard to see,” Howard said. “We had already been thinking about it and we ultimately decided that it wasn’t the right decision at the time.”
However, following the news that GUSA presidential candidate Enushe Khan had personal obligations which might interfere with GUSA responsibilities over the summer, Howard said he and Maduike began to reconsider their decision not to run.
“To hear that the only other ticket running was going to have a president who wasn’t going to be on campus in the summer, which is an incredibly important time for the next campus plan, to me, was disrespectful to Georgetown students and was a huge disregard for the responsibilities of the GUSA presidency,” Howard said. “I couldn’t justify standing on the sidelines and letting it happen without giving students a choice in the election.”
Maduike said having more than one ticket will not necessarily divide GUSA or the student body.
“The current state of GUSA is not representative of the entire student body, and thinking that you are dividing the student body because you are not presenting one single option for the students and saying we are all unified and united, I think, is ill-conceived,” Maduike said. “It does not reflect the reality of what is going on at Georgetown.”
The Howard-Maduike platform, which fits onto one page, is centered around three plans: college affordability, race issues on the Hilltop and the campus plan. Their platform stands in contrast to the 23 issue Khan-Fisk platform, which includes sections on free speech, workers’ rights, sexual assault policy and sustainability.
According to Maduike, the simple approach is meant to ensure pragmatic solutions to some of the most pressing issues facing Georgetown.
“Often times, GUSA candidates promise a series of buzz words and fluff, upwards of 300 proposals about how they are going to propose changes on campus just to say that they talked about it in their platform,” Maduike said. “These are our individual passions and the strengths we bring.”
Among the specific proposals that constitute the college affordability plank, Howard-Maduike argue that university transparency must become a bigger concern. Specifically, they propose holding the university accountable for how tuition money is spent and whether money is being spent in ways that actually benefit students, such as by reforming Student Health Services, Counseling and Psychiatric Services, and Yates Field House.
“What I think that looks like is asking whether our tuition dollars are going to help fund things on the med campus or are going to help subsidize costs of other parts of the university that aren’t going directly to our students’ costs,” Howard said. “How much of our budget is going to support things like CAPS, renovating Yates? How much are our resources going to the places that improve the students’ experience on campus?”
Howard said he hopes that even if full transparency isn’t possible immediately, he and Maduike can start the conversation for a long term process.
“I know people crave immediate results, but I think that in order to get to the point where there is true transparency, it might not happen within our GUSA administration, but we can get the ball rolling,” he said.
Among their goals for advancing racial issues on campus, Maduike emphasized the potential benefits of advocating for intersectional mental health resources, specifically reforming the way Counseling and Psychiatric Services approaches and serves minority groups.
“Intersectional mental health issues is what it means for a black student to be at a predominantly white institution, something we have to live through and is an emotional degradation on our experience at Georgetown,” Maduike said. “That is something that black students are thinking about constantly and there isn’t a platform apart from talking amongst ourselves.”
Maduike stressed that intersectional mental health resources affect multiple groups that span across race, socioeconomics, legal status, and gender.
The third major plank of the Howard-Maduike platform, campus plan negotiations, features a proposal to create a new Georgetown Community Partnership group dedicated to on-campus improvements
Howard said this new group would bring students, administrators and neighbors together to discuss changes which need to be made on campus in order to improve student life and attract students to on-campus living.
“We would work together in the consensus model which is the GCP, to say things like ‘listen, you need to create a student life corridor running through the heart of campus which would have shops like Chipotle, more spaces for students to study, student club spaces, because that would increase retention of students on campus,’” Howard said.
The campaign also hopes to reform off campus conduct notations by adjusting the charge from “disorderly conduct” to “noise violation.”
“If you are applying to work in the federal government, which many Georgetown students are, if you are planning to go to law school, if you are applying for intelligence agencies, and they see a disorderly conduct violation, your application is going to be thrown out immediately,” Howard said. “It is crazy to say that just because you have a couple people over and you are having fun in your backyard, you can get something which should be noise violation because it is a noise problem, not a disorderly conduct problem, and you’re not getting into graduate school or a job.”
Maduike said while their platform does address as many issues as the Khan-Fisk platform, they hope that by concentrating on advocacy, pragmatic results can be achieved.
“Our rationale behind what GUSA should look like is an advocacy body to be the voice of the student body,” Maduike said. “This system is skewed in favor of people who are already GUSA insiders who already understand the system. If GUSA insiders are trying to be the ones to reform GUSA and there are not fresh perspectives on a ticket leading that conversation, how are we actually going to shift the culture of GUSA?”

Concerned Junior says 
February 17, 2016 at 9:50 pm
This article and these candidates demonstrate pure pandering on two powerful emotional issues for Hoyas. Mental health and race.
I cannot believe the Hoya would let this pass unquestioned.
CAPS has on its staff counselors/psychiatrists employed specifically for addressing the important mental health needs of minority populations. While every CAPS staff members is a generalist, they each have a focus area too. For one, it is the needs of African Americans. For another, it is the needs of the LGBTQ+ community. The list goes on.
That Maduike would propagate blatant mistruths about CAPS’s commitment to diversity presumably to create a villain to win votes is not appropriate for someone who wants us to elect her leader of this campus.
It should also be noted that Maduike, over her three years on this campus, has not participated on the ongoing conversations to reform CAPS. Why would she care about this only now, and not when it has required the legwork?

Hoya says 
February 17, 2016 at 11:17 pm
It is patently false that a disorderly conduct charge would get someone’s application immediately thrown out by a law school or the government, and to say such a thing shows the absolute paranoia of Georgetown students in general, and the naivete of these candidates in particular.

Wrong and Wrong says 
February 17, 2016 at 11:49 pm
1) Courtney and Reed are BOTH GUSA insiders; Reed is a deputy chief of staff and Courtney does What’s a Hoya.
2) Reed will be on campus, perhaps, but he is SUPPOSED to be using his time to run NSO, a commitment he made in OCTOBER
3) Reed was asked not to run by the other people running NSO and he did it anyway so yeah I’m sure that was “straining on relationships,” is that not “disrespectful” in the utmost sense of the word?
4) This IS a power grab. Don’t label it as anything else. You saw an opportunity and you took it. Own up to it like adults, and like the perfect candidates you purport to be.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 17, 2016 by Ian Scoville 1 Comment 
Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) and Chris Fisk’s (COL ’17) Georgetown University Student Association executive campaign slogan, “Breaking Barriers, Building Bridges,” focuses on the campaign’s goals of creating a more inclusive GUSA, a vision that runs throughout its platform, which also addresses the importance of expanding mental health programs, dining options and efforts against sexual assault.
Khan said in The Hoya’s profile of their candidacy that the slogan focuses on opening GUSA up to underrepresented student groups and empowering them, something GUSA’s current structure has been ineffective at doing.
“What that means is that you have multiple students here on campus who care but have no means to get involved or to voice their concerns or to feel empowered,” Khan said. “They’re just sort of left out in the dark and they have nothing that they can do about it, and on top of that they don’t know what’s actually happening because they don’t see GUSA as a resource.”
The Khan-Fisk platform addresses 23 issues, from academics to workers’ rights.
Khan said she had three early priorities in the platform: to address campus dining, the D.C. policing bill and the campus plan. Khan emphasized that the new dining contract has to be approached with student input, given food’s importance in student’s lives.
“Food is very important for me and also to pretty much everyone here on this campus; you know food has such an impact on us, especially as students with the schedules that we have, in terms of our mental health, the effects that it has, the implications. There is a lot to be said just on our dining program alone and that’s a pressing issue right now,” Khan said.
The ticket hopes to make dining plans more accessible, for example, by increasing off-campus dining options using flex dollars and student discounts and expanding the number of locations that accept meal swipes, according to the Khan-Fisk campaign website.
Khan also said the D.C. policing bill — which would allow the Georgetown University Police Department to patrol off campus — needs to be amended to restrict campus police to only patrolling on campus.
“The portion relating to campus police officers needs to be amended because that would be a detriment to this sort of social life and the privacy of students who are living here off campus,” Khan said. “That would give GUPD just way too much access.”
The pair also promised to prioritize the 2017 Campus Plan, which is set to be signed in May or over the summer, if elected. Khan said she would advocate to not sign a campus plan over the summer period.
“My big thing is that the campus plan, cannot and should not be signed when there are no students here on this campus. So, it cannot and should not be signed over the summer,” Khan said.
GUSA Secretary of Campus Planning Ari Goldstein (COL ’18), a co-director of policy for the Khan-Fisk ticket, said approaching master planning with a team will make the process more inclusive.
“Because you have a small number of students who are working hands-on with administrators, then you reach out to the student body when it’s necessary, but that is not as inclusive as possible,” Goldstein said. “So the idea we have is to bring together a large group of students on a master planning team, as one of the many teams on the administration and to train and engage a large group of students to be master planning advocates.”
According to Khan, master planning will be the most challenging project for her potential administration to address, and it is essential that GUSA work with the administration and neighbors to accomplish their goals.
“I think it is important that the future GUSA president and vice president also build a very strong relationship and network with the neighbors that we have here, because again this campus plan affects more than just our campus because the neighbors are key stakeholders,” Khan said.
Fisk said his and Khan’s early priorities also revolve around socio-economic issues.
The official Khan-Fisk platform lists 19 policies to address socio-economic inclusivity on campus, which include GUSA’s advocating for the inclusion of expenses like laundry and printing in tuition so that it is counted toward financial aid as well as support for internship transportation costs.
Sexual assault is a substantial component of the Khan-Fisk platform, with 23 policies addressing the issue. Khan said the Memorandum of Understanding between GUSA and the university that was signed in September must be revisited and completed.
“One big thing with sexual assault is that MOU, so one important thing there is not all elements that have been pushed for have been signed. So a big thing is, ‘let’s get the rest of that signed,’” Khan said.
According to Khan, there is also potential for increasing sexual assault education efforts on campus through the “What’s a Hoya?” program.
Khan and Fisk also emphasized the importance of following through on the Sexual Misconduct Campus Climate Survey and called for the implementation of the Project Callisto system, an online sexual assault reporting system developed by survivors for college students, and mandatory bystander intervention training for all Georgetown students.
GUSA Secretary of Sexual Assault Policy Sarah Rabon (COL ’16) said while the platform offers strong support for current initiatives, she would have liked to see more new ideas included.
“Overall, it’s kind of a lot of things that are already ongoing that are important that I very much hope to see work continuing to happen around after I leave. So that’s definitely a positive,” Rabon said. “And maybe the not so positive: I would have liked to see more original ideas, more new ideas, moving beyond what was already agreed upon with the university, with the memorandum of understanding in the fall semester.”
Rabon also called the sexual assault platform vague, which could prevent it from fully achieving success.
“What I would have been more happy to see is a lot of things are very vague in terms of things like ‘pressure the university to do this and that,’ and if I’ve learned one thing about working with the administration and doing policy work at Georgetown is you need to have very specific metrics and specific goals for policy agendas or they kind of go nowhere,” Rabon said.
Khan said it is important for the platform to be realistic, and that GUSA lending its support to initiatives can be powerful.
“One thing we don’t want to do is sit down here and overpromise everything,” Khan said. “Sometimes it is important when you have an administration that takes a stance on something or GUSA actually takes a stance or position on things, that can be more powerful than we sometimes think. It is important that we make clear that we would lend support to specific areas.”
Khan and Fisk said mental health is another priority for their administration. Khan said repurposing the Mental Health Advisory Board is essential.
“With mental health, the big thing is you have the Mental Health Advisory Board, but students we’ve been sitting down with who are on that advisory board have expressed that there has been a lot of talk but not a lot of doing and execution, and they would like to see that advisory board be repurposed,” Khan said.
In addition, Khan said it is important to work with students to figure out how best to use the 80,000 dollars allocated to hiring a new Counseling and Psychiatric Services employee.
Fisk also stressed the importance of working to address the stigma on campus surrounding mental illness.
“Working with groups on campus who work with mental health issues and talk about how GUSA can help too diminishes the stigma on campus about the issue and also to be sure that someone’s financial status is not a barrier to seeking the help that they may need,” Fisk said.
Fisk said GUSA’s restructuring — where the senate and executive will work on policy together in teams — will help achieve the administration’s policy goals if they are elected.
“Those things are impossible for two people to take care of by ourselves and that’s why we had the collaboration — we have per-issue areas to talk about how we can work together with the experts in a lot of these issue areas because Enushe and I simply cannot be experts in everything … It is really important to keep the structure in mind,” Fisk said.

Student says 
February 17, 2016 at 12:44 pm
>“My big thing is that the campus plan, cannot and should not be signed when there are no students here on this campus. So, it cannot and should not be signed over the summer,” Khan said.
Hmm, I wonder if this has anything to do with the fact that she won’t be here all summer…
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

