
February 16, 2016 by The Hoya Staff Leave a Comment 
A door-to-door poll conducted by The Hoya on Monday night reveals student opinion regarding GUSA’s role on campus, how many students are expected to vote and the key issues facing Georgetown. View the breakdown of the results.
 
Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) and Chris Fisk (COL ’17) are leading the 2016 Georgetown University Student Association Executive race according to The Hoya’s poll conducted Monday night.
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 16, 2016 by The Hoya Staff 3 Comments 
 








Illustrations: (Matthew Trunko/The Hoya)
Methodology
The Hoya conducted a campus-wide, door-to-door poll of Georgetown students Monday night in advance of the Georgetown University Student Association executive election Feb. 18.
Although the polling method is not scientific, it was designed to reduce sample bias and provide transparency for demographics.
More than 25 Hoya staff members administered the anonymous survey Monday evening in all campus dormitories and apartment buildings and in townhouses on streets in west Georgetown selected for their high proportion of student residences. Polling began at 9:00 p.m. and was completed by 10:30 p.m. The schedule and locations for polling were not announced beforehand.
A total of 599 Georgetown students completed the survey, which asked students about their views on the relevance of GUSA and the performance of the current GUSA executives, their views of the current election — including their vote choice — a series of demographic questions and a question to gauge the main issues students want their next GUSA executives to address. Respondents were also asked whether they planned to vote in Thursday’s election, allowing the results of some poll questions to be narrowed to a set of likely voters, which number 299 in the aggregate.
These measures limited readership bias, prevented respondents from being polled twice and sought to present a sample representative of the student body. However, as was the case last year, respondents to the poll were mostly underclassmen, likely because of the relative inaccessibility of junior and senior housing.

Gramm-ER Nazi says 
February 16, 2016 at 4:33 pm
You spelled Registration Wrong!

An Alum says 
February 17, 2016 at 1:13 am
I love that two sandwiches are giving people a run for their money! 
To all the freshmen out there who don’t know yet: GUSA is ineffective (Not necessarily the fault of students in GUSA, maybe they just don’t have much leeway. Who knows!) and electing two sandwiches would likely do more to reform GUSA than any other candidate would. Look at how upperclassmen’s votes are divided between people and sandwiches. Learn from this.
Also electing sandwiches would just be amazing. And Wisey’s is amazing. Wish I could vote for these two excellent sandwiches.

Concerned Senior says 
February 18, 2016 at 2:02 am
Dear Underclassmen, 
I urge you to vote for Hot Chick and Chicken Madness. My Freshmen year I historically voted to help elect the first openly gay student body president of a Jesuit University. This year you have the chance to elect the first sandwich president. Don’t pass up on the opportunity to make history. 
with love,
concerned senior
ps Because you all are too sensitive and I know someone will be offended by this- before you comment stop. take a breadth. realize this is a joke and I’m not actually comparing being gay or Nate Tisa (great guy and GUSA prez btw) to a sandwich. then vote for Hot Chick and Chicken Madness!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 16, 2016 by Ashwin Puri 2 Comments 
Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) and Chris Fisk (COL ’17) are leading the 2016 Georgetown University Student Association executive race with 25.5 percent of respondents selecting the Khan-Fisk ticket, according to a door-to-door poll conducted by The Hoya on Monday night.
Khan and Fisk are trailed by the write-in campaign of the Wisemiller’s Hot Chick and Chicken Madness sandwiches at 19.5 percent, followed by the write-in campaign of Reed Howard (SFS ’17) and Courtney Maduike (SFS ’17) at 6.2 percent. Howard and Maduike launched their ticket Monday evening with a social media campaign and informal town hall, approximately three hours before The Hoya conducted its poll.
 
The write-in campaign of Harsh Thakker (SFS ’18) and Anton Smaliak (SFS ’18) came last, with 1.3 percent of respondents selecting the Thakker-Smaliak ticket. Among all 599 respondents to The Hoya’s poll, 47 percent remain undecided. The 599 respondents surveyed consisted of 221 freshman, 177 sophomores, 146 juniors and 55 seniors.
Among the 299 out of 599 respondents who self-identified as ‘likely voters,’ the Khan-Fisk tickets performed noticeably better, with 38.5 percent of the vote. Out of likely voters, Hot Chick and Chicken Madness received 19.7 percent of the vote, followed by Howard and Maduike with 10 percent of the vote and the Thakker-Smaliak ticket with 0.7 percent of likely voters. As of press time, 31.1 percent of likely voters remain undecided.
“This reassures us that there are students who really believe in the vision that we are trying to work towards,” Khan said.
“It’s comforting to note that given the state of the race, it’s not promoting apathy but instead inspiring certain people to want to get involved,” Fisk said.
The students polled show a similar apathy toward GUSA as previous election cycles, with 6.6 percent citing GUSA as very relevant, 49.8 percent citing it as somewhat relevant, 29.6 percent citing it as not very relevant and 13.7 percent citing it as not relevant at all. In comparison, in 2015, 7.1 percent of student respondents cited GUSA as very relevant, 46.6 percent cited it as somewhat relevant, 31.4 percent cited it as not very relevant and 14.9 percent cited it as not relevant at all.
“I don’t really have a barometer for how that trend [on relevancy] is moving, but GUSA works on a lot of things behind the scenes, and not in the face of everyday students, so I’m not totally surprised to see some of those not very relevant numbers be that high,” GUSA President Joe Luther (COL ’16) said. “Ultimately, GUSA is advocacy on behalf of the student body and making sure students feel some sort of investment in the group will make it more successful.”
 
Student respondents exhibited a higher satisfaction rate with the administration of Luther and Connor Rohan (COL ’16) than the previous administration of Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15) and Omika Jikaria (SFS ’15), with 35.3 percent approving, 5 percent disapproving and 58.9 percent unsure, compared to 27.4 percent of respondents approving of the Tezel and Jikaria administration, 2.9 percent disapproving and 69.7 percent unsure.
I’m glad to see that the unsure rating has gone down. One of our biggest focuses this year is engaging people on what GUSA is doing, so people having an opinion is a good sign,” Luther said. “I’m glad that more people feel informed enough to make a decision about how they feel about what GUSA is up to.”
“I’m glad our approval ratings are better than George W. Bush’s at the end of his second term,” Luther said.
Campaign manager and translator for the write-in campaign of Hot Chick and Chicken Madness Anirudha Vaddadi (SFS ’16) expressed his excitement for the sandwiches’ results in The Hoya’s polling.
“We’re really excited that the Georgetown students know what we stand for and understand our tickets. We know that they’re hungry for change and we are looking forward to take first place this Thursday and bring about change in 15 to 20 minutes,“Vaddadi said. “It’s always good being in first place so we were hoping for that, but we know a campaign is a marathon not a sprint.”
According to GUSA Election Commissioner Alden Fletcher (SFS ’17), if the write-in campaign of Hot Chick and Chicken Madness won the election, a new election would have to be called.
“The senate has to vote and certify the election before any candidate can be sworn in. Section 13.414 of the bylaws states the senate votes to deny the certification, another election must be held no later than two weeks after the vote,” Fletcher said. “It’s my understanding that should that happen, we wouldn’t default to a second place candidate, but rather, we would hold another election very shortly after this one.”
The write-in campaign of Howard and Maduike, who are petitioning the GUSA Constitutional Council to be added to the official ballot, is optimistic it will continue to garner student support and gain traction leading up to the election Thursday.
“That sounds great actually seeing as though we started an hour and a half before you started polling,” Howard said. “People are just so willing to volunteer their time to help us which has been very cool and really humbling.”
The ticket of Thakker and Smaliak was unable to be reached for comment before press time.
In addition to metrics-based polling about GUSA, student respondents were asked to name what they believe is the most pressing issue facing Georgetown. The greatest number of respondents chose the campus plan, with 23.8 percent of votes. Following the campus plan was construction at 21.7 percent, sexual assault at 19 percent, mental health at 18.8 percent and worker’s rights and accessibility at 7 percent and 5.9 percent, respectively.
The 2016 GUSA executive ballot will also include a referendum on live registration. Out of survey respondents, 41.4 percent voted in favor of pre-registration, compared to 11.4 in favor of live registration. Of the 599 respondents, 46.6 percent were unsure.
The 2016 GUSA executive election and the referendum will be held digitally Thursday, Feb. 18.
Hoya Staff Writers Kshithij Shrinath and Mallika Sen contributed reporting.

Jobbo'18 says 
February 16, 2016 at 5:03 pm
Thakker and Smaliak withdrew from the race a couple days ago.  More bad reporting from The Hoya.

Student says 
February 16, 2016 at 5:23 pm
Construction and the campus plan are essentially the same issue and should have been polled as such.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 16, 2016 by Patricja Okuniewska 1 Comment 
Candidates in the Georgetown University Student Association executive race Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) and Chris Fisk (COL ’17) clarified their platform and voiced motivations for their candidacy at a GUSA-sponsored town hall event in the Healey Family Student Center great room Monday evening.
GUSA Election Commissioner Alden Fletcher (SFS ’17) moderated the town hall, which took a different format from previous debates, because the Khan-Fisk ticket is currently the only named ticket on the ballot.
As of press time, multiple write-in campaigns have formed, including the campaign of Reed Howard (SFS ’17) and Courtney Maduike (SFS ’17), who held an informal town hall event in the Former Jesuit Residence on Monday night.
The town hall, which allowed Khan and Fisk to provide individual opening and closing statements, included questions from campus media organizations The Hoya, The Voice and The Heckler — GUTV was absent — as well as from students on Twitter using the hashtag #GUSA2016 and members of the audience.
Around 50 students attended the town hall, which was followed by a short question-and-answer session with the write-in candidates. Only the Wisemiller’s Chicken Madness sandwich and its translator, Anirudha Vaddadi (SFS ’16), participated in the write-in question-and-answer session.
Khan, who is originally from Dubai, United Arab Emirates, began her opening statement by discussing her experience getting involved on campus her freshman year.
“I came to campus initially wanting to focus on school and singing. And then I went to Leo’s and things changed,” Khan said. “I am someone who likes finding solutions to the things that dissatisfy me. And as a Muslim student, my big thing was introducing halal into the dining options on campus. I realized that potentially GUSA could be an avenue to make something happen.”
Khan said her roles as GUSA speaker of the senate and senator have led to the realization that the senate as a whole is not fully representative of the student body.
“Issues that we focus on this campus depend on who is in GUSA, and what GUSA focuses on depends on who’s in GUSA,” Khan said. “GUSA as it is right now does not represent the student body, which is why I am focusing on organizing a GUSA that looks like Georgetown.”
Fisk said his involvement in GUSA began with advocating for various unrecognized student groups on campus.
“Even though the administration doesn’t recognize them, we as students recognize them. I feel like it’s important that GUSA play a role in making sure that they have access to benefits,” Fisk said.
Fisk explained how his and Khan’s backgrounds alongside their policies will help make GUSA more inclusive.
“I think we both share appreciation for the variety of perspectives that are on this campus and the importance that they all should have in the role of GUSA as an advocacy group,” Fisk said. “I think that both myself and Enushe come from communities that don’t necessarily find themselves represented very well in the GUSA conversation and are putting stress on issues.”
Khan said campus planning and the new dining contract will be priorities for her administration.
“This year, we are really going through negotiations with campus planning. So that will definitely be a priority area, especially in ensuring that student demands and priorities are put in [the campus plan],” Khan said. “Something else that we’ll be facing this year is the expiration of the Aramark contract. It is important to ensure that the dining program we have is reflective of what students actually want.”
Khan said GUSA should work with unrecognized student groups to help them gain access to funding and other services such as reserving campus facilities for events, adding that Greek life plays an important role in Georgetown’s social atmosphere.
“One thing we have discussed is we can aid in establishment of Greek council, because especially with the email that went out early this year from student affairs in terms of putting down Greek life and saying that it has no essential place on this campus, we mention that a big portion of our students are involved in Greek life and while the university does not recognize it, we as students should recognize that it exists,” Khan said.
Fisk said GUSA can work together with unrecognized groups to support their initiatives.
“There are concrete ways that GUSA can just help. Student groups like H*yas for Choice do not have access to benefits like reserving space. GUSA cannot fund that process, but GUSA can co-sponsor. And I guarantee that if SigEp is having a 5K for sexual assault awareness, GUSA should be co-sponsoring with that,” Fisk said.
Khan said GUSA should open up to allow students a greater voice.
“We have a GUSA that dictates what role we have and what issue they are going focusing on without necessarily having that element of consultation with students or having that seat at the table for students to also bring those issues,” Khan said.
Fisk said he thinks people who are knowledgeable about issues should be involved in advocacy on campus.
“There are a large amount of students who are passionate about these issues, and I think opening it up to a team-based approach — that anyone who is passionate about them and that wants to enter the conversation — is the best way to do that. GUSA’s role is not to monopolize people’s issues,” Fisk said.
Fisk explained that GUSA should better support students on Medicaid when it comes to medical bills.
“I think an important part to explore is that Georgetown University needs to step up for students who are on Medicaid … Georgetown should step up in general if students are below a certain income level to support them in terms of health insurance on campus,” Fisk said.
Khan said there is room for greater freshman involvement in GUSA with the potential restructuring.
“We will have freshmen on each policy team. We want a minimum of one freshman on each team because it’s important that rather than freshmen be left to work on programming exclusively, they also be driving policy changes,” Khan said.
Fisk also stated his support for pre-registration.
“If we don’t have a good time using Wi-Fi already, can you imagine everyone logging in at once to register for classes? That’s my take on it, and I support pre-registration for that reason,” Fisk said.
Through a Twitter question, Khan and Fisk were asked if they considered switching positions on the ticket in light of the fact that Khan will not be on campus this summer. Fisk explained that GUSA is about being a team, rather than just about the president.
“It’s really a misconception that the GUSA executive is one person. You’re electing two people because they try and encompass what you feel is important and take on the issues of the student body, and you’re also electing two people that will assemble a team that will be representative of the student body,” Khan said. “To think that one person being away for a few weeks is detrimental and going to destroy the team is obviously mistaken.”
As a response to a question about the future of the Georgetown Scholarship Program, Fisk said GSP needs further support so it can help more students.
“I think they deserve their own space, because the basement of Healy is too small,” Fisk said. “And I think the main problem with GSP is that its support stops at a certain income level, and if we had more funds … I think GSP’s goal is to cover as many students as possible.”
Before the debate’s conclusion, Khan discussed arts advocacy as an underdiscussed and significant issue to the student body.
Candidates ended the debate with four-minute closing statements to end the hourlong event.
Voting for the GUSA executive race will commence Thursday, Feb. 18.
Hoya Staff Writers Ashwin Puri and Syed Humza Moinuddin contributed reporting.

HoyaSaxa says 
February 17, 2016 at 1:54 am
YAS enushe <3
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 16, 2016 by Jack Lynch 10 Comments 
Reed Howard (SFS ’17) and Courtney Maduike (SFS ’17) announced their entrance into the 2016 Georgetown University Student Association executive race through a social media campaign and an informal town hall event in the Former Jesuit Residence great room Monday night, the same time as the official town hall in the Healey Family Student Center.
The campaign will join the recent rise of write-in campaigns, which also include the Hot Chick and Chicken Madness, and Harsh Thakker (SFS ’18) and Anton Smaliak (SFS ’18).
Howard previously served as GUSA Deputy Chief of Staff in the executive of former President Trevor Tezel (SFS ‘15) and Vice President Omika Jikaria (SFS ‘15), in addition to serving as an Advisory Neighborhood Commissioner for district 2E and as a New Student Orientation Coordinator.
Maduike has no prior experience serving in the GUSA Senate, but has served as a coordinator for the GUSA Executive-sponsored “What’s a Hoya?” program. Maduike is also member of the Georgetown University Women of Color board, a founding member of the Georgetown Africa Business Conference, a member of the Blue & Grey Tour Guide Society and a sister in the Delta Phi Epsilon Professional Foreign Service Sorority.
Former GUSA presidential candidates Sara Margolis (COL ’16) and Chris Wadibia (COL ’16) both moderated the town hall, which was attended by approximately 25 students. Howard and Maduike discussed the factors that motivated hem to join the race, most prominently the desire to give Georgetown students an alternative to the Khan-Fisk campaign.
“Realizing that there was only one ticket in the race and realizing the difficult position that that put the student body in and not having an actual choice of a student who we could elect as the next GUSA executive … we wanted to make sure that the student body had an alternative or had an opportunity to exercise that agency,” Maduike said.
Howard and Maduike are currently running as write-in candidates, but have filed an appeal with the GUSA Constitutional Council to be added to the official ballot this Thursday.
Howard and Maduike first petitioned the GUSA Election Commission on Sunday, but the commission denied the request the same day, citing Howard and Maduike’s failure to attend either of two mandatory information sessions and meet deadlines for submitting election paperwork.
The Howard-Maduike ticket argues that no part of GUSA’s bylaws allows the Election Commission to mandate attendance at information sessions and the current one-ticket race presents unique circumstances.
According to GUSA Election Commissioner Alden Fletcher (SFS ’17), the Election Commission maintains that its refusal to admit Howard and Maduike to the ballot is valid.
“The election committee has to enforce the rules in the bylaws and meet the requirements of the conditions in the bylaws, and to do so requires running on deadlines to make the process function. While those aren’t elaborated specifically in the bylaws, those are sort of the necessary tools to have a coherent process,” Fletcher said in an interview with The Hoya.
The Election Commission also stressed that the circumstances of the current one-ticket ballot does not necessitate or allow a change to procedure. This year’s election is the first time GUSA has seen a one-ticket race for the executive.
“It is not appropriate to change the rules of an election just because a group of people might be unhappy with the initial outcome. That would not be fair to candidates who attended the info sessions, filed budgets, have been campaigning for a week and a half and followed the rules,” the commission wrote in an email to Howard and Maduike.
Chris Grocki (SFS ’17) and Jeff Naft (COL ’17) also appealed on Feb. 9 to be placed on the ballot and were rejected by the GUSA Constitutional Council.
Howard and Maduike said having a GUSA presidential candidate who will be on campus this summer during campus plan discussions is pivotal to ensure a campus plan agreement that represents students’ interests.
Last week, The Hoya reported that GUSA presidential candidate Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) will complete a 10-week investment banking internship with Goldman Sachs and will not be on campus for day-to-day discussions with administration if elected this summer. Khan’s running mate, Chris Fisk (COL ’17) will head campus planning talks, supported by a team of seven Khan-Fisk staffers.
Howard, in his position as a New Student Orientation Coordinator, plans to work part time in that capacity over the summer, while also attending campus plan meetings on campus.
“I think a big thing is that the GUSA executive needs to be here over the summer, and so finding out that some of the candidates are considering taking obligations that will bring them away from the city was a huge factor,” Howard said. “Students deserve someone that’s going to be here fighting for them.”
During the town hall, Howard and Maduike outlined three main pillars of their campaign policy: college affordability, race issues on the Hilltop and advocating for students in regards to the 2017-2037 Campus Plan.
On the topic of college affordability, the Howard-Maduike ticket stressed the importance of combatting undergraduate tuition increases.
“It’s time for GUSA to stop giving the administration a free pass on rising tuition rates. Over the past couple decades we’ve seen tuition soar and yet there has been little questions that GUSA has asked about where these tuition dollars are being spent,” Reed said.
Howard and Maduike also emphasized the importance of expanding on University President John J. DeGioia’s recent initiatives on race, which include the expansion of African American studies into a major department.
“We would want programming that goes into ensuring that students examine and are aware of Georgetown’s racial history with slavery and reconciliation and making sure that that’s a part of Georgetown’s identity and not just part of Georgetown’s black identity,” Maduike said.
Howard and Maduike said they are confident in their ticket’s ability to gain awareness among students and stage a viable opposition to the Khan-Fisk campaign.
“Sometimes I think positivity is infectious and we’re just going to have a lot of fun with this and hope that word travels,” Howard said. “Students want a choice in this election and so I think us giving students a choice whether or not they vote for us or not is going to create a buzz.”
Hoya Staff Writers Ian Scoville and Ashwin Puri contributed reporting.
 

Hoya that doesn't like being lied to says 
February 16, 2016 at 3:03 am
“Maduike has no prior experience serving in GUSA” hmmm that’s interesting considering she was a coordinator for What’s a Hoya for a year, literally a part of GUSA.

A Blind Man says 
February 16, 2016 at 10:39 am
I have questions about the Reed/Courtney ticket. This whole election has seemed shady to me, like I’m actually watching the shadows of something way bigger beyond my field of vision but these two candidates are particularly weird. I’m going to raise a few points because it seems like nobody else (especially you Hoya, your journalistic integrity this election cycle is hovering between FOX and Infowars) is asking questions about this second ticket. I’m being harsh, because conversation is desperately needed.
Who decides to run for GUSA three days before the election? I’ll tell you: nobody.
This whole showing up as the darkhorse and just “providing an alternative” is a nuanced, strategic decision. It makes sense: we have had weeks, months even, to vet Enushe and Chris. We know everything about them. We’ve made a huge show of Enushe’s Goldman Sachs job, we’ve picked apart their platform. We will have no such opportunity with Reed and Courtney. By coming in at the last minute, they have set things up so that this campaign is the facts of Enushe and Chris versus the ideas of Reed and Courtney. I have serious objections to a ticket which is unwilling to face the public evaluation.
And unwilling they have been. Not only did they not attend a single Election Commission mandated pre-filing event (and yet still act scandalized that they are not on the ballot – follow the rules and you reap the rewards), they also did not attend the Election Commission’s town hall last night. Instead, they held their own event in a building a block away. This protected them from hard questions and public scrutiny. I certainly couldn’t be at both. It is worth noting that, even as a write in candidacy, they would have been able to make opening and closing statements and answer questions from campus media and the floor had they attended the legitimate election cycle event. Reed and Courtney will be going to the ballot box without having participated in a single facet of the Georgetown election cycle. What do Reed and Courtney have to hide?
It is worth noting that Reed has made statements about why he came into the election so late. I don’t know much about GUSA, and who am I to contribute to the rumor mill, but here it is. He claimed that Chris Fisk (the Vice Presidential half of Enushe and Chris) “intimidated” him out of running with his “friendship”. Essentially, assuming (a big assumption) this is true, Chris convinced Reed not to run because Chris was running and told Reed they wouldn’t be friends anymore if Reed ran? And that was enough to convince Reed? At first, as a Enushe and Chris supporter, I was a little taken aback by Chris. This isn’t what we expect from someone who brands himself as a teddy bear. Then I thought about the situation as it scales to either of them in executive office. As President, Reed would be expected to represent our student interests against an occasionally hostile administration and even – God forbid – the people of Burleith. We need a President who is strong, whose commitment to Georgetown and whose drive to serve this student body is bigger than being “intimidated” by a “friendship”. This is not what I want in the person sitting across from John Carrey’s neighbors as they verbally berate our President and hard choices need to be made. If he can’t stand up to a conversation between friends, what can he stand up to? I don’t want a President who cries uncle, or just stays silent. And if I did, I’d elect a sandwich.
And what about Chris? Did he convince Reed not to run? If so, good for him. It’s not the most aboveground thing that’s ever happened, but that’s what a vice president is for. Vice Presidents are for getting into the mud and making things happen. This is why I find this story difficult to believe.
Another question I have: what is going on with Reed and Courtney and GUSA?
Maybe I’m old fashioned, but I like my leaders of organizations to be from the organizations they’re supposed to be leading. Where have Reed and Courtney been? They are telling us they should be the top dogs, but they’ve been unwilling to put in the grunt work as mid-range GUSA. On their facebook page, they talk about how Reed was an assistant Chief of Staff two years ago. Where was he last year? Did he take a sabbatical? Write a novel? It seems to me that he flat out left GUSA for the past year. Why did this happen? Did he quit in rage when Luther/Rohan won? Does he not have good working relationships with the current leadership? In any case, he’s not in-tune with where GUSA is now. If elected, he’d have to spend weeks/months just trying to figure out what is going on. Those are weeks/months when the administration can write their own campus plan unencumbered by an informed student association.
What about Courtney? There’s no denying she’s incredibly involved on campus. So why does that impressive resume not include GUSA? She casts herself as a GUSA outsider, and that disturbs me a little. When somebody is as involved in Courtney it seems like it would actually take some work to avoid getting involved with the advocacy work available through the student association. Do we really want someone leading our GUSA who seems to have an active contempt for it? Who has made little attempt to engage in it? One doesn’t need to be Vice-President to improve an organization. Why does she insist on us giving her such an impressive title in order for her to start making changes? Where has Courtney been for the last two years?
Oh – but she has been in GUSA, hasn’t she? She’s a What’s a Hoya coordinator. So at her kabuki town hall last night she claimed she wasn’t in GUSA, while simultaneously being integral to GUSA. Just, not the sort of GUSA anybody wants to take credit for. It makes sense. Better to claim no affiliation with GUSA than to call into question one’s administrative ability by confessing to be behind WAH.
And what about their platform?
Seems to me like they sat down and put together some platitudes and hoped nobody would look too closely.
Rising tuition costs: at least from my understanding, tuition costs are rising as a gesture of inclusivity. Those who can pay more pay more so that those who can’t can come to the hilltop. I cannot fathom how Reed and Courtney are against this. Perhaps they’d like to go into detail of exactly what extraneous tuition-based administration spending they would slash?
What’s really funny is that while saying they want to hold tuition down out of one side of their mouth they announce that they want more diversity training out of the other. We can all get behind diversity training, which is probably why they said it. Goodness knows we don’t want a ticket which takes a position on something controversial. It must be mentally complex to simultaneously say they want tuition down and say they want more programming on the administration’s dime.
This is a simplistic platform that reveals a familiarity only with the issues which are relevant to Reed and Courtney. They are not prepared, and our executive team owes it to us that from day one they are working. Education and platform building should not be happening in office. Every day of figuring it out is a day of advocacy and innovation wasted.
This is a good start to getting a real conversation going. There are a lot of campus issues that neither candidate set has addressed, but that does not make them equals.
The only people for whom electing Reed and Courtney is the better than electing Enushe and Chris are Reed and Courtney.

A Blind Man says 
February 16, 2016 at 11:46 pm
Let’s talk about one other thing. Reed is running as the purist alternative to Enushe/Chris.
Their slogan is about them being here.
Reed is not here for us. He is a paid NSO coordinator, and will be just as absent as he is claiming Enushe will be.
Let’s think about that for a moment.
Let’s repeat it: Reed also has a summer job. He would be little to no more here this summer than Enushe would be.
Reed has demonstrated that he is no better, and is just as committed as his opposition this summer. So now that that one single hold – his only claim to maybe being a superior Presidential candidate – is gone, how does he stand up to Enushe? Dollars to donuts, he just doesn’t. Enushe has been here for Georgetown every step of the way. She quit the Phantoms for GUSA. She mastered complex policy for GUSA. She and Chris have spent months interacting with every facet of campus so that the platform they have now produced is a platform of solutions, not a platform of complaints (like a certain opposition – those three points which are really like 30 points are all just coopted from Enushe and Chris anyway), and a platform of solutions that reflects the interests of the entire hilltop.
If she’s taking this Goldman job, you can bet your bottom dollar there must be a darn good reason. And, honestly, we can’t demand our most qualified candidates, here in 2016, to give up their entire lives for GUSA. We as a student body have done a pretty piss-poor job supporting our student association. How can we expect candidates to give everything to an organization we give nothing to?
Enushe is the best we can get, and I’m thankful she’s even willing to run. Honestly, she’s better than we deserve. Maybe if you want better presidential candidates, build a better GUSA.
Oh, on that last note, I fail to comprehend how voting Chicken Madness will somehow generate a mystical solution to the perceived problems. So what, new tickets show up? People who weren’t willing to serve when the election season started back in January but want a slice of the power now that the pickings are easier? Gee, I want those people to be my student leaders. Starting the election cycle over is idiotic. Not to mention that would put the election cycle  critical weeks of campus planning. The administration and the citizens of Burleith must be jumping with the joy at the possibility of Georgetown students being naive enough to vote for sandwiches as an act of misplaced rebellion. Nothing hurts us more.
Apparently my comment this morning generated a little buzz. This is me announcing: I do not have a horse in this race. I’m just doing what nobody else is: trying to make sure that we see every side of this issue, seeing how our campus media have opted for the good story and generated conflict over representing what is actually going on.

A fellow student says 
February 17, 2016 at 1:21 pm
Bud, get a life…

Yo says 
February 17, 2016 at 11:50 pm
v interesting, so insightful

Concerned Hoya says 
February 18, 2016 at 1:10 am
Come on Brett. We know you found a life with this campaign, but this is desperate..

Jobbo'18 says 
February 18, 2016 at 1:21 am
Sure you have a horse in this raise, Ken Nunnenkamp.

Just Passing Through says 
February 17, 2016 at 8:56 pm
REED IS GOING TO BE AN NSO COORDINATOR AKA A FULL TIME JOB THIS SUMMER WHY IS THIS A THING HE CAN’T FULFILL BOTH DUTIES OMG

Concerned Student says 
February 18, 2016 at 12:05 am
Is Enushe not doing the same thing? At least he’ll be in Georgetown while Enushe will be in NY.

Just Passing Through says 
February 19, 2016 at 7:32 am
Missed the sarcasm, Concerned Student. Better luck next time.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

