
February 12, 2016 by Ian Scoville Leave a Comment 
Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) and Chris Fisk (COL ’17) are running unopposed for the Georgetown University Student Association executive with a united vision for bringing diverse communities at Georgetown together, despite following differing paths to the Hilltop.
Khan, born and raised in Dubai, said she had college on her mind from an early age.
“I did my college road trip I guess in eighth or ninth grade — I was eager,” Khan said.
Fisk, a first-generation college student who comes from a low-income, single-parent household in Florida, said college was a more abstract process for him.
“My brother went to Florida State, so when it came time for me to apply to colleges, I really had no idea what I was doing,” Fisk said. “I had a guidance counselor in high school of a school of a few thousand, so he said, ‘well you know, you might as well apply to as many schools as you can and see what happens.’”
Fisk said the Georgetown Scholarship Program coupled with Georgetown’s location in Washington, D.C., is what brought him to Georgetown.
“I got acceptance letters to multiple places but Georgetown was kind of the best financial aid package for me. I got admitted to the Georgetown Scholarship Program, which covered me almost completely, and without that I probably wouldn’t be out of state,” Fisk said. “But thanks to GSP, that’s kind of what got me here, if not, it wouldn’t have been economically feasible for me or my family to do.”
The pair has also followed different paths on campus. Although both participate in GUSA and sing in a cappella groups —Khan is in the Georgetown Phantoms and Fisk is in the Georgetown Saxatones — their other interests diverge.
Khan, currently the GUSA speaker of the senate, has served as chair of Interfaith and Service for the Muslim Student Association and performs in Rangila, among other activities.
Fisk, who serves as GUSA deputy of chief, co-chair of the GSP co-partnerships and as an Advocacy Board and Blue and Gray board member, said the GSP has been a strong motivating factor in becoming so involved.
“GSP was the first place I felt comfortable on campus, naturally,” Fisk said. “So [what] drove me to get more involved in student government and GSP and Blue and Gray and other things was the fact that I didn’t really see many other GSP students in those kind of organizations.”
Khan said she originally did not plan on getting involved in student government in college, but that her experiences at Georgetown forced her to find ways to get involved.
“And obviously I come here and I see issues with dining, I see issues with residential living. When you’re a freshman and when you’re with other freshmen, all freshmen seem to talk about is how Leo’s sucks,” Khan said. “I’m not someone who likes to complain. I like being able to do something when I see something wrong. I like finding solutions; I can’t sit still.”
GUSA Secretary for Campus Planning and Khan-Fisk Co-Director of Policy Ari Goldstein (COL ’18) said Khan and Fisk’s contrasts are what make them a strong team.
“Chris’ best skill in his many skills is in dealing with people. Enushe’s best skill in her many skills is in dealing with policy and thoughtful strategic planning,” Goldstein said. “So as speaker of the senate, she has been able to facilitate sometimes contentious conversations and to direct people and make sure they get their work done.”
GUSA Chief of Staff Abbey McNaughton (COL ’16) said Khan and Fisk together have a depth of policy knowledge.
“I think they’re a very strong combination of Enushe bringing this policy background, work experience in the senate and Chris bringing work within the executive, but they also both come from different parts of campus,” McNaughton said. “I know Chris is focused a lot on socio-economic issues. Enushe’s been involved in the arts, dining, campus planning, those things. I definitely trust that they have a good breadth of issue areas covered.”
Fisk said both he and Khan were initially apprehensive about running for the executive, but an off-the-cuff conversation brought the topic to the forefront.
“We came to the decision like well if you want to do it together we’ll do it, but if not, it’s okay,” Fisk said. “We knew we complemented each other very well. We had the same vision and kind of both saw the same problems in GUSA, and we said ‘Okay, we’ll do it if we do it together.’”
Khan said both she and Fisk identified GUSA’s exclusivity as being a problem on which GUSA needed to improve.
“GUSA in general needs to be more inclusive, and that was a big thing for Chris, and we just noticed that we had the same overarching ideas,” Khan said.
Inclusivity is a critical aspect of the Khan-Fisk ticket, from campaign organization to policy development. Khan said they developed policy with a bottom-up approach with the help of experienced students.
“We really had to think big,” Khan said. “We had to think what are the issue areas we want to address. Who are people who are very involved in those issue areas already? And then beyond that, it was getting the teams together.”
Fisk noted that this will be a change from previous campaigns, which have typically had one or two people develop each strand of the platform.
Inclusivity is a key aspect of the Khan-Fisk platform and toits slogan, “Breaking Barriers, Building Bridges,” particularly as it relates to GUSA’s interactions with student groups.
“There are very few select groups that GUSA has traditionally catered to, and that has kind of been the status quo as long as we’ve been here. So that’s the need to break the barriers,” Khan said.
Khan said the second component of the slogan, “Building Bridges,” is focused on empowering students. According to Khan, GUSA’s current structure of an executive and senate operating separately has made it challenging for students to get involved.
“What that means is that you have multiple students here on campus who care but have no means to get involved or to voice their concerns or to feel empowered,” Khan said. “They’re just sort of left out in the dark and they have nothing that they can do about it, and on top of that they don’t know what’s actually happening because they don’t see GUSA as a resource.”
Khan said this vision for inclusiveness is what gave her and Fisk the motivation to run.
“This was a matter of, ‘okay this is a big step, we’re going to do this if it’s the right vision and the right team and the right kind of intentions,’” Khan said. “And that’s sort of what made me think let’s do it, we’re going to run, together.”
An in-depth article about the Khan-Fisk platform will be published in the coming days as an online exclusive.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 12, 2016 by Riley Solter 1 Comment 
The Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service hosted an election results watch party for the New Hampshire primary election on Tuesday in Old North, drawing around 30 students and staff members to discuss the decisive victories of presidential candidates Sen. Bernie Sanders (D-Vt.) and Donald Trump.
IPPS Executive Director Mo Elleithee (SFS ’94) and America Rising Super PAC Executive Director Colin Reed facilitated the discussion and shared observations about the race. Elleithee served as former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s senior spokesperson during her 2008 campaign, while Reed directs a nonaffiliated conservative organization that exclusively targets Clinton.
The intimate contest in the small state of New Hampshire holds a unique status as the nation’s first primary election, while the Feb. 1 Iowa caucuses consisted solely of a selection of delegates. After a record turnout of over 550,000 people, the primary followed the expectations of polls with Trump outperforming the other Republican candidates with 35.3 percent of the vote and Sanders beating Clinton with 60.4 percent of the vote.
Elleithee said Sanders’ victory in New Hampshire, which included overwhelming support from the youth vote and a surprising victory in the demographic of women voters, exposes weaknesses in Clinton’s campaign, which in turn, could allow Sanders to win the nomination.
“Bernie Sanders has an opportunity now to seize upon this incredibly decisive victory among some demographics that are part of the bedrock of the Democratic coalition: women and young voters, which he won decisively,” Elleithee said. “He has an opportunity to build on that and create momentum for himself.”
Reed attributed Clinton’s loss to her support base, noting her ties to New York and the financial sector of the population.
“The Dems are going further to the left. There’s a real passion against the banking industry, the financial service industry, Wall Street that Sanders is tapping into eloquently,” Reed said. “Clinton was a senator from New York; obviously, she has a different relationship with them than if she was a fire-breathing populist from Vermont.”
On the Republican side, Elleithee expressed skepticism at the apparent dominance of the Trump campaign, crediting his success to a divided electoral field.
“Thirty-four percent. A third of Republicans support him. You know what that tells you? And maybe I’m sugarcoating it because I haven’t come to terms with this yet, but two-thirds of Republicans don’t support him,” Elleithee said. “Give him credit for 34 percent — that’s impressive. But it still tells me that the majority of Republicans aren’t comfortable with this guy as their standard bearer.”
Governor John Kasich (R-Ohio) finished higher than expected in second place with 15.8 percent of the vote. Kasich was one of four moderate, establishment Republicans who vied for second in New Hampshire, along with former Governor of Florida Jeb Bush, Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) and Governor Chris Christie (R-N.J.). Christie dropped out of the race after finishing sixth in the primary, along with former Hewlett-Packard executive Carly Fiorina.
Elleithee attributes Kasich’s success to staying out of the fray and rising above the negativity that has defined the race.
“Kasich worked the hell out of this race. He just worked it and worked it, and there isn’t a single person running for president in either party who was just so relentlessly optimistic and positive,” Elleithee said. “I think he’s going to run straight into a brick wall in South Carolina, but he beat conventional wisdom.”
Lauren Zelt (COL ’09), press secretary for Sen. Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.), teleconferenced into the event, relaying her observations from the ground in Dixville Notch, a small town containing nine votes where voting occurs at midnight and where Kasich won three Republican votes to Trump’s two.
“There was a lot of energy for Kasich today. I was at Dixville Notch last night, and it’s a small town, but everybody was talking about it all morning,” Zelt said.
Once the poll results were finalized, the discussion at the event quickly turned to speculation about who would win the eventual nomination.
Demographically, New Hampshire consists of 94 percent white voters, causing students at the watch party to question its accuracy at predicting the rest of the primaries.
Elleithee said the anti-establishment messages of Sanders and Trump have given them the advantage among voters.
“The average American believes that they are getting screwed,” Elleithee said. “What they want is a champion. Someone who will wake up every day and fight for them.”
Rubio, who came in fifth with 10.5 percent of the vote, had around six supporters at the watch party. Hunter Estes (COL ’18) remained unfazed despite the defeat, believing that Rubio would do well in the upcoming primaries and the general election.
“I think looking between other establishment candidates, he brings the most energy to the game, his rhetorical skills are phenomenal and what it comes down to is the most optimistic and hopeful message for the future of the U.S.,” Estes said.
Sanders supporter Aditya Pande (SFS ’18) said he was excited by the implications of his candidate’s victory for the future of the Democratic Party, even if he does not end up winning the nomination.
“Even if he doesn’t win, it’s definitely a win for the agenda and for the appeal of the Democratic party to Independents and Reagan Democrats. It’s a broader based appeal than the Democratic Party has had for a long time,” Pande said. “If he doesn’t win, he’s moved the agenda and the perception of the party to where I think it should be going.”
 

Trey says 
February 16, 2016 at 7:55 pm
A scintillating piece of journalism
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 12, 2016 by Cheryl Liu Leave a Comment 
Georgetown officially launched the Prisons and Justice Initiative to examine the problems of mass incarceration in the United States at its inaugural event in Gaston Hall on Tuesday.
The panel discussion, entitled “Reversing the Tide of Mass Incarceration: Prospects for Prison Reform,” featured Georgetown University Law Center professors Paul Butler and Allegra McLeod, music professor Benjamin Harbert and philosophy professor Judith Lichtenberg, who discussed prospects for prison reform in the United States.
The event was introduced and moderated by PJI Director Marc Howard, who will lead the initiative with a faculty board of 14 Georgetown professors and six undergraduate student research assistants. The assistants will work alongside professors as they research and develop means to address racial injustice and advance racial equality.
Howard said that he became interested in the prison system when his high school acquaintance Marty Tankleff was wrongfully convicted of murdering his parents, and was subsequently sentenced to 50 years to life in prison. During Tankleff’s time in prison, Howard visited him and worked to overturn his wrongful conviction. They were eventually successful in the effort and all charges against Tankleff were dropped in 2008.
Along with teaching the course “Prison Reform Project” at Georgetown, Howard has taught at the maximum-security Jessup Correctional Institution in Jessup, Md. for two years. This experience at Jessup has played a large role in driving Howard to lead this new initiative.
“It’s made me think about what our country’s priorities are. Is it worth keeping someone in prison indefinitely when they actually have a lot of potential?” Howard said during the event.
Howard felt the timing was ideal to pitch the idea to Georgetown University President John J. DeGioia, who embraced the initiative.
“The political climate in this country has been changing, where prison reform is maybe the only issue that Republican and Democrats agree upon … There’s a real opening for reform,” Howard said.
During the course of the discussion, Howard outlined three long-term goals for the new initiative. He said that he hopes the initiative will serve as an academic center to present scholarly research related to incarceration and prison reform while also encouraging greater involvement within the Georgetown community through different working groups, events and projects.
He added that he hopes the initiative will foster a greater connection between Georgetown and the rest of Washington, D.C. Howard believes the initiative’s influence will be able to extend far beyond Georgetown’s walls and argued for the need of communication and networking with similar organizations dedicated to the issue.
“We don’t want just to be the campus on a hilltop that’s isolated from the town we live in,” Howard said.
Howard said that although the initiative is unable to support outside organizations financially, it can provide structural resources like facilities for meetings and events.
Howard anticipates that the initiative will gain popularity and host interesting events throughout the semester. On March 22, the initiative will hold “The Truth about False Confessions” panel that includes Tankleff and Raymond Santana, a wrongfully convicted member of the Central Park Five case, a case where individuals suffered from wrongful convictions of sexual assault, robbery, riot and attempted murder. During the upcoming event, panelists will delve into the psychology of false confessions.
Howard hopes that funding will be forthcoming in the future, which will enable the initiative to sponsor sustained programming.
“I’m cautiously optimistic because I know there are a lot of major donors and philanthropists out there that find this issue very compelling. Across the spectrum, a lot of people have realized that things have gone too far,” Howard said.
Harbert said that he is excited about the initiative uniting faculty from various departments. Harbert has studied music in prisons for many years and is currently finishing the book named “Angola Bound: A Comprehensive History of Music at Louisiana State Penitentiary.”
“We’re excited about coming together,” Harbert said. “We’ve been on the fringes of our disciplines for so long.”
Prison Outreach Co-Presidents Maddy Moran (COL ’17) and Jules Kerbs (COL ’17) anticipate collaboration between their organization and the initiative. Prison Outreach is a student-run tutoring program that teaches GED, ESL and creative writing skills to inmates in detention facilities in Alexandria and Arlington, Va.
“While our tutoring program is an important source of educational enrichment for local incarcerated persons, we are glad that PJI will provide a more comprehensive chance for involvement by addressing problems including unjust sentencing, racial disproportionality, and prison violence,” Moran and Kerbs wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We anticipate significant overlap between our organization’s members and those involved with PJI, so we are excited to see how both groups will develop and collaborate in the future.”
Matt Kahn (COL ’17), a research assistant in the initiative, will lead the Georgetown-Jessup Debate Program, where inmates from Jessup prison will develop public speaking skills and work on building logical arguments. The class will consist of lectures taught by Kahn and hands-on learning in which students can participate in debates.
Kahn said in an interview with The Hoya that he believes the class will help the students beyond their time in prison and expects the skills taught will be put into practice, whether the situation is a parole hearing or an interaction with family members upon a prisoner’s release.
“My biggest goal is to try to help the students in my class develop a sense of confidence in themselves,” Kahn said. “Part of my hope is that they will have more confidence, that they will be able to articulate that they have changed.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 12, 2016 by Syed Humza Moinuddin and Patricja Okuniewska 19 Comments 
Adjunct computer science professor Matthew Devost resigned from his position Feb. 8 after refusing to pay agency fees to the Service Employees International Union Local 500, the union that represents the university’s adjunct faculty.
Devost’s resignation ended his “Information Warfare” class three weeks into the spring semester. Eric Burger, the director of the Center for Secure Communications at Georgetown, has since replaced Devost as the instructor of the course.
The adjunct faculty at Georgetown voted in October 2014 to ratify a collective bargaining agreement and unionized with the SEIU Local 500 institution to provide formal representation and bargaining power for the adjunct community. SEIU Local 500 also represents adjunct faculty at The George Washington University and American University among others.
Devost, who also serves as CEO of a private technology company, served as an adjunct professor for 13 years, said he was unwilling to pay the union’s agency fees following a negative experience three years ago, in which union representatives directly approached him to assist in the unionization process.
“I was stalked by union representatives after class Monday evening, and expressed I wasn’t interested in chatting, not that I was anti-union. They started to walk with me to my car saying they were going in the same direction,” Devost said. “They would make statements like ‘You must not be a good person if you are not interested in the plight of your fellow adjuncts,’ and at that point, in my mind, I said this was an organization I was never going to participate in.”
University officials were contacted but did not provide comment on Devost’s situation.
In December 2015, Devost received mail from the SEIU Local 500 incorrectly stating that he was an employee at GWU. The forms also stated he was out of compliance with the union’s collective bargaining agreement, since he had not paid his agency fees.
“It said, basically, ‘You are not eligible to teach at Georgetown. You either join the union or pay the agency fee,’” Devost said. “I knew there was a union forming at Georgetown as I had been approached years ago. But I didn’t realize there was an agreement between the university and the union that was a forced-agency agreement.”
According to the collective bargaining agreement’s Article 3, adjunct faculty may receive exemption from paying agency fees to the union if conflicts of interest are raised. Instead, these faculty members could pay a similar amount to a charitable organization. According to Devost, he attempted to secure exemption status based on ideological grounds, which was rejected by the union.
“Talking with the university leadership, it seemed the union might be more reasonable, just as a one-time exception to finish the semester,” Devost said. “Then, on Feb. 2, I just received this response [from the union] that said ‘No, it’s not possible. Right now, you are out of compliance.’”
After the incident, Devost reached out to Bala Kundaryawasam, chair of the computer science department and Senior Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs Maria Donoghue to solicit support and advice from the university. Both Kundaryawasam and Donoghue declined to comment for this story.
According to SEIU Local 500 Director of Research and Strategic Planning Anne McLeer, who declined to comment specifically on Devost’s situation, the agreement’s language does not accommodate those who seek exemption through an ideological basis.
“Ideological objections are not considered to be a conflict of interest under the document’s language or a religious objection under the labor law. It’s outside of the limits,” McLeer said.
As the second semester approached, Devost said he worried for the welfare of the students enrolled in his class.
“I started to realize there was not going to be a future for me at Georgetown, but there should be some bridge period, a transition period to ensure the students are not the ones impacted by this,” Devost said.
With his requests continuously denied, Devost decided to resign from his post as an adjunct faculty member at Georgetown and explained his situation to students during his final class on Feb. 8.
“I think the university was very good about being responsive to my requests and my concerns,” Devost said. “Even if the university would like nothing more than to accommodate the students for a bridge semester and make sure this goes smoothly, they are bound by the agreement they have signed and everything was deferred to the union.”
Devost said his situation is continuing a conversation on the importance of the union’s relationship with faculty and the value to the community as a whole.
“Would I come back if I could teach without participating in the union or having the forced agency issue? Absolutely,” Devost said. “I loved teaching, I loved what I’ve been able to accomplish with the class and teaching the students.”
During his time at Georgetown, Devost taught “Information Warfare,” his only class, and was renowned in the security field as an expert and entrepreneur. During his class, he often brought in experts to help educate students on the current state of cybersecurity and technology.
Following Devost’s announcement, students from the class expressed frustration over the unexpected circumstances. Some students said they had been waiting at least two years to take Devost’s course, while others said they needed the course to fulfill either major or minor requirements.
Ivan Robinson (SFS ’16), who waited three semesters to take the course with Devost, said he was disappointed with the university’s lack of communication with students regarding Devost’s situation.
“It’s the second week of February, and we are just now finding out that we are not going to be able to take this class [with Devost]. And it’s going to work out — we are going to graduate, but just the lack of communication in any stage of the process is pretty surprising to me,” Robinson said.
Alec Harbinson (COL ’16), a student in the course, said he appreciated the speed at which the university solved the issue, but noted that Devost’s situation was never mentioned during the enrollment process.
“I was relieved to hear another professor would be taking over the course, which is fine since people are trying to finish this class, but obviously it’s not what we signed up for,” Harbinson said.
Burger said he wished to express the challenges present in Georgetown’s recently established relationship with the union.
“The relationship with the union is new for Georgetown and I’m sure there is going to be growing pains for the union, growing pains for the adjunct and part-time faculty covered by the union, and growing pains for the university as we navigate what can and can’t be done,” Burger said.
Since he resigned, Devost’s situation with the union continues to invoke reaction from other faculty members.
McCourt School of Public Policy adjunct professor Neal Pollard (LAW ’03), who voted against the SEIU Local 500-university agreement in 2014, said he never received any notice for being out of compliance with the agreement, even though he has not paid any union dues, agency fees or received any exemption status. As of press time, he has received no consequences.
Pollard said he believes the future of adjunct faculty at Georgetown can still be strong even without forcing members, willing or unwilling, to pay any fees to the union.
“I think the adjunct faculty can have a place at Georgetown without being a part of a union because they did just fine until the union showed up, that’s what it comes down to,” Pollard said.
Ashton Garriott (SFS ’15), who was a student in Devost’s class, praised Devost’s impact on students.
“This seems like a lose-lose situation,” Garriott said. “It’s a loss for the professor, it’s a loss for the students, and for the academic community as a whole at Georgetown to be losing such a figure is quite sad.”

Prof. Devost says 
February 12, 2016 at 6:51 am
I’m disappointed to see this framed as a resignation.  I was told I was ineligible to teach at Georgetown given I had not paid the agency fees.  I would have continued to teach for many years to come.

Just Passing Through says 
February 15, 2016 at 1:25 pm
Maybe you felt forced out, but if you submitted a resignation in any way, then by definition you resigned. Unless they literally removed you from the course without your consent, then you were not fired/forced out. It seems you are equating the adjunct union with the university itself, which is incorrect.

Jobbo'18 says 
February 12, 2016 at 8:30 am
Instead of quitting he should have just continued to refuse to pay and force the union to sue or the university to fire him.  He could have done more good that way by showing how corrupt and thuggish unions are and he may very well have been able to take it to the courts and win.  
As it stands now, students lose out on a great professor and now have a worse experience with the university, all because of some union jerks who want to force others how to behave.  If people want to form and join a union, fine, do it. But don’t force others to do it too if they don’t want.  Georgetown doesn’t force everyone to be Catholic, so why should they force everyone to be in a union.  The university should have supported this professor, but it didn’t.

Prof. Devost says 
February 12, 2016 at 5:03 pm
I didn’t quit and the article is inaccurate to say I did.  Given I wouldn’t join the Union or pay the agency fee, I was ineligible to continue teaching.  As I noted above, I would have continued to teach for many years, but I no longer had a contract to do so.

Hoya says 
February 12, 2016 at 5:45 pm
He did refuse and he was ultimately forbidden from teaching as a result. At no point did he resign, he was forced out for not wanting to spend money supporting speech he did not agree with.

Jobbo'18 says 
February 13, 2016 at 4:53 pm
I posted my comment prior to any comments appearing.  The Hoya uses a moderating function to make it a “safe space” for weak people who complain a lot so comments don’t appear as written, and sometimes they take a day or two to appear.  Really bad on their part.  Had I read Professor Devost’s comment first I wouldn’t have said he resign.
For what it is worth, the administration failed miserably here.  We lost a great professor because of some union thugs and a weak administration who failed to stand up for one of their own.  I’m sorry this happened to him.  
That said, he should have continued teaching and forced the university to come down on him and fire him, then he should have sued.  As it stands now it seems he got an email from the union thugs saying he was out of compliance and that led to his announcement that he wouldn’t be coming back.  He should have just ignored the union and waited until he got something written from the university administration saying he was no longer allowed ton continue teaching. 
Also, how come the Hoya hasn’t issued a correction?  What did the university actually say to him, and who did so?  There is more to this story.  Yet the Hoya has once again failed to be fair and present the whole picture.

James Hamilton SFS '05 says 
February 12, 2016 at 8:34 am
I can say with 100% certainty that I would not have the career I have today without the experience of Prof Devot’s class. His experience will be sorely missed!

Jeffrey Martin SFS '13 says 
February 12, 2016 at 9:52 pm
I took Professor Devost’s Information Warfare class (Spring of 2013, I think), and it was probably the best class I took at Georgetown. His departure is a major loss for the university and every student who would have taken the class.
Given how may of Georgetown’s better teachers are adjuncts like him — professionals in other fields who teach occasionally at Georgetown not for money but because they enjoy doing so — it seems odd to make them pay agency fees for union services they neither need nor want.

Caitlin P. says 
February 13, 2016 at 12:10 am
I took Professor Devost’s class for a grad school requirement with SSP. I only had him for one semester, and yet for years after he has been interested in helping me and my classmates find opportunities to advance our careers in the security field. For example, he remembered my work researching Boko Haram–something far removed from our cyber class, and over a year later approached me with an opportunity to write an article. Not every professor takes that kind of interest in their students, much less those that have long left their classrooms! Further, Professor Devost’s class was one of the most interesting and enjoyable classes I took at Georgetown. It’s truly a shame that his students this semester will have to miss out on a great learning experience, as well as a long-term mentor, due to union bullying. Shame on Georgetown for letting the union win.

Fareed says 
February 13, 2016 at 3:19 pm
This article also lacked context on why the union came to be and what agency fees are exactly. As the university tries to save money on tenure-track profs, a large and increasing percentage of faculty (42 percent) are adjuncts. The working conditions for these folks has historically been problematic, with no benefits or job security. Seventy-five percent of them voted to join the union in 2014, which bargained for better conditions. As for agency fees, they are a creature of labor law that allows the union to get compensated for representing folks that aren’t members but benefit from this bargaining.
The Voice did an article about this three years ago: https://georgetownvoice.com/2013/10/17/second-class-faculty-hidden-struggles-georgetowns-adjunct-professors/

Prof. Devost says 
February 13, 2016 at 5:05 pm
75% of the Adjuncts did not vote for the union.  Less than half of the Adjuncts actually voted, so it was 70% of slightly less than half.

Alex SFS '11 says 
February 13, 2016 at 3:43 pm
The real story here is the loss to Georgetown University. Professor Devost and his class were a tremendous influence on my career, and I know so many students who can say the same. Professors and courses like this are what make Georgetown special; the university needs to do what it can to hold on to them rather than pushing them out.

Dizzy says 
February 14, 2016 at 1:44 pm
I thoroughly enjoyed Professor Devost’s class and am very disappointed to see that this all went down.  Incidentally, I was at an event at St. Michael’s College up in Vermont once, and as soon as I mentioned Georgetown, someone immediately asked whether I knew of Matt Devost.  Just a random thing that illustrates how much of an impression he seems to leave wherever he goes.
Having said that… this is how a unionized workplace functions, and it’s hard for me to believe that smart people like Matt and Neal (whom I’ve met once or twice – and is a lawyer!) don’t understand that.  You cannot be forced to join a union (the so-called “closed shop”), but if you don’t, you still have to pay a fee to compensate the union for their collective bargaining, contract administration, and grievance adjustment efforts on your behalf, from which you benefit regardless of membership.  The union cannot use this money for political activities – only on representational activities from which you benefit.  This provision exists because otherwise you would be free-riding, benefiting from union efforts without paying anything for them.
So all in all, it’s really not much different from a tax, albeit one that goes to a private organization, rather than the government.  But just as people still have to pay taxes even when they oppose a lot of what their governments (local, state, federal) do, so too might you have to pay a fee to an organization with which you don’t entirely agree.  That’s just the cost of doing business, as they say.  It seems like an odd hill to die on, to be that insistent on not wanting to work in a unionized environment… but to each their own, I guess.

Prof. Devost says 
February 16, 2016 at 2:31 pm
As noted in the article, the objection was in supporting an organization that engaged questionable tactics during the organization process.
The issue of forced agency is a contentious one to start with, which is why the issue is currently before the SCOTUS.

Valerie Mazars de Mazarin says 
February 15, 2016 at 1:05 am
Is Georgetown’s strategic vision to cut back on valuable courses and industry-leader professors? Does the University think that groveling before Chicago professional organizers is a good PR move? How embarrassing. I took Prof Devost’s Information Warfare course my senior year, as a CS major. Prestigious guest speakers,  peer-reviewed term papers, and first-hand accounts of cybersecurity battles were just part of what made this course great;  really,  it was the knowledge that Prof. Devost had to reason to spend his time teaching here than that he enjoyed helping us. This sort of spinelessness is why neither myself nor many of my friends will be giving a cent to GU.

Gerd Topsnic says 
February 16, 2016 at 11:52 am
I’m curious Professor Devost,  Exactly how much would your union dues have been?  And did you get a pay bump after the adjuncts approved the contract with the school? If you did NOT get a raise or any other benefits, I can see why paying dues would be annoying and understand your stance.   But in 99% of the cases when employees are unionized, the raises and benefits far outweigh the price of the dues.

Prof. Devost says 
February 16, 2016 at 2:24 pm
There was some modest increase in pay with the union formation (I’ve been told it was $100-$150 per year but did not receive any notification) and the agency fees are $30/month.  
If you read the article you should already be aware that my objection was not monetary in nature (thus my request to donate to a non-profit for the bridge semester).
[…] Warfare” course—expressed frustration with Devost’s departure, according to The Hoya, Georgetown’s student […]
[…] the greedy union refused to grant the professor an exemption from having to pay fees to the union. SEIU harassed the professor during its unionization effort so the professor wanted nothing to do with the union. Students were disappointed with the loss of […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 12, 2016 by Jack Lynch Leave a Comment 
When Alex Bobroske (SFS ’17) arrived on the Hilltop in the fall of 2013, the Georgetown University Student Association was not on his radar. He did not run for senate, join any committees or throw himself into campus activism.
Now — a little under 21/2 later — Bobroske manages what many believe to be the largest GUSA campaign in Georgetown history. There are more than 200 active supporters, a massive core leadership team and audacious goals for restructuring GUSA itself.
As the only other ticket has dropped out of the race and the Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) and Chris Fisk (COL ’17) ticket starts to take on a feeling of inevitability, a look at Bobroske and his fellow staffers reveals just how different this campaign is from the traditional GUSA model.
Bobroske worked on his first GUSA campaign the second semester of his freshman year, helping to do field work in freshman dorms. In the meantime, he joined the Georgetown Gospel Choir, wrote for the Georgetown College Republicans’ online publication, The Right Way, and got involved with the Step Team.
Eventually, then-GUSA senate Vice President Abbey McNaughton (COL ’16) asked Bobroske to help with the senate’s redistricting in spring of 2015, hoping his leadership on other campus clubs would translate well to a role in GUSA.
It was in his new role with the senate that Bobroske met Khan and the two formed a tight bond.
“We default became friends because Abbey McNaughton paired us together in this forced marriage,” Bobroske joked.
In the fall of this year, Enushe and Chris began to seriously consider a run for GUSA executives. They quickly reached out to Bobroske.
“They brought me in basically right away when they were having these discussions, and they told me if they did run, they’d want me to be their campaign manager,” Bobroske said.
In terms of GUSA campaigns, the Khan-Fisk ticket took what Bobroske considered a late start, which allowed the campaign’s current members to solidify their other roles and responsibilities on campus.
“We really started to reach out and get staff in December, which is a huge shift from previous years,” Bobroske said. “It just doesn’t make sense to focus on running a campaign instead of your commitments to your organizations for the fall.”
The Khan-Fisk campaign team credits much of their early outreach successes, particularly among freshmen, to their mentorship program. Every freshman that joined the campaign has been paired to an upperclassman with experience in a particular policy issue that interests them.
Co-director of Outreach Sam Granville (COL ’17) said she hopes the policy will increase student involvement both in the campaign and in GUSA itself after the election.
“It really encourages freshmen to get involved, because you don’t want to wait until junior year and then have a whole turnover of people in GUSA with the new administration. It’s better to build those relationships from the start,” Granville said.
The mentorship program correlates with the campaign’s larger theme of sustained involvement. With no officially competing tickets, the Khan-Fisk campaign hopes to raise student awareness about key policy issues, such as the planned restructuring of GUSA. By getting students interested and involved, Bobroske and the rest of the campaign team hope to springboard campaign excitement into real enthusiasm and interest in GUSA.
Co-field Director Thomas Massad (COL ’17) pointed out that many students’ interest in GUSA fades as the election season transitions into regular GUSA activity.
“One thing that happens with GUSA is we hear about it for a couple of weeks during the year and people generally just lose interest or don’t maintain that sort of passion for these topics,” Massad said.
The staff of the Khan-Fisk ticket sometimes refers to their group as a “team of rivals.” The expansive campaign infrastructure for the Khan-Fisk ticket springs from a conscious effort to consolidate campus leaders from different backgrounds and perspectives.
Three different 2015 campaigns are represented in the Khan-Fisk staff, a veritable coalition considering the six-ticket variety of last year’s race.
Bobroske said he believes the willingness of many campus leaders to recognize the benefits of a unified front in generating reform has helped strengthen the Khan-Fisk team and kept opposition to a minimum.
“So far we see this approach of collaboration rather than intense and toxic competition is much better for GUSA and for the campaign,” Bobroske said.
In addition to bringing on staffers from all parts of campus, Khan-Fisk reached out to dozens of field-level student volunteers in December and January. Bobroske estimates the total number of students involved in the campaign to be upwards of 200. When the campaign kicked off at midnight last Friday morning, more than 50 volunteers were on hand to help place a banner in Red Square.
Even Khan and Fisk’s biggest advocates on their own staff have been pleasantly surprised by the massive mobilization.
“I’m pretty stunned that we have success to the amount that we have a 200 hundred-person staff, that was never in my mindset, but we’re pretty excited that this many people are excited,” Bobroske said.
The top staffers on the Khan-Fisk ticket have high hopes for the future of the GUSA executive leaders next year, but for now they remain concentrated on next Thursday’s election. As for the potential for continued roles in GUSA for the Khan-Fisk staff next year, most remain up in the air.
“We’ll cross that bridge when we get there,” Massad said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 12, 2016 by Ian Scoville 14 Comments 
This post has been updated.
Enushe Khan (MSB ’17), Georgetown University Student Association senate speaker and unopposed candidate for GUSA president, will not be on campus this summer if she and Chris Fisk (COL ’17) are elected, as she will be completing a 10-week internship at Goldman Sachs in New York.
The GUSA president and vice president typically stay on campus during the summer to meet with administrators and neighborhood residents about various projects. This summer, the university and neighborhood will engage in negotiations related to the ratification of the 2017-2037 Campus Plan, a 20-year contract between the university and the neighborhood that will dictate future construction projects and neighborhood relations.
According to Khan, Fisk and a seven-person staff would remain on campus to do the work required for GUSA.
“I’ve been getting a firm idea of what would be happening during those 10 weeks and really it’s attending those meetings, meeting those administrators and having that face contact,” Khan said. “Chris will be here all summer. This will be what he will be doing, and he will be working on those issues that need to be advanced, and there are specific policy or issue areas that he himself would like to really initiate.”
Khan said she plans to travel to Washington, D.C., every Saturday, and participate in an hour-long Skype call with Fisk and Alex Bobroske (COL ’17), their campaign manager, every night during the week.
“I have committed myself to at least an hour Skype session each night, whether that be 2 a.m., whether that be 4 a.m., Chris and Alex are both willing to work with me around my schedule on that. … It’s just a matter of making sure we are on the same page and touching base,” Khan said.
Khan said she will attend the monthly Georgetown Community Partnership meeting required for campus planning, and will seek to arrange meetings with administrators and her staff for Saturdays.
However, according to current GUSA President Joe Luther (COL ’16), administrators are often unavailable to meet on weekends.
According to Luther, even with a plan in place, the workload will be difficult for Khan to balance.
“While Healy will not burn down if the President is not in D.C., it is a suboptimal situation. From what I understand of finance internships, it will be extremely difficult for a student to juggle both responsibilities,” Luther wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Considering the long hours and attention required by an internship at Goldman Sachs, the student body will be losing its central advocate and will leave administrators and neighbors unsure of who to call. It is important that the president be on top of issues and critical they be able to respond to matters as they inevitably pop up.”
Luther wrote the Khan-Fisk campaign should put forth two candidates who will be on campus for the summer.
“GUSA’s reputation has for a long time been marred by those who think it is ineffective and filled only with those who seek titles; this situation does not help the matter,” Luther wrote. “I urge their ticket to put forth two candidates who will be on Georgetown’s campus for the summer.”
Khan said Goldman Sachs is aware of her responsibilities at Georgetown, and the company has guaranteed that her Saturdays will be free for GUSA-related duties.
“The thing is, I know what I am getting myself into, so I have some flexibility,” Khan said. “I have two obligations, I just have to make both work, and they are going to have to be understanding of that.”
Trevor Tezel (SFS ’15), the former GUSA president in 2014, said Khan and Fisk should be able to advocate on behalf of students over the summer effectively with adaptation.
“I think Enushe will be the first to say to you that it would be more ideal to have the president on campus, but at the same time I think anything is possible,” Tezel said. “It will and would require many more hours and quite a lot of work on her behalf and on Chris’ behalf in order to do it effectively, so that what is lost in not having the president on campus doesn’t affect GUSA.”
 
Correction: A version of this article, and as it appears in print, mistakenly attributed the quote beginning “GUSA’s reputation has for a long time been marred…” to Connor Rohan. This was actually written in an email from GUSA President Joe Luther. This online version has been updated. We sincerely apologize for this mistake.

Concerned Hoya says 
February 12, 2016 at 9:18 am
What a disgusting hit piece. Enushe and Chris are probably the two individuals on this campus who care most about Georgetown, and their leadership for this school would be amazing and incredibly beneficial for our school. We should have full confidence in their abilities, and understand that not everything is in black and white. The Hoya must be taking itself too seriously if it thinks that a GUSA President can not look out for his or her personal future. Being GUSA leadership means doing your best to represent students and lead, but it does not mean being chained down to do whatever a silly news publication thinks it should do, or what predecessors want.

Concerned SFS says 
February 12, 2016 at 3:56 pm
Sorry, but dropping in on weekends and having daily skype sessions isn’t going to cut it. The stakes for the campus plan are way too high. Look at the consequences of the last campus plan and imagine that stretched out over the next 20 years. The purpose of GUSA is to advocate for the students. Don’t run if you’re not planning to take part in the single most crucial piece of pro-student advocacy.

Student says 
February 13, 2016 at 1:20 am
The campus plan will most likely be signed in May, so you’re wrong SFS friend.

Student says 
February 12, 2016 at 4:12 pm
Shots. Fired.

Student says 
February 13, 2016 at 1:26 am
i’ve met enushe a couple of times at focus groups and i feel bad that she’s being subject to unnecessary media attention, esp since she seems to really care about the school. why aren’t we talking about how racist Jeff Naft’s FB campaign page was?

Jobbo'18 says 
February 13, 2016 at 4:59 pm
How is it racist?  Or is it just racist because people aren’t blindly supporting Enushe?  I guess that makes it sexist too?  
You know, you’re the reason why real victims of racism and sexism are often ignored.  Nobody believes them because of it’s used as an excuse every time some disagrees with a woman or a minority.   It also causes people to not want to hire these groups because they know that this is a card they’ll play whenever something happens that doesn’t go their way.

Student says 
February 13, 2016 at 11:55 pm
I’m not referring to any racism towards Enushe…. I’m talking about Naft’s reference to “purple house” and a purple studies major where he was literally mocking black students. Read the page. i just mean that the Hoya should focus on real issues with this campaign season, as opposed to a dumb internship.

Jobbo'18 says 
February 14, 2016 at 1:55 am
Where does he talk about purple studies or a purple house?
Please submit the evidence.

Student says 
February 15, 2016 at 3:11 pm
Naft is no longer running, so his campaign isn’t really relevant anymore. Enushe and Chris still are (and almost certainly will win the election).

SFS says 
February 13, 2016 at 1:28 am
TBH considering last year’s election, it looks like the hoya is pretty low on drama this year so they’re making a big deal out of someone taking an internship. so she’s good at more than one thing, big deal.seems like there’s some jealousy up in here. this looks like cheap journalism to me. what a cheap article and a cheap news publication. do better georgetown.

Also concerned SFS says 
February 13, 2016 at 1:31 am
As a fellow a capella singer/friend of enushe, i can confirm enushe quit the phantoms to focus on gusa and put her entire time into making this school better.  there’s nothing she loves more on campus than singing with the phantoms, that’s her family. yet no one seems to be talking about that. what a disgusting article.

Concerned MSB says 
February 15, 2016 at 11:59 pm
This is a revolting piece. Enushe deserves better, and The Hoya should hold itself to a higher standard of journalistic integrity and ethics. Perhaps you don’t know why she’s considering the job; in fact, it’s the only way that she will be able to stay in America after graduation. Most banks don’t consider non-citizens without H1B visas for full time employment if they don’t have a prior internship. This extraordinary woman has dedicated all of her time at GU to the betterment of this institution; I believe in her ability to do both of these jobs. There are special people like Elon Musk who can do multiple demanding full time jobs; Enushe is one of those special people.

Concerned Senior says 
February 16, 2016 at 1:13 pm
The idea that she’s actually going to work 90 hours a week from Monday-Friday and then go home after work late Friday night, prepare for the next day’s meetings, get up very early to take a 4 hour train to DC, meet with administrators, and immediately get back on another 4 hour train so she can be at work at 9 AM (or earlier, since Goldman reserves the right to have you in the office at 7 AM) is ridiculous. Maybe she’s a robot who truly doesn’t need sleep for 10 weeks straight, but I don’t think it’s possible to manage that and do a good job at both things.
And anyway, what administrators want to meet exclusively on Saturday afternoons? The earliest she could realistically be here is noon on Saturday, and if she wants to be in bed by 10 PM in NY she’d have to leave here by about 4 PM. Can any one participant in these meetings seriously restrict the schedule *that* much?

Student says 
February 17, 2016 at 12:45 pm
Actually, she’ll be working Sunday-Friday (not just M-F), which is even crazier.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 12, 2016 by Ellen Baker Leave a Comment 
As part of Jesuit Heritage Week, Jesuits and the Georgetown University Latin American Student Association co-sponsored a discussion highlighting the broad impact of Jesuit service in Latin America in McShain Lounge on Thursday.
The talk was led by panelists Fr. Matthew Carnes, S.J., Fr. John Montoya, S.J., Austin Rose (COL ’18) and Jessica Andino (COL ’18), who each spoke on the specifics and personal impact of service they undertook in Latin America.
Jesuit Heritage Week is a week dedicated to exploring and celebrating Georgetown’s Jesuit history and traditions. Following a Latin American-themed meal that preceded the event, Carnes opened with a speech describing his own experience serving in Honduras after Hurricane Mitch devastated the country in October 1998.
He described the variety of educational services that Jesuits provide throughout Latin America, including Fe y Alegría, a primary and secondary program run in poor communities; Guatemalan Radio Education Institute, a school teaching through radios; and Infocap, a university specifically for rural workers.
“[The programs have] been trying to open their doors more and more to a much broader population to be able to make sure that they can provide educational access that wasn’t part of Latin America traditionally. That’s where they’re trying to be transformative,” Carnes said.
Following Carnes’ address, Montoya spoke specifically on the education and human rights frontiers engaged through Jesuit work in Colombia. He praised Fe y Alegría, whose motto is “Educational communities where the pavement ends,” as a crucial program for the rural poor. The Jesuits run 20 of the 21 Fe y Alegría schools in Colombia.
“We’d like to transform the society of Colombia through education,” Montoya said.
Rose and Andino gave a joint address about their experiences on the Kino Border Immersion, an Alternative Breaks Program and a Magis trip, a partnership between the Center for Social Justice and Campus Ministry.
The trip’s participants partnered with the Kino Border Initiative, a Jesuit refugee service dedicated to protecting the rights of forcibly displaced persons and the promotion of respectful treatment for asylum seekers.
Andino said she was motivated to go on the immersion trip by her mother’s own experience crossing the border from Mexico into the United States in the 1990s.
“My ultimate goal is trying to find methods to make sure people like migrants are treated with dignity and respect,” Andino said. “We need to make the immigration system a more humane one.”
During their trip, Rose and Andino, along with their whole group, served with Jesuits and nuns in a soup kitchen and women’s shelter, both located near the U.S.-Mexico border, in order to best cater to individuals recently deported.
After an audience member addressed the element of “voluntourism,” a term used to define service trips that do little to help those on the receiving end and can even be damaging, Rose explained that he grappled with this concept during the experience, especially when his group visited a detention center.
“There are times when it feels like you are doing nothing, and are just a privileged person who happens to be walking around, just seeing what’s up,” Rose said. “But I would say there are plenty of opportunities for very authentic service, it just requires a little bit more.”
Carnes later addressed the idea of true service. He said that by spending time accompanying a particular community in its struggles, he feels he can fulfill his mission as an activist by spreading the story.
“What I hope inside of me is that all the people I have lived and worked with keep speaking through me in some way and I keep telling their story,” Carnes said. “And if I do that, it keeps me in a kind of solidarity with them.”
Carnes said that many Jesuits working in Latin America who speak out against injustices receive threats from people attempting to silence them. He commented on the bravery of these Jesuits as they continue their service and persevere with their cause despite obstacles.
“I wonder how often we get slightly complacent here, like we see something that we know is pretty unjust, but we choose not to make a scene,” Carnes said. “They’re a little bit more willing to make a scene.”
Manuel Knight, who audits classes at Georgetown and has visited 30 different Latin American countries through his work as a tourism economist, said he found the talk engaging and relatable to his own experiences interacting with Jesuits in Uruguay.
“In the more rural areas, such as the [Catholic University] in Uruguay, [Jesuits] do lots of work with rural farmers in terms of things like cattle production. In fact, they’re very proud that at our university in Argentina, there is a breed of cattle that is named after the university because of [their help],” Knight said.
Anne Ewing (COL ’16), a co-coordinator of Jesuit Heritage Week, said the most striking part of the talks was the main theme of “going to the margins,” something she views as very unique to the Jesuit service tradition.
“I thought it was interesting they look for that and they seek that out,” Ewing said. “Whenever you go to somewhere that’s the most remote and has the least amount of help, that’s where you’ll find the Jesuits.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 12, 2016 by Matthew Larson Leave a Comment 
President Barack Obama allocated nearly $5.5 billion in his recently proposed fiscal year 2017 budget to help more than one million young people gain crucial work experience in order to obtain their first job.
Obama’s $4.1 trillion budget will focus, in part, on creating grants and apprenticeship programs in order to help people between the ages of 16 and 25 gain work experience via an internship or summer job, aiming to boost the global competitiveness of the American economy and provide access to stable jobs for a larger portion of the workforce.
The Office of the White House Press Secretary pointed to the difficulty of entering the workforce for youths as the driving force behind the initiative in a press release Feb. 4.
“For too many young people, getting a first job — a crucial step in starting their career — is challenging,” the press release said. “Once a young person gets their first job, it is much easier to get the next one.”
According to the World Bank and the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the percent of unemployed youth in the United States has decreased from 17.4 percent in 2011 to 12.2 percent in June 2015. Unemployed youth is defined as those people ages 15 to 24 who are without work but available and seeking employment.
Georgetown University Center on Education and the Workforce Director Anthony Carnevale expressed appreciation for the president’s job initiatives. However, Carnevale predicted the budget will not be implemented: Thus far, the Republican-led Congress has not asked any representatives from Obama’s administration to speak to them about the budget.
“It’s dead on arrival. Neither the House nor Senate committees are going to invite the Obama administration to come up to the Hill and talk about their budget,” Carnevale said. “They basically took it and threw it in the trash.”
Carnevale noted that Obama’s proposal still holds meaning, defining the Democratic Party’s platform on issues affecting young people. According to Carnevale, Obama’s using his role to set the tone of this conversation is especially important in an election year.
“It expresses an agenda for the Democratic Party and state-of-the-art thinking on that side of the aisle,” Carnevale said. “He wants to connect education and training to jobs. It is probably the most directly job-related budget he’s produced.”
A spokesperson for the Department of Labor explained in an interview with The Hoya that the budget’s $5.5 billion allocation is focused on helping young people receive work experience and increase their ability to break into and succeed in a chosen career field.
“The president’s been a strong endorser of people going to college,” the DOL spokesperson said. “Once they come out, students should have a job that pays off so that they could seek opportunities but also punch their ticket to the middle class.”
The DOL also promoted the initiative as a key to the continued global competitiveness of the American economy.
“There’s a big appetite in the market for highly skilled young people to enter the workforce,” the DOL spokesperson said. “Especially as there are more people that retire, we need a constant influx of young talent to fill the jobs in the future.”
Specifically, Obama is proposing $3 billion in funding for “talent hotspots,” which would group together employers to train new members of the workforce to be competitive. In addition, Obama has suggested spending $1.5 billion to fund “career navigators,” who would reach out to unemployed or underemployed people and help them begin a new career path.
Carnevale also noted Obama’s budget is starting a process that would fund programs to help match college students and others with jobs in which they can excel. This would allow students to see what employment awaits them if they choose a particular major or career path, which he believes would provide value.
According to Cawley Career Center Director Mike Schaub, approximately 90 percent of Georgetown seniors from the class of 2015 held at least one internship by graduation, making the impact of the budget on Georgetown unclear, as the university provides career and internship match services through the career center.
Carnevale said despite the focus on connecting young people with their first jobs, the president’s main priority should still be to help all people, young or old, in finding work. According to Carnevale, young people receiving their first job make up only a small part of newly hired employees.
“I think connecting people in general to jobs is important,” Carnevale said. “The hiring of young people into their first job is a very small part of the hiring every year that’s done in the U.S.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 12, 2016 by Sabrina Fincher Leave a Comment 
In commemoration of Black History Month, the Students of Color Alliance and the Georgetown chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People are holding events to raise awareness of current race issues.
The events, which include film screenings, panel discussions and conferences, cover topics from diversity to racial injustice. One of these conferences is the third annual Diversity and Dialogue Conference on Feb. 18, sponsored by the McDonough School of Business and Georgetown Aspiring Minority Business Leaders and Entrepreneurs. This year’s conference hopes to raise awareness of the professional challenges faced by minorities, as well as discuss the importance of diversity in the workplace.
Georgetown NAACP member Juliette Browne (COL ’18) emphasized the importance of drawing attention to the month’s events, and expressed hope that the community could join in the celebration and appreciate its significance.
“[Black History Month is a] time to celebrate the accomplishments of all the black community, uplift the black community and also inform others of what we’ve done and what we are trying to do,” Browne said.
Students of Color Association Co-President Bianca Uribe (COL ’18) said the month should be a time for individuals to reflect on their involvement in the black community.
“Black History Month is a time of reflection and a time of action,” Uribe said. “Reflect on all of the great things that happen in our society because of the efforts of the black community especially in this country and also thinking about how we can make things better.”
One of the first planned events is “Outspoken,” a series of spoken word poetry, singing and other art forms by students that address issues of race. Another event, titled “Malcolm X and Feminism,” is planned for Feb. 22 and will focus on the intersection of the preaching of civil rights activist Malcolm X and feminist ideas.
Xiomara Salazar (SFS ’18), a student interested in the events, emphasized the importance of Black History Month in creating a dialogue on campus in which students and organizations are free to discuss various issues. She said many of the events will encourage dialogue among fellow students.
“Even though Black History specifically celebrates black history, for me, being a student of color, it is great to be surrounded by so many great students that promote these events and talk about issues on campus,” Salazar said.
Uribe said that while these events hold great significance in creating awareness for black history, minorities’ struggles on campus are not common knowledge at Georgetown.
“I don’t feel like there is enough education to the outside community about the struggles of students of color and we are talking about other stuff like racial injustice, but what do we do about the people that are generally apathetic to all of this?” Uribe said.
While specific events will honor aspects and characteristics of Black History Month, many individuals are also hoping that this month will see continued dialogue with regards to the university’s own initiatives to address racial injustices, including the renaming of former Mulledy and McSherry Halls at the end of 2015.
Daviree Velázquez, the assistant director of diversity programs at the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access, worked with the working group to help change the names of the halls. She noted the importance of the community’s continuing to be actively involved in the discussion.
“I am grateful for the work both the students have done and the work the working group has done to change these names and provide interim names. I am really excited for everyone who has submitted new ideas and am still looking forward to people submitting more ideas for that,” Velázquez said.
Students involved in the events during Black History Month also highlighted the importance of the new creation of an African American studies major. Browne expressed her own gratitude and support for the new initiative.
“It is definitely a step in the right direction considering Georgetown has a long history of kind of keeping this in the background. For them to not only recognize it but show that there needs to be a change is something we can applaud,” said Browne. “I think [African-American studies] is great. It took way too long for it to happen, but Georgetown is definitely making steps in the right direction.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 12, 2016 by Cecia Soza Leave a Comment 
Casa Latina, a permanent safe space for the Georgetown Latino community housed next to Black House on 36th street, will be launching this fall and is currently evaluating 11 applications for five spots to reside in the house next year.
The Latino Leadership Forum and the Last Campaign for Academic Reform initiated a sit-in in President DeGioia’s office Apr. 10, 2015 to push for the establishment of Casa Latina. After the sit-in, a working group was formed and the logistics of the development of the house were organized over the past summer.
The five selected residents will be responsible for creating a safe and inclusive space for the Latino community to come together.
There is currently a group consisting of both Georgetown administration and leadership members of the Latino Leadership Forum who are reviewing the 11 student applications.
The Latino community has been working for several years to establish Casa Latina at Georgetown. According to Luiggy Vidal (COL ’18), LLF facilitator for the Casa, leaders from Latino organizations on campus last year pushed for the creation of Casa Latina.
“They all stepped up after having the first ever Latino Heritage month. The leaders of every organization decided that they needed to propose Casa Latina and that it needed to happen because they no longer wanted to dilute the resources of Black House and they just felt like they needed a safe space,” Vidal said.
According to Laura Padilla (COL ’18), the establishment of Casa Latina was a necessity for Latino students on campus.
“It was difficult for a lot of the students, especially because there are so many other identities that intersect with being Latino, so a lot of the times Latinos also happened to be low-income students, first-generation students,” Padilla said. “Having a house filled with people that understand and accept your experiences is really important.”
As an established space that has been open to the Georgetown community for over 40 years, Black House will serve as an example and framework for residents of Casa Latina.
Since its establishment in 1972, Black House has been a center for diversity within Georgetown and for the student-of-color community. Although initially established for Georgetown’s black community, it has evolved into a safe space for students of all cultures.
Holmes said that Black House offers the leaders of Casa Latina valuable lessons in developing a similar community.
“It would be a great opportunity for Casa Latina folks who are new to the space to use the Black House as an opportunity to gain some lessons learned. You don’t have to start from scratch and there’s a community that is willing to support you,” Holmes said.
The Center for Multicultural Equity and Access, which will manage and support both Black House and Casa Latina, also sees Black House as a foundation to which they can refer to when choosing residents for the Casa as well as during its formation throughout the year.
Olivia Holmes (COL ’16), who lives in the Black House, said that no matter who is living there, Black House hopes to build a community at Georgetown.
“It depends on the residents and the mission that they seek for the space, but I think it’s always important to think about building community first. That’s kind of how Black House has approached things over the past year,” Holmes said. “The Black House seeks to build community and put out a positive message of solidarity to the greater Georgetown community.”
Black House and Casa Latina will be housed next to each other on 36th Street. Vidal said that this will help students find community.
“I think that because they are going to be right next to each other, I think that it’ll serve as a locus point for diversity, which is essentially what a lot of students of color look for on this campus because some just don’t feel comfortable immersing themselves in a culture, community that is not their own,” Vidal said.
Padilla said that having Black House and Casa Latina next to each other will help both groups.
“It shows the greater Georgetown community that there are oppressed identities on this campus, and by being right next to each other, we’re supporting and being in solidarity with one another,” Padilla said.
According to Director of the CMEA Charlene Brown-McKenzie, the CMEA is looking for students to help build community.
“We are looking for student leaders that can be engaged in fulfilling the missions of the university and their communities; students with the ability to work as a team, with leadership skills, with the ability to network and connect with the larger community and the ability to really execute goals,” Brown-McKenzie said. “The movement behind this was really about having a space where they’re empowered to grow and flourish.”
Although much of the foundational preparation for Casa Latina has been completed, much is still left to be done in terms of programming and event planning for next year.
CMEA Assistant Director of Diversity Programs Daviree Velázquez, advisor of both Black House and Casa Latina, emphasized the autonomy that residents will have in forging Casa Latina.
“I am very conscious of allowing the community to form [the Casa] together and I think my role is to be supportive of where [the residents] see it going, but not to place my expectations as the advisor upon them,” Velázquez said. “I hope it meets the vision that the students have.”
Vidal said that the Casa will be a benefit for the entire Georgetown community.
“I think [the Casa] will benefit everyone because I know that there’s a lot of things that the community and Georgetown itself doesn’t get to learn,” Vidal said. “The Casa will just teach more about the Latino narrative and serve as a big leadership role for the residents.”
Padilla hopes that the establishment of Casa Latina will create a more unified Latino community similar to the black community at Georgetown.
“Just seeing how united they are under the same cause and how organized they are, that’s what I’m hoping for for the Latino community. I also know that a lot of Latinos have a hard time adjusting to Georgetown, and I personally had a hard time adjusting, too,” Padilla said. “I didn’t find a community right away, so hopefully we can help first-years acclimate.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 12, 2016 by Charlotte Allen Leave a Comment 
As a part of Education Week, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser and the Director of the D.C. Public Library Richard Reyes-Gavilan announced a new component of the Sing, Talk and Read program called Books from Birth project on Feb. 4. The initiative, introduced to the D.C. Council by Councilmember Charles Allen (D-Ward 6), will send all children under five who are registered as D.C. residents and signed up by a parent or legal guardian a free book every month.
The program will also work to connect families with the full range of resources offered by the D.C. Public Library, such as adult literacy assistance and other components of the STAR early literacy program.
Books from Birth is funded by local tax dollars and the District is managing the distribution of the books through a partnership with the Dollywood Foundation’s Imagination Library. Dolly Parton developed the Dollywood Foundation’s Imagination Library in 1995 for her native Sevier County in Tennessee. Parton offers to replicate the program in any community. In D.C.’s case, the Dollywood Foundation will provide financial support for Books from Birth.
The Books from Birth program had a soft launch in January and there are already more than 2,900 children enrolled.
Allen got the idea for the project when he went to visit family in Tennessee and witnessed his then 2-year-old niece light up when she received a book from the Imagination Library program.
“What has bothered me for a long time is the achievement gap that we have in our city,” Allen said. “We know that it’s real and we know that it’s persistent. What we started doing was trying to think through how to make a substantial improvement in closing the achievement gap.”
Allen emphasized his desire to preemptively attack the problem of the achievement gap rather than wait for more data to come about. Allen believes that the achievement gap is directly connected to what he calls the word gap in the classroom, a disparity related to a child’s access to books at home.
“We know that early childhood literacy is incredibly important and we know that a child who has books in the home and who is read to will hear 30 million more words by the time they are four than a child who doesn’t and that’s what we define as the word gap,” Allen said.
Allen said he wanted to tackle the word gap based on his experience with other states’ programs.
“We looked at other programs in Tennessee and Providence and other places with similar programs and many have seen 10-point even 15-point increases in test scores on reading but also on math and science,” Allen said. “So we know that if you can attack the word gap early on you can make a really big difference in child literacy outcomes.”
According to Allen, the project’s responsibilities are specifically housed within the D.C. Public Library system, and the D.C. Public Library chose to work with the Imagination Library because has an established purchasing power and network for distribution.
Media Relations Manager of the D.C. Public Library George Williams (B’99) explained the goal of Books from Birth is to prepare the District’s youth to start school as well as encourage more parents to engage in reading with their children. According to Williams, the books sent to the children are selected by professionals within the Imagination Library with the goal of reflecting a diversity of cultures and people, while promoting self-esteem and the development of a love of reading.
“STAR Books from Birth is based on research showing that parents/caregivers engaging with a baby through conversations, gestures and positive interactions helps a baby’s brain develop,” Williams wrote in an email to The Hoya.”
Program Director of D.C. Reads Carly Finnegan is positive about the Books from Birth project and emphasized the need for such a program in the District.
“There is a pretty significant literacy achievement gap in DC and much of the research supports that the gaps in literacy development happen before students even enter the school system,” Finnegan wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Finnegan referenced the statistic that one in three D.C. residents is illiterate and described how illiteracy is produced by delayed literacy development from a very young age. For students coming into the D.C. Public School system who are already behind on literacy development, it is especially difficult to catch up to their peers.
“Many students never make up for the gaps in their literacy skills that can begin as early as birth,” Finnegan wrote. “Schools are doing a lot of work to help close these gaps and initiatives like Books from Birth will continue to help support that work.”
Allen added though the program is a step in the right direction, he does not expect to see immediate drastic changes.
“This will not change things overnight. Early childhood is about an investment and about putting things in that you are not necessarily going to see the results of tomorrow. It’s going to take some time,” Allen said. “Thousands of people have already signed up, which is phenomenal but you’re not going to change child literacy overnight.”
In looking to the future, Allen hopes to see the project expand into the surrounding area and has already been in contact with Montgomery County about establishing a similar program there.
“For me, we are a great city and this is just what we do for our kids,” Allen said. “Great cities make sure there are books and there are libraries and that we put a priority on literacy.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 12, 2016 by Gracie Hochberg Leave a Comment 
Edmond D. Villani Chair of Economics Martin Ravallion launched his new book “The Economics of Poverty: History, Measurement, and Policy” during an official book launch in Riggs Library on Feb. 5.
The new book shares content and approaches explored in Ravallion’s undergraduate course at Georgetown titled “ECON-156: Poverty,” with a focus on the way future policies and policy makers could address an issue as complex as poverty.
Dean of the College Chester Gillis and professor of economics Francis Vella both introduced Ravallion, highlighting his contributions to the Jesuit tradition, his academic accomplishments and his overall impact on the Georgetown community.
“As [Gillis] said, you’ve really made a huge difference in the department and it gives me great personal pleasure to have the opportunity to celebrate the book,” Vella said. Following the remarks of his colleagues, Ravallion described how his interest in economics began, before outlining the structure of his book and the difficulties inherent in both writing and teaching others with limited backgrounds in economics.
Finally, he offered reflections on the future of global poverty before opening up the meeting to a question-and-answer session.
Ravallion said his work’s goal was to broaden the intersection of people interested in both economics and poverty in a way the average reader could understand without advanced mathematics and complicated theorems.
He compared his work with the example of an important paper he studied in graduate school by James Mirrlees on optimal taxation, which the professor then adapted for readers with less formal backgrounds in economic literature.
“I had to convert [that paper] into something I could teach to undergraduates in a book with no advanced mathematics using simple diagrams and words to explain the essence of Jim Mirrlees’ formulation of the equity-efficiency trade off,” Ravallion said.
Ravallion said his 700-page work contains no simple magic fixes for poverty. However, it does review evidence for many policies available, as well as the most relevant policy debates, providing a framework for thinking about the many problems policymakers face today, and for evaluating what works and what does not in specific contexts.
“The concept of poverty must be relevant to the society we’re talking about. There’s no point using India’s poverty line in this country or the U.S. poverty line in India. The U.S. poverty line is ten times the Indian poverty line,” Ravallion said.
Ravallion outlined both pessimistic and optimistic scenarios for the future of global poverty. The former path assumes a return to the slower reduction of poverty, characteristic of the late 20th century, and the second depended on the continuation of the faster trajectory present in the early 21st centuries. The optimistic scenario requires that we maintain the growth rates of the developing world since 2000 and see no increase in overall inequality.
“The pessimistic scenario will take 50 or more years to lift one billion people out of extreme poverty, while the optimistic path will do it in 15 years or so,” Ravallion said.
Ravallion also highlighted the numerous challenges that must be overcome to fight poverty. He noted the causes of poverty often begin early in a child’s life and stressed that formal schooling — while important — cannot entirely solve the greater issue of global destitution.
“Early childhood development — this has got to be pretty much number one on the agenda across the world today,” Ravallion said. “Much of the inequality and poverty in the world today comes from the first few years of life and it’s not easily redressed by schooling.”
Revallion said strategies to address poverty must include devising effective social protection policies to help tackle inequality and risk, managing urbanization and find reliable measurements for poverty.
He also argued the global situation of poverty is improving, adding that he is optimistic when it comes to the important role students and their experiences hold.
“I think very well of the Georgetown undergraduates. I’m not Jesuit, I’m not even Catholic, but I really appreciate that moral tradition,” Ravallion said. “When I started teaching that course, at first I thought, ‘Ah I’m going to teach those Georgetown students what poverty’s like in the world.’ And the first thing I found out is that many of them already know. That was a revelation.”
Economics professor Arik Levinson said he admired Ravallion’s dedication to the university.
“He is a fantastic colleague in both dimensions; you’ve seen it in interactions with undergraduates — he’s been a great mentor to our PhD students — and he’s a great colleague in seminars,” Levinson said.
Jiadi Chen (GRD ’19), who attended the event, praised Ravallion’s lectures for their comprehensibility through his particularly effective use of models and data as well as his insight on the issues of poverty as invaluable and encompassing.
“He gave a really general overview of the poverty and inequality issue global-wide, how this idea has evolved throughout history and what’s changing now,” Chen said.
Gene Choi (SFS ’16) said Ravallion’s teaching style allowed him to easily explain topics in a form that a wide variety of students could understand.
“There was a lot of material covered in the limited amount of lectures that we had, but Ravallion managed to make it simple and interesting. He is a well-known expert on the topic with lots of field experience, so his personal anecdotes were extremely helpful for understanding some difficult concepts,” Choi said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 12, 2016 by Molly Cooke 1 Comment 
Though there is only one formal ticket campaigning for the Georgetown University Student Association executive position while other formal tickets enter and drop out and potential write-in candidates form joke tickets, it is down to the Georgetown University Student Association Election Commission to make sure this year’s race — and all GUSA elections — adhere to a fair set of rules.
Three election commissioners, Alden Fletcher (SFS ’17), Grady Willard (SFS ’18) and Minji Doh (SFS ’19), have teamed up to govern campaign season and count votes on Election Day, which will be Feb. 18 this year.
All three commissioners work together on every aspect of the job, but do specialize with certain skills.
Fletcher, from outside of Burlington, Vt., is involved with the Philodemic Society, Running Club and the Housing Department on campus in addition to his position enforcing campaign rules on the Election Commission. He said he was drawn to the commission when a friend suggested it to him.
“[He] said it required somebody who is impartial, and, when they saw that description, they thought of me,” Fletcher said. “I try to always take both sides to a story, consider all opinions, especially when friends are in a disagreement. I don’t pick sides immediately.”
Willard, from Pasadena, Calif., manages most of the voting software. He is a member of GU Fossil Free and is on the executive board of the Journal of International Affairs at Georgetown. He said he was interested in the Election Commission because of prior experience in high school.
Doh, from Yorktown, Va., is new to the commission and has been doing organizational planning and communication since she joined this year. She is also involved with International Relations Club and the Georgetown Admissions Ambassador Program. She applied after seeing the position was available in a GUSA newsletter.
Doh said that the GUSA executive election has brought on a heavy workload.
“It’s like the calm before the storm,” Doh said. “When I first got in, we didn’t really do a lot because that was in the middle — the senate election had just finished and before presidential elections, it was calm and now it’s hectic, especially because, I think, it’s Georgetown and everybody’s interested in politics.”
The Election Commission is responsible for holding two information sessions about campaigning before candidates can formally declare. Attendance at one of these meetings is mandatory for a ticket to be considered eligible for debates and ballot listing.
The commission also moderates the debates. With only one formal ticket this year, they have conjoined the planned vice presidential and presidential debates into one town hall meeting scheduled for Monday at 7:30 p.m. in the Healey Family Student Center’s Great Room.
On election night, the commission announces voter participation as well as results in rounds via Twitter. Its instant runoff voting technique, which involves eliminating candidates and reallocating votes according to preference, has been praised as one of the most democratic systems for elections by Fr. Matthew Carnes, S.J., in his Comparative Political Systems class, a requisite class for the School of Foreign Service core curriculum and a requirement for College government majors.
“Historically, students, often after taking [Comparative Political Systems] have continually tried to tweak the voting system such that we’ve reached the current system we have today. … Fr. Carnes always highlights the GUSA election two years before Grady and I came on when there was one leading candidate but with a lot of opposition, so, as other candidates were eliminated, one ticket actually passed them in the last round,” Fletcher said.
Having monitored last year’s executive election, Fletcher and Willard noted that some topics are consistent issues during campaign season.
“Campaigns will focus on a lot of the same things,” Willard said. “I imagine that a lot of the questions that we asked last year we will probably ask again this year: dining, GUTS Bus, Kehoe, mental health, sexual assault.”
In contrast to the Khan-Fisk ticket, the Pezzullo-Serlemitsos campaign, which has since dropped out, and other write-in campaigns have taken a more satirical approach to the election, made famous by last year’s GUSA executive election winners Joe Luther (COL ’16) and Connor Rohan (COL ’16). Fletcher, however, said this trend does not concern him.
“Regardless of whether they’re satirical or whether they’re completely serious, it’s still the campaigns that manifest effort, that actually demonstrate some caring about the student body. Even if you are satirical, it shows that you do care in some way. Satire is a way of criticism and criticism is a way of improvement,” Fletcher said. “I do wonder, though, if the lesser amount of tickets we have this semester isn’t a feature of some of the ways that the dialogue of the race last year might have gotten a little nasty and a little targeted.”

Jobbo'18 says 
February 12, 2016 at 8:08 am
So this article didn’t answer the question.  Will they allow write-ins?  Yes, or no.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

