
January 5, 2016 by Kshithij Shrinath Leave a Comment 
PARIS – Le Bourget, the location of the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference, was surprisingly far from the center of Paris. Conference-goers got off in the periphery of the metro at Fort d’Aubervilliers before taking a shuttle ride that offered views of the fairly drab suburb of Le Bourget, filled with plain storefronts and often-dilapidated apartment buildings. It did not seem like the kind of place the entire world would be watching.
I chose the second week of negotiations to visit the conference to attend an event hosted by Georgetown, a panel discussion titled “The Subnational (State and Provincial) Foundation for Action.” The other three events hosted by Georgetown officials were titled “Challenges and Opportunities in China-U.S. Cooperation on Energy and Climate Change,” “Subnational Cooperation on Clean, Resilient Transportation” and “U.S. State Actions to Achieve Significant GHG Reduction.”
By the time I attended the conference, the overwhelming security-presence brouhaha that surrounded the arrival of 150 heads of state in France had subsided, and entering the Climate Generations space, located behind the main negotiations area, involved nothing more than a straightforward security check. The space, intended for civil society and open to the public, aimed to drive dialogue about climate change between ordinary citizens, nongovernmental organizations and policymakers.
Three sections of the giant tent were designated for stalls operated by NGOs and cities to inform the public on particular initiatives, including everything from the basics of recycling to the intersection of poverty and the environment. Ten conference rooms in another section hosted panel discussions throughout the day, while a projection room screened environmental documentaries.
The panel I attended was a dialogue on subnational efforts by American states and Canadian provinces to combat climate change. It featured Vermont Governor Peter Shumlin, Manitoba Premier Gregory Selinger and senior officials from Quebec, California and Washington state.
Georgetown Climate Center Executive Director Vicki Arroyo moderated the event. The Climate Center is an affiliate of the Georgetown Law Center that collaborates with the federal government to coordinate state policies around the country.
As the Climate Center works closely with state and provincial governments, Arroyo highlighted the outsized impact of subnational actors on the fight against climate change.
“They’re not subnational, they’re super-national,” Arroyo said at the panel.
Shumlin credited the Climate Center with bringing these various actors together.
“We were all working too hard to think about working together,” Shumlin said. “We would not be working together without Vicki and her team at Georgetown.”
Establishing a theme that other panelists would also emphasize, Shumlin pointed to transportation as a primary area of action, noting the importance of the Climate Center’s Transportation and Climate Initiative in designing improvements to electric vehicle infrastructure.
Selinger expanded on Shumlin’s remarks, explaining the importance of state-level focus.
“Every jurisdiction has its own challenges,” Selinger said.
Yet the panelists also acknowledged the interconnectedness of issues across borders. Quebec Environmental Minister David Heurtel said that his province had just established a sub-national $25.5 million Solidarity Fund to invest in developing countries, the first of its kind.
“We have a responsibility worldwide as well,” Heurtel said.
Quebec and California have also teamed up to implement a cooperative cap-and-trade system, a partnership which California Environmental Protection Agency Secretary Matt Rodriquez said developed naturally.
“I thought I’d just be focused on California throughout my time as secretary, but a number of other governments around the world were interested in what we were doing,” Rodriquez said.
Sarah Rees, special assistant to the director for climate policy at the Washington State Department of Ecology, underlined the urgency of action now and presented worrying signs of advancing climate change in Washington.
“We need to go a bit further,” Rees said. “With people seeing these effects firsthand, I’m hopeful we can change the political dynamic.”
However, protestors constantly interrupted the discussion. During Shumlin’s remarks, a man stood up and began singing, while two women held up a sign reading “Fracked Gas = Climate Change.” Rees and Rodriquez were interrupted as well, with protestors reading statements greeted with loud applause from other protestors and quiet exasperation from audience members.
As the question-and-answer portion of the event concluded, Arroyo made a final plea.
“I care deeply about these issues, and I’ve devoted my life to working on them. When I was your age, I protested too, but I was respectful when I did it,” Arroyo said. “You’re protesting the wrong people.”
However, the loud activism during the panel contrasted with the rest of the civil-society space. As I strolled through the center, I repeatedly heard “I don’t know,” and “This is incredibly complicated,” but I also heard, “This might help.” These phrases seem to encapsulate the tension at the heart of the conference. The negotiations were undoubtedly complicated; countries around the world are divided, primarily between developed and developing nations. But they are also searching for some way to address a crucial issue, one that, according to President Barack Obama, “affects all trends.”
The vibrancy of the civil-society space seemed to draw energy from the focus on that central issue. Even despite the contentiousness of the panel I attended, one moment during Selinger’s speech highlighted this common unity against climate change.
“This is one of the defining issues of our time,” Selinger said. “It inspires us. It inspires the protestors, as well. We may come at it from different angles, but we all are working to figure out a way to ensure sustainable development and to save the environment.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 5, 2016 by Daniel Silbert Leave a Comment 
Benjamin Bryant (GRD ’17) was one of 60 former or active military members in 2015 to be awarded a prestigious Pat Tillman Scholarship for his pre-medical school coursework.
The academic scholarship funds recipients’ degrees, covering not only direct tuition expenses, but also other needs including housing and child care. It was created in 2004 to honor the legacy of Pat Tillman, a star defensive back for the Arizona Cardinals who voluntarily left the National Football League after the Sept. 11 attacks to join the military and was killed in Afghanistan.
“Our program unites the best talent and leadership in the military to make a significant impact in the fields of medicine, law, business, policy, technology, education and the arts,” the Pat Tillman Foundation website reads. “The Tillman Scholars program supports our nation’s active-duty service members, veterans and military spouses by investing in their higher education.”
Bryant did not always dream of becoming a doctor. He enlisted in the Army shortly after graduating from high school in Indiana and was later admitted to the United States Military Academy. But as Bryant was preparing to graduate from West Point in 2007, his older brother and role model was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis.
“My older brother, he’s kind of perfect,” Bryant said. “He was already a major in the Army, and a general’s aide, and just doing great things.”
Bryant identified his brother’s diagnosis as the first turning point that drew him to health care. The next came in 2009, when Bryant was deployed to Iraq as a field artillery officer in the 10th Mountain Division and came into regular contact with Army doctors.
“I went to Iraq and I saw how well the health care community took care of any of our injured soldiers. They’re really pretty phenomenal,” Bryant said.
While deployed in Iraq, Bryant began following the health care reform debate that was raging back in the United States as newly inaugurated President Barack Obama placed health care at the top of the national agenda. Bryant paid close attention to the intense public scrutiny placed on the Affordable Care Act, and his fascination led him to decide to make the career switch to health care and apply to Georgetown University’s School of Nursing and Health Studies.
Not only was Bryant admitted to the Master of Science in Health Systems Administration Program, he was also awarded the Tillman Scholarship and then accepted to a one-year pre-medical certificate program. Bryant attributed his success to his start in the master’s program.
“I didn’t think I had the academic chops to do it, but being in that program gave me a lot of confidence,” Bryant said. “I did very well in it and I just thought, you know, I should try out and see if I can get into the pre-med program.”
After finishing his pre-medical coursework, Bryant will complete his master’s while applying to medical schools. Though the master’s is not necessary for medical school, Bryant aims to continue learning about the complexities of the health care system and ways to address its problems.
Bryant said that he plans to use his combined master’s and medical degree to return to the military or the Veterans Administration to care for soldiers and veterans.
“I don’t think I would be content with just being a doctor in the hospital,” Bryant said. “In my master’s program I really got a good look at the state of the health care system. There is a lot of evidence out there that what we need is a lot more general practitioners. We need family doctors and a lot of people that can take care of a lot of people instead of specialists that can only do one little thing.”
Science in health systems administration professor Ryung Suh (MED ’98, GRD ’98, GRD ’03), a mentor to Bryant, recommended him for the scholarship. Suh is a fellow graduate of West Point and a combat veteran who was the task force surgeon in Kandahar, Afghanistan during Operation Enduring Freedom when Tillman was killed.
“I was honored to recommend Benjamin for the Tillman Scholarship,” Suh wrote in an email to The Hoya. “He reads broadly, thinks critically and is preparing himself for a range of future contributions to the health care industry — as a clinician and as a health executive. He embodies the spirit of Georgetown, preparing himself to serve others in the world and constantly seeking opportunities for intellectual, spiritual and moral growth.”
Even though Bryant spends his days taking classes with Georgetown undergraduates, he serves as a captain in the Maryland National Guard on reserve duty. Last year, he left Georgetown in the midst of finals and deployed to Baltimore in the wake of the Freddie Gray protests.
Bryant still has a long road ahead of him before he becomes a doctor, but he said that he is currently focused on working hard and making the most of the opportunity the Pat Tillman Foundation has given him.
“I really want to do well,” Bryant said. “I want to show them that they made the right decision in supporting me.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

