
April 22, 2016 by Cecia Soza 6 Comments 
Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards spoke in Lohrfink Auditorium at Georgetown University, the United States’ oldest Catholic university, Wednesday to call for abortion rights and access to contraception, punctuating a week stacked with anti-abortion panels and discussions for Georgetown’s Life Week.
Speaking by invitation of Lecture Fund, which is funded by the university, Richards first spoke directly to the packed room on the history and importance of Planned Parenthood’s services, before engaging in a dialogue with co-planners and moderators Lecture Fund Chair Helen Brosnan (COL ’16) and Finance Chair Elizabeth Rich (COL ’16).
Since its founding in 1916, Planned Parenthood has provided health services, including affordable sexually transmitted diseases testing, birth control, Pap smears, cancer screenings and legal abortion.
Richards’ visit was met with controversy. The day of the event, Georgetown University Right to Life, George Mason’s Students for Life group and a group of young Catholic men belonging to the American Society for the Defense of Tradition, Family and Property protested around campus.
Richards said increased access to birth control in the country has contributed to the advancement of women’s rights.
“In the early 1960s before birth control was legal, women were not expected to build careers  —  much less finish school,” Richards said. “Today, it’s unimaginable that pregnancy would alone determine your future, your career or your education.”
Richards noted the importance of the current administration’s support in advancing the progress on women’s reproductive rights.
“I’ll never forget the day President Obama called Planned Parenthood and told me he was about to announce at the White House that from here on out, women would get all forms of birth control fully covered under their insurance plans   —   at $0 copay, no matter where they work,” Richards said. “It was revolutionary.”
After reflecting on the history and the political journey of the organization, Richards emphasized that women’s healthcare has made significant progress, expedited by technological advancements.
“You can now book appointments 24/7 on a mobile phone — like at midnight when our offices are closed but birth control might just really be on your mind. And just last month we launched Spot On  — a period tracker that is incredibly cool and helps young women track your menstrual cycle and also learn everything about birth control options. And we are even in clinical trials for a self-injectable birth control shot that lasts three months,” Richards said. “There’s just so much opportunity out there — new medicine and new ways to help prevent unintended pregnancy.”
Richards said while significant progress has been made, there are still important obstacles that must be overcome, including Congress’ attempt to defund Planned Parenthood.
“In my home state of Texas, the legislature and Gov. Rick Perry (R-Texas) and Gov. Greg Abbott (R-Texas) have been hell bent on shutting down Planned Parenthood and ending access to safe and legal abortion. They’ve shuttered 82 women’s health centers, most not even Planned Parenthood,” Richards said. “But our folks in Texas will simply not quit. Despite the assault by the governor and the state legislature in the last year, we’ve opened three brand-new health centers in Dallas, Fort Worth and San Antonio, and I could not be prouder.”
Richards also responded to the increased hostility the organization and its clinics faced following the circulation of a video that claimed Planned Parenthood was selling fetal tissue to medical organizations — the footage in video has since been revealed to be heavily edited.
“Planned Parenthood has never sold fetal tissue and never would,” Richards said.
Despite reported cases of vandalism and attacks on its clinics, Richards stressed that Planned Parenthood will always provide care.
“At Planned Parenthood, our motto is care, no matter what. That’s either a promise or a threat, depending on where you sit,” Richards said. “What it means is providing care even when it’s hard, even when folks are picketing your health centers, threatening your staff or patients  —  because often that’s where women are counting on us more than ever.”
According to Richards, the activism of millennials has been instrumental in fighting back against attempts to stall reproductive justice.
“As we launch our second century, we still have a lot to do, and it’s good we’re here because the single most important group of people to determine our future is you,” Richards said. “I’m constantly blown away by the young people who are taking on topics that sometimes have been taboo for too many years.”
Kory Stuer (COL ’19), a member of the student group H*yas for Choice, attended the event and supported the university’s decision to allow Richard to speak on campus.
“I was incredibly proud of Georgetown for making the commitment to free speech in order to bring in somebody who has an institution they don’t always agree with, but they recognize that this is an important political and social conversation that needs to be happening,” Stuer said.

Hoyalum says 
April 22, 2016 at 11:15 am
No pro-lifers students were available for comment?

Rich DelSignore says 
April 22, 2016 at 4:23 pm
Are you shitting me

Jack Hoya says 
April 22, 2016 at 5:06 pm
No mention of the vast opposition from within the university? Too much to be expected of The “unbiased” Hoya

Patrick says 
April 24, 2016 at 1:12 am
Ms. Soza,
Every graduate, current student and future attendee of Georgetown is someone who was born to a mother who decided not to kill them.
You seem to have forgotten that part.

Erin says 
April 26, 2016 at 1:29 pm
Patrick, 
Soza’s article was informative and contained no heavy bias one way or the other. The author simply reported on Ms Richards’ visit to Georgetown. So, no, Soza did not ‘forget that part’ as is was not relevant to the article.
Your “argument” is old and tired. 
Women have the right to decide whether or not they want to continue a pregnancy; not you, not anyone else, just the woman facing the decision. They also have the right to obtain birth control and health care when it is not otherwise available. 
I’m sitting in a PP location now, and not for anything having to do with abortion or birth control. Stop trying to deny women heath care and reproductive autonomy.
[…] Milo Yiannopoulos and Ben Shapiro. Georgetown was also the subject of criticism in 2016 over a Lecture Fund event with Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards due to the its history as the oldest Catholic […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 22, 2016 by Léa Nicolas 1 Comment 
Former Planned Parenthood Clinic Director and anti-abortion activist Abby Johnson condemned the abortion services offered by the women’s health care provider at an event organized by Georgetown University Right to Life in Dahlgren Chapel on Wednesday night.
Johnson, who resigned from Planned Parenthood in 2009 after witnessing an abortion through an ultrasound, said her experiences working as a clinic director for eight years in Bryan, Texas, shifted her views on abortion. She was named Planned Parenthood’s employee of the year in 2008.
“I remember looking at the ultrasound screen and I was feeling apprehensive. Because it really did look like a baby,” Johnson said.
Since leaving Planned Parenthood, Johnson has become an anti-abortion activist, volunteering with the Coalition for Life, an anti-abortion group, and writing Unplanned, a novel about her becoming an anti-abortion activist.
Johnson said she first learned about Planned Parenthood while in college when she visited its table on campus and spoke to a representative about the organization’s work.
“I was an easy target for them because I knew nothing about the organization,” Johnson said. “Whatever she fed me, I believed.”
Johnson said she realized she did not consider the consequences of her work until the fall of 2009. When she met with her supervisor to compare her budget for the past fiscal year and the upcoming fiscal year, she noticed that the clinic’s number of performed abortions doubled the quota — the number of abortions that the clinic was required to perform each month.
“I knew that couldn’t be right,” Johnson said. “‘Because at Planned Parenthood, we are about reducing the number of abortions.’ That’s what I said. That’s what I said to the media. That’s what I said to my friends, to my family, to myself. ‘We’re not about selling abortions.’”
The Planned Parenthood Federal Association provides protocol for medical procedures at 700 health care centers operated by 90 individual affiliates. According to Johnson, each facility across the country will perform a first trimester abortion the same way.
“We have the woman lie on the table and we pretty much immediately get sedation going for her for two reasons,” Johnson said. “First, the sedation keeps them quiet. Physicians don’t want to have to answer questions while the woman is having an abortion. The other reason is because of the ultrasound.”
Johnson said before every abortion procedure, clinicians perform an ultrasound to determine exactly how far along the woman is in her pregnancy and how much to charge. However, Johnson explained that they did not want the woman to sit up and see what was shown on the ultrasound.
“Because what was on that ultrasound machine exposes the lie of the abortion industry: that it’s not a blob of tissue, it’s not a mass of cells. That it is a unique, individual, unrepeatable, scientifically human being with a heartbeat,” she said. “And we didn’t want the woman to see her child. Because then she might choose life, and that would impact our bottom line in a negative way.”
Johnson then explained the abortion procedures she conducted daily.
Johnson said she specifically remembers being called in to assist with an abortion by holding the ultrasound probe in place on the woman’s abdomen. The doctors first took the measurement and found out that the baby was 13 weeks along.
Johnson said she recalls telling the mother that the baby would not feel any pain, reciting a scripted answer Planned Parenthood had provided all employees in a memo.
“I knew it was a lie,” Johnson said. “Babies begin to suck their thumb in the womb at 12 weeks because it soothes them. It makes them feel better — because they can feel.”
Johnson described watching the ultrasound monitor and seeing the fetus jump and move around as if to try and escape the abortion instrument.
“Some people think that what came next would be the worst part, seeing a child become dismembered in his mother’s womb,” Johnson said. “But I knew that was coming. The worst part was that when I had the opportunity to intervene, I just stood there and I did nothing. I remember wanting to sit this woman up and say ‘Look. Look what’s happening to your baby.’ But I just stood there and watched.”
According to Johnson, she resigned that day and began advocating for the rights of the unborn. In 2012, she founded “And Then There Were None,” which encourages abortion workers to leave the industry.
The organizations has facilitated 218 people, including six full-time abortion doctors, leaving the industry in three years.
“My goal is not just to make abortion illegal,” Johnson said. “My goal is to make abortion unthinkable.”
Tabling Co-Chair for Georgetown University Right to Life Hunter Estes (SFS ’19), who attended the talk, agreed with her cause.
“She demonstrated how the basis of pro-life opinion is rooted in love,” he said. “It’s not just about ending abortion, but about ending the culture that necessitates abortion.”
Other students said they appreciated the personal experiences that Johnson — who herself admitted to having two abortions — shared.
“To listen to someone who understands and has had experience in the abortion industry and really knows how it works was powerful,” Gabriella Munoz (COL ’18) said.
Alexandra Williams (SFS ’19) agreed, saying she was fascinated by Johnson’s transition from directing a clinic to praying outside of it.
“At one point Abby said, ‘I see two humans walking in [to the clinic] and only one human walking out,’” Williams said. “That reminded me that the pro-life movement is about making sure that both of those humans can one day be happy and healthy, together or apart.”
Johnson ended her story with her goal for the future.
“I have faith that one day, it won’t be me standing here, speaking and defending the sanctity of human life,” she said. “I believe that one day, it will be Cecile Richards.”

RD says 
April 28, 2016 at 10:23 am
Nice to hear it was a cozy chitchat. Difficult to swallow for someone who has been raped young and just wants control of her own body and her future would’ve been nice. Comforting for the rapist to know the establishment will make sure she feels vile about herself.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 22, 2016 by Aly Pachter Leave a Comment 
At least two Georgetown University students were arrested Monday during this week’s Democracy Spring protests, which began April 12. The protests were focused on ending voting discrimination and U.S. government corruption including special interest contributions in politics, and these arrests added to the nearly 1,300 others apprehended.
The weeklong protests, along with a 10-day march from Philadelphia to the U.S. Capitol, represented part of a larger progressive movement organized by Democracy Awakening, a coalition of over 200 organizations ranging from immigration policy to climate change advocacy groups. Eleven of the 3,500 people who participated in the protests were Georgetown students.
Democracy Initiative, a progressive national coalition supporting campaign finance reform and voters’ rights, attended the protests and hosted several events prior to the rallies, including a letter-writing campaign to members of Congress in opposition and support of various pieces of legislation. The initiative is headed by the National Education Association, the Sierra Club, Greenpeace, the Communications Workers of America and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
The initiative also organized a panel on campus co-hosted by the Georgetown NAACP, the Georgetown program on justice and peace and the Georgetown University Lecture Fund featuring NAACP President and CEO Cornell Brooks titled “Democracy Awakening: Panel and Discussion” in Reiss on March 31.
The Georgetown students, who attended the rally along with peers from Howard University, American University and the University of Maryland, were arrested while protesting in front of the Capitol, according to Democracy Initiative Communications and Organizing intern Katharine Viles (SFS ’16).
Viles, who was not arrested, said the purpose of the protests was to garner attention and visibility for the cause rather than initiate plans for any federal policy changes.
“I think there was an understanding in the progressive community that we are not going to be able to pass anything at the national level,” Viles said. “This is really the only way that we would be able to get the ball rolling, and this was not so much about actually passing anything. This was about momentum and this was about raising the visibility of a movement.”
According to the Democracy Spring website, the movement aims to tackle citizen frustrations with the role of large corporations in politics.
“American elections are dominated by billionaires and big money interests who can spend unlimited sums of money on political campaigns to protect their special interests at the general expense,” the website reads.  “Meanwhile, as the super-rich dominate the ‘money primary’ that decides who can run for office, almost half of the states in the union have passed new laws that disenfranchise everyday voters, especially people of color and the poor.”
According to Democracy Awakening’s website, the group’s demands include fair consideration of chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals Merrick Garland’s nomination to the Supreme Court, the approval of acts to increase voting rights and combat voting discrimination as well as amendments to overturn the Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission decision, which allows unlimited independent political spending by individuals and corporations.
Participants of the movement expressed willingness to be arrested on the official misdemeanor charge of “crowding, obstructing, or incommoding,” after which they had the option of paying a $50 charge rather than appear in court.
The U.S. Capitol Police acting Communications Director Eva Malecki confirmed that the federal enforcement agency, which protects Congressional facilities, made 1,240 arrests since April 11 in association with the ongoing Democracy Springs demonstrations.
“When demonstrations occur in the restricted areas, individuals are given warnings to leave that area,” Malecki wrote in an email to The Hoya. “If they do not leave voluntarily, they will be arrested.”
Viles said that although the risk of arrest was high, protestors could easily post bail and forfeit the charge after they were taken into custody. Viles highlighted the sense of urgency spurred by an atmosphere created by arrests occurring in the hundreds.
“It was a low-risk situation overall, but there is something about being in a situation with any risk at all that makes people feel it in a much more real way that these issues are important and this is something that is urgent for all of us,” Viles said.
In addition to student arrests, actress Rosario Dawson and Ben & Jerry’s Ice Cream founders Ben Cohen and Jerry Greenfield were also apprehended at the demonstration.
According to a press release on the Ben & Jerry’s blog, prior to being taken into custody, Cohen said he was willing to face arrest to see governmental change.
“The history of our country is that nothing happens until people start putting their bodies on the line and risk getting arrested,” Cohen said.
Viles said that despite the high number of arrests, the atmosphere was lighthearted.
“I think it was a very powerful event,” Viles said. “A lot of people think of risking arrest as this serious thing but the founders of Ben & Jerry’s were dancing when they got arrested, so it was actually a fun event, which is something that not a lot of people get.”
Tanner Hinkel (SFS ’18), who also attended the march Sunday but was not arrested, said he was optimistic about the civic engagement exemplified in the protests.
“It was really good to see a bunch of people who were engaged and felt very passionate about voting rights and campaign finance reform and believed that it had a larger and greater impact than just within those communities,” Hinkel said. “It was really good to see a lot of people from various places coming together and getting involved and uniting over these issues.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 22, 2016 by Owen Eagan 4 Comments 
Inciting campus-wide dialogue and protest surrounding abortion rights, the Georgetown University Lecture Fund’s decision to invite Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards to speak Wednesday was met with formal opposition from several Georgetown Jesuits, Catholic officials and anti-abortion student groups.
Associate professor Fr. Stephen Fields, S.J., and visiting professor of law Fr. Ladislas Orsy, S.J., presented a proposal to introduce an anti-abortion counterview into the event, a culmination of a four-yearslong effort by the Lecture Fund to bring Richards to campus, but it was rejected by Lecture Fund at its meeting March 29.
In addition to attempts to prevent Richards from speaking or altering the format of the event, initial efforts to see the event held in Gaston Hall were met with resistance by the university, according to leaders of the Lecture Fund and Georgetown University Right to Life.
Georgetown University Right to Life President Michael Khan (COL ’18) said following a meeting between Vita Saxa, the Cardinal O’Connor Conference on Life and university administrators Feb. 29, Vice President of Mission and ministry Father Kevin O’Brien, S.J., approached the Lecture Fund to express concerns about holding the event in Gaston Hall.
According to Vice Chair of Finance for the Lecture Fund Elizabeth Rich (COL ’16), a co-planner and moderator of the event, the Catholic community on campus spurred the change of the event’s venue to the McDonough School of Business’ Lohrfink Auditorium.
“I do know that it was Fr. O’Brien who definitely brought that to their attention,” Khan said.
O’Brien has not replied to a request for comment as of press time.
Khan said anti-abortion advocates’ major concern with holding the event in Gaston Hall regarded the hall’s extensive history and its cross and Georgetown seal, maintaining that providing the venue as a backdrop for a pro-abortion rights speaker would resemble an implicit endorsement by the university.
A Jesuit Proposal Rejected
Fields and Orsy proposed that the Lecture Fund invite an anti-abortion speaker of equal caliber to Richards to the event, such as George Mason University School of Law professor and anti-abortion advocate Helen Alvaré or anti-abortion liberal columnist Kirsten Powers.
“We thought that [the Lecture Fund] would surely be interested in a full, free exchange of ideas, so we suggested that they have someone like Helen Alvaré or Kirsten Powers come, not as a debate, but perhaps as two speakers,” Fields said. “Then both of them together would field questions from everybody in the audience and that way both sides of the issue could be aired and the opinions of our students could be helpfully informed on the spot.”
Fields and Orsy met in the Jesuit Residence at Wolfington Hall on March 18 with three university administrators and the 16 available members of the Lecture Fund’s Associate Board to deliver the proposal.
The result of the vote — after concluding deliberations that began at the previous Lecture Fund Associate Board meeting March 22 — was clear. The board voted by a majority to keep the event as planned.
Chair of the executive board for the Lecture Fund Helen Brosnan (COL ’16), who co-planned the event, said obligations grounded in the group’s policy and constitution to honor previous invitations to Richards to speak unchallenged, were the major motivations behind rejecting the proposal.
According to Rich, logistical concerns also played a role in the vote’s outcome.
“We were so far along in planning and the logistics of this event, it just did not seem appropriate, and the whole entire Lecture Fund board agreed that we wanted to keep the event as it was,” Rich said.
Khan said logistical concerns aside, the Lecture Fund’s denial of a proposal for a balanced program illustrates its lack of commitment to genuine discourse.
“To host this event, and even worse to hold this speaker unchallenged, really shows to me that the Lecture Fund is not committed to true dialogue,” Khan said.
While a joint-speaker event was not realized, Vita Saxa did host anti-abortion advocate Abby Johnson — a former Planned-Parenthood-clinic-director-turned-activist — for an event in Dahlgren Chapel on Wednesday.
An Idea Long in the Making
The conversation with Richards was in development long before the Jesuit proposal in March. The idea for the event had been simmering in both Brosnan and Rich’s minds since their freshman years. On their applications they had each marked Richards’ name on their ‘dream list’ of speakers.
“This has been one of my career goals at Georgetown, to bring her, so it’s been a long process,” Brosnan said.
Brosnan met with the two prior presidents of the student group H*yas for Choice Laura Narefsky (COL ’14) and Abigail Grace (SFS ’16) over her sophomore and junior years to strategize.
According to Rich, the Lecture Fund had extended official invitations to Richards without success in past semesters.
Then, early in October 2015, Rich contacted Richards again, emailing a formal letter of invitation to Planned Parenthood’s generic contact email address.
Richards’ team quickly replied, requesting the Lecture Fund to follow up in January or February. Following a subsequent letter from Brosnan in December and a third from Rich in January, Richards officially accepted the invitation and the Lecture Fund began preparing for her arrival, booking large venues on campus such as Gaston Hall and notifying the university of its plans formally in mid-January.
Later, in early February, Brosnan met with numerous administrators from around campus, confirming in person that the event was scheduled and asking for their input, concerns and suggestions.
“I must have had in February — the first weeks of February alone — 10 different meetings with people from all over the university, like upper level administrators,” Brosnan said.
After notifying both H*yas for choice and GU Right to Life of the plan for the event later in February, the Lecture Fund released a press statement announcing the event to the public March 3, the same day that the university issued a public statement supporting both the “free exchange of ideas” and “the sanctity and human dignity of every life at every stage.”
Disagreement Off Campus
In addition to Fields and Orsy’s objections to the format of the event, Richards’ speech on campus was formally opposed by the Catholic Daughters of America, The Cardinal Newman Society, the Archdiocese of Washington and the American Society for the Defense of Tradition, Family and Property.
Vice President of the Catholic Daughters of America Julie Reiter (NHS ’17) raised strong objections during the regularly scheduled meeting of the university’s Speech and Expression Committee on March 30.
At the meeting, Reiter, supported by two other students from GU Right to Life, argued under the university’s Speech and Expression Policy that Richards’ views could be judged “grossly obscene” and therefore be impermissible on campus, and under the university’s Access to Benefits policy, that the Lecture Fund’s invitation of Richards “substantially [advocated] positions inconsistent with Roman Catholic moral tradition” and should therefore halt her speech.
Assistant Dean for Student Engagement Erika Cohen Derr, who serves on the committee, said it understood the students’ concerns and gave them feedback about the committee’s interpretation of university policy.
Reiter said the committee informed her that her objections did not stand.
“We received an explanation in the meeting as to why our proposal did not hold ground,” Reiter said. “I thought that the administrators were very thoughtful, but in the end that we agreed to disagree.”
Directly following the March 3 announcement, the Archdiocese of Washington issued a statement urging the Jesuit community to better impart Catholic values on campus.
The Cardinal Newman Society, a nonprofit dedicated to promoting Catholic values, also created an online petition against the event that garnered over 14,700 signatures as of April 18.
Additionally, the American Society for the Defense of Tradition, Family and Property, a network that serves to promote Catholic ideals, demonstrated against the event at the campus gates on April 4 and on Wednesday.
Director of Student Activities for the TFP John Ritchie said in allowing Richard to come to campus, Georgetown disgraced its reputation as the oldest Catholic university in the country.
“We think it’s a real shame to see Cecile Richards come to campus and disgrace the honor of the Catholic Church,” Ritchie said. “I think the only circumstance that would allow Cecile Richards to come to campus would be if she came to ask for pardon for the 2.8 million babies she saw killed under her direction as president of Planned Parenthood. We’re praying that Georgetown will be able to restore and recover its identity.”
At least two other petitions in opposition to the event circulated, one published by Maya M. Noronha (COL ’05, LAW ’10) on March 7 in conjunction with GU Right to Life that gained over 230 signatures from university community members and another co-sponsored by Students for Life of America and GU Right to Life last month with over 9,800 signatures as of press time.
University Responses
On April 8, university president John J. DeGioia hosted a group of anti-abortion student leaders and activists for about an hour in his office in Healy Hall, listening to their concerns about Richards’ coming speech.
Khan, who attended the meeting, said that while DeGioia seemed sympathetic to the students’ concerns, no action occurred as a result of the meeting.
“He really wanted to listen, so we expressed our objections, our concerns and how we think this not only violates the mission of our school but the free speech codes,” Khan said. “We got out of that [meeting] probably what we expected to, which was not much.”
Rich said the Lecture Fund is surprised by the intensity of the response, which culminates in GU Right to Life’s “Life Week” events from April 18 to 22. Vita Saxa’s annual Life Week corresponds to Richards’ visit.
“I don’t think we anticipated the amount of attention that we got … [but] it has raised awareness that this conversation is happening and I think it has engaged more of campus,” Rich said. “It’s good to see our work is paying off.”
President of H*yas for Choice Sophia Kleyman (COL ’16) said she is disappointed in the university’s response to the event.
“It’s a little disappointing that the university or that administrators are in such strong opposition to this,” Kleyman said.
A Path to Further Dialogue
Looking ahead, Hunter Estes (SFS ’19), tabling co-chair for GU Right to Life, said he hopes the Lecture Fund will work with the university in the future to host a more balanced event around this debate in the coming semester.
“I would really hope that in the coming semester that the Lecture Fund and the administration can work together in a combined effort to bring two speakers of equal caliber who can equally explain and pronounce their views rationally to the community and then have a dialogue,” Estes said.
Brosnan said a balanced event could be valuable to Georgetown’s campus in a future semester, perhaps this coming fall.
“I would love [a balanced dialogue] and I frankly would love that among students,” Brosnan said. “And I think it would be a great follow-up to this event in the fall.”
Hoya Staff Writers Ashwin Puri, Toby Hung and Christian Paz contributed reporting.
Correction: This article previously stated that Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards and anti-abortion advocate Abby Johnson spoke at Georgetown on Thursday. They spoke on Wednesday. The article also previously stated that the Georgetown University Lecture Fund rejected a proposal to host an anti-abortion voice in an open-forum meeting; this meeting was closed. 

Matt Martin says 
April 23, 2016 at 3:04 pm
I find it interesting (I guess that’s one way of putting it) that people think discussion about abortion necessarily needs to include speakers from both sides of the issue. When Ann Coulter came to campus in 2011, was there a similar push to ensure she would speak alongside Michael Moore? Paul Ryan is coming, but I don’t think there’s a movement to ensure Nancy Pelosi joins him. If a LGBT rights activist came, would it also be necessary to invite the Governor of North Carolina?
Also, if “dialogue” is expressed as being so important, why aren’t students more engaging of alternative viewpoints expressed at less publicized events that are organized (and advertised) by student groups throughout the entire school year? If you claim that dialogue is so crucial, then I expect to see you practice what you preach and, you know, actually dialogue with people you disagree with and attend events and discussions organized by groups that don’t necessarily align with your views so that you can listen to and question people who may disagree with you.
By all means, protest a speaker if you want, but don’t try to undermine the ability or format for students to bring someone to campus that they respect and admire.

COL '16 says 
April 23, 2016 at 5:14 pm
Interesting that the leaders/participants of GU Right to Life (i.e. Kahn, Ritchie, Estes) seem heavily male….
Anyway, during GAAP weekend last weekend, I heard Fr. Carnes speak to the newly admitted students at one of the events, and one of the things he said stuck out to me. John Carroll opened this school in order to allow students of ALL religious (or nonreligious) backgrounds to come and study. That’s why we employ rabbis, imams, and chaplains of other Christian denominations alongside the Jesuits here at Georgetown. It’s supposed to be a place to learn about Catholic values and encourage Catholic values, but also a place of freedom and exploration. By attempting to block Ms. Richards from coming and denouncing her presence on campus, our Catholic brothers and sisters are ignoring a key part of Georgetown’s identity: its commitment to openness for all religions, including non-religion. Islam and Judaism deny that Jesus is the Son of God, a core–nay, THE core, of Catholic theology. Yet, people from the Islamic and Jewish faiths are welcomed with open arms on campus, and actually offered full-time positions at the university (as they should be!). So how difficult is it to allow someone else who holds a different theological perspective to come on campus and at least speak to her views? Food for thought.

Anne Childs says 
April 23, 2016 at 11:05 pm
Bravo brave students of The Lecture Fund. The last time I looked “…promote respect for diversity in an age of global community” was still part of the mission statement at Georgetown College. I am so impressed by the integrity shown by the Lecture Fund students to help foster awareness for women’s and men’s health in this country. Planned Parenthood is a truly wonderful organization and I am so glad that Cecile Richards, an American hero, was welcomed to campus.

Chris Pilgrim says 
April 29, 2016 at 12:02 am
I couldn’t help but note the irony that at the same time the chief abortionist in the world was coming to campus to promote Planned Parenthood, Georgetown President Jack DeGioia was tripping over himself to apologize for the Georgetown Jesuits who horrendously sold slaves nearly 200 years ago to keep the college financially afloat. President DeGioia said, “Today, we mark a milestone in our efforts to make visible, and to reconcile, the role of slavery and the forced enslavement of Africans and African-Americans by our community. Let us not take comfort in this step. Instead, let us see this as a challenge to each of us. What injustices do we fail to see? When do we fail to act? Where is our own moral imagination lacking, today?” 
Missing the irony, he then proceeded to go radio silent on the Planned Parenthood scandal unfolding on his own watch. Perhaps two hundred years from now we can expect an apology from a future President of Georgetown University to the millions of children who lost their lives at the hands of Planned Parenthood abortionists, some of whom may have been the best and brightest to have walked the halls of Georgetown, if only they had been given the chance to grow up.
There’s nothing new under the sun: slavery and now abortion at Georgetown. Lord have mercy!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 22, 2016 by Haley Snyder Leave a Comment 
In the latest of a series of actions to foster statehood for Washington, D.C., Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) called for a November citywide vote to make D.C. the nation’s 51st state in a speech delivered on Emancipation Day, on April 16.
Despite progress in District independence, including a March 18 ruling upholding the city’s right to make budgetary decisions without congressional approval, Bowser conveyed her frustration at D.C.’s continued lack of voting representation.
According to The Washington Post, Bowser expressed this discontent and her plans for attaining statehood at a breakfast meeting with city residents, Democratic members of Congress and civil rights leaders April 15.
“It’s going to require that we send a bold message to the Congress and the rest of the country that we demand not only a vote in the House of Representatives,” Bowser said. “We demand two senators — the full rights of citizenship in this great nation”
The District currently appoints two nonvoting shadow senators, Paul Strauss and Michael Brown, to represent it in the Senate. In the House of Representatives, delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.) represents D.C., and although she can introduce legislation, she does not possess the right to vote on the final passage of legislation.
The D.C. Home Rule Act of 1973 granted a step toward sovereignty by allocating certain congressional powers to the District’s local government. However, the only vote on D.C. statehood occurred in 1993 and was defeated in the House after a floor debate.
To achieve statehood, Bowser is proposing a revision of the District’s 1982 constitution to emulate the Tennessee Model based on how Tennessee became the 16th state, which provides an abbreviated path toward statehood that does not require ratification from existing states. According to The Washington Post, constitutional scholars have also advised Bowser to consider allowing voters to decide whether to repeal the U.S. Constitution’s 23rd Amendment, which gives D.C. residents the ability to vote for president but not congressional representatives.
Though the revisions would provide a fairly swift path to independence from federal jurisdiction, the District’s constitution still contains amendments dictating various requirements should statehood be obtained. For example, the constitution would require the new state to supply jobs or sufficient salaries to all residents.
On Emancipation Day — which marks the anniversary of the end of slavery in D.C. —  Bowser expressed frustration at the lack of representation D.C. has within the federal government due to its position as a federal district and not a state.
“One hundred and fifty-four years after President Lincoln abolished slavery in the District of Columbia, we remain at the mercy of those we did not elect to office,” Bowser said. “It is just not right, and we must stand together until our rights are recognized.”
Republicans in the Senate oppose the District’s inclusion as the 51st state because the District’s two senators would most likely be Democrats due to D.C.’s large liberal population, thus tipping the balance in the Senate to a liberal majority.
Georgetown government professor Stephen Wayne expressed skepticism about D.C.’s ability to achieve statehood given the current polarized political environment.
“In the foreseeable future, the District is not going to get two senators. If the District had two senators, that would increase to 102 the number of senators and that would give the Democrats two more. Republicans are going to oppose that,” Wayne said. “Every one of the states would feel that they’re going to be losing a little power if two more senators are added.”
In addition to advocating statehood, Bowser’s office is also working for budget autonomy. After Superior Court Judge Brian Holeman ruled in favor of the District’s control over their budget March 18, Bowser and the D.C. Council began plans to spend the city’s $13 billion budget without waiting for congressional approval.
Christopher Murphy, Georgetown’s government relations and community engagement vice president, voiced his concerns on budget autonomy as the District waits to see if federal lawmakers will implement action to stop the spending.
“I’m excited that the District in theory has such autonomy. I think that’s terrific, but I’m anxious about how this is going to play out in the future,” Murphy said. “If Congress doesn’t overturn it, then it’s going to look like a really brave move. On the other hand if Congress does overturn it, it would be the first time in many years that Congress has decided to be adversarial with the District.”
The D.C. Council is also attempting to change its license plates, which have displayed the slogan   “Taxation Without Representation” for 16 years, an allusion to Congress’ ability to spend D.C. tax money without representation from District voters.
D.C. Councilmember Charles Allen (D-Ward 6) introduced a bill April 19 to make “End Taxation Without Representation” the new D.C. slogan. License plates would include the phrase “We Demand Statehood” for $51 apiece.
Dylan Hughes (COL ’19), secretary of administrative affairs in the new Georgetown University Student Association federal relations office — which is supporting D.C. statehood by reaching out to federal institutions for collaboration — took part in an Emancipation Day march on April 16 advocating District independence.
Hughes expressed doubt that the District would successfully achieve statehood status, but highlighted District officials’ efforts to spur momentum on the issue.
“I think it is unlikely because of the institutional stickiness of it. Even when Democrats had the Senate and the House, there was a minor push there, but it still didn’t quite catch fire,” Hughes said. “Seeing this much of a push from the government of the District of Columbia is interesting, because it has always been on the backburner.”
Georgetown Students for D.C. Statehood founder and President Annie Mason (COL ’18) highlighted the potential for university students to become involved in the campaign for statehood, which she stressed as central to the fair representation of D.C. residents.
“Georgetown Students for D.C. Statehood is hoping to actually work with Mayor Bowser’s office directly in the future to help her,” Mason said. “I think it’s very important that Mayor Bowser is uniting a front of D.C. residents and people all across the country to show that in order for D.C. residents to get full rights as U.S. citizens, statehood is a necessity.”
Clarification: Hughes’ views are independent of the position of GUSA’s Federal Relations Office on D.C. statehood.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 22, 2016 by Tara Subramaniam Leave a Comment 
Former Secretary of Education Arne Duncan stressed the importance of transparency in education policy at the keynote for the McCourt School of Public Policy’s fourth annual Leadership, Evidence, Analysis and Debate conference in Fisher Colloquium on Monday.
This year’s LEAD conference focused primarily on education finance. Spending in education has seen significant changes since the Every Student Succeeds Act, which alters accountability for spending, was passed in December 2015.
According to McCourt School Dean Edward Montgomery, the theme of this year’s conference was inspired by the work of Director of the Edunomics Lab Dr. Marguerite Roza.
“The Edunomics Lab’s innovative research on education finance is changing policy at all levels,” Montgomery said. “When Marguerite and her team came to us with a host of ideas on how to build strong schools within the context of education finance, we jumped at the chance.”
Prior to his seven years as Secretary of Education from 2009 to 2016, Duncan served as the head of Chicago Public Schools for seven years.
Since leaving the Obama Administration, Duncan has worked at Laurene Powell Jobs’ education group, Emerson Collective, as a managing partner.
Duncan said an effective budget is one of the main pillars of strong schools.
“Every school has 50 different issues. You can’t work on all 50, so what are the few for this budget year that you are going to focus on?” Duncan said. “Budget is important, but it’s one step out of this process. If we start with budget and don’t think about facts, don’t think about strategy, we’re not going to get to where we need to go.”
According to Duncan, finance has become a critical issue given what she called a lack of transparency around spending in education.
“You should have absolute transparency. There’s so much opaqueness in school finance. Forget the public, if you ask teachers in their own school, ‘how is your budget spent?’ They can’t tell you,” Duncan said. “The lack of transparency is part of why I think we aren’t getting better as fast as we should.”
Duncan said increasing transparency is one of the first steps toward improving the education system.
“You can’t get to thinking about how to allocate not just dollars but human talent and technology if you don’t have transparency. The fact that not one school district does it, you should be ashamed and uncomfortable of where we are,” Duncan said. “Transparency is a gateway, not the end.”
Duncan said while the government is gradually making efforts to address these systemic issues within the education system, there needs to be more research and more data, and parents and community groups must be empowered to spur change.
According to Duncan, one of the biggest hurdles in education policy is the general lack of awareness and accountability.
“People don’t vote on education. The biggest thing we could do to change the nation is if every citizen voted around early childhood or K-12 policy,” Duncan said. “If education was one of our top three issues, our country would change overnight; it wouldn’t matter who was in office.”
Duncan said that while he doesn’t miss the internal politics of Washington, D.C., politicians should take more steps to address education.
“Every politician gets a pass. They all visit schools, they all get a photo op, but almost none of them walk the walk,” Duncan said. “For any of the lead candidates: what’s their college completion goal? What’s their strategy to get there? Nobody knows. We haven’t asked and that’s on us.”
Duncan said communities need to build movements to put pressure on the government to act.
“I wish parents were banging down our doors demanding more. Until then we will continue to putter along,” Duncan said. “I think we are moving way too slow. Without the political will, without the demand, without the push on both sides, I think we will continue to get better at a rate that is insufficient.”
Duncan said a grassroots effort to make education more affordable is especially important in the current economic climate, where higher education is becoming more critical for success.
“The economy has changed. The cost of a lack of education, socially, economically, is massive,” Duncan said. “When I was growing up in Chicago, my friends could drop out of high school and still have a pretty good life, support their family. In our society, if you don’t have at least a high school diploma and some form of training, you don’t have a chance.”
Anastasia Sendoun (COL ’18), who attended the event, said she felt Duncan was surprisingly aware of the struggles facing minority students.
“What I really liked was his general attitude toward education and how much he talks about low-income communities and groups of students that have for a really long time been marginalized in terms of the rhetoric that people use to talk about education,” Sendoun said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 22, 2016 by Matthew Larson Leave a Comment 
The Washington, D.C., region could add up to 170,000 new jobs over the next decade through expanded industries in the private sector, according to a report released April 13 by Inforum, a policy analysis organization at the University of Maryland.
The report, written by Inforum Executive Director Douglas Meade and titled “The Roadmap for the Washington Region’s Economic Future,” also highlights key challenges and opportunities for the District to advance economically and compete globally.
The growth in jobs is anticipated to cluster in seven key industries, including information and communications technology, science and security technology, biological and health technology, business and financial services, media and business, advocacy and leisure travel.
According to the study, these expanding industries — which in 2014 provided nearly 800,000 of the region’s 3 million jobs — will comprise 981,005 of the region’s 3.4 million jobs by 2025. The clusters are expected to expand at a 20 percent rate during this period, double the national average growth in the same industries.
The report states that too much of the D.C. area’s economy depends on the federal government and stresses the importance of diversification of employment among different sectors for continued economic growth.
Inforum economist Jeffrey Lemieux noted that for years, much of the regional economy has been dictated by the budget of the federal government. If private sector clusters grow as Inforum predicts, this trend will be mitigated.
“When the federal government spends a lot of money, the D.C. area will prosper and grow,” Lemieux said. “One of the points of this report is to highlight the private sector areas we focus on in order to prevent federal cutbacks from spilling over into a general region-wide slowdown.”
Inforum economist Troy Wittek said that while the federal government’s role in determining the region’s overall economic growth may be diminished, it will remain an important source of employment.
“The goal of the project is to identify ways the region can pivot away from a general overreliance on the federal government,” Wittek said. “We’re not talking about completely turning our back on this business source. It’s always going to be very important.”
To measure the area’s anticipated job growth, Inforum created a variable called a location quotient. The location quotient is a number calculated by taking the percentage of local jobs in an industry and dividing that by the percentage of the industry’s national jobs. While not every one of the seven industries had a substantially higher location quotient than those in larger regions, each cluster stood out for its appeal to potential residents.
“In some of the cases, the clusters we highlighted aren’t necessarily growing faster locally than nationally,” Lemieux said. “But we singled it out for a lot of reasons, including not only their location quotient, but a lot of potential activity here that would attract people in those industries to this area.”
The report also highlights five areas for improvement in the District region: transportation, housing, workforce, rebranding and collaboration. To advance transportation, the study suggests the District consider forming a regional transportation authority in addition to the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, which contains representatives from D.C., Virginia, Maryland and the federal government.
As presented in the report, the main challenges faced in the housing sector are primarily centered on affordability, whereas the problems in the workforce include a lack of strong collaboration between academic and business communities.
In terms of rebranding, the study recommends that the region develop a brand that portrays the area as a global center of business. The report also proposes opportunities for interregional collaboration, including a non-compete alliance between local economic development efforts.
Lemieux noted that many of the jobs in the seven clusters appeal to highly educated individuals, meaning much of the growth will not include the creation of lower level service jobs.
“Some of the sectors are not necessarily high wage, but most of them are,” Lemieux said. “For example, the business travel sector has pretty ordinary wage levels, but most of the others are pretty high wage tech oriented sectors that we’re focusing on.”
Wittek said the D.C. area is unique for the number of people it attracts, and identifies the region’s many institutions as giving D.C. an advantage over other areas of the country.
“We have at least 14 pretty big universities with close to quarter of a million students, and the quality of life in the region attracts a lot of people,” Wittek said. “It’s a power center. People gravitate to this area.”
Lemieux said that the aim of the report and Inforum’s work is to highlight the role these diverse industries can play in D.C.’s continued economic growth. Lemieux expressed confidence that by focusing on these clusters, the regional economy can remain healthy going forward.
“The theme of the report is to try to make these job clusters work together in a way that it becomes an attracting force,” Lemieux said. “Make things more than the sum of their parts, so you can attract talent.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 22, 2016 by William Zhu and Henry Greene Leave a Comment 
A panel of ambassadors emphasized the importance of diplomatic efforts abroad in a film screening and question-and-answer session for the film, “America’s Diplomats” in an event hosted by the Georgetown Institute for the Study of Diplomacy in Reiss Hall on Thursday.
Panelists included former Ambassador to Turkey Marc Grossman, former Ambassador to Georgia Richard B. Norland, former Ambassador to Panama Barbara J. Stephenson and foreign service officers Bernadette Meehan and Ramon Escobar.
The event began with an introduction given by the ISD Director Barbara K. Bowdine. Bowdine stressed the lack of information the American public has on the nature of diplomacy.
“America’s Diplomats,” a film chronicling the challenges of American diplomacy, stresses that without diplomacy, the United States would not exist as a nation, citing Benjamin Franklin’s successful efforts to involve France in the Revolutionary War.
Meehan said issues with Congressional approval has slowed the diplomatic process down in Cuba.
“Unfortunately, because the Congress has not yet acted, we do not have an ambassador,” Meehan said.
According to Meehan, the priority now is on economic opportunity and pushing the boundaries to ensure that U.S. businesses have free access to markets in Cuba that will benefit the U.S. economy.
“We also have done a lot to lift up human rights, to lift up an independent press, to allow Cubans to have an independent voice, all with the singular goal of saying we believe it’s important to support changing Cuba,” Meehan said. “That change has to come from the Cuban people, it can’t be something that’s imposed by the United States.”
Norland said diplomats still have vital responsibilities in modern society.
“The job of diplomats is still to provide the context for that kind of engagement, to set the stage for productive discussions and meetings,” Norland said. “Whether it’s through the advanced work that they do or briefing papers, there’s still a role for diplomats.”
According to Stephenson, diplomats have become more important in recent times.
“There’s so much noise now that actually you need your diplomats again to actually make sense of the noise to provide context,” Stephenson said.
Meehan said diplomats are able to deal with countries in a sensitive and delicate manner to find compromise and make progress on issues.
“When you are speaking to people in your host country, you are hopefully not doing so from a place of condescension and/or lecturing and/or arrogance. You are doing from a place of understanding and hopefully searching for a commonality,” Meehan said.
Meehan said it is important to allow countries to arrive at solutions on their own, a process in which diplomats play an important role.
“Helping them find their own path and being a little humbler about it: that is where diplomats really have value,” Meehan said.
Norland said a common issue with diplomats is forming too strong of a relationship with heads of state and losing sight of a country’s direction as a whole.
“I think one mistake that diplomats make is that they develop a wonderful relationship with the prime minister, the foreign minister, and it is almost inconceivable to them that there will be a change,” Norland said. “This is one thing we learned with the Shah in Iran. We had a wonderful relationship with him and then he was gone and we were being held literally hostage.”
Gabriela Barrera (SFS ’19) said she thought the film did a good job at explaining the sacrifices made by diplomats.
“I think this particular film did a fantastic job in explaining the sacrifices that you make but also the rewards that you get back,” Barrera said.
Maeve Healy (SFS ’18) said she was thankful to be able to participate at the event and listen to the insights of the panelist.
“About halfway through the film I realized how grateful and how lucky I am to be at a school where sitting in a classroom with four extremely distinguished foreign service officers who have all had pretty incredible careers,” Healy said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 22, 2016 by Jack Lynch and Julia Anastos Leave a Comment 
Students who request a SafeRide van on the LiveSafe application in the next two weekends will receive a $5 Uber discount code if the wait time for a van exceeds 15 minutes, as part of a pilot program to help more students get to campus safely announced by Georgetown University Police Department Chief Jay Gruber on Wednesday.
The program, which was a collaborative effort by GUPD, Uber and the Georgetown University Student Association, will be applicable to rides that start and end within the SafeRides zone that includes Burleith, Foxhall and most of west Georgetown.
During the two trial weekends, the Burleith loop and the west Georgetown loop, which run continuously between these areas and campus, will not operate. The SafeRides point-to-point van will operate as usual.
According to Gruber, the university had a limited amount of promo codes available to use throughout the pilot program.
Vice President of Public Affairs Erik Smulson said the program was designed to help more students get back to campus safely.
“Our goal in the pilot program is to reduce the wait times and to provide more students with safe transportation options late at night,” Smulson wrote in a statement to The Hoya. “We’ve worked hard with Uber and the GUSA leadership to develop a pilot program that is easy for students to use and gets them home safely.”
Gruber said he is excited for the program to launch.
“I’m very excited about that. I want to provide service for the students so they feel safe when they are out in the neighborhoods,” Gruber said. “I think it’s interesting. [University of Southern California] does it, University of Florida does it, there are several schools that are doing it and Uber has a model for it.”
Ari Goldstein (COL ’18), GUSA deputy chief of staff for master planning and community engagement, said GUSA is responding to student concerns about the SafeRides program.
“Students for years have been saying SafeRides is broken and we all know that it’s not that well utilized or it’s utilized by the wrong people, there are not enough vans, the wait times can be long,” Goldstein said. “It’s not an efficient system and it hasn’t been fulfilling the purpose to the extent that it was intended to.”
GUSA Dining and Auxiliary Services Policy Team Chair Mark Camilli (COL ’19) said GUSA wants to ensure the program is a success.
“I know GUSA really wants to push this program out hard over the next two weekends, and they really want to make sure students know its available,” Camilli said.
Emily Belson (SFS ’18) said she believes the university is making strides to improve the SafeRides program.
“I have experienced long wait times for SafeRides in the past, so I appreciate the efforts of the University to try to combat this issue,” Belson said.
Gabe Bolio (SFS ’18), who has used SafeRides in the past, said he supports the changes.
“It just makes sense. I like that Georgetown cares enough about its students to partner up with Uber on this,” Bolio said, “I like how this system gives you the option to choose to wait [for SafeRides] or just go ahead and take an Uber.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 22, 2016 by Lisa Burgoa Leave a Comment 
Mayor Muriel Bowser’s (D) April 19 proposal for a citywide minimum wage hike to $15 per hour by 2020 has drawn fire from labor activists challenging its policies for tipped workers.
Under Bowser’s proposal, the minimum wage for tipped workers would increase from the current $2.77 per hour to $7.50 by 2022, falling short of advocates’ hopes that the tipped wage system would be overhauled in favor of a universal $15 per hour minimum pay.
“As I stated in the State of the District Address, we are going to answer the President’s call to raise the minimum wage,” Bowser wrote in the proposal. “Cities and states across the country are proving that decent wages and strong business climates are not mutually exclusive. This Administration is committed to providing District residents with a fair shot and creating a worker and business friendly environment in which we maintain our regional competitiveness.”
A survey conducted by the Washington City Paper in January found 87 percent of D.C. adults support a $15 minimum wage in the District.
The legislation further imposes fines of up to thousands of dollars and imprisonment for employers who fail to comply with at least the general minimum wage after gratuities, based on mandatory quarterly reports submitted to the District’s Department of Employment Services.
Bowser’s proposal coincides with a ballot measure pushed by advocates who must now gather 25,000 signatures by July for the $15 minimum wage to be put to a vote in a District-wide Nov. 8 referendum. If passed, the initiative would maintain Bowser’s $15 by 2020 plan but phase in a $15-per-hour wage for tipped-workers by 2024.
D.C.’s Restaurant Opportunities Center Director Gaby Madriz said in an April 19 press release that the ballot measure better represented the public’s interests than Bowser’s proposal.
“Mayor Bowser’s heart is in the right place but she’s completely out of sync with the people of D.C. on this proposal,” Madriz said. “Our initiative calls for $15 for all. That means every single D.C. workers with no exceptions, and polls suggest that’s more popular than the mayor herself. If she can’t get the entire job done and establish one fair wage for all low-wage workers in D.C., then Mayor Bowser should get out of the way and let the people act.”
Nicole Smith, chief economist of Georgetown University’s Center on Education and the Workforce, said the most visible impact of bolstering the minimum wage will likely be inflation in the economy, and that lower-skilled workers may be shut out of the small businesses that drive the local economy.
“With many improvements in someone’s income, it improves their purchasing power and gives them the opportunity to become inflationary, and that’s really the negative aspect of it,” Smith said. “There are going to be some small businesses that won’t be able to hire that extra dish washer as a result of a jump in wages.”
Nevertheless, Smith said the current expansionary trajectory of the economy since the 2008 financial crisis is equipped to accommodate a $15 minimum wage with little economic detriment.
“When you look at a city like Washington, D.C., something has to be done about the wage disparity that exists between the haves and the have-nots,” Smith said. “Fifteen dollars by 2020 might seem like a difficult goal, but for the individuals who benefit from the additional money it could mean everything from affordable housing to better nutrition for low-income families.”
According to a living wage calculator created by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the living wage for a household comprised of one adult is $14.84.
Kory Stuer (COL ’19), a member of the Georgetown Solidarity Committee stressed the importance of including tipped workers in the conversations surrounding the minimum wage hike.
“Tipped workers are particularly vulnerable to wage theft, and just not knowing how much money they’re going to make in a day leads to a lot of economic instability,” Stuer said. “It’s important for them to have that same level of economic stability, and I think the [Restaurant Opportunities Center] makes it clear that we need to help all workers and not just some workers.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

