
February 4, 2016 by Ian Scoville 1 Comment 
The 2016 Georgetown University Student Association executive race began as the presidential and vice presidential ticket of Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) and Chris Fisk (COL ’17) launched its executive bid at midnight Wednesday in Red Square. They are the only candidates to publicly launch their campaign so far.
According to GUSA Election Commissioner Grady Willard (SFS ’18), the presidential and vice presidential ticket of Tony Pezzullo (MSB ’17) and A.J. Serlemitsos (COL ’17) has also filed to run.
Even with the Pezzullo-Serlemitsos campaign, this executive campaign cycle of two tickets stands to be one of the least-contested in GUSA history.
Just before midnight, around 50 students from Khan and Fisk’s team entered Red Square from the Intercultural Center accompanied by a portable stereo with strobe lights and the song “Danza Kuduro” by Don Omar, before taping up their poster with the slogan “Breaking Barriers, Building Bridges.”
Alex Bobroske (SFS ’17), Khan and Fisk’s campaign manager, said the slogan is focused on unifying various student groups to come together and advocate on behalf of students when working with university administration.
“There’s a lot of bureaucracy in the administration, a lot of reasons that different communities on campus aren’t connecting with each other, or not getting the best advocacy they can,” Bobroske said. “And so that’s the first part of our campaign is identifying those barriers, and then the second part is building bridges between different communities on campus to make GUSA more inclusive and actually representative of campus, rather than being perceived as a club itself.”
Khan explained that following last year’s executive election, she and Fisk wanted to focus on bringing the Georgetown community together.
“I think coming off of last year, there was a really divisive and toxic election, I think a lot of people were dissatisfied with what happened there,” Khan said. “This is student government at the end of the day, and what we saw was all that division was not what was good for Georgetown and we wanted to really see people working together.”
Fisk said inclusivity will feature prominently in his and Khan’s campaign.
“We’re also strongly pushing a message of inclusivity overall. Restructuring GUSA is the main way of talking about that inclusivity,” Fisk said.
According to Fisk, inclusivity, restructuring GUSA and socioeconomics are three principal topics of their platform.
Kotryna Jukneviciute (COL ’18), executive officer of the GUSA senate and co-director of outreach on the Khan-Fisk ticket, said the campaign will focus on increasing student body engagement with GUSA.
“I think the central goal of this campaign is student engagement because up until this point, you’ve had a lot of very competitive campaigns that have been focused on winning, whereas our goal is more engaging the student body and getting people to have a voice in GUSA, and to have them heard,” Jukneviciute said.
Khan and Fisk’s campaign is one of the largest in GUSA executive campaign history, with around 200 members.
According to Bobroske, the Khan-Fisk ticket also took a more open approach to policy development.
“One of the differences that we did this year compared to past years, was generally GUSA campaigns would dole out a platform from one or two key experts in the field and just adopt that as their plan,” Bobroske said. “This year we started with that, we went to the experts, but that was only step one. The next part was sitting down and having a meeting open to anybody in our staff, anybody who are experts in the field.”
Serlemitsos wrote in an email to The Hoya that the team has been preparing its candidacy for months, even though they were unable to launch their campaign Wednesday night.
“Tony and I are very excited to announce our candidacy. We have been working in private with our team for months. We are very excited to roll out the campaign in segments,” Serlemitsos wrote. “We apologize that we couldn’t be at Red Square tonight, as we were both out of town. But we are very excited about the race.”
According to Pezzullo, his and Serlemitsos’ plans to launch their campaign Wednesday night fell through at the last minute.
“We had sent two of our campaign staff Suneel Mudaliar (MSB ’17) and Jack Maher (COL ’17), but the two of them evidently forgot about campaigning tonight. But we’re looking forward to re-energizing them tomorrow … hopefully getting the campaign started in full,” Pezzullo said.
According to Pezzullo, Mudaliar and Maher will serve as co-campaign managers of the Pezzullo-Serlemitsos ticket.
Willard said even though this year’s election has fewer candidates, it still stands to be an interesting race.
“I think there’s some good debates that we’re going to have. As you know, there is a referendum on live registration versus pre-registration. … There are also critical issues on [Georgetown University Transportation Shuttle] bus turnaround, dining, we just had some news from Todd Olson on Kehoe Field,” Willard said. “A lot of issues to be talked about with a couple of candidates, so I think it will be a good election year.”
Giving indications of the nature of the Pezzullo-Serlemitsos platform, Pezzullo explained some of their initial policy ideas.
“We don’t want to give away our entire platform just yet; we want to roll this out sort of in parts,” Pezzullo said. “Something that we do want to oppose is going to be the … legislature that would expand the [Georgetown University Police Department] jurisdiction off campus and if we can’t get the full movement on that, we at least want to stop pre-emptive patrolling.”
Regarding actions to take with results from the University Sexual Assault and Misconduct Climate Survey that ends Feb. 15, Pezzullo indicated that results will form a significant part of their platform.
“For [the survey], we’re going to move to a different part, putting forward our platform of how we’re going to work with those results later on in the campaign,” Pezzullo said. “We think that’s an extremely important issue that deserves the attention of an entire interview or an entire day.
We don’t think that’s something that we want to address alongside all the other issues because it is so important.”
Pezzullo expressed confidence in his campaign’s ability to win with competitive edge.
“I think right now we are the greatest campaign on this campus,” Pezzullo said. “We respect our competition very much, but we expect to squash them. I’m not worried, and I feel very confident. All I’d like to say is that for too long Georgetown has been mired in slow growth and in policies that haven’t really taken shape in any substantive way. At one time, Georgetown was great and I think what we’re going to do is, we’re going to make Georgetown great again.”
Fisk said their ticket will take a down-to-earth approach with its campaign.
“Yes, we’re going to be very serious in terms of policy, but we’re also people first, we’re students first. And I think that us approaching this whole situation with the fact that we are just like everyone else and all of us need to work together,” Fisk said. “I think we will just be unabashedly ourselves.”
The presidential and vice presidential debates will be held Feb. 10 and Feb. 15, respectively, before the election is held digitally Feb. 18.
Hoya Staff Writers Molly Cooke, Ashwin Puri, Patricja Okuniewska and Jack Lynch contributed reporting. A full story will be printed in this Friday’s issue of The Hoya.
[…] Red Square, where 50 of their supporters gathered to help them announce their ticket. According to The Hoya, the “Crenushe” ticket is one of the largest in Georgetown history with over 200 […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 4, 2016 by Gaia Mattiace Leave a Comment 
Associate Dean of Community Health and Outreach at the Georgetown Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center Dr. Lucile Adams-Campbell received a $1.2 million grant from the George E. Richmond Foundation in January to conduct research on oral health disparities in Washington, D.C.
The George E. Richmond Foundation is a Chicago-based nonprofit that seeks to promote and fund improvements to oral health. The project represents a collaborative effort between the Georgetown University Medical Center and the O’Neill Institute for National and Global Health Law at Georgetown Law to encompass medical, legal and policy issues regarding oral health.
Adams-Campbell said that the longstanding issue of oral health disparities in the District has received little attention, especially in underserved populations.
“Oral health disparities have long been a problem. I think dental care has always been separated from the whole body, so to speak. You talk about your medical care, but then dental care has always been separate,” Adams-Campbell said. “Oral health just in general, people don’t spend a lot of time thinking about it.”
Adams-Campbell stressed the importance of oral healthcare, as issues of the mouth and teeth can spread to the rest of the body, affecting general health or aggravating pre-existing conditions.
“It is really pivotal to the systemic care,” Adams-Campbell said. “It’s not just about having dental cavities or anything of that sort … there are many diseases that stem from poor oral health, and most people don’t know about that.”
The two-year project will begin with focus groups from low-income, inner-city neighborhoods and public housing communities in the District. The team will survey 800 residents, ages 18 to 74, before creating a program to instruct the public on oral healthcare through outreach to public housing residences and churches.
Adams-Campbell emphasized the importance of the grant in allowing her team freedom to tailor the project to various communities’ needs.
“The goal is really to find out what the community knows, to assess the community and then figure out a strategy on how to go from there.” Adams-Campbell said. “Until you can learn what the community knows you can’t educate, promote, you can’t change bad behaviors and attitudes. You don’t know where to go, so we’re just starting at ground zero.”
GULC Legal Research and Writing professor Victoria Girard, who will direct the legal component of the program, stressed that many aspects of healthcare have legislative ramifications.
“[We are] focusing on more of the policy issues,” Girard said. “What we’ll be doing is first trying to identify what the barriers are. Do people not go when they’ve got some kind of oral healthcare problem because they are afraid that they can’t take time off from work? Do they need a lawyer to represent them to make sure that they can get the time off that they need?”
The medical-legal partnership initiated by the project will bring students from the university’s law and medical schools together for common coursework. Girard said that this educational foundation will blend with research and community-based projects.
“There’s three components, in my mind, from the Law Center’s perspective, in a medical-legal partnership. The first is the opportunity for inter-professional education,” Girard said. “[Second,] there are lots of research opportunities where law and policy intersect, and then the third area that I’m excited about is the social justice community engagement section of it.”
Girard expressed the hope that through this partnership, the project can address some of the root causes of oral health disparities in D.C.
“The beauty of the medical-legal partnership is that when you have the lawyers and the doctors working together the power to advocate on behalf of individuals and the population in general is so much stronger,” Girard said. “By having the opportunity to collaborate with the healthcare professionals we’ll be able to undertake some high impact policy advocacy projects and have a larger population impact on oral healthcare in the D.C. area.”
Lombardi Director Louis Weiner, who connected Adams-Campbell with Girard, lauded Adams-Campbell for initiating a community-focused project and extending her focus from cancer to oral health.
“We feel very fortunate that Lucile Adams-Campbell is a vital member of the Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center. … Dr. Adams-Campbell has long been one of Lombardi’s champions of addressing health disparities in the District of Columbia,” Weiner wrote in an email to The Hoya. “It is great to see her branching out from a pure cancer focus to one that involves additional dimensions of community health.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 4, 2016 by Matthew Larson Leave a Comment 
Teacher turnover in Washington, D.C. Public Schools as a result of IMPACT, the District’s teacher evaluation system, has benefited students, according to a study published by the National Bureau of Economic Research on Jan. 25, amid lingering doubts about the system’s effectiveness.
IMPACT, implemented at the beginning of the 2009-10 school year, uses classroom observations, student growth measures and achievement indicators such as test scores to evaluate teachers. The system is considered high-stakes in that poor evaluations of “minimally effective” lead to termination and excellent ones of “highly effective” may result in bonuses and substantial pay increases.
Students whose teachers left after receiving poor evaluations from IMPACT performed better on math and reading tests taken after their teachers departed. From the school years between 2009 to 2012, the departure of teachers with negative IMPACT ratings led to rising levels of student achievement of up to 21 percent, which translated to more than four months’ worth of education in math and science.
University of Virginia Curry School of Education and Stanford University Graduate School of Education faculty members authored the report. Melinda Adnot, an author from the University of Virginia, explained that the study did not specifically evaluate IMPACT, but rather examined how the teacher turnover it created affected student achievement.
“Our study shows that teacher quality and student achievement in both math and reading increased substantially when low-performing teachers … exited DCPS,” Adnot wrote in an email to The Hoya. “When high-performing teachers leave the district it has an … effect [that] is small and statistically insignificant.”
Adnot noted that one of the factors that prompted the study was the high rate of teacher turnover in DCPS at 18 percent, compared to the average of 13 percent in urban school districts across seven states. The researchers will next investigate teachers’ behavioral responses to IMPACT and how they modify their curriculum as a result of the evaluations they receive.
“Teacher turnover generally has a negative impact on student achievement,” Adnot wrote. “We wanted to know how this relationship might be different in a district with a high-stakes evaluation system, such as IMPACT.”
However, negative opinions of IMPACT still persist, particularly in terms of its effects on high teacher turnover, a phenomenon generally viewed as disadvantageous for schools. President of the Washington Teachers’ Union Elizabeth Davis noted that in a 2012 study, 90 percent of D.C. teachers wanted to eliminate IMPACT. Davis cited the system’s subjective nature as well as its limited evaluation criteria as reasons to be skeptical of its value.
“No evidence has been provided to determine if IMPACT is working to retain effective teachers and get rid of ineffective ones,” Davis wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The Washington Teachers’ Union believes it is time to assess the success of these strategies and policies in regards to [IMPACT].”
Davis also alleged that IMPACT has not actually improved the quality of teaching in schools because of its lack of focus on working with individual teachers. According to Davis, school-based coaches charged with teacher training did not utilize IMPACT results in their program.
“[Evaluators] could not determine whether IMPACT has improved the actual quality of teaching and learning in the school system,” Davis wrote. “No attempt was made to get a subjective assessment of whether teachers feel they are benefitting from IMPACT.”
Chief of Human Capital for DCPS Jason Kamras, who designed the IMPACT system, said that he knew of WTU’s concerns and explained that DCPS has already made changes to the system. According to Kamras, most teachers who leave DCPS do not cite IMPACT as a reason for doing so.
“We’ve made changes in response to teacher feedback,” Kamras wrote in an email to The Hoya. “When we survey teachers who leave DCPS about the reason for their departure, IMPACT doesn’t even make it into the top 10.”
Davis also emphasized that IMPACT unfairly penalizes teachers who work in the poorest areas of D.C. She noted that the District has replaced over 3,300 teachers over the past eight years, many of whom left as a result of the lack of support they received in poverty-stricken areas of the city.
“The bad teacher narrative can no longer apply as a credible reason for the growing achievement gap in our school district,” Davis wrote. “The IMPACT evaluation system penalizes those teachers who take on the challenge of educating our neediest students.”
Kamras maintained his commitment to the system and expressed excitement over the results of the study, which he believes provide validation for IMPACT. Kamras said that DCPS will continue to use the system in the future.
“This is an incredibly exciting and important study. Four additional months of learning in reading and math is life-changing for students,” Kamras wrote. “IMPACT keeps the bar high in every part of the city, as it should.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

