
April 5, 2016 by Sarah Griffin 1 Comment 
From hosting intimate conversations with first-year students over dinner at his home to promoting increased racial awareness through the development of an African American studies major, College Dean Chester Gillis’ commitment to Georgetown and its students has been a constant force on the Hilltop since his arrival almost three decades ago.
Gillis will conclude his service as dean in June 2017 and will return as a professor in the theology department after a yearlong sabbatical to work on a book on interreligious marriages in the United States.
Belgium to Georgetown
Gillis, who completed his undergraduate studies at the Catholic University of Louvain in Belgium and received a Ph.D. in theology from the University of Chicago, first came to Georgetown as an assistant professor of theology in 1988.
Gillis became a full professor of theology, held an endowed chair in Catholic studies and then became a senior fellow at the Berkley Center for Religion, Peace and World Affairs. He also served as the chair of the theology department from 2001 to 2006 and director of the doctorate of liberal studies program from 2006 to 2008 before assuming his current role as the College dean in 2009.
In the theology department, Gillis taught courses ranging from “Problem of God” to Ph.D. seminars. He also created and taught a course on feminist theology for three years.
“[Former chair of the theology department Father William McFadden, S.J.], after a long conversation, said, ‘Yes, I think we should, and I think you should teach it,’” Gillis said. “It was really an interesting kind of pulling back the curtain on women’s issues, in general and particularly with relation to religion and theology, so it was very enlightening for me. I learned a lot more in that course from the students than I knew when I went in.”
Expanding College Offerings
In his role as dean, Gillis has worked to help fund Georgetown’s capital campaign, which will conclude in June, and has been involved with raising funds for the new de la Cruz Gallery of Art set to open in Walsh in 2017.
Gillis’ tenure as dean also saw the creation of the film and media studies, journalism, business administration, philosophy and bioethics, and education, inquiry and justice minors and the justice and peace studies and African American studies majors in the College.
Gillis said in a previous article in The Hoya (“College Embraces New Programs,” The Hoya, Feb. 23, 2016, ONLINE) that he has sought to develop new programs to fit the university’s needs.
“I don’t feel like I have to create these programs just to say I’ve done innovation, no. I think that’s a bad idea, actually,” Gillis said. “We’ll do things that make sense, and make sense for us. Where we don’t need to do it, I won’t do it just to say I did it.”
Office of the President Chief of Staff Joseph Ferrara said Gillis has made a significant academic impact during his time as dean.
“His leadership and vision have advanced the College and the Georgetown community in countless ways. We look forward to working with [Gillis] over the next year to ensure a smooth transition in the leadership of the College and to support his return to the faculty,” Ferrara wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Meeting with students
Over the years, Gillis has displayed a particular commitment to engaging with Georgetown students. Gillis and his wife Marie regularly invite students to their home for dinner.
“So for example, when I have first-year students in, they’re brand-new, it’s in the first three weeks they’re at school,” Gillis said. “I always say you have to sing for your dinner if you come to Gillis’ house.”
Gillis said he learns from students when he meets with them.
“So I learn a lot from them, of the schools that they got into, many of which are very competitive with us and very good, why did they come here? Why did they come to Georgetown, what is good about us, what is attractive about us? And I learn a lot,” Gillis said.
College Academic Council President Alisha Dua (COL ’16) said she found Gillis’ dedication to building relationships with students unique among university administrators.
“He really strives to get to know us personally. Opening his office for Donuts with the Deans and inviting College students to his home for casual dinners are a true testament to this. What other Dean of a top university does that?” Dua wrote in an email to The Hoya.
According to Dua, Gillis is also highly receptive to student input.
“Without a doubt, it is Dean Gillis’ commitment to the students here at Georgetown that has made the greatest impact on the College. In meetings with the Academic Council, he has always been very transparent about administrative issues and keen to understand and consider the student opinion,” Dua wrote.
College Academic Council Vice President Connor Maytnier (COL ’17) echoed this sentiment, saying Gillis has been supportive of the council’s efforts.
“He has always encouraged us to pursue what is important to students and has provided his counsel along the way. He also has been a proponent of engaging students and seeking input on policy and program changes through town halls, which have been a big initiative for the Council in recent semesters,” Maytnier wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Returning to Teaching
Following his accomplishments as head of the College, Gillis said he is looking forward to returning to his role as a professor.
“I love the theology department, I love what we do, I love the students, I love teaching,” Gillis said. “To be back in the classroom will be a good thing, and to go back to my theological scholarship.”
Throughout his time at Georgetown, Gillis said he has been influenced by a number of faculty and staff members and their commitment to scholarship. Gillis cited the staff in the College Dean’s Office as a particular source of inspiration.
“This has been a very good job to come into every day because of the people with whom I rub shoulders every day. They’re very, very good, they’re deeply committed, they’re compassionate, they’re smart,” Gillis said. “If students and faculty knew all they do behind the scenes they would be equally edified; they can’t see it all but I can.”
Gillis said he will move on knowing he had given the job his all.
“You can’t sum up what will be nine years in a few sentences. There’ll be lots of memories, I think a lot of good, clearly some mistakes, things I would probably do differently, but you know, it’s a place that you can give your heart and soul to. And I’ve done that,” Gillis said.





Liz Papagno says 
April 5, 2016 at 9:02 pm
I’ve enjoyed the writings of Sarah Griffin in the past but this particular article on the Professor Gillis is just so enlightening.  Never having the pleasure of meeting the professor I feel I somehow know him through this well written article.  He and his wife sound like a terrific couple.  How gracious of them to open their home to I’m sure some very anxious freshmen some of which are away from home for the very first time.   Well done Sarah Griffin
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2016 by Kshithij Shrinath Leave a Comment 
The School of Foreign Service announced former World Bank Chief Institutional Economist Joel Hellman as its new dean in April 2015. As Hellman, who officially took over the role in July, reaches the end of his first year on campus, The Hoya sat down with the dean to look back on his achievements and challenges of the past year, discuss the future of the school, which will celebrate its centennial anniversary in 2019, talk technology on a day the Internet failed, and explore the dean’s eclectic musical taste.
This interview has been edited for length and condensed for print.
What are your reflections on the past year?
It’s always great to join a school at the top of its game, but it’s a little daunting to join a school at the top of its game because the question is, where do you go from here?
But what’s really been unique about coming to a school at a period of such strength is, because the school is heading to its centennial anniversary in 2019 and 2020, there’s a real openness on the part of the faculty and alumni and students to think about what we’ve achieved in the past and what we need to do to address real challenges in the future.
What are the broad goals that the School of Foreign Service’s centennial vision is trying to achieve?
One of the things that has marked the school from its inception is that it takes an interdisciplinary approach to educating people about the challenges they will face. It takes a liberal arts approach because it tries to educate the whole person by giving them deep skills to think critically, read critically and present. It focuses on the relationship between policy, practice and big ideas.
Those trends and those aspects of the education are still as relevant today as they were 100 years ago when they were created. But I think there’s a lot we can do to build and strengthen those key fundamental aspects of who we are.
On the curriculum side, first, it’s allowing for greater flexibility. We can’t anticipate over the next years what the combination of skill sets will be. We know there are some core things like history, economics and politics, but increasingly students are coming to us and saying they’re interested in public health, human rights, journalism, media and communications, business. They want to combine the skills they get in business with SFS, in the [School of Nursing and Health Studies] with SFS, create different combinations of security studies and development. We need to create a much more flexible program that allows students to craft their program in a way that suits their goals and what they think they’re going to be doing in the world. Bottom line is, even though we’re the School of Foreign Service and everyone thinks we train diplomats, less than 2 percent of our students become diplomats. Most go on to do remarkable things with their SFS education, and we want to give them a little more flexibility — not throw away the core but create more opportunities to do that.
Second, science, quantitative skills. These are things that aren’t an add-on any more in education; they’re core to all global issues. We want to think about how do we bring those aspects into the educational program?
Third, a lot of our students study abroad. We want to see if we can integrate that as an integral part of every student’s program — not only semester abroad, but summers, vacations. Being in SFS encompasses some form of global engagement so that you’re actually trying to do something in a different environment. We’re seeing how we can support more and more of our efforts by students to do that.
The last thing is, the thing that has always distinguished our school being in D.C. is the link between practice and theory. I think we can do more to give undergraduates access to policymakers and practitioners. Not only big talks in Gaston Hall, which are great, but also informal talks to make them understand how they’ve built their careers, how they’ve made decisions, what attitudes and approaches they take.
Related to the greater flexibility, this week, the SFS announced the language minors program. Are there steps to build off that and perhaps include other minors as well?
There’s a lot of interest from students in minors and to build up expertise in different disciplines, different skill sets that are not in the traditional SFS framework. We’re looking for ways to make that happen. If minors are the best way of doing that, I think that’s something we should think about.
Minors are not the only way. The thing that drives people in minors is they want credentials, they want a stamp that says, “Hey, I did that.” We want to enable students to do that.
I would also say that, if the curriculum becomes more flexible, and there’s a little bit more room built into the program for student choice, then that would also enable us to think more seriously about minors.
When we talked last year, one of your immediate goals was to reach out to various parts of the school and plan the future in a collaborative process. In that process, what surprised you about things that parts of the community told you were a problem? What points did they emphasize?
I think that it is more difficult than I anticipated for students to work across schools. Students have a lot of concerns about that. I know the provost and the deans are all interested in creating more opportunities for students to reach across different parts of the school.
I hear a lot, within SFS, of students not being able to take advantage of all of the resources within SFS. We have over 20 programs and centers: Those are great things because they give students the chance to work with smaller groups of people who are deeply interested in what they’re doing, but often they’re interested in thinking about linkages.
You talked about teaching; I remember that was one of the first things you wanted to do last year. How has the process of getting into teaching a full course been?
I didn’t know that this year was going to be a bit crazy. I did an enormous amount of travel this year: It’s really important to me to reconnect the school with our alumni. We haven’t been strong enough in reaching out to our SFS alumni, so I’ve been pounding the pavement going to big markets where we have SFS alumni to introduce myself to them, hear from them and then reconnect them to the school so they have a stake in the school. That’s taken a lot of time from the classroom.
What I have done is a series of lectures in lots of different classes, talking about my area of expertise — which is fragility and conflict and the relationship between conflict and development — in different parts of the school, which has been great for me because I’ve been interacting at the graduate level, undergraduate level, in big government department classes as well as small Russian studies seminars. And finally, I was faculty teaching on a one-credit course on the history of the SFS with [government professor] Anthony Arend and [Dean’s Office Chief of Staff] Emily Zenick.
Next year, I’m planning with [SFS assistant professor] Ken Opalo, one of our young faculty here: We’re teaching a course on conflict and development, and that’s going to be a formal, proper course. But I must say that I’m really glad this year that I took this approach: I must have given a dozen lectures on campus in different courses, as well as the history course, so it just gave me a great introduction.
I wanted to talk a little bit about technology.
On the day that our Internet is down?
Nicely ironic! International affairs — just like every subject — face the opportunities and challenges that technology provides, and in all my courses, we talk about technology as well, but, at the same time, our curriculum does not necessarily focus that much on technology or science. Including the curriculum, but also including research and educational style, how does the SFS integrate itself more with advances in the 21st century?
It’s such a critical question. It really is very high on our priority list as we think about the centennial and the vision. I’m really pleased to see that science, technology and international affairs is one of the fastest-growing majors in the school; it’s clear that students are voting with their feet. Investing in that will be an important priority going forward. We’ve got such incredible faculty there that are showing what you can do with students: [professors] Joanna Lewis on energy policy, Mark Giordano on water. Sarah Johnson is studying life on other planets; who would have thought 100 years ago that there would be an SFS professor who thinks about life on Mars?
We also have alums who are really engaged and we’re really trying to engage them. One of our new board members, for example, is the general counsel of SpaceX, Tim Hughes (SFS ’94).
We are — on the part of the curriculum reform — seriously moving towards integrating a science requirement of some sort, as part of an overall university effort to ensure that science becomes a part of everyone’s program. We’re talking through what that might mean for SFS.
We’re also talking about how to ensure quantitative literacy at SFS.
We have four economics courses: The question is, is that the right combination of skills that gives students enough of an understanding of quantitative literacy so that they can function well in different environments, whether that’s the private sector or public sector?
In terms of the SFS becoming more global — I know that is another big push — you travelled to India to unveil the GU India Initiative. What was the impetus behind that initiative, and what kind of similar things are you trying to implement elsewhere to create those connections with other countries?
Having a diverse international student body is absolutely critical to SFS’ own identity. This is not a luxury. As a school of international affairs, if we don’t have a diverse representation of views in the classroom, when we’re discussing the toughest issues, then we can’t really make the claim to be a top-ranked global school. I think we can do better on that score at SFS.
I don’t think we’re keeping pace with the best schools in the world — not just the U.S. — in terms of attracting that globally diverse and socio-economically diverse student body: globally, bringing more international students in, and a socioeconomically diverse group of students. Because of financial aid and federal funding, we have a differential: We have 62 percent of domestic SFS students who are on financial aid, but we have a very small percentage of international students on financial aid. We’ve got to address that imbalance. One of my highest priorities is to build the financial strength of SFS in order for us to do so.
Second is the relationships. That’s where you get to the GU India Initiative. That’s why I traveled to India, Hong Kong, Europe. I’m going to go to Africa next year. I’ve lived in eight different countries over the last 20 years. I have a college-age daughter; we’ve mentored a lot of college-age kids coming to the U.S. It is a bewildering system for someone coming from outside the United States. There are thousands of colleges to go to. How do you start to think about that? We need to start building relationships so that we get the word out, not just about Georgetown, but also about SFS. What is SFS? What does that mean?
When the early admits were given, we called all of the international students. I talked to one father in Singapore, and he said, “I’m glad you called. I have a question for you. Why should I send my son off to study foreign service so that he can join the U.S. Foreign Service?” People need to understand better about what we do.
One of my friends told me that you are very much into jazz. What is your favorite jazz record or musician?
You know, I have very eclectic tastes, and so on my own, when nobody else is around, I listen to what my wife would describe as “unlistenable music,” and that ranges from the avant-garde era from the mid- to late 1960s to contemporary challenging classical jazz. There’s something called the Bang on a Can music collective in New York that is really interesting — sometimes unlistenable, but I like to call it challenging.
When other people are in the room, I love classic jazz, from Louie Armstrong up through Bennie Goodman and Duke Ellington and the great jazz orchestras, and I’m a great fan of the bebop era. How about yourself?
I love hip-hop.
Oh, I just went to see “Hamilton.” That, I think, was one of the most remarkable things that I’ve done in a very long time because this notion of taking the story of the American Revolution and the Founding Fathers and reclaiming it with hip-hop and rap and recasting the whole story — it was in some ways the most natural thing you can imagine. It really reflected the very spirit of the Revolution and the Founding Fathers, and I thought that was great.
 
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2016 by Lucy Prout Leave a Comment 
Women in the Washington, D.C. prison system face unique challenges as a result of the District’s lack of statehood status, with hundreds of women convicted of local crimes incarcerated far from their families, according to a report released March 25.
The report was spearheaded by law firm Covington & Burling LLP and the Washington Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights and Urban Affairs, a nonprofit legal organization that litigates civil rights cases.
Prison conditions have improved since the 1994 D.C. Superior Court finding in Women Prisoners of District of Columbia Department of Corrections v. District of Columbia that women faced significant violations of rights — including sexual harassment, unsanitary living conditions and inadequate medical care — in prison facilities. However, the report spotlighted an issue specific to women incarcerated in D.C.
“Under a unique statutory scheme, most women sentenced to confinement for a felony in D.C. Superior Court are housed in federal prisons far from the District,” the report reads. “Due to the distance and isolation of the federal facilities, D.C. women experience particular difficulty keeping in touch with their families and maintaining other ties that would help them reestablish themselves in the community after they are released.”
According to the report, at any given time, there are roughly 300 women in the D.C. justice system, with 141 incarcerated in federal prisons outside the District. Because D.C. lacks statehood status, there is a shortage of local correctional facilities under District control, leading to high numbers of women housed in federal prisons.
D.C. women who receive a sentence of nine months or fewer are housed in local correctional facilities, while those with longer sentences are held in federal prisons.
Due to the shortage of facilities for females in D.C., Maryland and Virginia, the nearest locations a woman with a long-term sentence can be housed are 250 miles away, in West Virginia’s Hazelton Secure Female Facility or Alderson Federal Prison Camp.
The report’s top recommendation is to change the length of a sentence requiring a woman to be sent to federal prison from nine to 24 months, giving more women the opportunity to stay closer to their families.
Covington Senior Counsel Carolyn Corwin, who co-authored the report, attributed the issue to D.C.’s statehood issues. Under the National Capital Revitalization and Self Government Improvement Act of 1997, several local responsibilities of the District were transferred to the federal government. The statute required the closure of the District’s Lorton Reformatory prison in 2001.
Corwin expressed hope that Mayor Muriel Bowser (D), the D.C. Department of Corrections, D.C. Council and Federal Bureau of Prisons will take the report’s recommendations into consideration.
“We want to start a dialogue here. We’ve said you could change the cutoff, so that people with longer sentences could stay in D.C. and serve their sentences. We’ve said that for people out in federal prisons, maybe you could bring them back earlier, we’ve proposed diversion programs that at least have them in federal prisons that are closer to the District,” Corwin said. “We’ve tried to lay out a bunch of options, and what we’d really like to see is people talk about those options, and other options that they could come up with.”
Covington Associate Attorney and report co-author Phil Peisch said the simplest solution to the issues identified in the report would be for D.C. to retake control of its correctional system, which is currently funded by the federal government.
“The District is getting the financial benefit of the federal government taking these women,” Peisch said. “If the District decided to bear the financial cost and take our prison system back, I suspect Congress would oblige and happily take the money back to the federal coffers. To some degree the D.C. Council and mayor own that problem too.”
Peisch also stressed the need to move away from the current focus on male incarceration that does not take into consideration women prisoners’ needs.
“This is a population that has been all but forgotten for a long period of time and there are reasons for that. And those reasons haven’t disappeared,” Peisch said. “There is more focus on criminal justice reform right now than there was 15 years ago but this is still a population that still doesn’t have a huge political voice.”
Marc Howard, director of the Georgetown University Prisons and Justice Initiative, which brings students and faculty together in examining mass incarceration, agreed that there is more of an emphasis placed on male incarceration. However, Howard pointed to the Netflix series “Orange is the New Black” as a positive step forward in drawing attention to female incarceration.
“I do think there is a tendency within the media and pop culture to focus on male incarceration, although ‘Orange is the New Black’ has brought much-needed attention to women in prisons,” Howard said. “But it still tends to be viewed as a male phenomenon, which is largely true, but by no means entirely true.”
Howard noted that a large portion of women in the prison system fit the category of nonviolent drug offenders but often receive longer sentences. He emphasized the impact this can have on the families of incarcerated women.
“There are 2.1 million children who have a parent behind bars in the United States today. And when you think about what that means for those children, what they are missing, I’m not saying obviously in all situations parents should go home, such as in cases where genuine harm has been done and there is a threat of recurring violence and so on,” Howard said. “Having children doesn’t make you immune from incarceration, but I think that especially with the lengths of sentences that are given out, we really need to think of the effects it has on children and families.”
Corwin raised concern about the roadblocks in terms of resources and interest in the issue of female incarceration.
“Whether anything comes from this depends on whether there is going to be any follow through,” Corwin said. “Will people really take some of these recommendations and try to push them through?”
 
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2016 by Lisa Burgoa Leave a Comment 
 
Sexual trauma specialist at Georgetown’s Counseling and Psychiatric Services Erica Shirley and sexual assault specialist at Health Education Services Jennifer Wiggins dispelled myths about intimate-partner violence during a roundtable discussion co-hosted by the Georgetown University Minority Association of Pre-Health Students in the Intercultural Center on Thursday.
The conversation covered stigmas, stereotypes and statistics relating to intimate-partner violence. Participants were asked to formulate their own definition of the phenomenon and determine in groups whether different statements about the issue were true or false.
Wiggins explained that students typically adhere to an overly narrow definition of intimate-partner violence, neglecting to envision nonromantic relationships such as parents, siblings or roommates as offenders.
“There are times when parents engage in violence with their children, but I don’t think we look at it as an intimate partner,” Wiggins said. “When you feel like your roommate is being manipulative or causing emotional distress, that’s intimate-partner violence. It doesn’t necessarily mean you have to be romantic with them; it just means someone who you’re intimate with emotionally.”
Shirley said the relationship children witness between their parents has the deepest ramifications on later incidences of intimate-partner violence, as men from violent homes are three times as likely to abuse their partners than men without violent parents.
“So often, as we develop, those other relationships like marriage and romantic partnerships are important to think about in terms of what we saw as children, and how that impacted relations with other people, because our relationships really start on day one with our parents,” Shirley said.
The discussion focused primarily on the prevalence of intimate-partner violence in the United States, where domestic violence serves as the leading cause of injury among women aged 15 to 44, according to the panelists.
According to Wiggins, as many as one-third of high school- and college-aged people experience violence when dating; physical abuse is as common among this cohort as it is among married couples.
Wiggins also said while media portrayals tie people of color to violence, abuse in relationships encompasses all races and classes. However, a gendered divide does exist. Ninety percent of known survivors are women abused by their male partners.
Wiggins said she accepts the limitations of these statistics. She attributes warped expectations of masculinity, skepticism about police involvement and reluctance to revisit trauma as key deterrents to reporting violence, especially among male survivors.
“There’s a shame and a guilt in saying ‘I was weak’ because we are conditioned to think that men are about being strong,” Wiggins said. “To get to the point where you report a crime, it has to be significant, especially when thinking about reporting structures and systems with police — even someone who is being emotionally abused, that’s a tough case to try and prove to an officer where they’re going to write a report that could go to court.”
Wiggins said in addition to the physical and psychological toll of abuse, offenders sometimes exploit financial insecurities to trap their partners.
“If your partner is financially abusing you, how are you going to visit your mom or your friends if they live in another city? Who is going to pay for the ticket?” Wiggins said. “If they don’t want me to go, how do I get to the person who might be my biggest supporter?”
Tarik Endale (NHS ’16), who attended the event, said the aforementioned factors could prevent survivors from reporting intimate-partner violence on Georgetown’s campus.
“It’s a pretty small campus, so you’re going to stick out if you are perceived as bad-mouthing someone else. Like you’re probably in the same social circles, and even if you’re not, they’re going to be overlapping,” Endale said. “It’s a huge weight put on you and you are going to have to retell everything that’s happened to you.”
Stephanie Estevez (COL ’16) argued that Georgetown’s past handling of sexual assault survivor Willa Murphy, who was forced to withdraw from Georgetown last year and sparked the social media movement #IStandWithWilla after her viewpoint in The Hoya, may dissuade other survivors from accessing resources.
“I think people are scared at the fact that the university may do nothing, or if they do it would be detrimental to you,” Estevez said. “In the Willa case that happened last summer, I remember reading that all over how pretty much she was kicked out of the school, and that just made me wonder if you were in a situation like that, whether you would always want to come forward.”
Helen Alemayehu (COL ’16) said the event allowed her to understand dimensions of intimate partner violence she had not considered before.
“I think for me, I struggle between the difference between stereotypes and facts because in these situations you have to consider who reports and who doesn’t,” Alemayehu said. “Figuring out the realities of the issue is very difficult, especially when you look at it through financial abuse or nonromantic partners, because that’s not typically what you hear about.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2016 by Charlotte Allen 1 Comment 
President Barack Obama hosted the fourth and final Nuclear Security Summit this past week, which lasted two days and concluded April 1 at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center in Washington, D.C.
Fifty-six countries attended the summit, which focused on how nations can prevent nuclear materials from falling into the hands of nonstate actors and terrorist organizations, and how the international community can develop effective systems to monitor nuclear security risks.
The nations collectively belong to five major organizations — the United Nations, the International Atomic Energy Agency, Interpol, the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism and the Global Partnership Against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction.
The first summit was held in 2010 in Washington, D.C., and two subsequent conferences were held in Seoul, South Korea in 2012 and The Hague, Holland in 2014. The 2016 event marks the last planned conference.
According to a statement on the Nuclear Security Summit’s website, the goal of the conferences is to lessen the risks of nuclear terrorism by reducing, securing and eliminating stockpiles of highly enriched uranium. The statement emphasized the past successes of the previous summits in solidifying bonds between forces dedicated to nuclear security.
“Through the Summit Process, the international community has strengthened the international organizations, institutions and multilateral legal instruments that make up the nuclear security architecture, and improved coordination among them,” the statement reads.
A major victory for the process occurred in 2014, when 35 countries pledged to match their domestic nuclear safety rules to the guidelines set by the IAEA.
Russia refused to attend this year’s summit even though it is the country with the most nuclear sites.
In an opinion column for The Washington Post published March 30, Obama called on Russia to work with the United States to collectively deplete their nuclear weapon stockpiles.
“Along with our military leadership, I continue to believe that our massive Cold War nuclear arsenal is poorly suited to today’s threats,” Obama wrote. “The United States and Russia — which together hold more than 90 percent of the world’s nuclear weapons — should negotiate to reduce our stockpiles further.”
At the closing remarks of the summit, Obama stressed the purpose of the conference — to prevent terrorists from gaining access to nuclear weapons.
“Just to summarize where we’ve been, in the morning session we discussed the extensive and impressive national action steps that many of us have taken, and the collective efforts that we’ve made to reduce the amount of nuclear material that might be accessible to terrorists around the world,” Obama said. “This is also an opportunity for our nations to remain united and focused on the most active terrorist network at the moment, and that is ISIL.”
The summit emphasized the importance of sustaining security improvements, fostering a peaceful international environment in which to collaborate on these issues and protecting sensitive information.
Additionally, the summit reaffirmed the central role of the IAEA in developing a nuclear security framework and supporting states’ attempts to fulfill their obligations within it.
One accomplishment of the 2016 summit included the commitment of 29 nations — including every country with a highly enriched uranium stockpile exceeding 1000 kilograms except Russia — to create a new initiative focused on nuclear cybersecurity. Each nation will also attend two workshops in 2016, and will discuss strengthening industrial controls and security at nuclear facilities.
Walsh School of Foreign Service distinguished professor in the practice of diplomacy Robert Gallucci said the summit put the spotlight on a critical national security issue and that the conference process as a whole has caused significant quantities of fissile materials to be better secured.
However, Galluci added that risks of nuclear threats are heightened in today’s age.
“The magnitude of the problem is growing, not shrinking,” Galluci wrote in an email to The Hoya.
“Governments have to take the risk of a nuclear terrorist strike seriously by stopping the accumulation of plutonium and highly enriched uranium, as well as better securing the stockpiles we have. Fissile material remains ‘the long pole in the tent’ in any nuclear terror scenario: destroy the stockpiles and secure them until we do and nuclear terror is theory; fail to and we’re betting our lives unnecessarily.”
Georgetown International Relations Club chair Arnosh Keswani (SFS ’17) highlighted the importance of Russia’s decision not to attend the summit.
“I think the boycott of Russia in not attending put a little dampening effect on the event,” Keswani said. “But I also think that the fact that they are having these conversations and that they are engaging the whole international community means that we have done something and that we are successful in that regard. I think that at the same time there is a lot of work to be done, especially in the Iran deal.”
Keswani raised concerns that nuclear weapons will fall into the hands of terrorist organizations, a concern that is relatively new in the world of nuclear security.
“The most pressing issue is that there is the possibility of nonstate actors such as [ISIL] or the Taliban acquiring a nuclear weapon,” Keswani said. “I think that that is a new thing that has come up and that is something that people need to be engaged about.”
Keswani also noted that following the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, regional powers in the Middle East, including the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, may feel as though they are in a precarious position regarding nuclear security issues.
“There needs to be more of a discussion especially with those American allies about how we can continue to bring them into the fold and make them partners in making sure that the region is safe,” Keswani said.
Keswani further underscored the importance of the Nuclear Security Summit to issues of all natures, not just nuclear security.
“It’s important that there should be more meetings like this since this is technically the last one of its kind,” Keswani said. “There should be more meetings where the world can come together to talk about pressing issues, have a conversation and look at what is going on and where we are in our goals and in terms of progress.”

Allie Van Dine says 
April 6, 2016 at 2:05 pm
As a Hoya working on these issues, glad to see you covering the Summit! Hoya Saxa!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2016 by Jack Bennett Leave a Comment 
This weekend, the District’s marijuana advocates gathered at the White House in protest while smoking marijuana on federal property. Protest organizers boasted that Saturday’s public mass-smoking demonstration was an act of civil disobedience.
D.C. Cannabis Campaign Chairman Adam Eidinger led the protestors. The campaign drafted Initiative 71, which legalized personal growth, possession and consumption of marijuana for those over 21 in Washington. However, it is still illegal to sell pot, smoke it in public or to have it visibly displayed on one’s person.
Passed by 64.87 percent of voters last November, Initiative 71 went into effect Feb. 26, 2015. Prior to the passage of Initiative 71, the District decriminalized marijuana in July 2014.
The Georgetown Code of Student Conduct forbids the possession, use, transfer or sale of controlled substances. Marijuana is banned on campus because cannabis possession and use is considered criminal under federal law and the university receives federal funding.
The police and Secret Service made no arrests for marijuana smoking during the protest and marches, even during the scheduled “smoke-out” at 4:20 p.m. — alluding to National Pot Day on April 20 — despite the fact that smoking on federal land is considered a felony.
According to The Washington Post, no arrests were made because the protesters stayed on Pennsylvania Avenue, which is part of D.C., where pot possession is legal. Had they strayed to the sidewalks in front of the White House, it may have been a different story.
The protestors made their planned demonstration known in the Georgetown area April 1 by driving past the university gates in a Jeep trailering a cage with a sign reading,“JAIL IS NOT A DRUG POLICY.”
Louis Drexel Porteous, a volunteer lobbyist and organizer for D.C. Norml, a pro-marijuana policy group, sat inside the cage.
Drexel Porteous said his goal is to have the federal government legalize pot as soon as possible.
“The job is to end the federal prohibition of marijuana, now,” Drexel Porteous said.
The brief demonstrations at Georgetown’s gates attracted minimal fanfare, even among the crowds of accepted and visiting students. One of the protestors spoke of the need for medical marijuana in aiding Iraq war veterans. The protestors also had a 50-foot inflatable joint created by artists Chris Ridler and Ceaser Maxit.
In an interview with The Hoya at Saturday’s protest, Drexel Porteous explained that the Jeep cage at Georgetown was a way to get the word out to all local colleges, but was unable to recall which universities exactly he had appeared at besides Georgetown.
“We wanted to hit all the universities,” Drexel Porteous said. “They put me in a cage and I go, ‘Ngguhh,’ and that’s my job.”
According to Drexel Porteous, the cage was meant to draw attention to marijuana-related arrests and incarceration.
“It’s the stupidest thing in the world — putting people in a prison for a plant that’s never harmed anybody and has a million users,” Drexel Porteous said.
George Washington University freshman William Frankl said he attended the protest because of his firm support for marijuana legalization, referencing the success of marijuana laws in his home state of California, where he has a prescription card for marijuana. However, Frankl said he would not personally smoke as an act of civil disobedience.
“I’m not willing to go quite as far as getting arrested,” Frankl said. “It’s a worthy cause, don’t get me wrong, but I don’t want a record.”
A Georgetown student in attendance at the protest, Nick (COL ’16) — who requested to be referred to only by his first name — expressed concern with the war on drugs and its effects on mass incarceration.
“I don’t really smoke pot but I am very concerned about mass incarceration, what I feel is an authoritarian drug policy, an unjust drug policy,” Nick said. “And I’d like to show my support for the rescheduling of this drug in particular.”
Nick pointed to a connection between issues of race and the drug war.
“There’s at least one obvious connection, which is the disproportional targeting of African Americans by the legal system generally. I mean, that’s quite obviously tied to marijuana,” Nick said.
In addition to the desire for immediate action regarding the federal legalization of marijuana, the protestors want Obama to personally meet with major pro-marijuana policy groups before the end of his term.
According to The Washington Post, some major marijuana policy advocates have opted not to support the protest or its tactic of public marijuana consumption around children and tourists, including groups such as the Drug Policy Alliance and the Marijuana Majority.
*************************************************************************************************
Eidinger has been the driving force for progress on the relaxation of marijuana laws in the District. The Cannabis Campaign was originally called DCMJ, a title reclaimed since its success with the passage of Initiative 71.
The effects of the protesters’ presence were instantaneous. Movement on 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. flowed toward the appearance of the aforementioned giant inflatable lit joint reading “LEGALIZE. OBAMA, DESCHDEULE CANNABIS NOW!”
The joint was easily visible from down the street near the Renwick Gallery. As the protest gathered at the entrance to Pennsylvania Avenue around 2 p.m., the police and Secret Service blocked the inflatable joint from getting to the gates. After negotiations, protesters agreed to deflate the joint as long as they could continue into the area.
Drexel Porteous complained that the police and Secret Service considered the inflatable joint a security concern simply because of its provocative symbolism, even though the inflatable Keystone XL Pipeline from previous environmental protests at the White House was allowed to be held up.
Once at the center of the crowd, directly in front of the White House, Eidinger began to present a series of speakers, which he promised would be diverse in age, race, gender and political orientation. The speakers included activists, doctors and veterans.
The speakers mostly focused on extolling the medical benefits of marijuana, the racial inequities underlying the war on drugs, the abuse risk of opiate medicines, the economic costs of prohibition and polemics on ending mass incarceration.
Throughout the protest, Eidinger repeated a warning also found on DCMJ’s website, which advised people not to smoke before the scheduled time of 4:20 p.m. for fear the police could more easily arrest a single straggler than a whole group.
Despite this warning, the stench of marijuana was ubiquitous. Joints were visibly lingering behind many protesters’ ears and suspiciously bagged baked goods were being devoured by people in hunched yet indiscreet poses.
Even with these provocations, the police and Secret Service seemed resigned to disapproving stares and watchful eyes. At one point, a police K-9 was paraded through the scene, but the dog never alerted its handler.
At 4:14 p.m., Eidinger took the microphone. He said he would end the rest of the protest if the president agreed to meet with a major legalization organization.
Eidinger stressed that he felt pushed to this illegal tactic out of frustration from a lack a response to previous calls from DCMJ and other organizations to act on marijuana legalization.
“We’re politely and respectfully sending letters to the president and not getting responses,” Eidinger said. “Mr. President, we beg you, we implore you, do something before you leave office and we will get your back, we will watch your back. You can’t ignore us anymore.”
At 4:20 p.m., Eidinger, along with most of the protesters, began to smoke. Following some celebratory dancing, singing, smoking and congratulations, Eidinger met The Hoya for an interview.
*************************************************************************************************
Eidinger had to shout over the excited mass of about 200 pot-puffing protesters and the music. Joint in hand, his second since 4:20 p.m., Eidinger discussed his tactics, implored student activists to fight for the cause of legalization and commented on the on-goings of his fellow protestors.
“Woah, what’s happening? I think they have a bong over there,” Eidinger said.
Eidinger said the coordination of the event took 30 days of organizing.
“It’s about setting the goal. What’s the goal? We want to highlight the five million arrests … and put pressure on the president to impress us before election day,” Eidinger said. “Because if he doesn’t impress us, I’m sure many of the people here today aren’t going to be voting for his chosen successor.”
Eidinger also expressed his belief that Obama supports legalization and emphasized the harmlessness of marijuana.
“I think he [Obama] supports legalization. And what we’re saying is this is civil disobedience, now. You have forced us to basically use our most powerful weapon which is just to use the plant itself, and show how harmless it is,” Eidinger said. “I’ve smoked like a joint already, here in front of the White House and I’m giving this very coherent interview.”
Eidinger also addressed his lack of fear of police retribution.
“We’re just not afraid to go to jail anymore,” Eidinger said. “I came fully prepared to be arrested and I’m still fully prepared for being arrested. They’re letting us have this party.”
As a last remark, Eidinger doled out some words of advice for students and the younger generation.
“What I want to say is, you guys have to figure out a way to hand off the activism energy year-to-year, because every four years it seems like there is nobody organized,” Eidinger said. “Students are the future; young people are the future. Older people had their chance. It’s your chance. Take to the streets; you’ll get everything you want.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2016 by Elisabeth Neylan Leave a Comment 
As anti-Muslim rhetoric infiltrates the U.S. 2016 presidential stage and hate crimes against Muslims rise, Georgetown’s Bridge Initiative — a multi-year research project — has dedicated itself to expanding Muslim-Christian relations and peace.
The research project, led by Director John Esposito and Assistant Director Engy Abdelkar and based in Georgetown’s Center for Muslim-Christian Understanding, aims to make academic studies on Islamophobia accessible to the public while actively strengthening bridges of understanding between the Muslim world and the West.
By gathering data on support for presidential candidate Donald Trump’s ban on Muslim immigration and highlighting the presidential candidates’ relations to Islamophobia, Bridge is bringing renewed attention to the misunderstanding and issues surrounding views on Muslims in America and other Western countries.
Esposito said the Bridge Initiative also provides alternative narratives through its website to shed light on the positive contributions the majority of Muslims contribute to society at large and to Western society in particular.
Abdelkader said she attributes rising instances of hate crimes against Muslims to the rhetoric of candidates who increasingly employ language to express prejudice against the religious minority.
“Many of the GOP voters who are engaged in the primary election actually support Trump’s views on his public ban for Muslim immigration, so that’s cause for alarm, and I think perhaps even more interesting, though, is perhaps upwards of 30 percent of Democratic voters … actually share that viewpoint as well,” Abdelkader said.
Abdelkader said she understands that freedom of speech is a crucial value of the United States but emphasized how Islamophobic rhetoric serves as a catalyst for violent manifestations of prejudice in society.
“We place a lot of value as Americans on freedom of speech,” Abdelkader said. “That needs to be tempered with responsibility and understanding that when you are making bigoted comments that target a minority faith community in your country, that has very real implications and oftentimes those implications are violent.”
Abdelkader noted a manifestation of the trauma inflicted on Muslims because of such political sentiments that already occurred in Dallas, Texas, on Dec. 8, when a Muslim mother returned home to find her 8-year-old daughter packing up her toys and toothbrush in fearful anticipation of deportation after Trump called for a ban on all Muslims entering the United States.
He emphasized the role terrorist attacks contribute to Islamophobia even though, in Western countries, violence committed by non-Muslims poses a greater security threat. Yet groups like the Islamic State group and Al-Qaeda continue to be subjected to more media scrutiny despite causing more Muslim deaths than non-Muslim deaths.
“Non-Muslim extremists were responsible for more deaths than those who self-identified as Muslims,” Abdelkader said. “That seems weird, and that’s because of the depictions that we are constantly digesting from news media.”
Abedelkader noticed the disparity in media coverage between the bombings in Brussels, Belgium on March 22 and the attacks three days earlier in Istanbul, Turkey. Both attacks were attributed to the Islamic State group, and both attacks resulted in a number of civilian deaths; nonetheless, Belgium received more media coverage than Turkey, a a country that has a Muslim majority.
“There is never any justification; there is never any excuse for violence or political violence but by the same token it’s important to not generalize those egregious acts, the atrocities committed by a few, to the global Muslim community or to American Muslims here in the U.S.,” Abdelkader said.
Esposito said he hopes to see Islamophobia decline in the future through Bridge’s increased influence. He said the site has become so visible both in terms of the number of people who visit and in terms of the number of people who take what they have written on the site and share it on social media.
“We’re going from zero at times to hundreds of thousands to occasionally one or two million within a period of time people accessing our site and or what we write,” Esposito said.
According to Abdelkader, as Bridge continues its work and research, Islamophobia and hate crimes toward Muslims can only be mitigated through united action and collective will.
“This has to be done in a way that Muslims and non-Muslims are working together. It’s our responsibility as a society much in the same way that we reject racism, or we reject anti-Semitism we do so as a society,” Abdelkader said. “We’re situated in the perfect context here at Georgetown University. The students that are here are literally going to be the leaders [of the nation] in a variety of ways and they are going to be part of the solution.”
Benjamin Balough (COL ’17), a convert to Islam from Christianity, acknowledged the significant strides made by Bridge to address stigmatization against Muslims, but he said he believes Islamophobia is partially motivated by racism fueled by misunderstanding.
“I feel, as a white convert, that I avoid many of the preconceptions imposed on most Muslims,” Balough wrote in an email to The Hoya. “My Christian friends see me and, because of my race, are able to extract the positive, religious connotations of Islam — modesty, kindness, prayer.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2016 by Christian Paz Leave a Comment 
Up to 25 students in good academic standing in Georgetown College, the School of Foreign Service and the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences will be able to enroll in Burmese, Hindi/Urdu, Indonesian, Thai and Vietnamese language classes at the Washington, D.C., campus of The Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies beginning this fall.
The partnership between Georgetown and SAIS will allow students at both schools to enroll at the other institution for language courses not available on their own campus. Students will register for SAIS classes through Georgetown’s preregistration system.
Georgetown students may take courses for a grade only, which will appear on their transcripts and count toward their degree and credit requirements, but SAIS courses will not be factored into students’ Georgetown GPAs.
Senior Associate Dean of Faculty and Strategic Planning for Georgetown College and associate linguistics professor Jeff Connor-Linton brokered the agreement with SAIS Director of Language Studies Program Marco Campos (GRAD ’03) to strengthen language instruction at both schools.
“This is a great opportunity for Georgetown students to be able to take languages that they otherwise wouldn’t be able to take,” Connor-Linton said.
Campos said the new program is a good opportunity for students at both schools.
“As a Georgetown alumnus I am thrilled that both schools have joined efforts to share their strengths in language teaching for the mutual benefit of our students,” Campos wrote in an email to The Hoya.
SAIS students will be able to take advanced Arabic, advanced German, Hebrew, advanced Italian and Turkish language courses with Georgetown College’s Faculty of Languages and Linguistics.
Campos said SAIS classes focus on the social, cultural and political features that relate to the regions in which the languages are spoken.
“Class activities normally include debates on current events,” Campos wrote.
Senior Associate Dean Sue Lorenson said that Georgetown is limited in its language offerings because of the language requirement in the College and proficiency in the SFS.
“Georgetown’s reputation for language instruction is excellent, partially because we are not in the business of offering ‘languages on demand,’” Lorenson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “When we offer a language, we want to make sure that the instruction is at a level of quality consistent with that of Georgetown’s other language offerings and of a duration such that Georgetown College students can meet the core language requirement and SFS students can meet the proficiency requirement. This has understandably limited the number of languages that Georgetown is able to offer.”
Lorenson said she does not anticipate dramatic changes in the language course offerings within the Faculty of Languages and Linguistics.
“Like any dynamic university, Georgetown is continually reassessing its curriculum. Though Georgetown is unlikely to offer one-off courses in any particular language, we should expect that Georgetown’s language offerings will evolve over time,” Lorenson wrote.
SFS Academic Council member Roopa Mulpuri (SFS ’18) said she has consistently pushed through the Academic Council and the Georgetown University Student Association Senate Subcommittee on Curricular Reform for Georgetown to add new languages to its curriculum.
“My personal initiative has been trying to get Hindi language classes to Georgetown, and I’m hoping that because more students will take language classes [with the new SFS language minors] that this will increase the opportunity to bring new languages and language studies to Georgetown,” Mulpuri said.
Georgetown University South Asian Society President Bhavya Jha (SFS ’17) said that she welcomes the SAIS partnership.
“When I came to Georgetown as a freshman, there was barely any conversation about South Asian languages and regional classes, and I’m definitely glad to see the changes coming about slowly but surely,” Jha wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Having done CLS (the Critical Language Scholarship), I was excited to work with CLS alumni funds and SAS to host an open Hindi-Urdu hour on Wednesdays followed by on-campus, personalized Urdu reading and writing classes.”
Jha said she plans on working with SAS Vice President Monica Mahal (COL ’17) to craft a list of SAIS classes to circulate among students interested in South Asian languages during the pre-registration period.
Jha said she hopes the opportunity to take SAIS classes will eventually be open to students across all schools and plans to meet with administrators to establish a South Asian studies department.
SAS Public Relations Director Asha Thanki (SFS ’17) said that Georgetown should eventually integrate South Asian languages into the curriculum and count grades toward student GPAs.
“It’s good that students have this opportunity, though the work of the university to integrate South Asian languages into the academics should not end here,” Thanki wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We hope to see these languages taught on Georgetown’s undergraduate campus, and we’d like to see those grades count towards students’ GPAs.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2016 by Syed Humza Moinuddin Leave a Comment 
Sweden’s Minister of Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström outlined ways the international community fails to stabilize conflict-prone states during a discussion hosted by the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security on Thursday in Riggs Library.
GIWPS Executive Director Melanne Verveer moderated the discussion with Wallström and audience members.
Wallström boasts an extensive career in mediating conflicts and empowering women across the globe. In 2010, she was appointed as the United Stations Special Representative on Sexual Violence in Conflict and is one of the chief creators of Sweden’s feminist foreign policy, which ensures gender equality between women and men as a precondition for Sweden’s wider foreign policy objectives.
Following an opening statement from university President John J. DeGioia, Wallström began her remarks by quoting the Swedish diplomat and second-ever UN Secretary General Dag Hammarskjöld on the nature of peace and progress.
“The pursuit of peace and progress cannot end after a few years in either victory or defeat,” Wallström said. “The pursuit of peace and progress, with its trials and its errors, its successes and its setbacks, can never be relaxed and never abandoned.”
Wallström’s address focused on ways the international community fails to address humanitarian crises both before and after they occur. She highlighted the ongoing civil war in Syria as an example where the will of the international community failed to sufficiently address the humanitarian needs of the people.
For Wallström, dealing with conflicts and peace processes personally exposed her to the root causes of countries struggling with rising humanitarian need. From working with countries including Syria and the Democratic Republic of Congo, she argued that such problems must be solved first by redefining the root cause of conflicts and crises.
“The issue of increasing humanitarian needs is not a humanitarian problem. It is political. We desperately need to think boldly on how to address the root causes fueling conflict and find means to support sustainable peace,” Wallström said.
Wallström said if nations and communities are to address the political problems at the root of conflicts, governments and institutions must dedicate themselves to prevention, stabilization and inclusivity when it comes to negotiations and de-escalation.
Wallström said to prevent future instability, negotiators and international actors must ensure all talk of peace is inclusive and core institutions are strengthened in the process. Wallström also said bringing more women to the discussion table can both improve inclusivity and increase the success of most negotiations.
“Recent research demonstrates women’s effective participation substantially increases the likelihood of peace agreements being reached and sustained,” Wallström said. “Yet even today in 2016, we are all too familiar with women being dramatically underrepresented in peace and mediation processes.”
By highlighting the successes made by negotiators in areas ranging from Columbia to Sri Lanka, Wallström praised the efforts of organizations such as the United Nations to bring women into negotiation processes. However, Wallström argued the international community must consistently double its efforts when it comes to bringing women into mediation roles.
“Women must actively participate in all decision-making processes at all levels and be active in defining priorities in times of peace and in times of war. To put it simply: more women, more peace,” Wallström said. “Nothing can be discussed about women without women.”
Verveer and Wallström then discussed the progress of women in international leadership roles. Both commended organizations that vocally assert their commitment to gender equality, including the UN, yet stressed the need to hold organizations accountable to their words.
Verveer attested to her own relationship with women leaders over the course of her service as U.S. Ambassador for Women’s Issues, noting their impact in fragile states. However, she stressed the need for international organizations and governments to continue to promote women as leaders in decision-making.
“When you sit at decision-making tables, if you only see women as victims you do not see them as the real change-makers that they can be,” Verveer said. “We have to recognize the full participation of women in these processes.”
During her closing remarks, Wallström expressed her own commitment to bringing women to the forefront of negotiating roles. She said she hoped the international community will make the necessary strides and efforts to promote inclusivity across genders while being persistent in the progress it has made already.
Marjam Kalle (GRD ’16), who is pursuing a masters in conflict resolution, said she found the minister’s remarks insightful and constructive. Kalle said Wallström’s arguments on bringing women to negotiating tables particularly resonated with her.
“If we look at the way negotiations and diplomacy take place today, how many women do we see leading [them]? Not many,” Kalle said. “If institutions and groups are serious about being inclusive, then they also need to be serious about women taking roles as the leaders they can be.”
Alicia Smit (GRE ’16) praised Wallström for emphasizing the relationship between inclusivity and conflict mediation. She also hoped others in the audience would appreciate the efforts Wallström has made and continues to make in striving for gender equality.
“Minister Wallström is a well-known figure and advocate when it comes to issues of gender equality,” Smit said. “Both her and [Verveer] definitely struck at the significance of what it means to bring women into mediation efforts, and that means recognizing all females as the leaders they can be.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2016 by Matthew Larson Leave a Comment 
Presidential candidate and businessman Donald Trump announced plans to open a new campaign office for senior staff in Washington, D.C., on March 29, amid concerns over his ability to procure the necessary delegates to win the Republican presidential nomination.
The specific location and opening date for the office have not yet been announced. The office is planned to function as the center for Trump’s delegate selection team as well as its congressional relations team.
“Mr. Trump is announcing that his campaign is opening a Washington, DC based office to coordinate his campaign’s work with the Republican National Committee, Congress, and his convention and delegate operations,” a press release published on Trump’s official website March 29 reads. “The office will serve as a conduit for outreach for Mr. Trump’s campaign organization nationally.”
Senior Trump campaign adviser Barry Bennett noted that some viewed the move as a way to forge better connections and gain the support of politicians on Capitol Hill. He added that the opening of the office is a natural next step as the Trump campaign looks toward the general election with the candidate as the Republican frontrunner.
“It’s an acknowledgement that he’s the nominee: he’s the presumptive nominee,” Bennett said to the Associated Press. “Having an office here in Washington and working with them [Congressmen] every day will make it a lot easier to do that.”
So far, Trump has the support of 736 pledged delegates. He must obtain the support of 1,237 total delegates before the July 18-21 Republican National Convention in Cleveland, Ohio, in order to receive the Republican nomination on the first ballot. If no single candidate has this majority of delegates after the first ballot, a brokered convention with a second ballot will be held, and the candidate must have the support of a delegate majority from at least eight delegations to secure the nomination.
Georgetown University College Republicans President Megan Pohl (COL ’17) said if Trump is denied the Republican nomination, he could attempt to run as a third-party candidate who would split the Republican vote. As a result, Trump may be preparing for a general election campaign, which would necessitate the D.C. office, regardless of his status as a Republican or not.
Pohl said the announcement of Trump’s D.C. office reflected the candidate’s desire to select the right delegates to represent him at the Republican National Convention.
Pohl said delegate selection could be a matter of survival for Trump’s candidacy because if he does not obtain 1,237 delegates, he will have a hard time winning the nomination.
“I am not in a position to conjecture as to the likelihood of a contested convention,” Pohl said. “I believe there is a general hope among establishment and anti-Trump conservatives that there will be a contested convention so that someone else may win the Republican nomination.”
Georgetown University Institute of Politics and Public Service Fellow Katie Packer, who served as former Deputy Campaign Manager for the Mitt Romney presidential campaign and founder of Our Principles PAC, an anti-Trump super PAC, explained that there remain many unpledged delegate slots that candidates must fill with their supporters or risk seeing these delegates desert them on the second ballot.
While popular primary elections determine how some delegates will vote on the first ballot for the Republican presidential candidate, the delegates themselves are elected to the convention afterward and do not necessarily have to support the candidate for whom they are bound to vote on the first ballot.
“That’s as important as a part of this process as these statewide votes are. We don’t nominate a candidate to be our standard bearer by popular vote,” Packer said. “We nominate delegates who nominate the candidate.”
Packer noted that Romney’s 2012 campaign made a concerted effort to get the candidate’s supporters elected as delegates, an effort she said is missing from the Trump campaign.
Packer said that Trump’s inability to prevent rivals such as Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) from recruiting delegates who are unlikely to support Trump after the first ballot, in which they are bound to vote for him, shows a lack of organization.
Packer said that Trump — in order to win as Romney did in 2012 — needs to focus solely on one goal, which is winning the nomination.
“We didn’t whine and complain about people treating us unfairly,” Packer said. “We went out and won the fight, and that’s part of the battle when you’re running for president.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2016 by Giovanna Azevedo Leave a Comment 
Bavarian Minister for European and International Affairs Beate Merk emphasized the challenges of Europe’s current refugee crisis from the Bavarian perspective in the Mortara Center for International Affairs on Monday.
The Ministerial Roundtable was sponsored by the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security, Georgetown Women in International Affairs and the BMW Center for German and European Studies.
Executive Director of the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security Melanne Verveer and BMW Center for German and European Studies Director Jeffrey Anderson co-hosted the event.
Verveer introduced Merk by highlighting her service in her home country, where in addition to serving as the Bavarian Minister for European and International Affairs since 2013, she is also a member of the Women’s Union in Bavaria Christian Social Union.
“Earlier she served as minister of justice in Bavaria and I think that it is probably worth repeating that Bavaria is the largest state in Germany and comprises one of the largest state economies in Europe,” Verveer said. “It is home to BMW, Siemens, Audi. Name a big company, and they are probably in Munich.”
During her remarks, Merk drew from her personal experiences witnessing the plight of refugees in Lebanon and other countries while also stressing the challenges of accommodating the 10,000 refugees who arrive in Germany every day. Last year, the total number of refugees in Germany reached 1.2 million.
“I always saw that the women, children and the elderly are the ones that suffer the most,” Merk said. “This is very difficult for us all. The threat of brutality, rape and exploitation for these people is a very serious matter.”
According to Merk, Germany created its current immigration policy based upon lessons from the wave of immigrants who arrived in the 1950s. She argued such policy is not based on realistic expectations and needs revision.
“We had a motto for our immigration policy, which means that we support somebody, but we also challenge them, we want something back,” Merk said. “We support them by offering them language courses, by providing vocation training and school education, but we expect them to learn the language, to accept our values and especially, which is very important to us, they have to accept the principle of equality of men and women.”
Merk said Germany distinguishes between those who flee from war and conflict, asylum seekers and economic migrants. Such distinctions need to be made in order to fully comprehend the long-term future for refugees in the region.
“Those who are fleeing because of persecution, because there are bombs destroying their houses are supposed to be helped by us through humanitarian assistance and we want to take care of them for as long as they need it, until they are able to return to their home countries and rebuild their lives,” Merk said.
Merk also said this does not extend to migrants just seeking better economic opportunities from regions such as Pakistan and Afghanistan, who have documented to also be seeking refuge in the region. Merk said such economic migrants should be returned to their places of origins.
“We have people who have been living in camps for four to five years, sometimes in very dire conditions, and the children have not had any schooling for example. We have to expect that they will be wanting to leave those camps and come to Germany,” Merk said.
Merk concluded by highlighting the multifaceted nature of the problem of migrants.
“The international community of nations must work to ensure that the war in Syria comes to an end,” Merk said. “On our part, we have to reduce incentives for those who are not war refugees. We also have to ensure that adjacent countries around Syria have the proper funding in order to provide nourishment, education for children and a better life for these refugees. Then we have to assist the countries where the economic migrants are coming from and ensure that governments are not taking the resources that we are giving.”
Maria Victoria Silva (SFS ’19), who attended the event, said she believes the minister presented a very accurate report on the migrant situation in Germany and appreciated the insight she brought to the issue.
“The Minister gave a very sincere report on the current situation in Germany and it was very refreshing to hear first hand what it is really like for the German government. I have been keeping up with the crisis since last year, but listening to her provided much more insight than anything that I could possibly have read,” Silva said.
Ingrid Glitz (SFS ’18) enjoyed the presentation, but said Merk should have also touched upon economic issues relating to the migrant crises.
“I appreciated her perspective on the refugee crisis but was a bit disappointed because I was looking forward to hear her talking about the Transatlantic Partnership and the TTIP negotiations. However, she chose to focus solely on the refugees.  I think that these topics are also crucial and wish I could have heard her discuss them in more detail,” Glitz said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2016 by Christian Paz Leave a Comment 
About 10 protestors from the Pennsylvania-based American Society for the Defense of Tradition, Family and Property demonstrated against the Georgetown University Lecture Fund’s invitation to Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards to speak on campus outside the university’s front gates Monday afternoon.
TFP is a Catholic organization dedicated to defending conservative Catholic values, including traditional marriage and anti-abortion positions. Director of the TFP Student Action John Ritchie said his organization was protesting Georgetown allowing the Lecture Fund to invite a representative of a pro-abortion rights organization, which does not align with Catholic teaching.
“We’re here today because of the fact that Georgetown invited Cecile Richards to give a lecture on campus,” Ritchie said in an interview with The Hoya. “To invite a person who is publicly and notoriously supportive of abortion and heads the largest pro-abortion organization in the country is really a grave scandal that should be cancelled and protested.”
Ritchie argued that a Catholic institution should not sponsor any abortion advocate and affirmed TFP’s plans for future protests as the Richards event approaches. He said he hopes anti-abortion students across Georgetown would also stand up in defense of Catholic values and moral teachings.
“This is a rally of reparation for the sin of abortion and to rally students to stand firm against the dictatorship of relativism that has invaded so many Catholic campuses. There are moral absolutes, and the right to life is an absolute,” Ritchie said. “To bring a pro-abortion speaker like Richards to campus is really offensive to Catholics, offensive to God and should immediately be cancelled.”
Protestors also handed out flyers titled “No Platform for Abortion Apologists: Georgetown Can’t Be Catholic and Collaborate with Planned Parenthood,” which laid out five arguments against Richards’ invitation to speak. The letter claimed members of the Catholic Church hierarchy have condemned the speech, that abortion offends God and that Richards has attacked the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops’ anti-abortion and -contraceptive stance.
Richards’ speech, which will take place in April, has prompted criticism from various other conservative organizations, such as the Cardinal Newman Society and the Archdiocese of Washington.
H*yas for Choice President Michaela Lewis (COL ’18) said that she is not surprised by the activism against Richards’ invitation to speak.
“We aren’t in any way surprised by the push-back. The Lecture Fund bringing Cecile Richards to speak on campus, especially in the current political climate with Whole Woman’s Health, intrinsically is going to stir the same debate over contraception and abortion care that we’ve been hearing at Georgetown for quite some time,” Lewis wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Lewis said H*yas for Choice respects differing opinions and would not attempt to silence anti-abortion voices given HFC’s own activism.
“It is because of our long-standing reverence for dialogue and free speech that we respect this and any subsequent protests to the event, so long as these demonstrations are not explicitly violent, hateful or triggering,” Lewis wrote.
Lewis said she also expects all future demonstrations to be held to the same standard of civility.
“As has always been the case, a line can and must be drawn between free speech and hate speech; we expect any group or individual who plans to protest this or any other issue to be attentive to and respectful of this separation and work to maintain the safety of our students, staff, visitors and families,” Lewis wrote.
Camden Blatchly (MSB ’19), who observed the protestors, said he was surprised by outside protestors demonstrating at Georgetown and felt their presence was unusual.
“I’m kind of surprised. It seems kind of ridiculous and kind of excessive,” Blatchly said. “It’s just kind of amusing that they actually showed up. Obviously, this was planned, but I don’t know if anyone really knew much about this. I don’t think that it’s going to gain a lot of traction with the students at all.”
Hoya Staff Writers Syed Humza Moinuddin and Aly Pachter contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2016 by William Zhu Leave a Comment 
Georgetown students and alumni discussed the relative success of the most recent climate talks in Paris and climate change’s negative impact on women in a forum hosted by the Women’s Center in McShain Lounge on Thursday.
Joelle Thomas (SFS ’10), a Masters of Public Policy candidate at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government, associate professor of science technology and international affairs Joanna Lewis, GUSA Secretary of Sustainability Caroline James (COL ’16) and Chair and Founder of the Sustainable Oceans Alliance Daniela Fernandez (COL ’16) commented as part of the panel.
Thomas developed her interest through a combination of classes taken at Georgetown and her time spent in East Africa working for a firm. Thomas’ master’s thesis assisted the United Arab Emirates in developing clean energy practices.
Lewis has experience in working in China to help reduce carbon emissions and find cleaner alternatives, and she has participated in various climate negotiations for the past decade.
Lewis, who was present for the negotiations of the Kyoto Protocol in 2005 and attended the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris, said this conference was a huge leap forward in terms of both progress in climate legislation and awareness of climate change.
“Ten years ago, when we were negotiating in Kyoto, most of the countries didn’t know what climate change was, let alone have any climate policies,” Lewis said. “[Now] they are at a totally different world of knowledge and ability.”
James said the contributions of non-state negotiating groups and civil societies were significant at the conference. Indigenous groups living on islands, in danger of being swallowed up by the sea, successfully campaigned for countries to limit the global temperature rise by 1.5 degrees.
“That, for the indigenous groups, was considered a huge success, because they need that 1.5 target. For them that means that those islands survive,” James said.
The panelists also discussed the disproportionate impact of climate change on women. Fernandez said rising sea levels make it difficult for women in developing countries to find clean water, hindering other aspects of their life.
“I have met and heard about women having to spend a lot of time seeking access to clean water, which prevents them from being active participants in society,” Fernandez said.
According to James, climate change exacerbates existing discrimination and inequality.
“I think a really helpful framework for this stuff is to think of climate change as a threat multiplier,” James said. “Oppressed people are going to be the worst affected by the effects of climate change.”
Thomas said reaching out to women can be a more effective way of creating change in communities because of their important role in many communities.
“We would often meet with women, because women in many of these communities actually have informal authority,” Thomas said. “They often have a little bit more compassion.”
James stressed in the case of the Zika virus, which has been aggravated by climate change, women are the main population affected.
“These are issues that women are going to face a lot more than men, and they get the moral stigma attached to it. This is the last thing that women need in order to live healthy and productive lives,” James said.
Before taking questions from the audience, the panel discussed the role of activism and advocacy for environmental issues on college campuses.
Lewis said she is glad more women are taking part in the environmental protection movement and running non-governmental organizations. However, she said she sees a need for more women to participate in the STEM field, which is crucial to combating climate change.
“You still see less women in the technical areas,” Lewis said.
Fernandez said social media is also a powerful instrument used to raise awareness of climate change issues.
“Right now the platforms of social media are really tools for change that we have, which no generation ever has had in the past,” Fernandez said.
Thomas said she sees climate change as a problem for the current millennial generation to fix and stressed the urgency needed to resolve the issue.
“I think there is something about climate change and the millennial generation that goes together in many ways,” Thomas said. “I feel like it is the issue of our generation because we are the ones who are going to have to deal with it if we mess it up.”
Mary Rogers (COL ’16) said she enjoyed the discussion and appreciated that the panelists described a wide range of key issues.
“I thought it was a really great event. The panelists touched on a bunch of different aspects that are sometimes ignored with climate change, especially the intersectionality piece on how it affects women and populations that are typically underserviced,” Rogers said.
Maura Quinn (COL ’19) said she learned a lot from the event and enjoyed the different viewpoints presented.
“As a person that hasn’t dealt that much into climate change, this was very very enlightening,” Quinn said. “It was very interesting hearing that perspective in this panel as well as things about oceans and things I have never heard before.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2016 by Marina Pitofsky Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University Law Center’s Voting Rights Institute received a $1 million grant from the MacArthur Foundation on March 23.
The grant came from a $30 million fund at the foundation, which will be distributed among approximately 45 organizations that also seek to expand democracy in the United States.
The VRI was formed in October 2015 in conjunction with the American Constitution Society and the Campaign Legal Center in reaction to outcome of the 2013 Supreme Court case Shelby County v. Holder, which declared the coverage provision of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 unconstitutional. The decision allowed states to change their voting and election laws without preclearance, essentially preventing the government from restricting discriminatory voting practices.
VRI Institute for Public Representation Co-Director and visiting GULC professor Michael Kirkpatrick said that the institute plans to use the grant to continue its work to engage students, graduates and fellows in voting rights education, advocacy and litigation as well as expand its website. Since its launch, the VRI has trained over 300 attorneys and students in different areas of voting rights law.
Kirkpatrick discussed the institute’s mission and emphasized the importance of the new grant in accomplishing this purpose.
“What we’re doing with the Voting Rights Institute is trying to train a new generation of lawyers to do these cases,” Kirkpatrick said. “This grant is going to help us get the Voting Rights Institute off of the ground and moving and really getting out there to train people to fill the void which was left by that Supreme Court case.”
Kirkpatrick said the need for lawyers focused on voting rights is especially important in the wake of Shelby County v. Holder.
“After that Supreme Court Decision, the preclearance system is no longer in effect, and so now states are free to make any changes they want. If those changes are discriminatory, well then it’s up to the minority community to bring their own cases to challenge those changes as a violation of their voting rights,” Kirkpatrick said. “So what we have now is really a vacuum in that there aren’t enough lawyers trained to bring those affirmative voting rights cases.”
Jill Dash, vice president for Strategic Engagement at the ACS, which facilitates public policy debates among legal, public policy and media figures, said the grant came at a particularly important moment in American voting rights law.
“We’re all thrilled. It’s a great honor to have MacArthur supporting our work,and it comes at a critical time where there is still a threat to voting rights across the country,” Dash said. “The work that the Voting Rights Institute does is so critical to helping people continue to engage with their right to vote.”
Dash highlighted the institute’s plans to use the grant to continue developing its current programs and nationwide training sessions.
“We are going to continue doing more of what we’ve been doing quite successfully, which is training lawyers and law students around the country to engage in voting rights litigation. This grant will allow us to do training in even more locations and train more people,” Dash said. “We just need a lot more litigators out in the field addressing voting irregularities.”
Kirkpatrick said the grant will also help expand the VRI’s website, which is set to have one section specifically aimed at litigators, containing an amalgamation of voting rights cases and precedents from across the country.
“This is important because it used to be these states that wanted to make changes in their voting practices had to send their proposals to the Department of Justice,” Kirkpatrick said. “Now that they don’t have to do that, we need to collect that information from all over the country, and we may not necessarily hear about it, and other lawyers may not hear about it. So this is going to be a central clearing house of information.”
Dash said the other section of the new website will be a resource for voters to report voting irregularities and receive information from others who may have seen similar voting restrictions in their areas.
“If you live in Raleigh, and you want to see what else has been reported in Raleigh so that you know you’re not the only person, you’ll be able to see complaints as they come in, and you’ll also be able to see events and news with respect to voting across the country,” Dash said.
According to MacArthur Foundation Senior Program Officer for U.S. Programs Tara Magner, it was a combination of nationwide training, rigorous voting rights preparation at GULC and the new website that convinced the foundation of the VRI’s status as a worthy recipient of the grant.
Magner also conveyed the MacArthur Foundation’s optimism in its future relationship with the VRI.
“We’re happy and proud to be associated with the Institute, and delighted that it’s getting off to such a terrific start,” Magner said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2016 by Lucy Pash Leave a Comment 
Jewelry designer and entrepreneur Kara Ross (COL ’88) discussed the importance of female economic empowerment with a panel of female leaders and entrepreneurs in the Rafik B. Hariri Building on Thursday.
Ross currently owns and operates Diamonds Unleashed by Kara Ross, which seeks to redefine strength and empowerment through partnerships with two other female-focused organizations, Girls Who Code and She’s the First.
Girls Who Code seeks to close the gender gap in technology and engineering fields, and She’s the First provides educational scholarships for girls in low-income families.
“Education is everything, and the mantra at Diamonds Unleashed is ‘give a girl an education and give her the world,’” Ross said.
University President John J. DeGioia said the university has a responsibility to empower women.
“We have an opportunity and a responsibility to impact these challenges, to encourage the economic empowerment of women and the promotion of gender equality,” DeGioia said.
Ross said she wanted to use her passion for jewelry to start a movement that would not only allow her to do something she loves but also benefit others.
Diamonds Unleashed by Kara Ross’s logo is a symbol of a diamond with a smaller diamond elevated from within, forming a heart shape. Ross said the symbol is meant to be a reminder and promotion of the philanthropic obligation that women have to each other.
“What will define success? It will be having this beautiful symbol of empowerment, seen across many different platforms, not only jewelry, but shoes and clothing and tabletops, as well as seeing the effects of our nonprofit partners and really seeing the effects of our donations,” Ross said.
Executive Director of Georgetown’s Institute for Women, Peace, and Security Melanne Verveer led the panelists, who also included Chief Operating Officer of the Inter-American Development Bank Julie Katzman and co-founder of Black Entertainment Television Sheila Johnson. Verveer was appointed in 2009 by President Obama to be the first U.S. ambassador for global women’s issues.
Verveer said women’s economic empowerment is crucial to the overall success of economies.
“There is a strong, evidence-based case that shows that women’s economic participation is absolutely critical to growing economies, to creating jobs, to inclusive prosperity. If women are not participating economically, we are not going to get where every country wants to be,” Verveer said.
Catherine Reynolds, founder of the Catherine Reynolds Foundation, which promotes youth education, cited passion, appetite for risk and perseverance as key for success.
“There are three characteristics that are unique for entrepreneurs. One is to really have a passion, so it is consuming, just in your DNA. The second is an appetite for risk; you have to be fearless, just fearless. And the third is perseverance, in the sense that it will generally be upon your shoulders whether something does or does not happen,” Reynolds said.
Ross said it is important for women in business to look out for each other.
“Helping each other, encouraging other, looking out for each other is so important. Think about yourself as a [grade] D flawless diamond: beautiful, strong, multifaceted, unbreakable and brilliant, because that’s what you are,” Ross said.
Dolly Moorhead (COL ’16), who attended the event, said she appreciated being able to hear women in business as she prepares to graduate.
“I really enjoyed getting the opportunity to hear from some truly inspirational and successful women in business. As I am going to be graduating in May, I particularly appreciated getting to learn important insights about how to be a successful woman in any career path, such as the necessity of networking, focusing on helping other women and how it is better to be passionate about an idea or business rather than a certain position,” Moorhead said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

