
March 5, 2017 by Jeff Cirillo 3 Comments 
Self-avowed liberal and Islamic reform activist Asra Nomani defended her vote for President Donald Trump and her position on Islamic extremism in Copley Formal Lounge on Wednesday.
The event, co-sponsored by the Georgetown Bipartisan Coalition and the Georgetown Review, came under scrutiny after students on social media called Nomani an Islamophobe.
The Georgetown Bipartisan Coalition and The Georgetown Review both defended their decision to invite Nomani ahead of the event. The Georgetown Review said in an editorial posted Tuesday evening that Nomani has the right to voice her opinions.
“While the arguments associating Ms. Nomani with the ‘soft Islamophobia of Western expectations’ are entirely debatable and tenuous at best, the case for disinviting her is almost indefensible,” the editorial reads. “Disagreement is at the heart of a university’s intellectual culture, and Georgetown should be no exception to this rule. Speakers should not be banned from a university community, even if some find them offensive.”
Nomani, a former Georgetown journalism professor from August 2008 to May 2012 and Wall Street Journal reporter, described herself as pro-abortion rights, pro-LGBT rights and pro-gun control. She voted twice for former president Barack Obama and her first choice in 2016 was Democratic candidate Bernie Sanders. However, she said she was driven to support Trump by what she called the failure of Democrats to call out radical Islam.
“I am a Muslim who has fought for the last 15 years against the ideology of radical Islam,” Nomani said. “It was my real sadness under an administration and a Democratic party that has failed, in my eyes, to call out the ‘Islam’ in Islamic extremism, the ‘Islam’ in Islamic State.”
Nomani said Trump’s response to the June 2016 Pulse nightclub massacre in Orlando, Fla., in which he blamed radical Islam for the attack and condemned Obama and his then-opponent Hillary Clinton for failing to do the same, won her support.
“That’s when I knew there was a candidate there who was willing to go to that place that had become so politically incorrect,” Nomani said.
Nomani faced scrutiny from the moderator, Center for Jewish Civilization Director Jacques Berlinerblau, and students in the audience during a question-and-answer period over Trump’s statements and policies. Nomani said she does not believe Trump is Islamophobic, and his statements should not be taken literally.
Trump temporarily banned citizens from seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States for 90 days, and the United States’ refugee system for 120 days, on Jan. 21, before the Ninth Circuit Court invalidated the order Feb. 9.
“I reject the assumption that Donald Trump is an Islamophobe. And I reject the assumption that he’s racist or sexist,” Nomani said. “His communication model is absolutely not the one we’re used to from politicians.”
Nomani said Trump could never use Islamophobic language.
“What is Islamophobia? I mean Islamophobia is supposed to be an irrational fear of Muslims, right, according to this model that’s put out there. And, so, if he was to do things that would not happen in this — I mean, nothing is possible that he could possibly do,” Nomani said. “They recognize that this is a problem of Islamic extremist ideology, it’s not a problem of all Muslims.”
Among Nomani’s vocal supporters in the audience was former Reagan-administration Department of Defense official and prominent conspiracy theorist Frank Gaffney (SFS ’75). In the past, Gaffney has suggested Obama is secretly Muslim, and suggested top Clinton aide Huma Abedin had infiltrated the U.S. government as a member of the Muslim Brotherhood.
Gaffney’s D.C.-based think tank, the Center for Security Policy, has been listed by the Southern Poverty Law Center as an anti-Muslim hate group.
The Wall Street Journal reported in November that Gaffney was advising the Trump transition team on national security issues, a report that the Trump team denied.
During the question-and-answer period, Gaffney praised Nomani for speaking out against what he called the “demons” within Islam. He introduced himself only by name and as a Georgetown alumnus.
“I am so impressed in your courage, not only in taking on the demons within your faith tradition, but also in terms of calling out hypocrisy, because it’s enabling them in this country,” Gaffney said.
Nomani thanked Gaffney for his question and for attending. She appeared familiar with Gaffney and his background, noting sympathetically that they had both been a target of the “honor brigade” — her term for academics, activists and others who defend Islam against public critics.
Georgetown Review Editor-in-Chief Kevin Toohers (COL ’17) said the event was open to all members of the public.
This post has been updated.

KansasGirl says 
March 6, 2017 at 1:10 am
You lose all credibility when you allow the bigoted Southern Poverty Law Center to “list” an organization as “hateful” as if it’s factual.
I can’t imagine walking through ones life constantly being offended.
That’s got to be a miserable life.

The Real SFS 2016 says 
March 6, 2017 at 10:43 am
The Southern Poverty Law Center is not a credible organization.  It basically lists anyone who disagrees with them as a “hate group” to tarnish by association reputable people and organizations who have nothing to do with racism, sexism, etc.  
It would be one thing if they just listed actual hate groups, like the black separatist group Nation of Islam, or the Latino group La Raza, or Neo-Nazi organizations and the KKK, but they’ve delegitimized themselves by going after people who having nothing to do with hate.
Gullible people in the media use it an “unbiased’ source when really it’s just a money-making machine for Morris Dees and a left-wing advocacy organization.  They seek to tarnish people.  That’s what the biased Hoya is doing here.  It’s fake news.
Cirillo could have researched for himself whether or not the Center for Security Policy and Gaffney are actually motivated by hate, but that would have required investigative work (you know, real “journalism”) and being fair, which we all know the Hoya is loath to do.
Luckily more and more people are understanding how the media works.

Sean says 
March 6, 2017 at 1:09 pm
Asra Nomani and her colleagues in the Muslim Reform Movement are nobly motivated, and I wish them success.  But prevailing over those in Islam who follow meticulously ALL of the Qur’an and Sunnah will be an immense struggle, likely lasting for decades and successful only in nations blessed with a comfortable standard of living and exposure to the secular governance of Western liberty. 
Here is a 5 minute video by David Wood (a brilliant blogger) explaining what mainstream media call radicalization — when the polite, quiet neighbor turns onto a violent path virtually overnight:
https://www.answeringmuslims.com/2015/03/the-jihad-triangle.html
Two quotes in it from Dr. Wood, as they would be spoken by a recruiter for orthodox, fully-faithful Islam:  “Do you think Allah wants you to live in peace with the unbelievers?  You got that idea from the unbelievers, not from Allah.”
“Do you think you get to pick and choose which commands of Allah to obey, as if our religion is some sort of lunch buffet?  Allah demands complete submission, and if you don’t obey, you’re not a real Muslim. You’re going to Hell.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 5, 2017 by Tara Subramaniam Leave a Comment 
Four students were sworn as Georgetown University Student Association senators Feb. 26, following the Feb. 23 GUSA senate election.
Sarah Griffin (SFS ’18) will represent East Campus for the remainder of the school year while Chloe Phillips (SFS ’17) and Nick Zeffiro (SFS ’18) will represent South Campus. Samantha Granville (COL ’17) won the off-campus senate seat.
The four enter the senate on the back of the Feb. 23 GUSA election commission announcement that the Dec. 1 referendum to replace the senate with a new, elected assembly focused on club funding would have passed. The GUSA Constitutional Council invalidated the referendum due to GUSA not providing the student body two weeks’ notice of the referendum.
Senate speaker Richie Mullaney (COL ’18) said the senate will look for ways to maximize its impact this semester in light of the referendum results’ invalidation.
“Given that the Senate is here to stay, the focus will now be on how to bolster the Senate’s influence in policymaking. As a body, the Senate’s policymaking power is mostly ceremonial and it’s currently difficult for individual Senators to navigate the bureaucracy in order to make an actual impact,” Mullaney wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We’ll be exploring ways for the Senate as an institution to be an integral part of decision making. Nothing is off the table.”
Mullaney said the senate’s priority for the rest of the semester will be following up on last semester’s referendum.
“The most pertinent task before the Senate is to draft and pass the student activities budget of nearly $1 million,” Mullaney wrote. “After the club funding referendum and the exec election, I think it’s clear that we need to critically evaluate this process and look at ways to make it more transparent.”
Having previously served as a senator and a deputy chief of staff under GUSA President Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) and Vice President Chris Fisk (COL ’17), Granville said she is excited to be involved as the senate undergoes a period of transition.
“The senate is going through an identity reformation right now,” Granville said. “If you’re a senator taking on a larger policy role in the future and you’re a big supporter of club advocacy in the senate, that’s certainly not going to happen in my term, but it’s a conversation that can help get the ball rolling.”
Despite being a senior, Granville said she ran for the senate to continue work started during the Khan-Fisk administration.
“I’m excited to continue the projects that Enushe and Chris have been working on in the past year to make sure that those get finished strongly,” Granville said. “I’ve recently joined the election reform task force, so it’s a group of us from the exec, from the senate, both administrations and the election commission trying to re-evaluate the best way to run elections so that we don’t have the same problems that we saw the last time with the Constitutional Council back in [December].”
Griffin, a former Hoya staff writer, said she looks forward to addressing workers’ rights and promoting inclusivity across campus.
“There are few key areas I am concerned about promoting at Georgetown, such as workers’ rights: both student workers and staff workers,” Griffin said. “I am also concerned about promoting access to mental and sexual health resources on campus, promoting resources for the arts and generally promoting inclusivity.”
Mullaney said he is optimistic about the rest of the senate’s term and the opportunity to work with GUSA President-elect Kamar Mack (COL ’19) and Vice President-elect Jessica Andino (COL ’18).
“I expect that we’ll see stronger collaboration between the Executive and the Senate moving forward. I look forward to working with Kamar and Jessica to see this through,” Mullaney wrote. “We have four wonderful new Senators who will offer a much needed new perspective. I can tell they’re thrilled to get to work and are serious about their jobs.”
Hoya Staff Writer Yasmine Salam contributed reporting. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

