
October 24, 2017 by Sarah Mendelsohn Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association senate unanimously passed a resolution Oct. 15 calling on administrators to commit to implementing the Sexual Assault and Misconduct Task Force’s recommendations.
The task force, established by University President John J. DeGioia in June 2016, developed a list of 11 recommendations to university administrators for improving preventative measures against sexual misconduct. The recommendations included mandatory education for all Georgetown students on sexual misconduct, trauma-informed training for the Georgetown University Police Department on sexual assault response and training for faculty and staff on sexual misconduct reporting.
The senate resolution urges administrators to prevent students who do not complete the mandatory bystander intervention training from preregistering for classes. The resolution also calls for more funding for bystander intervention training and more staff and resources for the Student Health Center, Counseling and Psychiatric Services, the Women’s Center, the LGBTQ Resource Center, the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access and the Academic Resource Center.
The resolution also encouraged the Office of the Provost to inform faculty and staff of recommendations published by the Center for New Designs in Learning and Scholarship. The center, which aims to bridge the gap between teaching methods and technological advancements, has published materials about how to foster more inclusive atmospheres in the classroom. GUSA is calling for interaction between faculty and staff and CNDLS once per semester.
Sylvia Levy (SFS ’18), vice speaker of the GUSA senate, previously said in a speech before the senate elections this year that the GUSA senate should pressure the university to fulfill its commitments to preventing sexual assault on campus. Georgetown’s Title IX coordinator, Laura Cutway, said she plans to meet with Levy to learn more about integrating the requests of GUSA’s resolution and how to partner with the senate to combat sexual violence on campus.
Jennifer Wiggins, staff clinician and sexual assault specialist for Georgetown Health Education Services, said that, though the university’s education initiatives have room for improvement, current programs have worked well and will continue to improve.
“Education on sexual violence is working within our community,” Wiggins wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I am able to measure this through my work as the staff adviser for the Sexual Assault Peer Educators. Our curriculum continues to evolve to meet the expanded knowledge around issues of sexual violence. It is evident that the goals of wanting to build a community of care and create cultural change are in process.”
Wiggins said resolutions like the one the senate recently passed reflect a strong commitment to sexual violence prevention.
“The stance that both Georgetown’s administration and the student body has taken on sexual violence, to me, says, is one of non-tolerance that stands with survivors,” Wiggins wrote.
The administration and GUSA have previously worked closely to address the problem of sexual assault on campus. The GUSA executive and Georgetown administrators signed a memorandum of understanding in January 2016 that outlined steps the university could take to expand education initiatives and publicize resources for survivors.
The memorandum required the university to implement bystander intervention training, print information about off-campus sexual assault resources on GOCards and place informative stickers on bathroom stall doors. It also expedited the process of establishing a full-time Title IX coordinator and demanded the completion of a campus climate survey in January 2016.
Nina Young (SFS ’19), deputy chief of staff of health and wellness and leader of the GUSA Sexual Assault and Student Safety team, said university-driven programs that address sexual misconduct are successful.
But administrators have hesitated to support student-led efforts to change campus climate, according to Young.
“The initiatives that are student-led or that students have been pushing for are the ones that have been pushed back against,” Young said.
Young said the Sexual Assault and Student Safety team is currently creating a short educational video for the university to show before basketball games in the Capital One Arena. The video aims to inform audience members about how to address sexual misconduct.
According to Young, the university changed the script of the video to detail the initiatives the university has started to address sexual violence.
Young said she found the university administrators reluctant to take student opinions into account.
“I’m on a couple teams that worked with administration on problems of sexual assault and student safety, and it seems to be a lot of students giving opinions and the administrators being like, ‘yeah, maybe,’” Young said.
Young called for more transformative policies that would restructure campus culture and engage students in preventative measures against sexual violence on campus, saying university initiatives “deal with more symptoms than the actual core of the problem, which has to do with transforming culture.”
“I feel like for that, we really need to put out more initiatives on education and include students in these conversations,” Young said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 24, 2017 by Erin Doherty Leave a Comment 
Clean and empty pizza boxes, paper and plastic plates, cups, lids and to-go containers, which were previously considered garbage, are now recyclable in Washington, D.C, the District government announced Oct. 5.
The items can now be recycled by District residents as part of an ongoing initiative to reduce waste in the city. The change was announced by the Department of Public Works, the Department of Energy and Environment and the Department of General Services.
Washington residents living in single-family homes and residential buildings with fewer than three units are expected to recycle all items on the expanded list starting this month. D.C. businesses and multi-family homes are expected to follow the new recycling guidelines beginning Jan. 1, 2018.
The expansion of recycling in the city is aimed at taking a step toward achieving the District’s goal of diverting 80 percent of the city’s food waste by 2030. The expanded list of recyclables would reduce the amount of trash being sent to D.C.’s landfills, leading to a cleaner city overall, according to the initiative’s news release.
“Packaging waste occupies a significant amount of space in our landfills,” the news release read. “Recyclable and compostable alternatives, however, can be reconstituted into other useful products.”
Alejandro Kineen (SFS ’20), a member of Georgetown University’s Renewable Energy and Environmental Network, said the new recycling initiative in the city will make it easier for residents to understand what to recycle.
“A big thing in D.C., and in most big cities, is a lack of awareness many people have of recycling,” Kineen said. “Everyone wants to help out the environment, and it’s really not that hard to do it. It’s just that most cities don’t make a big effort teaching their people to recycle the right ways, and these initiatives help educate the common person to learn how to recycle.”
In addition to the new recycling initiative, the DPW announced the implementation of the District’s Zero Waste website, where D.C. residents can find answers to common questions about recycling. For example, dirty cardboard food containers cannot be recycled, nor can plastic cups that contain liquid.
Dan Guilbeault, the chief of the Urban Sustainability Administration’s Sustainability and Equity Branch for the DOEE, emphasized the benefits of a website solely dedicated to answering questions about recycling for D.C. residents in an Oct. 5 news conference announcing the initiative.
Throughout his time working at the DOEE, Guilbeault had received many questions from residents about what they could recycle. Guilbeault said that the answer frequently had been “it depends.”
“The whole ‘it depends’ answer, with a very complicated answer after that, is a pretty frustrating experience for everyone,” Guilbeault said at the press conference. “So it’s really beautiful to see that messaging getting so clear and so concise and having one place people can go to get all their questions answered.”
In the meantime, GREEN will continue to work to spread awareness about composting and recycling on campus.
“The goal of all of this, like the initiative that D.C. is taking right now and what Georgetown should be doing too, is basically making it easier to recycle,” Kineen said. “Because it’s not that hard; it’s just that people won’t do it if it requires a very large effort in their day.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

