
October 27, 2017 by Jesus Rodriguez 1 Comment 
A group of six adjunct faculty delivered a petition Friday to Georgetown University President John J. DeGioia calling for increased wages, health care and access to university resources as five-monthlong negotiations approach their Oct. 31 deadline, when the current contract expires.
Georgetown has not offered sufficient financial concessions to the six-person bargaining team representing the more than 1,000 adjunct faculty on the main campus, according to sources familiar with the negotiations who were not authorized to comment. 
The petition, signed by 128 members of the Georgetown community as of 7 p.m. Friday, calls on Georgetown to “integrate the adjunct teaching faculty fully” into the campus community.
“Without us, the university could not fulfill its mission of offering quality educational and career advancement opportunities for the community,” the petition reads. “We view this situation of low pay, no access to medical and/or health benefits as incompatible with the Jesuit characteristic of cura personalis, which means care of the whole person.”
According to the Office of Assessment and Decision Support’s most recent data from 2015, 1,086 part-time professors taught at Georgetown. The adjuncts estimate there are about 540 tenured or tenure-track, full-time and 230 nontenured, full-time professor at Georgetown, and that the adjunct faculty comprise more than half of all professors at main campus. University officials did not give accurate, updated counts of the faculty categories.
The adjunct faculty are represented by the Washington, D.C. branch of Service Employees International Union, SEIU Local 500, which also represents other universities in the area. In an email to The Hoya, university spokesperson Rachel Pugh commented on the state of the negotiations.
“We are continuing to work cooperatively with the union that represents our adjunct faculty on a renewal of the collective bargaining agreement,” Pugh wrote. “We have agreed with the union that we will not discuss the specifics of those negotiations as they are ongoing.”
Joe Ferrara, chief of staff to the university president, met with the adjuncts and said he would relay the message to DeGioia, who was not present at the time.
Martin Conway, an adjunct professor of sports management, said in an interview with The Hoya that some adjuncts have to “literally piece together” their careers due to the low level of compensation and semester-by-semester contracting.
“The gig economy, as it is commonly referred to, is very clear for adjuncts, [who are] having to tie together two or three circumstances in many cases for them to constitute a living,” Conway said. “If you have young children or you are just starting a family, that sort of burden is even higher because of not knowing whether you will be there.”
Under the current adjunct collective bargaining contract ratified in 2014, the minimum pay rate mandated for three-credit courses is $4,700. Students pay the university a rate of $1,724 per credit hour, or $5,172 per three-credit course.
To live a comfortable life, D.C. residents must earn at minimum $103,543 in annual income, according to a 2017 SmartAsset study.
Kerry Danner-McDonald (COL ’93), an adjunct professor in the theology department, said since being hired in 2011 she has received a $100 increase in her per-course pay — putting her earnings from her two-course load at $12,200 per semester. 
Nevertheless, most adjuncts are paid more than $6,100 per course, and access to university benefits varies greatly by department. For example, some departments provide shared office space, while others provide none at all.
According to aggregate data from The Chronicle of Higher Education, a Georgetown adjunct earns an average rate of $7,750 per three-credit course.
The current contract also stipulates a fund of $35,000 per fiscal year, from which adjunct professors can request reimbursements of up to $600 for costs associated with “professional development activities related to teaching.”
Sitting at a table outside Midnight Mug, where she hosts her office hours for the 35 students in her “Problem of God” class, Danner-McDonald said another “extra burden” placed on many adjunct instructors is the expectation they will receive health care through a spouse or a second job, or will pay for it themselves.
Danner-McDonald recalled one day when she arrived at Georgetown at 9:30 a.m. for her first class of the day and stayed until 7:15 p.m. By that time, she was pained by back soreness from shuttling her instructional materials across campus.
Conway said many adjunct professors are also disenfranchised from high-level governance, as they cannot participate in the faculty senate — a body that formulates academic policy and advises the president and board of directors — because they are not full-time faculty. It is up to each department to decide if it wants to include its adjuncts in meetings.
“Adjuncts are part of and do take part in various department-level meetings,” Conway said. “Beyond that, though, on both the main campus or any of the other campuses, there is not a formal place and not a specific role for adjuncts in [governance], whether it’s faculty senate, or it’s executive faculty or even some other governance groups that have been set up.”
Adjuncts’ status as part-time faculty also means that some receive contracts on a semester-by-semester basis and are often asked to commit to teaching a class in the spring before the academic year starts, but without receiving a contract until December.
“It puts a lot of stress on a lot of adjuncts in addition to dealing with students, being able to give feedback, doing recommendations, doing the kinds of off-school, off-class things that are expected of them but they are not contracted to do,” Conway said.
This pressure led Bonnie Morris, who taught as an adjunct in the women’s and gender studies department combined with another adjunct position at The George Washington University, to leave Georgetown last year. She now lives with her family in Santa Cruz, Calif., to save considerably on housing costs — an important factor given the high cost of rent in Washington, D.C.
“When you get an arrangement that includes benefits, it is more than possible to have an outstanding career as an adjunct lecturer,” Morris said. “What happened is just when I was starting to feel pretty secure, [GWU] made a whole bunch of budget cuts and they eliminated my job, and with that gone the amount that Georgetown was paying me was not enough to live on in Washington.”
The adjunct faculty have also been supported in their plea by students from the Georgetown Solidarity Committee who organized a photo campaign in Red Square to bring awareness to the issue.
Photo campaigns, petitions and more negotiations are among the few advocacy tools the adjuncts have left at their disposable, as they are bound by the current contract not to engage in any demonstration that “interferes with or disrupts the normal operations of the University.”
The 2014 contract that the adjuncts and SEIU Local 500 brokered was set to expire June 30 but was extended twice. The current extension’s expiry is set for Oct. 31, at which time the adjunct faculty are allowed to engage in other collective bargaining methods such as strikes and sit-downs.
The situation at Georgetown is not outside the norm in higher education today. A 2017 study by the American Association of University Professors found that 40 percent of university faculty nationwide are adjuncts. Seventy percent are contingent faculty, which includes nontenure-track, full-time faculty who are contracted on a per-semester basis.
Per Chronicle Data, the nationwide average three-credit course pay for an adjunct is $3,745, far below Georgetown’s mean. But at peer institutions like Duke University, the average adjunct earns $8,207 per three-credit course. At Columbia University, the mean is $6,258.
Despite Georgetown’s relatively better pay, adjunct professors still feel the effects of teaching with financial and career instability. When asked why she has stayed in her career given the low pay, Danner-McDonald said it is out of love for her students.
“Our mission aims to develop intellectual and spiritual understanding, seek justice and to live in service of others. I am deeply committed to Georgetown’s mission even when it fails in practice,” Danner-McDonald said. “Love demands fidelity, and to identify weaknesses, in the hope of being better, is an act of fidelity and love.”
Hoya Staff Writers Yasmine Salam and Hannah Urtz contributed to this report.
This post has been updated to reflect the cost of living in D.C.
[…] The Hoya previously reported the average adjunct earns $7,750 per three-credit course, the highest average rate among local universities, yet trailing the earnings of adjuncts at peer universities. At Duke University, for example, the mean rate is $8,207 per course (“Adjunct Petition Demands Wage Increase, Improved Status for More Than 1,000 Faculty,” The Hoya, Oct. 27, 2017). […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 27, 2017 by Lisa Burgoa 20 Comments 
Eric/a grappled with the idea of sex work for over a year before their first paid sexual encounter.
Since the summer after their sophomore year, they were consumed by a mental calculus of risk. Eric/a weighed the risk of detection by the authorities, the university and fellow students. They considered the potential for sexual assault and sexually transmitted diseases.
But the fears were superseded by Eric/a’s belief that sex work provided a means to finally, truly, be themselves as a transgender individual. Eric/a, a Georgetown University senior whose real name has been withheld for anonymity and replaced with a preferred moniker signifying their gender fluidity, said the extra income furnished their ability to purchase makeup and clothes that represented their identity.
 
“It was something I was wrestling with, ‘Should I do this? Should I not do this?’ Because if I do, then I will be able to, in a sense, move forward and realize and explore parts of my identity,” Eric/a said. “Doing sex work was basically having that extra money, having that extra bumper, to live the life I wanted to live.”
Propelled by this hope, Eric/a opened an account last summer on SeekingArrangement.com at the recommendation of a fellow Georgetown student. Describing itself as “the world’s largest sugar dating site,” the platform aims to match up young people with older, wealthier partners who help financially subsidize their sugar babies’ lives in exchange for companionship.
Since then, Eric/a has had multiple sexual encounters, sometimes as many as eight or nine times with the same client, for fees as large as $200 per session.
At first, most of these encounters qualified as sugaring, a practice which relies on gifts or allowances from clients in exchange for sex. But after finding the payoff of sugaring to be too meager and at times uneven, Eric/a switched to escorting, which relies strictly on monetary transactions for sex.
Now, while juggling midterms and club commitments, Eric/a sets up profiles online and schedules dates with clients. They are not alone – Eric/a knows of similar arrangements among their peers who have taken up sugaring to offset tuition costs. All the while, these students risk apprehension by law enforcement, which penalizes prostitution with fines of up to $500 or a maximum of 90-day imprisonment for first-time offenders.
However, this could soon change amid efforts by advocates to decriminalize sex work in D.C.
A proposed bill introduced Oct. 5 by D.C. Councilmember David Grosso (I-At Large), with the help of the Sex Workers Advocate Coalition and D.C. Councilmember Robert C. White Jr. (D-At Large), proposed repealing a number of laws that criminalize consenting adults for exchanging sex for money. The bill now resides in committee, awaiting a hearing by the D.C. Council before next spring.
Johanna Margeson, a member of Georgetown’s Women’s Law and Public Policy Fellowship Program and legal fellow at HIPS, an organization that promotes the rights and dignity of sex workers, said the bill was designed to protect some of the District’s most marginalized communities who cannot seek help from authorities without being criminalized themselves.
According to data collected by HIPS, trans women are ten times more likely to engage in sex work than cisgender women. Of those trans sex workers operating in D.C., 85 percent are black or Latinx and 37 percent are homeless.
“At HIPS, we predominantly work with transgender women of color, and we see they face a lot of issues with prosecution and poor interactions with the police,” Margeson said. “But that’s just one part of the problem. A lot of our clients say they have bad dates, where they are injured or abused or experience second-hand trauma. But they can’t go to the hospital, and they can’t go to the police, because they face criminalization themselves.”
Over 80 percent of street-based sex workers reported experiencing violence in their encounters, according to HIPS.
With regard to criminalization, Eric/a said issues of consent are even more fraught for sex workers, who have no means of ensuring clients abide by agreements.
As someone who has experience with both sugaring, which relies on sex in exchange for gifts or allowances, and escorting, which relies strictly on monetary transactions for sex, Eric/a said they have encountered instances which tested the limits of consent.
One client claimed he did not want to pay Eric/a for sex because he felt it would be like “exploiting” them. Another pressured Eric/a to engage in sexual practices like bondage, which made them feel uncomfortable for safety reasons.
“It’s difficult, because if I’m expecting something from an encounter, then that is part of consent, and if you’re not paying up, then technically you are violating my consent,” Eric/a said. “But that’s another problem, what constitutes consent? If you’re in this place and you have to act like you’re enjoying it, is it really consensual? It’s really morally gray.”
One aspect in which Eric/a has encountered little difficulty is with practicing safe sex, a fact that they credit to the affluence and sexual education of most of their clients.
However, sex workers who engage in high-risk sexual behaviors – such as not using a condom or other forms of contraception – are more susceptible to sexually transmitted infections.
Sean Bland (LAW ’13), who works as a senior associate at Georgetown University Law Center’s O’Neill Institute for National and Global Health Law and specializes in domestic HIV policy issues, said data show decriminalization efforts helped a greater number of those with HIV/AIDS access care, as well as lowered the number of new infections.
“We know in a variety of states, that the really disruptive effect of going in and out of the criminal justice system, even for very short stays, like getting picked off the street and spending the weekend in jail, has a big impact on those living with HIV to adhere to their medication,” said Bland, who also served as a nonadvocacy legal expert for the Sex Workers Advocate Coalition that helped author D.C.’s decriminalization bill.
Eric/a acknowledges that, even as a trans sex worker, their status as a male-passing Georgetown student of comfortable financial means affords them certain privileges over street-based sex workers operating in D.C.
In particular, Eric/a finds that they themselves have much more agency over their choices as a sex worker than do many other trans people in the city.
“For a lot of people, especially trans people, sex work is related to things like employment discrimination, housing discrimination, not having basic needs met, having no choice but to do sex work,” Eric/a said. “But for me, and a lot of trans women and trans feminine people, sex work is also the way in which you build your body, a way in which you feel comfortable in your body and your sexuality and femininity. That is obviously very problematic, in terms of notions of gender and heteronormativity, but we live in a world where those things are very prevalent and feel like reality.”
The stigmatization and lack of visibility of sex workers has compelled Eric/a to share their story anonymously, through an exclusive interview with The Hoya and a blog post on the website of H*yas For Choice, a student organization on campus dedicated to sexual and reproductive health advocacy that supports decriminalization efforts.
H*yas For Choice President Annie Mason (COL ’18), who participated in a study abroad program in Denmark last spring that studied prostitution and the sex trade, said her organization wishes to demonstrate that sex work is a reality occurring within the Georgetown community.
“Very rarely do sex workers get an opportunity to speak for themselves and share their own experiences, and often times on a college campus, we talk about these issues in a theoretical way and assume it’s something that’s occurring outside our campus,” Mason said. “Sharing this story lets people know that it’s not a theoretical issue, and it’s not something that happening in some community elsewhere. It’s something that is happening right here in Georgetown and something we should care about.”
Eric/a contends that although the plight of sex workers should be inextricable from egalitarian movements, often feminist and queer circles purposefully exclude the narratives of sex workers from their advocacy. They claim mainstream movements and organizations, including Planned Parenthood and the Women’s March last winter, sometimes scrub away any mention of empowering women in sex work.
“This is the exact reason it’s very important for people involved in sex work to share their story, because you never hear stories from us,” Eric/a said. “You always hear stories about, ‘prostitution is such a bad thing, and here is why we should stop it,’ but I don’t think that these people who say this have ever engaged in sex work before. They don’t understand what it’s like.”

Darrel Harb says 
October 27, 2017 at 11:42 am
Hey America’s oldest Catholic university, let’s form a cheer squad for trans prostitutes!

Bob Lannan says 
October 28, 2017 at 10:32 pm
I don’t know what is more sad: that a student would prostitute him or herself or that organizations– both on campus and off– would seek to legitimize such an action.  I would encourage any student considering whether to do this to ask a simple question: Would I share intimacy with this person where I’m not being paid to do so?  I expect that in the vast majority of cases, the answer to this question will be no–emphatically no.  My next question: Why, then, would you debase yourself to do something you so much do not want to do only for money?  To do so seems to me and action borne not out of empowerment or individual autonomy, but out of a sense of powerlessness, despair, and a sense that there are no other options.  In case no one else has, let me assure you that there are other options.  Whether it is financial support or some other form of support that you need, I have no doubt that Georgetown’s residential life, campus ministry and student health services employee compassionate professionals who can either provide you the help you need or find someone else who will.  I urge you to call them.

Mary Wareham says 
October 29, 2017 at 12:32 pm
Dear Lord…
How about an article about the Georgetown Men’s Cross Country First Place win at the Big East this past weekend.
Grandma

Call Girls in Nehru Place says 
January 23, 2018 at 2:44 am
Mostly chance of student sex worker is attracting money and their personal need.

Shira Karli says 
March 23, 2018 at 3:09 am
Thanks for sharing this kind of useful information.

divya sharma says 
April 10, 2018 at 7:11 am
such a informational blog thanks for shearing this.

Female Companion says 
April 12, 2018 at 9:01 am
Nice article dear  loved it very much

Dating Services says 
April 18, 2018 at 6:48 am
Thanks for such a handy article

AKINFO says 
May 28, 2019 at 4:13 am
what a nice blog post. Please share some more content like that.thanks for sharing this content.

praveeng says 
January 23, 2020 at 1:58 am
thanks for the info

aakriti singh says 
October 8, 2020 at 9:00 am
Thanks for sharing such a great post and share more of these types of useful posts.

Jaish Arora says 
October 17, 2020 at 12:36 pm
This is a nice post worth so much. It contains very helpful information.

Depika says 
November 2, 2020 at 1:20 am
This is a nice post worth so much. It contains very helpful information.

preti says 
January 11, 2021 at 6:05 am
love to see such great info dear

Mumbai Call Girls says 
April 3, 2021 at 5:15 am
The bold beautiful performance is vital for you and when you are thinking to make sure a good sex life then the role of the young teenage partner is very important in this way. These girls are unique and different from the common call girls.

Noida Call Girl says 
June 24, 2021 at 11:41 pm
Hello, I am Minaxi And I appreciate With Your Information Such a Amazing.

Minaxi says 
June 25, 2021 at 12:10 am
Hello, I am Minaxi And I appreciate With Your Information Such a Amazing.

Varanasi says 
July 14, 2021 at 4:50 am
I am Sonam, a recently single married woman who is looking For a safe and sane man to meet to satisfy my needs.

products99 says 
September 2, 2021 at 12:30 pm
Thanks for sharing this kind of useful information.

ishakutty says 
February 17, 2022 at 5:21 am
Great blog thank you
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 27, 2017 by Grey Rosenzweig Leave a Comment 
Discrimination against transgender individuals is causing disproportionate mental health issues in the Washington, D.C. area, with 37 percent of trans respondents reporting psychological distress compared to an overall 5 percent national average in 2011, a National Center for Transgender Equality study found.
The survey responses, coupled with increasing rates of homelessness and unemployment in the trans community in D.C., are raising concerns about resources available for trans Georgetown students. A rise in hate crimes and disproportionate discrimination against trans individuals in housing and employment matches a trend of violence toward trans individuals nationwide and in the District.
The number of anti-transgender hate crimes has increased 90 percent from 2015 to 2016, from 10 in 2015 to 19 in 2016, according to statistics from the Metropolitan Police Department’s hate crime report. Nationwide, hate crimes rose 6 percent in that same time period, according to the FBI.
According to a New York Times article published June 2016, 39 of the total reported 88 LGBT homicides in the country between the years 2012-2015 were committed against black transgender women.
The NCTE survey reports 27 percent of 214 D.C. respondents who were employed experienced workplace discrimination, despite efforts by advocacy groups and the D.C. Council to raise awareness of bias-related incidents and push for greater legal protections for transgender individuals.
Eleven percent of respondents said that they have experienced homelessness in the past year because of their identity. Sixteen percent said they are living in poverty.
The National Center for Transgender Equality survey documents the experiences of transgender individuals around the nation. NCTE last conducted the survey from 2008 to 2009.
The majority of the 214 D.C. respondents attributed the causes of these experiences to their gender identity.
NCTE’s report confirmed the D.C. Office of Human Rights’ own resume testing, an analysis of how employers respond to resumes from potential applicants who identify as transgender compared with applicants who identify as cisgender.
The 2015 resume test was the first government-run testing in the nation that made its results public. OHR found that 48 percent of employers in the District were more inclined to hire less qualified, cisgender applicants, than they were to employ or even interview more highly qualified transgender applicants.
Out of all the applicants during this resume testing, transgender black men received the highest level of discrimination, according to the results of the resume testing.
Additionally, the NCTE survey found 58 percent of respondents avoided public restrooms out of fear of harassment or confrontation, and 44 percent of respondents experienced mistreatment from the police ranging from physical and verbal abuse to sexual assault.
The NCTE introduced the national survey in 2015, as a follow-up to the results released in 2011 from the first 2008-2009 survey which aimed to highlight the discrimination faced by transgender individuals in their everyday lives across the country.
The survey was conducted after the D.C. Council passed a bill to protect the identity of transgender individuals after name changes in 2013 but before the District became the first jurisdiction in the country to offer a gender neutral option on licenses in June 2017.
Currently, the D.C. Council is considering a bill to decriminalize sex work, which LGBT advocates say would benefit trans individuals.
A bill sponsored by Councilmembers David Grosso (I-At Large) and Robert C. White Jr. (D-At Large) has received support from local LGBT advocacy groups including Casa Ruby, a community resource center, the D.C. Gay and Lesbian Activists Alliance, the D.C. Anti-Violence Project and Whitman-Walker Health, a health center in Logan Circle.
“The criminalization of sex work disproportionately affects the LGBTQ community, specifically LGBTQ people of color,” the Anti-Violence Project told the Washington Blade Oct. 5.
Ruby Corado, executive director of center Casa Ruby, told the Blade decriminalization ends up disproportionally incarcerating transgender women who end up with HIV.
HIPS, a nonprofit organization that specializes in harm reduction among sex workers, people experiencing homelessness and drug users, conducted the D.C. research for NCTE’s national survey.
Zachary Frial (SFS’18), who works as an intern for HIPS, said he believes transgender discrimination extends across the District into Georgetown University. The university could be doing more to support its transgender students, Friel said.
“The university is able to tolerate us at an arm’s distance, but they don’t want to meet all of the demands that queer and trans students have,” Frial said.
Frial said students applied for a gender and sexuality or queer living and learning community last year. Their proposal was denied by the university in 2016.
The Hoya previously reported a proposal from students who applied for an LLC for the 2017-2018 school year called “Crossroads: Gender and Sexuality” that would be inclusive to students in the LGBTQ community was rejected by Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson.
Olson told The Hoya the proposal did raise concerns about how Georgetown’s housing arrangements align with the school’s Catholic and Jesuit identity.
Frial compared Georgetown to the University of California, Berkeley, citing the discrepancy between the levels of support that the two schools—of similar academic caliber—provide to their queer and transgender students.
Berkeley provides medical insurance for its transgender students and their specific needs, covering hormone therapy, gender reaffirmation surgery, electrolysis of the neck and face and tracheal shave, according to Berkeley’s website.
Frial said the support Georgetown provides to its transgender students does not match Berkeley’s programs.
Georgetown currently offers an LGBTQ Center and the Women’s Center and Campus Ministry as resources for LGBTQ students.
Beyond that students are able to change their name on the MyAccess registration portal to a preferred name and keep their legal name private.
Frial said Georgetown still lacks the resources schools like Berkeley have.
“They provide for all medical services that trans people require or ask for,” Frial said. “I hardly think Georgetown will ever get to a point where that is possible.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 27, 2017 by Mariel Mendez 1 Comment 
President Donald Trump’s recently proposed tax reform will stimulate the economy by simplifying the tax code, said Director of the Office of Management and Budget Mick Mulvaney (SFS ’89),Wednesday.
Mulvaney highlighted two pillars of the plan: reducing taxes for corporations and the middle class.
“At the end of the process, we will look at the final product with that same prism that we did going into, which is: is the corporate tax rate lower and is the middle class lower and simpler?” Mulvaney said.
Cathy Koch (GRD ’94), Americas tax policy leader at Ernst and Young, moderated the discussion hosted by Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service.
Mulvaney said the administration’s attempts to rewrite the tax code will not dramatically increasethe national debt, which stands at $20 trillion.
The tax cuts provided by the policy amount to a $1.5 trillion cut in revenue, effectively adding that number to the deficit over a span of 10 years.
The nonpartisan Tax Policy Center, however, estimated in a Sep. 29 report that the bill will give the biggest tax breaks to individuals with the highest levels of income and increases taxes for those in the bottom 95 percent of income level.
“Do the rich get richer? Absolutely. So does the middle class, and so does the poor,” Mulvaney said.
In what might be the first significant legislative win for the Trump administration, the House of Representatives passed the budget bill that incorporates the tax reform policy Thursday, following the Senate’s passing of a similar bill last week.
The narrow 216-212 House vote will facilitate the bill’s passage as it goes through Congress. The bill will need a simple majority to pass in the Senate, since it is going through the process of reconciliation — a process that bypasses any attempts by Democrats in the Senate to filibuster legislation. Republicans hold a 52 person majority in the Senate.
Trump tapped Mulvaney to be OMB Director Dec. 16, 2016, before the senate confirmed his appointment with a 51 to 49 vote Jan. 16, 2017.
Previously, he served as the U.S. Representative for the 5th District of South Carolina for six years. Now, as the director of the office responsible for budget implementation, Mulvaney is bolstering public support for the massive tax overhaul promised by Trump.
“What I have ended up doing now is selling [the plan] on television and to my former colleagues more than anything else,” Mulvaney said.
A former member of the House Freedom Caucus, the conservative wing of the GOP in the House, and characterized as a fiscal hawk for taking a hardline stance on spending, Mulvaney said he would raise revenues through the tax policy and limit spending. This model would account for losses in tax revenues through reduced government expenditure and greater individual spending.
“I can’t leave the status quo, then I won’t know what my numbers are. I either raise taxes and hope I raise more money like that. Or, being a good Republican, I lower taxes to raise more revenues that way,” Mulvaney said.
Mulvaney highlighted the complexity of the current tax code, specifically when evaluating the tax brackets that apply to the middle class. Mulvaney said the tax system should be simpler for middle-class earners.
Middle-class earners with incomes between $39,560 and $118,080 fall into the 25 percent and 28 percent marginal tax brackets.
The current tax code contains seven marginal brackets ranging from 10 percent to 39.6 percent. The proposed plan will reform the system of have three marginal brackets of 12 percent, 25 percent and 35 percent, according to the framework provided by the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
Mulvaney said the framework outlines the objectives of rewriting the existing tax code.
“So that ‘pay less’ and ‘pay it simpler’ is one pillar. And the other pillar is this lower corporate tax,” Mulvaney said.
The tax reform plan proposes simplifying the middle-income brackets and giving tax breaks to the highest earning families and corporations in the country to incentivize spending and investment.
Mulvaney said the government owes tax reform to the American people.
“I don’t care if you’re Republican, I don’t care if you’re Democrat,” Mulvaney said. “We’ve trained America to expect more government than they’re willing to pay for.”
Special to The Hoya

Ted Weihe says 
October 29, 2017 at 4:20 pm
Is cutting taxes to the wealthy, a Jesuit tenant. Would our Pope agree that helping the rich and hurting the poor, is His teachings?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 27, 2017 by Katrina Schmidt Leave a Comment 
The increase in Georgetown University Transportation Shuttle service to Dupont Circle on Saturdays has pushed graduate students commuting from Rosslyn to significantly shift their weekend plans for longer commutes or cancel them altogether.
Esther Kim (GRD ’18), Georgetown University Graduate Student Government Vice President, said GradGov will present graduate students’ concerns next Thursday to the Master Planning Consortium, a joint advisory group made up of graduate students, undergraduates, faculty and neighbors.
“Getting to campus shouldn’t be such a hassle,” Kim said.
GUTS discontinued Saturday service to Rosslyn beginning Mar. 18 to allocate resources to the Dupont route, following advocacy from the Georgetown University Student Association for extended service times and an added stop at the Trader Joe’s grocery store on 25th Street.
GUSA Transportation Policy Team Chair Aviv Lis (COL ’19) said demand for increased access to grocery stores was a key reason for the change.
A previous Wisconsin route stopped near Safeway on Wisconsin Ave.
Vice President for Planning and Facilities Management Robin Morey said that the change to service schedules is justified by the route’s increased usage.
“The ridership has effectively doubled, thus optimizing operating resources and serving more members of our community,” Morey wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Graduate students who rely on the Rosslyn shuttle to get to main campus on weekends must now choose between engaging in longer, often more expensive commutes or refrain from weekend meetings and activities on campus.
For Isabella DeSpirito (GRD ’19), who lives in Fairfax, Va. and takes the Orange line from the Vienna station to Rosslyn, the lack of a shuttle adds an additional 30 minutes to her previously 90 minute commute.
DeSpirito said she tries to avoid leaving home on Saturdays to go to Georgetown, but would commute on Saturday if the Rosslyn shuttle service returned.
“I know there is a Zumba class that I have not been to because it is on Saturday at 10 a.m.,” DeSpirito said.
Graduate students — who make up  3,500 more students than the 7,000 undergraduate students at Georgetown — cannot live on campus. For many, Rosslyn and the greater Arlington area prove an attractive residential alternative, as the median rent for a medium-sized bedroom is almost $300 less per month than that in the Georgetown neighborhood, according to rental search platform Zumper.
The university has an agreement with Rosslyn-based Virginian Suites, an apartment tower, to offer a limited number of units to graduate students.
Sixty-nine percent of Georgetown commuters, including graduate students, commute to campus through other transit options other than single-occupancy cars, according to the 2017 Campus Plan at a Glance.
An informal poll conducted by GradGov representative Thazin Latt (GRD ’18) to gauge interest in the return of a Saturday service to Rosslyn found 25 of 26 graduate student respondents supported the reintroduction of the route.
“It would affect every grad student who lives on the other side of the bridge,” DeSpirito said of the idea.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 27, 2017 by Emma Kotfica Leave a Comment 
A new career center for graduate students separate from the Cawley Career Center is expected to launch in July 2018, the Office of the Provost announced Sept. 27.
The new center will focus on specific graduate career and professional advancement counseling.
The decision to create a new career center came after a review of Cawley’s effectiveness. The Office of the Provost used this review to assess downfalls of career services at Georgetown University, and ultimately decided that the new career center would benefit older students who seek career services.
Vice Provost for Education Randall Bass said the separation would allow Cawley to better focus on undergraduate services.
“Many suggestions came out of the review,” Bass wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Among them was the possibility that we might do more both to better integrate all campus career services and make Cawley primarily a premiere undergraduate career center, complemented by the schools and a new center of excellence centered in the Graduate School.”
Bass said the differences between undergraduate and graduate career services needed to be addressed. He said that he hopes this new career center will be able to cater to each group of students’ needs better.
“There are both strong connections between undergraduate and graduate career services (e.g. employer relations), but also some important differences,” Bass wrote in an email to The Hoya.
“Undergraduates need full formational and vocational development support, internship support and career planning. Whereas graduate students are really focused on professional advancement and placement,” Bass wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Rima Mandwee (GRD ’18), president of the Georgetown University Graduate Student Government, said GradGov had been receiving feedback that indicated dissatisfaction with current career service offerings.
“Most graduate students at Georgetown don’t come straight from undergrad. A lot of them work for a few years and then come back, or might be looking for a career change, so it’s very different needs for graduate students,” Mandwee said in an interview with The Hoya.
Mandwee said graduate student career needs were unique because many graduate students already have jobs.
“Most graduate students already work, because you can’t live on campus and D.C. is expensive and I need to be able to afford rent, so obviously I have to work,” Mandwee said. “A lot of graduate students came from work, and it’s really hard to work and then go back to school.”
Mandwee said the separation of career services would hopefully allow the respective career centers to better allocate their resources to become more effective.
“Undergraduates are the primary focus at Georgetown at large, and every of ce that gradu- ate students go to, whether it’s ca- reer services or whatever of ce it is, they don’t have capacity to take care of undergraduates and grad- uate students, and undergrads are prioritized,” Mandwee said.
Mandwee said she hopes the graduate career center will not just be an extension of Cawley, but instead a career center which caters to the speci c needs of graduate students.
“It will help tremendously if they are able to cater it to the graduate experience at George- town and kind of at large because if it’s a Cawley 2.0, it won’t be super useful,” Mandwee said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

