
October 19, 2017 by Jeff Cirillo 1 Comment 
Former President Bill Clinton (SFS ’68) is set to return to the Hilltop next month as the keynote speaker in a four-day symposium reflecting on the legacy of his presidency.
The symposium, organized by the university’s Institute of Politics and Public Service, marks the 25th anniversary of Clinton’s election in 1992. It is set to comprise a series of panel discussions on Clinton’s domestic policy, foreign policy and public service.
Prominent Clinton administration figures are scheduled to participate in the events, including Rahm Emanuel, Clinton’s former senior adviser for policy and strategy and the mayor of Chicago; John Podesta, former White House chief of staff and 2016 presidential campaign chairman to former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Bill Clinton’s wife; and former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, a professor of diplomacy in the School of Foreign Service.
Clinton is slated to conclude the symposium with an address in Gaston Hall on Nov. 6, to be cosponsored by the university’s Office of the President.
“There’s nothing like coming back to Georgetown,” Clinton wrote in a GU Politics news release. “I’ve often said that I don’t think I could have become President if I hadn’t studied there. I’m grateful for the opportunity to return and continue our discussion on what it means to live a life of public service — I believe it’s more important than ever.”
We are thrilled to announce “Clinton 25: @Georgetown Reflects on the Vision of @BillClinton“! Details: https://t.co/jUmp7154vM #Clinton25 pic.twitter.com/P33dIKStzK
— Georgetown Politics (@GUPolitics) October 19, 2017

Scheduled events also include an “election watch party” of clips from 1992 on Nov. 3 and a conversation among former Clinton campaign strategists including Paul Begala, who is an adjunct lecturer at the McCourt School of Public Policy. The conversation is scheduled to follow a screening of “The War Room,” a documentary about the 1992 campaign.
The keynote address is also the crowning installment in a four-speech series of “Clinton Lectures” delivered in Gaston Hall since 2013 by the former president about his career in public service. Themes of previous lectures include the importance of policymaking and inclusivity and the role of public service in improving people’s lives.
GU Politics Executive Director Mo Elleithee (SFS ’94), who was was a first-semester junior at Georgetown when Clinton was elected, said the election’s 25th anniversary is the “perfect opportunity” to harness Clinton’s legacy and “inspire the next generation of leaders to public service.”
“As a Georgetown undergrad, I witnessed first-hand the energy and excitement President Clinton’s candidacy brought to the Hilltop, and his vision inspired me to dedicate the next 20 years of my life to being a part of the political process,” Elleithee wrote in a GU Politics news release.

Camille Jenman C'95 says 
October 26, 2017 at 4:06 pm
Clinton’s presidential legacy: a lying, morally corrupt sexual predator.  The fact that he is still revered and paid millions of dollars for speeches is appalling.  Congressmen are routinely forced out of office for having affairs.  But Golden Boy Clinton can do whatever he wants and it is swept under the rug.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 19, 2017 by Quinn Coleman 5 Comments 
Complaints of rodents to Washington, D.C.’s 311 city services helpline saw a 65 percent surge during the 2016 fiscal year to 3,200 complaints filed by D.C. residents from 2,300 in 2015, as students report an increase in rodent sightings at Georgetown.
Despite improvements in pest control in the central D.C. area, the Georgetown neighborhood continues to face rodent issues.
Orkin, a national pest extermination company, said overall the District is improving at addressing rat infestations compared to other cities. D.C. now ranks fifth in most rat-infested cities out of 50 cities. In 2016, the District was listed as the third-worst city in the Unitd States for rat problems, behind Chicago and New York.
Vice President for Planning and Facilities Management Robin Morey said Georgetown has improved its response to rodents on campus, with fewer service calls for pest control than last year.
“While urban environments and older structures in particular will always be vulnerable to pests we also strive for continuous improvement in our pest control effort,” Morey wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We are in the process of issuing new contract requirements with specific metrics to continue to improve performance with our pest control partners.”
Will Carlson (MSB ’19) said he commonly sees rats scurrying across the front lawn in the evening, and other students often exchange stories of run-ins with the pesky creatures.
A video of a rat tumbling to the ground from a shelf at Wisemiller’s Grocery and Deli, a sandwich and convenience shop popular with students located at 1236 36th St. NW was posted to Snapchat on Oct. 13 and was quickly shared among students.
Chris Olarte, an employee at Wisey’s, said that the staff has not yet found the rat from the video, nor do they know how it entered the shop in the first place.
“We’re doing everything we can to locate it. We looked around the restaurant and found no holes,” Olarte said.
University dining facilities has reported issues with rats as well. Sabrina Sadeghian (COL ’20) said she saw a rat at the recently renovated O’Donovan Hall.
“All of a sudden, my friend started screaming because she saw a rat running on a windowsill two tables away from us,” Sadeghian said. “I thought it was fine, and then it jumped onto a table one table away from us. I made a mad dash out of Leo’s and never looked back.”
Sabrina Pourteymour (SFS ’20) said rats have also found their way in and around Georgetown student townhomes, campus dorms and apartments. Pourteymour, who lives in the university’s Village A apartment complex, said she does not go a single night without seeing a rat.
“They’re everywhere,” Pourteymour said “I was sitting outside my apartment on Friday night. In the space of eight minutes, I saw four rats running outside of the apartment, outside C Block, running towards [the Former Jesuit Residence]. Every time I’m outside at night, they’re everywhere.”
Hardin Council (COL ’20), who lives in LXR Hall, saw one inside of his room.
“I opened the door and turned the lights on, and there it was: a rat rummaging in the trash,” Council said. “Right when it saw me, it ran away, and then I was terrified for the next few weeks. Luckily, it hasn’t appeared since, but it still makes me nervous.”
The growing number of rats happens to coincide with a growing number of D.C. bar and restaurant openings, establishments that contribute to trash in the city. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that, in 2016, D.C. was home to 2,267 bars and restaurants — a 30 percent jump from 1,729 in 2006.
The District government has begun to place trash compactors in areas deemed “rat hot spots.” These trash compactors decrease the overflow and spillage of garbage onto the streets in hopes that rats will move away from the area.
The Humane Rescue Alliance, a pro-animal adoption group, has partnered with D.C.-area businesses, giving them feral cats at risk of being euthanized to act as pest control by hunting down the rat population on D.C. streets.
But District officials are still struggling to address the city’s widespread rat problem.
According to Gerard Brown, program manager of the Rodent and Vector Control Division of the District’s Department of Health, D.C.’s warm winter weather is the largest contributor to the overall growth in the rat population.
Harsher, colder winters freeze rats to death, whereas warm winters help foster rat population growth.
D.C.’s growing human population also contributes to the increase in the rodent population. The District’s population is at a four-decade high at 681,170 residents, with over 10,000 residents moving into the District in the last year, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.
With more residents come more food waste and trash, both of which feed the rat population when not properly managed.
D.C. exterminators have turned to asphyxiating rats with carbon dioxide by slipping dry ice into rat burrows to kill them while they sleep.
Pourteymour’s advice for students regarding rats is simple.
“You just have to watch where you’re walking,” Pourteymour said.
This post has been updated with comment from Vice President for Planning and Facilities Management Robin Morey.

Dick Pointer says 
October 19, 2017 at 1:23 pm
I bet it was hard to find students to interview for having rodents in their room.

jim shalvoy college '73 says 
October 19, 2017 at 8:28 pm
Two rat burgers please.  Hold the tails.

JJ McKibbin says 
October 20, 2017 at 2:01 pm
Gee, Washington DC has literally tens of thousands of free-roaming cats and Humane Rescue Alliance is re-dumping more and more of them throughout the city, yet there is still an enormous rat problem.  You don’t suppose Humane Rescue Alliance is lying to us about cats controlling rats, do you?  They claim we need the cats or we’ll have a huge rat problem.  Guess what?  Now we have a huge rat problem AND a huge cat problem.  If cats truly controlled rats, there wouldn’t be a rat within 50 miles of DC.  
Humane Rescue Alliance traps, neuters, and re-dumps cats into the neighborhoods and claims it will control rats and reduce the feral cat population.  It does neither.  Trap-neuter-return is an abysmal failure.  Instead we’re stuck with feral cats everywhere, pooping and peeing in yards and gardens, dead and mutilated songbirds, and so much toxoplasmosis contamination in everything that it is becoming difficult to avoid.  Not to mention the increased rabies risk with all these cats concentrated around the outdoor hoarders’ feeding areas where they eat side-by-side with raccoons and skunks.  There is nothing beneficial about TNR or about have free-roaming cats running all over.  Nothing.

Isaac Liu says 
October 21, 2017 at 6:16 pm
Wisemiller’s should adopt a cat or “mouser” immediately if it wishes to save its credibility with the student population!

Michael says 
December 27, 2018 at 1:42 am
Saw 3 out there tonight by the soccer pitch.  Going up the hill towards the residences you see their holes/homes.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 19, 2017 by Emma Kotfica Leave a Comment 
Dr. Charles B. Holmes will serve as co-director of Georgetown’s Center for Global Health and Quality, an internationally focused center for health care research, the Georgetown University Medical Center announced Oct. 3.
Holmes will serve alongside fellow faculty co-director Dr. Mark Dybul, whose appointment was announced in June.
Launched in June 2017, the GHQ researches ways to finance health care in low-resource settings and recommends ways for countries to expand their health care delivery systems.
The center is designed to tackle current and important issues in global health, according to Susan C. Kim, executive director of the GHQ.
“We are developing our strategy now, but broadly, we aim to work with a number of partners to support countries as they tackle major health challenges,” Kim wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We believe we can contribute to our Georgetown University mission of cura personalis – by taking care of global communities.”
Prior to joining Georgetown, Holmes served a four-year tenure as CEO of the Centre for Infectious Disease Research in Zambia, where his work resulted in improvements in the national responses to the HIV and tuberculosis epidemics in Zambia, as well as new analyses of maternal and newborn health, cholera control and noncommunicable diseases.
Holmes developed programs intended to combat the health system’s shortcomings and worked to expand health training.
Holmes also served as chief medical officer and deputy U.S. global AIDS coordinator for the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, an initiative launched in 2004 by the George W. Bush administration and continued under the Barack Obama and Donald Trump administrations, in the Department of State.
He was also the founding director of the Department of State’s office of research and science.
Kim said Holmes’ experience with infectious disease, especially HIV/AIDS, will be instrumental in the success of the GHQ.
“[Holmes] has led the transformation of large scale public health and research programs in the field, has an outstanding track record of scholarship and organizational leadership, and has made important and lasting contributions to policy development at the highest levels of the US government over the last two administrations,” Kim wrote.
Holmes said in an Oct. 3 news release he is excited about the opportunities that the position will provide to conduct research that can be used to improve global health standards.
“It’s a great honor to join Georgetown and to have the opportunity to build this center with Mark [Dybul],” Holmes said. “I look forward to advancing this vision, while continuing to advocate for new tools and sufficient resources to improve health for those most in need.”
Kim said she hopes that the GHQ will become an invaluable resource for current research on global health matters as the center begins to take shape.
“We are working diligently towards establishing a robust research portfolio on critical issues in global health, and being more fully engaged in our Georgetown University community,” Kim wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Dybul said in a Sept. 27 news release he looks forward to working with Holmes.
“Charles’ depth and breadth of experience and remarkable impact on the HIV epidemic response and global health more broadly makes him an unmatched partner for this work,” Dybul said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

