
December 6, 2017 by Chapel Puckett Leave a Comment 
A pilot program to subsidize off-campus mental health care has moved closer to implementation in the 2017-18 academic year after the Georgetown University Student Association presented Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson with a proposal Dec. 1.
University President John J. DeGioia committed to investing resources into making health care more affordable in a Nov. 20 meeting, GUSA President Kamar Mack (COL ’19) said. DeGioia’s support for the program includes encouragement for the formulation of a broader strategy for increasing access to mental health services.
The GUSA plan, presented to Olson by Mack, would support 40 students’ off-campus therapy, providing up to $850 per student, or $34,000 to the program, annually.
The proposal also calls for Georgetown to allocate financial resources to fund off-campus mental health services for students who have demonstrated financial need. All students who receive financial aid and are enrolled in university student health insurance would be eligible to apply for the program.
Both DeGioia and Olson have expressed their commitment to improving mental health care access, Mack said. However, both hope the pilot program will exist as a part of a broader strategy to serve a wide range of students and their mental health care needs, according to Mack.
The proposal comes after the GUSA mental health policy coalition, led by Kenna Chick (SFS ’20), launched a petition for improved mental health support Nov. 17 that garnered more than 1,000 student signatures.
While GUSA has not yet released details on the selection process for recipients of the stipend, the program is designed especially for students who are not members of the Georgetown Scholarship Program but would benefit from its services, according to the proposal. GSP funding covers off-campus mental health care for students in the program, but students who fail to qualify for GSP struggle to afford the expensive market rate of mental health care in Washington, D.C., Mack said.
The average cost of therapy in D.C. ranges from $150 to $225 per hour. Under Georgetown’s student health insurance plan, the average deductible fee for medical services is $250 and the average copay is $25.
“If you’re not in GSP, all of those payments go through your GU student health insurance,” Mack said. “A big thing is the deductibles. A lot of times you have to pay $250 out of pocket just to have your insurance kick in.”
Under this program, eligible students would be referred to off-campus health care by Counseling and Psychiatric Services. They would then go to the financial aid office to discuss affordable ways to access their care. Student health insurance currently covers some, but not all, of these students’ mental health care expenses — the deductibles, for example, must be paid before insurance is used. This stipend aims to reduce health care costs for students who cannot afford off-campus health care with their student health insurance package, according to Mack.
Members of the GUSA coalition drafted the proposal after meeting with the Student Health Advisory Board, which consists of 10 student representatives, as well as Dr. Vince WinklerPrins, assistant vice president of student health, and Phil Meilman, CAPS director.
CAPS currently operates on a short-term model that provides service for up to two semesters. After these two semesters, students are referred to off-campus resources for long-term psychiatric care, according to Rachel Pugh, the university’s senior director for strategic communications.
“Long term care is typically referred to community resources. Where finances are not an issue, such referrals work well,” Pugh wrote in an email to The Hoya.
However, many students struggle with financial barriers to access to such long-term care, Mack said. Mack added that GUSA’s proposed stipend program is the best way to promote access to both short- and long-term mental health care.
“There are a number of students who, once referred off campus from CAPS, cannot afford the market rate for mental health care. They are being left in the dark, and the university needs to address that problem,” Mack said.
GUSA’s proposal is not seeking to replace CAPS services, according to Chick.
“It’s not an attack on CAPS. If anything, it’s a supplement to CAPS. CAPS is doing the best that they can,” Chick said.
CAPS’ short-term model provides immediate services for students if they are going through a traumatic situation or crisis, an important characteristic of a college counseling center, Chick said. If CAPS aimed to treat students on a long-term basis, the wait to see a counselor would be extremely long.
Pugh said the short-term model is common on most university campuses, as they seek to avoid long wait times.
“Counseling directors are reporting three-to-four week waits and in some cases even two-to-three month waits despite ramping up staffing and finding new and creative ways to deliver services,” Pugh wrote. “Here at Georgetown, CAPS operates on a short term model and can provide a semester or two’s worth of services, consistent with what is typically done at other university counseling centers.”
GUSA is also set to be employing its own fundraising efforts in early January to show a commitment to this issue and garner attention from the university, so the program can earn proper allocation of resources.
The proposed pilot program will take some time to implement, Mack said.
“A big question is how are we going to serve students’ needs sooner than a couple months from now?”  Mack said.
Mack plans to provide immediate access to affordable care through philanthropy.
“In GUSA, we’re going to try our own internal funding routes and also continue to push on the university to do things in the short term,” Mack said.
 
Correction: An earlier version of this article stated that the university administration approved the plan. Administrators committed to allocating resources to make student health care more affordable, but did not approve any specific plan.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 6, 2017 by Jeff Cirillo and Chapel Puckett 2 Comments 
The problem of exclusivity of Georgetown clubs is the product of a competitive application process motivated by a quest for social capital, said Ricardo Mondolfi (SFS ’19), chair of the Student Activities Commission, at an open forum on club culture last Thursday.
The open forum was hosted by an informal group of student leaders working to address issues of club exclusivity on campus. The group, convened by Assistant Dean for Student Engagement Erika Cohen Derr last spring, is an early effort to develop an understanding of the university’s club-centered social scene and find solutions to resolve the impacts of club exclusivity.
Cohen Derr said she convened the unofficial and informal group in spring as “more of a focus group” to discuss matters related to club exclusivity.
It met at least twice this fall to organize last week’s forum and a closed summit of student leaders two weeks earlier, which sought to bring more perspectives into the effort. The group now plans to form focus groups to receive more feedback from first-year students.
The group includes Mondolfi, Ari Goldstein (COL ’18) and leaders from other university clubs including the Georgetown University Alumni Student Federal Credit Union, the Blue and Gray Society, Students of Georgetown, Inc., the Georgetown University Student Association, the Georgetown Program Board and the Lecture Fund.
Mondolfi said the campus social scene’s orientation around large clubs, some of which have low acceptance rates, creates a perception that clubs form a social hierarchy.
“There is a generalized perception that a few student organizations provide social capital, welfare and happiness and friendships and connections,” Mondolfi said.
This conflation of social capital and clubs is the root of the problematic campus culture, according to Goldstein and Mondolfi.
GUASFCU, Blue and Gray and The Corp form what Goldstein calls “the trifecta” — in his opinion, those seen, perhaps unfairly, as the large clubs most emblematic of the exclusivity problem in the eyes of the student body.
In fall 2016, GUASFCU accepted 7.6 percent of 290 applicants, while Blue and Gray, a group of student tour guides, accepted 10.2 percent of its 313 applicants. The Corp, which did not release its acceptance rates in 2016, had an acceptance rate of 18 percent in fall 2015.
All three clubs declined to release their acceptance rates this year in response to requests from The Hoya.
Goldstein, a member of Blue and Gray, said the three groups collectively decided not to release the rates during a meeting of the informal working group this fall. Goldstein said that the acceptance rates are “not helpful in this discourse,” because focusing on only three groups oversimplifies the problem of exclusivity.
Goldstein also said coverage of the three groups creates a perception of the clubs that “furthers the problem that it makes them seem even more appealing to people.”
The efforts by the working group have been disorganized at times this semester, according to Goldstein. Goldstein and Mondolfi are seeking to create an official university working group that would include students and potentially launch this spring to address the problem over several years.
“I would love to see a working group that is open membership but also is effective enough in such a way that has positions,” Goldstein said. “Conversations need to start on the student level, and follow-up needs to happen on the administrative level.”
Cohen Derr said she is not sure whether the issue of club culture merits an official university working group, but that she will “work with those interested in the conversation to give it the structure and level of formality it needs to work towards the overall goals.”
Clubs such as the Lecture Fund, Japan Network and the Black Student Alliance have adopted open-body rather than hierarchical structures to create a more inclusive environment. Lecture Fund Chair Aiden Johnson (COL ’19) said opening membership to any student has benefited the club.
“Not only is being more inclusive the right thing to do from a moral standpoint, but it also enables us to do our job more effectively as a group that tries to bring speakers that are relevant to our student body,” Johnson said.
However, even if more clubs switched to a more open model, Goldstein said the problem will persist because the underlying cultural issues would remain.
“Even though a lot of groups can accept more people, that will not solve the problem that freshmen at Georgetown are lonely and sad their freshman year because there is such a social hierarchy around clubs,” Goldstein said.
Goldstein said to combat this system of perceived social hierarchy, there needs to be new ways to interact socially beyond clubs, such as more frequent or more meaningful events with freshman floors, mandatory first-year seminars with the same small group of people every week of the first semester or open events in the first few weeks where people can meet.
“The goal [is] to create a system of social capital that is fundamentally inclusive and accessible,” Goldstein said.
Mondolfi said identifying the club culture as the problem was the easy part of the task, but determining the next steps proves more of a challenge.
“Once you understand that [Georgetown’s culture] is the problem you almost freeze. How do you change culture?” Mondolfi said.

John Higgins says 
December 6, 2017 at 12:00 pm
Why are the power clubs composed of University tour guides, cashiers, and bank tellers? 
Why does the gateway to social capital involve working for the University in low-level clerkships? Who wants to spend their college years like this? 
What a Loser Culture!
How about letting students form social connections organically, by meeting people in their classes and then sharing a pint at The Tombs? You know…being normal…
But we can’t have that, because it’s uncontrolled. The University must control the distribution of campus social capital by dividing the student body against itself, and separating every one into these dorky clubs. 
And it must elevate the clubs most directly under it’s control – the ones that actually employ students as tour guides, cashiers, and bank clerks – into a kind of “elite.” 
Georgetown is an institution for Jesuit education. It’s where teenagers go to take classes during the day. Let them form relationships and learn about life on their own, they don’t need all this extra nonsense.

Jack the Bullfrog says 
December 6, 2017 at 5:16 pm
To summarize: CSE invites five most exclusive clubs to talk about club exclusivity and doesn’t publicize initial organizing meetings, ensuring that only people who have succeeded in the toxic club culture get to dictate the conversation about it.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

