
September 14, 2017 by Jeff Cirillo 7 Comments 
Jeff Cirillo is a staff writer for The Hoya.
An email containing pornographic content was sent to the staff of Students of Georgetown, Inc. after the student-run company’s internal email system experienced a breach yesterday.
The email, reviewed by The Hoya, included seven links to internet pornography and an attached image of two men, one labeled with Georgetown University’s logo and one labeled with the logo of Aramark, the university’s dining contractor, performing a sexual act on a woman labeled “The Corp.” The subject line of the email reads in part “[Corpwide] we getting f—ed.”
The email was sent from an email account presumably named for former Corp CEO Taylor Tobin (COL ’17), [email protected]. Current Corp CEO Melina Hsiao (COL ’18) said the account was fake and never used by Tobin, and that The Corp’s information technology staff was working to confirm where the email originated.
The person responsible did not access sensitive information and did not delete or alter any Corp accounts or files. The Corp’s human resources department sent an email to Corp staff apologizing for the incident yesterday afternoon.
The graphic email follows a series of major dining renovations on campus, which saw dining contractor Aramark’s introduction of the Whisk bakery and coffee shop in O’Donovan Hall and a new location for The Corp’s Uncommon Grounds cafe on the second floor of the university bookstore in Leavey Center.
A former senior Corp employee, who declined to be named due to the graphic content mentioned in the article, said the new competition from Aramark for Corp coffee shops has been a topic of discussion among Corp staff.
“It’s absolutely something we’ve all been informed of and conversations with the staff have happened. We’re all very aware that UG has and will have competitors, but we really think it’s our strong community in UG that will keep people coming back,” the employee said. “We’re not too concerned.”
The incident comes during a year of changes for The Corp. The company had to purchase its own Wi-Fi network after the university’s Wi-Fi was deemed not secure for credit card transactions.
UG, its oldest cafe, is set to reopen this fall on the second floor of the university bookstore after 23 years in Sellinger Lounge. UG employees have raised concerns about how the new location, accessible from the Leavey Esplanade and the second floor of the bookstore, will affect the cafe’s customer traffic.
Hsiao said it “may have been beneficial” if the university had given more advanced notice of the planned changes to Sellinger Lounge last year, but The Corp is building “positive relationships” with university administration.
In a March interview, Hsiao said she was excited about the move, but also uncertain about how it will affect UG.
“It’s really exciting in some ways, and a little bit nerve-wracking; it’s going to be a major change to the flow of traffic in the Leavey Center, and that is likely going to be a major change to our business,” Hsiao said. “It is going to be interesting to see how that works out.”
Following yesterday’s incident, Hsiao said cybersecurity is not of particular concern for The Corp compared to other organizations.
“More important is the well-being and comfort of our employees, and it is regretful that a message containing such graphic content was circulated,” Hsiao said.
Editor’s note: The name of a source quoted in the article has been removed at the source’s request due to the graphic content discussed in the article.

Jack the Bullfrog says 
September 14, 2017 at 7:39 pm
Let’s not pretend this was some sort of external hack intended to shock the poor students with obscenity. 
The person used pornography to convey a political point about the relationship between the Corp and Aramark and the University. This political point is, realistically, only known by Corp members. Most likely this is a cultural issue. Someone with knowledge of users’ login info (which, knowing the level of the security at Students of Georgetown, could be anyone) tapped into Tobin’s account to send this message anonymously as a “joke.” Much like how Ted Cruz claimed his twitter like was the result of a “hack” the Corp will do the same here – rely on our ignorance of technology to hide their deeper shortcomings.

Bull the Jackfrog says 
September 14, 2017 at 10:52 pm
An employee being able to do something beyond the requirements of their job (such as send spam to an entire organization) is definitely still a “hack.” What the email author did is only marginally less involved than what Snowden or any other high profile insider threat has done and is more an information security concern than a cultural issue IMO. Very hard to defend against insiders at any company but the Corp especially so since they’re often underpaid, discontented, crude, and the last holdouts in a quickly bankrupting organization.

Jack the Bullfrog says 
September 15, 2017 at 9:24 am
You’re making several clever assumptions.
The email was not a spam message. It conveyed a potent political point relatable to the sentiments of Corp employees. It was political speech distilled through an obscene venue.
We all know Students of Georgetown has information security problems. Nobody is even commenting how absurd it is that Tobin’s account can still distribute messages. That’s the surface level issue.
The raw problem is that a Corpie feels comfortable distributing a pornographic message conveying their concern throughout the community. It’s indicative of the current state of the Corp culture. The Corp distributes bean water and rabbit food. It is a job. Somehow the Corp members have come to believe this guarantees them not only employment but an active social scene. Their employment is dependent not on their ability to provide bean water and rabbit food but on their ability to contribute to the unnecessary social element that has formed around the “storefronts.” The university needs to compel the Corp to function like any work-study staffed department.

Dick Pointer says 
September 15, 2017 at 10:26 am
Hey it was totally the Corp’s decision to move UG to the center of that soul-sucking bookstore, where no one can get to it… I feel little empathy because this is how capitalism works, you make bad decisions, you get punished.

Budd says 
September 16, 2017 at 9:59 am
No, it was the university administration running roughshod over students. “We’re clearing out Sellinger to make it entirely study space, pick a place to move to” is not really giving the Corp a choice.

Corp Non-Sympathizer says 
September 19, 2017 at 11:56 pm
Hey, at least they didn’t get slammed with Sodexo as the meal plan provider, they were going to stop doing flex at all Corp locations which would be even worse than a little competition over coffee/pastries.

Soothslayerrrr says 
September 28, 2017 at 9:13 pm
this is the funniest shit that’s happened on campus since “we need more interracial loving”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 14, 2017 by Madeline Charbonneau Leave a Comment 
Madeline Charbonneau is a staff writer for The Hoya.
The university’s Sexual Assault and Misconduct Task Force advocated for expanded mandatory bystander education and training for all undergraduate and graduate students and finalized the 11 recommendations it made last April to improve sexual misconduct prevention and survivor support, Tuesday.
The task force’s discussion at a forum in the Healey Family Social Room came in the wake of new sexual assault guidelines issued by the Department of Education last Thursday, which include the rollback of former Barack Obama’s proactive sexual assault guidelines for universities.
The final report builds off the 11 conclusions announced in April, including mandatory sexual misconduct and relationship education courses for first-year students, a possible mandatory first-year seminar and urge new online intensive bystander intervention training for both undergraduate and graduate students, according to Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson.
The report also indicated engagement with student group leadership to promote open club culture, sexual assault prevention training for all professional faculty and staff, public awareness campaigns and additional staffing of Health Education Services.
According to the task force, exclusive club culture at Georgetown is one of the causes of sexual misconduct on campus. The finding from five focus group surveys conducted within the past year point to “partying” culture and alcohol consumption that facilitates sexual assault.
The university will continue to research possible connections between campus club culture and power differentials and sexual misconduct, Laura Cutway, the university’s full-time Title IX Coordinator, said.
Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olsen said first-year students will be the first class to go through mandatory “Bringing in the Bystander” training.
“The new intensive ‘Bringing in the Bystander’ program is the heart of what’s new, and all first-year students are going through that this fall semester,” Olson said.
For faculty and staff, the training programs are targeted toward reporting and responding to students when they reach out for help, Vice President for Institutional Diversity and Equity Rosemary Kilkenny (LAW ’87) said.
“It is very important for the faculty and staff to be well-versed and be well-trained in what resources and what their reporting obligations are in the event that a student decides to take them into their confidence,” Kilkenny said. “We are going to have a very focused attention on their reporting obligations.”
Following Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos’ announcement last week of her intention to roll back Obama-era sexual assault policies for univerisities, Kilkenny reaffirmed the university’s intentions to continue its commitment to the safety of its students.
“Regardless of what the Department of Education does, we want to take the opportunity tonight to let you all know that the university is very committed to eradicating sexual misconduct, sexual assault and sexual harassment,” Kilkenny said.
Kilkenny said the university will be conducting further research using focus groups and periodical climate surveys to research the causes of sexual misconduct on campus.
“The results of the climate survey clearly show that Georgetown University has a very high incidence of sexual assault and sexual misconduct,” Kilkenny said. “As a result of that we were really curious to find out what it is about our culture that has resulted in this incidence being as high as it is.”
Established by University President John J. DeGioia last spring, the task force advised the administration to coordinate with the Georgetown University Police Department and improve the relationship between mandatory reporters and students through cultural awareness training and privacy guarantees.
The establishment of the task force came on the heels of the results of the 2016 sexual assault climate survey, which indicated that nearly one in three females and one in 10 males at Georgetown have experienced some sort of non-consensual sexual contact.
Since June 2016, the task force, led by Kilkenny and Olson and students who served on the university’s sexual assault working group , has been gathering information from focus groups and compiling recommendations on how the university should proceed.
GUPD officers should also receive additional training, Cutway said. Sexual Assault Response Team officers will receive more intensive training, while all other officers will receive a baseline training in handling instances of sexual violence.
“We’re looking at deeper training for [SART] officers. They already go through a 40-hour training, but we’re looking at increasing their trainings on specific topics, say vulnerable populations and stalking and relationship violence,” Cutway said. “The other piece of the training for GUPD is training all officers, not just the SART officers, so that all officers have a minimum of eight hours of training.”
The Office of Student Conduct will also be making changes to make the misconduct reporting process more transparent and to strengthen accountability, Olson said.
“Two of the important ideas that were generated by students and through conversation were to increase transparency of student conduct processes through an online tracking capability that we’re developing in our new system now,” Olson said. “And the second piece around student conduct was around accountability for how cases are handled, especially these very important cases around sexual misconduct.”
According to Olson, the Disciplinary Review Committee operating under the Office of Student Conduct, which had previously looked at student conduct policies, will take on an expanded role to evaluate how misconduct cases are handled beyond just policy issues.
The university will also be prioritizing the expansion of Health Education Services, which supports victims of sexual misconduct in dealing with the emotional stresses and reporting process following an incident. Olson said one full-time position will be added to the department.
“The one department that is at the center of a lot of our efforts is Health Education Services and one of the things that was an important priority through this planning process was to strengthen the professional staffing in Health Education in order to do program work, educational work, outreach work and to provide direct clinical services and support for students,” Olson said.
Other recommendations from the task force involve building academic specialization on campus to research sexual misconduct both on Georgetown’s campus and nationwide, adding funding for public awareness campaigns, and establishing a Coordinated Community Response Team to take over the work of the task force.
“We want to be very aggressive in providing resources, especially for survivors of sexual assault and sexual misconduct,” Kilkenny said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 14, 2017 by Isabelle Groenewegen 1 Comment 
Isabelle Groenewegen is a staff writer for The Hoya.
Three weeks after the start of the fall semester, the new Uncommon Grounds coffee shop has yet to reopen in its new Leavey Center location.
Originally scheduled for Wednesday, the reopening of the Students of Georgetown, Inc. cafe is on hold due to delayed health inspections, but tentatively planned for next week, according to UG General Manager Will Elia.
“All new restaurants require approval from the Department of Health prior to opening. The DOH has a 72-hour window to complete their inspection. While we are confident that UG will pass with flying colors, we are unsure when exactly the DOH will arrive. However, we’re extremely hopeful that we’ll be open and serving great coffee by next week,” Elia said.
The new UG is opening on the second floor of the Barnes & Noble university bookstore, after 23 years in the original location, Sellinger Lounge. When UG opens, it will be the first student-run coffee shop located in a Barnes & Noble bookstore.
Elia said the new location, accessible from the Leavey Esplanade, will be a comfortable space for student life.
“We now have a new, spacious setting where we can showcase Georgetown talent through our Uncommon Sounds open mic nights and other art events,” he said. “Having a coffee shop on the esplanade is also a great convenience for medical students, students coming from Yates and people who want to spend some time relaxing outside.”
However, some UG employees expressed concern that the new location may be harder to reach. UG employee Jared Lim (SFS ’19) said the previous location was convenient and centrally located.
“Our huge value last year was our location and the ambience we had, it kind of felt like we were the center of arts — at least on this part of campus,” Lim said. “We’re going to have to put a lot of work into marketing and making sure people make the trek upstairs to get coffee.”
UG employee Louis Mulamula (MSB ’19) said the shop will have to draw students out of their old routines to go up to the esplanade, but the new location offers exciting new possibilities.
“I think it is going to be a great opportunity to expand. We need to try and change people’s habits because we have a great view of the esplanade and we have to take advantage of that,” Mulamula said.
The Corp is banking on the new UG’s success, as the company is now facing the cost of implementing its new Wi-Fi network. All campus organizations that accept credit card payment were forced off the university’s Wi-Fi network last spring due to insufficient security for banking transactions.
Elia said he is confident students will not be disappointed with the new UG.
“People will see that everything they loved about UG is still present in the new space — great music, quality drinks and friendly service. That, along with a few new equipment upgrades, will make for a seamless transition for our customers,” Elia said.
[…] the second floor of the university bookstore after 23 years in Sellinger Lounge. UG employees have raised concerns about how the new location, accessible from the Leavey Esplanade and the second floor of the […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 14, 2017 by Alex Mooney Leave a Comment 
Alex Mooney is a staff writer for The Hoya.
A new art installation was unveiled Wednesday evening at the Georgetown Lombardi Cancer Center. The installation, entitled “Freize,” is part of the center’s goal to display original artwork for its beneficial and healing effects on patients.
Consisting of 11 squares of color framed in white, the monotypes, or blocks of solid color, were created by Sam Gilliam, an artist who has had work displayed in venues including the National Gallery of Art, the Museum of Modern Art and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York. He is described by the Lombardi Center as a “pioneer of both Color Field and abstract painting.”
“Frieze invites viewers to experience the Lombardi atrium as both a place of contemplation and a hive of activity,” the center wrote in a press release announcing the event. “While each monotype celebrates the beauty and power of color, together they create a backdrop for the ever-changing and fast-paced world of healthcare.”
Reaffirming the importance of the center’s goals, Morgan Kulesza, a program coordinator for Georgetown’s Lombardi Arts and Humanities program, said when patients visit the center they’re “usually very anxious,” and the “art is just a way to breathe,” helping patients cope with the types of stressful situations that usually occur in the center.
“The Arts and Humanities Program studies the use of arts to improve the patient experience including symptom management, coping skills, and stress reduction,” the center wrote in a statement displayed at the event.
A site-specific installation, the ‘Freize’ exhibit will add the desired effect to the center’s space, Kulesza said.
“The goal is to eliminate a very sad experience where there’s not a lot of color,” Kulesza said. “This piece is really great because his [Gilliam’s] artwork supports the environment here and helps make it lighter and brighter and happier.”
Other artwork appears in the Lombardi Center as well, including pieces like the sculpture “Resurrection,” which was created by a 14-year-old patient of the center.
“It’s important to let the people who spend a lot of time in this hospital convey their feelings,” Kulesza said.
The blending of art with care at the Lombardi Center is key to its goals of uplifting patients’ spirits during stressful and difficult times. In addition to commissioning art for the center, Lombardi’s Arts and Humanities Program cooperates with professional artists-in-residence to produce events like The Poetry Café, where patients and artists share poems and songs, and Lombardi Voices, a magazine of work from members of the Lombardi Community.
“The center wants not only to support people in this environment, but to help those people express themselves,” Kulesza said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

