
November 14, 2017 by Deepika Jonnalagadda 1 Comment 
The male suspect accused of kidnapping a Georgetown student last January pled guilty to assault with intent to commit robbery Nov. 2, as part of a plea agreement with prosecutors who agreed to drop federal kidnapping charges.
London-born Paolo Aldorasi was arrested in Seattle on Feb. 24 and later admitted to assaulting and attempting to rob a Georgetown student.
U.S. District Judge Richard Leon has scheduled Aldorasi’s sentencing hearing for Jan. 30, 2018.
Aldorasi drove up to an unidentified Georgetown male student walking on the 3400 block of O Street NW and asked him for directions to Dulles International Airport.
According to a Metropolitan Police Department news release Nov. 2, the student spoke little English and responded saying he did not know the location. Aldorasi then asked the student for money and forced him into his light gray sport utility vehicle.
Aldorasi drove the student to various nearby locations, making four unsuccessful attempts to withdraw money from ATMs and two unsuccessful purchases at retail stores using the student’s debit card, according to the news release. Following the last failed attempt in a retail store on the 4500 block of Wisconsin Avenue NW, the student was released unharmed, about two hours after his initial capture, three blocks from campus near Saxbys coffee shop in Georgetown.
Later that afternoon, the victim reported the incident to MPD, which soon released video footage of the crime to the public in an effort to apprehend the suspect.
Though the kidnapping occurred three blocks from the front gates of campus, Georgetown University Police Department was not informed by MPD as the crime did not occur on campus. GUPD did not learn of the kidnapping until the following morning after hearing about the incident from a university staff member.
A public safety alert identifying the victim as a university student was sent out to the Georgetown community later that day.
Aldorasi was identified through surveillance video documenting the kidnapping and his rented vehicle. According to The Washington Post, federal authorities tracked Aldorasi, in part through his social media postings, to the Seattle suburb of SeaTac, where he was arrested Feb. 24 by the FBI’s Seattle field office and charged with one count of kidnapping. He has been held in custody since the arrest and was granted representation by an attorney with the Office of the Federal Public Defender.
The D.C. District Attorney’s office declined to comment as the trial is still pending.
Aldorasi submitted his guilty plea during a hearing at the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. Under the federal kidnapping charge, a felony offense, Aldorasi would have faced a sentence of 20 years to life in prison. With the lesser charges, he faces between two to 15 years of incarceration.

Fact-checker says 
November 14, 2017 at 9:38 pm
There is no such entity as the D.C. District Attorney’s Office. It is the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 14, 2017 by Mariel Mendez Leave a Comment 
Conversations on nationality and culture must avoid stereotypes and generalizations, argued the panelists at an event titled “Are we the ‘Other’ in Modern America?” led by Lannan Center for Poetics and Social Practice Chair Aminatta Forna on Nov. 1.
The Lannan Center is dedicated to understanding the role of poetry in contemporary society and politics.
Hosted by the International Students Association, and featuring student representatives from the Asian American Student Association, the South Asian Society, the African Society of Georgetown, the Bull Session, a national organization focused on fostering dialogue surrounding identity, and ISA, the event discussed the “othering,” or exclusion, of minorities after President Donald Trump’s election a year ago.
Forna, who was born to a Sierra Leonean father and a Scottish mother, reflected on the impact of globalization on her identity and questioned the animosity against people from multicultural and multiethnic backgrounds.
“My father went to Scotland to Aberdeen University, and he met my mother. They met as a direct result of Britain’s global ambitions,” Forna said. “I grew up in both countries. I have an allegiance to both countries. And I’m afraid that complexity is something, in my view, both journalists and policymakers are going to have to deal with.”
Forna questioned the difficulty some people feel when discussing or acknowledging the role of cultural and national identity in life.
“What is it about the idea of somebody being two things that is so difficult? What is it so difficult about that duality that makes people wish to dismiss a whole part of your culture, your ethnicity, your culture, and your heritage?” Forna said.
Students on the panel shared their own experiences as people from diverse backgrounds experiencing the national political atmosphere in their own lives.
Natascha Tahabsem (SFS ’19), who was born in Jordan to Circassian and Syrian parents, said people should be more empathetic and understanding before expressing negative opinions about an entire group of people, especially on social media like Twitter, where the hashtag “#BanMuslims” trended in the aftermath of a terrorist attack in New York City on Oct. 31.
“Before people go on Twitter and decide to contribute to that hashtag, I think they should just think about it a bit more and think about what people are going through and what the reasons are that they’re trying to get into this country and be part of this country,” Tahabsem said.
During his campaign, Trump advocated for an overhaul of the U.S. immigration system, calling for more stringent controls, including a ban, on Muslim people entering the United States, as well as for the construction of a wall on the southern border with Mexico.
Following his election, Trump issued an executive order restricting travel from Middle Eastern and African countries with sizeable Muslim populations that has since been challenged in different courts. On Oct. 17, the ban was partially blocked by a federal district judge in Hawaii.
Trump’s administration also plans to rescind the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which protected nearly 800,000 recipients from deportation and allowed them to access employment and education opportunities, by March 2017.
Tahabsem said Georgetown students have been affected by these actions.
“I did see a change in the way my Muslim friends started reacting to society or Georgetown in general, the Georgetown community,” Tahabsem said. “There was a lot of fear that I did not see in them before.”
Regina Titi-Ofei (NHS ’19), an international student who serves as vice president of the African Society of Georgetown, refuted the stereotype of international students coming strictly from wealthy backgrounds.
“There’s an idea that the fact that you’re not American there’s no opportunity for you to come here for free or to come here on a subsidized program. It’s a very vast generalization,” Titi-Ofei said. “It’s not possible for me and my sister to come to college here and both pay $73,000 a year.”
With the university’s resources for providing financial aid being “extremely limited,” according to the Office of Student Financial Services, many international students largely depend on family contributions, private loans, scholarships or financial assistance from their governments to cover tuition.
“I urge everybody here to take time to think about the fact that people’s backgrounds vary and people are here under different circumstances before they judge or make such generalizations,” Titi-Ofei said.
The panelists also spoke on the challenges they faced as non-American nationals or first-generation Americans.
Tahabsem said that starting the Bull Session, an organization for discussion of complex issues among international students, helped her feel like a part of the Georgetown community.
“I did feel excluded most of the time, and as a response I started the Bull Session, which is an international discussion society in which we need to talk about controversial topics,” Tahabsem said.
Jacki Liu (MSB ’19), AASA treasurer, highlighted student club efforts to foster a positive environment for different groups on campus, including the Asian-American community.
“I’ve been really, really involved in the Asian American Student Association as a way to promote Asian-American identity, and then I think we’re doing an amazing job,” Liu said.  “I’m really optimistic about it.”
Titi-Ofei called on people to consider different narratives and to avoid making sweeping generalizations about others.
“It’s easy for people to categorize another just because it’s convenient. But we need to think more deeply about it,” Titi-Ofei said. “We need to think about how we respect people’s upbringings, respect people’s backgrounds and people’s beliefs.”
Special to The Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

