
October 3, 2017 by Anabel Getz Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association’s Safety and Sexual Assault policy team is re-examining ways to improve the SafeRides late-night security escort service for students.
In a joint effort with Georgetown University Police Department Chief Jay Gruber, the Safety and Sexual Assault policy team hopes to improve the SafeRides service after complaints of prolonged wait times and to launch a service to track SafeRides vans similar to that of the ride-sharing app Uber.
So far, the team has pushed for an additional SafeRides van driven by a student guard and a new on-campus student guard escort service, through which student guards can walk or drive students on golf carts around campus.
Gruber said these changes can be seen on the campus-wide LiveSafe app.
“You would just use the LiveSafe app, and if you wanted to go from one point on campus to another — let’s say you want to go from [Lauinger Library] up to Darnall [Hall] — you just put those two locations in,” Gruber said. “The dispatch would see it’s an on-campus escort, and they would dispatch the student guard safety escort as opposed to a SafeRide van.”
As of now, SafeRides passengers wait on the sidewalk for their rides without any indication of when their driver will arrive.
GUSA Deputy Chief of Staff Nina Young (SFS ’19) said this system puts the user in an unsafe position as they are left alone, usually late at night, on the street.
Young plans to launch an initiative that would turn SafeRides into a free version of Uber via an update to the campus-wide LiveSafe App.
“This has to do with accessibility and affordability on campus,” she said. “SafeRides not only keeps students safer, but also gives students an alternative to using Uber, which plays into affordability. As far as accessibility goes, it gives students a much clearer way to contact SafeRides.”
Young said it is not unusual to wait up to 40 minutes for a SafeRides driver. Young said she once waited outside for over a half-hour in the rain for a SafeRides van due to lack of communication between her and her driver.
Emily Quatroche (COL ’19), who is a member of the SASS policy team pushing the initiative, said locating the driver is key to making students feel less worried at night.
“It’s so that you know where the SafeRide is, and the SafeRide knows where you are, so that makes you feel safer,” she said. “This way, safety can be less of a concern when students go out on the weekends.”
SafeRides are in much higher demand on weekends, which creates a delay for students, Gruber said.
“SafeRides is a very popular service, and people tend to use it a lot, especially on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights, or when there’s inclement weather. So sometimes there is a bit of a wait time and a backlog, so what is important to me is that students not wait outside when they’re waiting for their SafeRide van or vehicle,” he said.
The next phase for improving SafeRides is acquiring funding. Gruber said while GUPD could cover initial costs, a long-term funding plan is needed.
“I would find funding within the police department budget for the initial equipment cost,” Gruber said. “But then the monthly cost to keep the service on would need additional funding from outside the police department.”
Young believes student support will enable GUSA to gain the rest of the funding from the university’s administration.
“I think the best thing for this initiative would be to get student support in the potentiality of it. What we need is some sort of like support base to get the university to recognize it,” she said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 3, 2017 by Tait Ryssdal Leave a Comment 
The French and American relationship will survive clashing policy priorities during President Donald Trump’s term, argued former U.S. Ambassador to France Jane D. Hartley during a lecture Thursday.
A part of the Institute for the Study of Diplomacy’s Oscar Iden Annual Lecture on American Foreign Policy, Hartley’s lecture described her diplomatic career and experience during her tour in France from 2014 to 2017.
Prior to joining the foreign service as a political appointee, Hartley worked as an associate assistant in the Office of Public Liaison in President Jimmy Carter’s administration and served as CEO of G7 Group and the Observatory Group, two leading economic consulting firms.
Hartley said Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron’s unprecedented elections have tested the historic relationship between both nations.
“We have seen current differences manifested in the Trump administration’s policy choices, and I don’t agree with the administration’s positions on trade, immigration or refugees. France doesn’t agree, nor does most of Europe,” Hartley said.
However, the core of Franco-American relations will not be disturbed, according to Hartley.
“I do believe the fundamentals of our alliance remain strong.  That doesn’t mean, though, that President Macron won’t state his opposition to U.S. positions on Iran, North Korea, climate, among others,” she said.
Joel Hellman, dean of the School of Foreign Service, echoed Hartley’s remarks in his introduction, highlighting the history and principles the United States and France share.
“France is why we, as a country, are here. The philosophic roots of our revolutionary republic lie in France. A common set of values, principles, aspirations and ambitions are what bring our countries together,” Hellman said.
Hartley said she expects Macron to seek a bigger role in European politics beside German Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose influence took a hit following last week’s parliamentary election.
Merkel won a fourth term as head of Germany’s parliament Sept. 24, but her party coalition performed worse than expected, leading to the most fragmented legislature elected in Germany since World War II, according to The Economist.
“Macron wants to be the leader of Europe with Merkel, with whom he has a very good relationship,” she said.
The election saw the dissolution of the Christian Democrats/Christian Social Union and Social Democrats’ “grand coalition” and the arrival of the far-right Alternative for Germany party, which is now the third-largest parliamentary faction, entering the body with 94 seats.
Hartley also expressed concern over the Trump administration’s budget cuts to the Department of State and slow attempts to appoint officials, which she said is vital to American interests abroad.
“I am also deeply concerned at the administration’s willful neglect of the State Department, leaving huge numbers of senior positions unfilled, with plummeting morale and an exodus of very, very talented civil servants,” she said. “And that is undermining our nation’s ability to lead in Europe and around the world.”
Acts of terror marked Hartley’s term, including both the Nov. 13, 2015 attack in Paris by the Islamic State group and the Charlie Hebdo shooting Jan. 7, 2015. Combined, these attacks left over 140 people dead.
Hartley said these acts of terror tested not just French nationals but everyone around the world.
“I served as ambassador for 28 months and those 28 months coincided with a terrible surge of attacks in France and around the world that shook our nations and tested our diverse, multicultural societies,” she said.
Hartley said that the November attack reminded her of the shock Americans felt after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in 2001.
“Whereas Charlie Hebdo and the kosher supermarket were targeted attacks, November 13 was more like 9/11 — an attack against all of us, and really against our way of life. It struck very close to home,” she said.
Hartley said the unity exhibited by the French public following the attacks is how all people should confront all acts of terrorism.
“The question we face is not only how do we stay safe, but in the face of this terror, how do we stay strong, free and united as a diverse, multicultural society?” she said. “I believe that the unity and resolve that we witnessed during my time as ambassador can be somewhat of a guide.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

