
October 18, 2017 by Sarah Mendelsohn 1 Comment 
University President John J. DeGioia and the leaders of three other Washington, D.C.-area colleges and universities called on Congress to pass the Dream Act of 2017, a bill that would protect undocumented students from deportation and provide a path to citizenship, in a Monday panel.
DeGioia spoke alongside George Mason University President Ángel Cabrera, Montgomery College President DeRionne Pollard, and Northern Virginia Community College President Scott Ralls. The presidents said it was imperative to protect their institutions’ undocumented students with a permanent legislative replacement for the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which protects about 800,000 undocumented children brought to the country by their parents from deportation, before its protections are eliminated in March.
One such legislative measure, the Dream Act of 2017, is currently being considered by the Senate Judiciary Committee. The bill would grant permanent resident status to current DACA recipients and to immigrants who were brought to the United States as minors, have no serious criminal record, have a high school diploma or are currently enrolled in school and have lived in the country continuously for at least four years prior to the bill being passed. Originally introduced by Democratic Senator Dick Durbin (SFS ’66, LAW ’69) of Illinois and Senator Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), the bill now also has the support of Republican Senator Lisa Murkowski (COL ’80) of Alaska.
DeGioia said the goal of the presidents’ effort is to “encourage Congress to pass bipartisan legislation as soon as possible that includes all of the protections provided under DACA.” He said it is important that the legislative solution allows young people without documentation “a path to citizenship so that they may continue to live, work and serve without fear or threat of deportation.”
In a joint op-ed published in The Hill on Monday, the four presidents called on Congress to pass the Dream Act, saying their undocumented students “have earned their places on our campuses.”
“They are members of our communities.  They have done all the things we expect of our young people, and for their efforts so many have been able to earn places on our college campuses,” the presidents wrote. “They want — and deserve — the chance to continue learning and living in America without the constant fear of deportation.”
The Trump administration announced Sept. 5 it would rescind DACA with a six-month delay, allowing Congress to enact a permanent replacement. If DACA were terminated without a legislative replacement, students protected under the program would face a more immediate threat of deportation to their countries of birth. The policy currently shields its beneficiaries from such a threat and allows them to obtain work permits and driver’s licenses.
The event, introduced with remarks by DACA recipient Luis Gonzalez (COL ’19) and concluded with an address by Georgetown University Student Association President Kamar Mack (COL ’19), included a video of how DACA has improved the lives of undocumented students.
It was hosted as part of “Higher Education Week,” a weeklong national campaign led by the American Council on Education to promote support for undocumented students at colleges and universities. DeGioia chaired the ACE from March 2016 until March 2017.
Monday’s panel and op-ed mark the latest acceleration in an ongoing campaign by Georgetown to support a permanent legislative solution to DACA.
After the Trump administration announced it would rescind DACA last month, DeGioia sent letters lobbying for a legislative replacement to members of Congress. He called the Trump administration’s decision to rescind the program “unconscionable” in a Sept. 5 statement and reiterated his support for “Dreamers.”
The Georgetown Office of Federal Relations partnered with GUSA and the student advocacy group UndocuHoyas earlier this semester on the “Friends of Dreamers” campaign, through which Georgetown students, parents, alumni and faculty have sent over 1,000 letters to congressional representatives in support of permanent legislation to protect the about 800,000 individuals who are now protected by the program.
The university promoted part-time coordinator for undocumented students Arelis Palacios to full-time associate director for undocumented student services in August. The university has also created a website that outlines the resources available to “Dreamers” and partnered with Catholic Charities to provide free and anonymous legal guidance.
Members of the broader university community have also mobilized in support of Georgetown’s undocumented students. Both La Casa Latina and the Black House declared themselves safe and supportive spaces for students without documentation, and the Graduate Student Government affirmed its support of DACA recipients by endorsing a campaign to publish a letter of its own Monday.
“On each of the occasions that I’ve had the privilege to meet with our undocumented students here at Georgetown, I’ve sought to reassure and remind them of two things,” DeGioia said. “The first, that each one of them belongs here. Their membership in our community is not only welcome, but vital. Second, that they are part of a community that is committed to ensuring they can succeed in an environment that is free from constraint or fear.”
Cabrera said colleges and universities must provide robust institutional support for students threatened by the possible termination of the program.
“We need to try our best to provide whatever guidance we can,” Cabrera said. “We need to continue to support, to provide love, advice and funds.”
It is essential for educational institutions to defend students without documentation and their place within their communities, Pollard said.
“If I don’t speak and lift up and create a space for their truth and their lived experiences, then I’m not doing my job as a college president,” Pollard said.
Gonzalez said during the panel DACA gave him a sense of security in his future he had not felt before.
“When I secured my DACA status, it allowed me to make the decision to come to Georgetown. DACA gave me the confidence and security I had not had before. I lived in fear and in the shadows,” Gonzalez said. “Thanks to the protections of DACA, I have been able to do things that I otherwise wouldn’t be able to do, like get on plane or work on campus in the Division of Student Affairs.”
Pollard said college and university presidents now had the opportunity and the responsibility to help people like Gonzalez never have to fear again.
“I think this is quite possibly one of the social justice issues of our time,” Pollard said. “We yet again find ourselves in the position of trying to talk about issues that are complex and that demand courage and demand vulnerability.”
[…] administrators, including University President John J. DeGioia, have lobbied extensively over the last three months for a legislative replacement to maintain protections for DACA […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 18, 2017 by Sheel Patel Leave a Comment 
President Donald J. Trump has missed multiple opportunities to overcome division and facilitate bipartisan cooperation, former Congressmen David Jolly (R-Fla.) and Patrick Murphy (D-Fla.) said in an event hosted by the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service on Monday.
Murphy, a current GU Politics fellow who served Florida’s 18th congressional district, a district encompassing part of Palm Beach, for two terms from 2012 to 2016, said Trump lost the opportunity to work with Democrats by starting his term with initiatives they opposed, including rescinding the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals immigration policy and attempting to repeal the Affordable Care Act, rather than bipartisan issues like infrastructure.
“Every Democrat has been talking about tax reform and infrastructure spending for the last years and decades,” Murphy said. “But because he started with DACA and healthcare, there might not be a single Democrat who can actually work with President Trump without facing the consequence of being labeled as a sellout.”
Jolly, who served Florida’s 13th congressional district, a coastal district adjacent to Tampa Bay, for one term from 2014 to 2016, said Trump has exacerbated divisions with frequent inflammatory rhetoric and his regular Twitter use.
“Instead of being a deal-maker, he has doubled down on this toxic rhetoric and he’s isolated people from ever working with him. Imagine if, in the last eight months, he kept his mouth shut and his fingers off Twitter. He continues to create chaos that sows the seeds of division even further,” Jolly said.
Murphy and Jolly said the root causes of today’s political gridlock include the primary election system, which forces candidates to take extreme ideological positions. Jolly said primary elections, wherein the voters are usually registered members of the candidate’s party, force candidates to appeal to their party’s more extreme elements rather than moderates.
They also blamed gridlock on gerrymandering, the process of drawing congressional districts for political advantage that often creates districts with large partisan majorities, and the constant demands of campaign fundraising, which require members to please wealthy, hardline donors with partisan promises.
Once candidates make it to Congress, Jolly said, campaign contributions from powerful lobbying groups, organizations or wealthy individuals pressure policy makers to take partisan stances.
“The reality is, all you have to do is follow along your party’s ideology, never compromise and you’ll be rewarded with re-election. But who loses? The voters who are asking, ‘Why can’t we understand all this discord and dysfunction?’” Jolly said.
Jolly also said the high cost of re-election campaigns forces members of Congress to spend large amounts of time fundraising in order to stay in office.
“Any member of Congress is going to have to raise a couple of million dollars for their own campaign. Then the party says to you: ‘On top of that, you need to raise another million dollars for the party if you want to be on this committee. So your staff is told to prioritize funding time,” Jolly said.
Murphy echoed this experience, saying Congressional leadership pressures legislators to spend the majority of their time on fundraising rather than the job voters elected them to do.
“We were telemarketers with cool titles, and every now and then we would have to get involved with policy,” Murphy said.
Both congressmen said they had experienced the effects of this partisan gridlock.
After the 2016 Orlando, Fla. Pulse nightclub shooting that killed 49 people and injured 58 others, Jolly introduced a bill which would have prohibited individuals on FBI terrorist watch lists from purchasing handguns, while also allowing them to appeal their inclusion on the list. Jolly said Democratic leadership refused to support the bill because it calculated its passage would help him in his upcoming re-election campaign.
Murphy, who said he had similar experiences, said these outcomes are not the fault of bad leaders but result from the nature of the job.
“What I realized very early on was that there were not necessarily bad people serving. They’re not dumb or lazy like we often hear, but there are structural problems ripping us apart that prohibit us from getting anything done.” Murphy said.
Nevertheless, Murphy and Jolly said they have faith in the future of the system. They urged the audience members to get involved at local levels with causes that are meaningful to them.
“I deeply believe in the institution, and I think we all should,” Jolly said. “I encourage you all to consider how you want to get involved. Hopefully one day that might include you being on the ballot as well and possibly serving in Congress and being able to fix the things Patrick and I were unable to do while we were there.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 18, 2017 by Alex Mooney Leave a Comment 
Georgetown alumni who have made careers in journalism and professional writing shared advice for aspiring journalists and their views on the current media landscape at an event by Georgetown Writes on Wednesday.
The event, hosted by Georgetown Writes in partnership with the Georgetown University Media Alliance and Hoyas in Letters, provided a forum for alumni who work in media and writing to share insights with the Georgetown community and offer advice to students seeking careers in these fields.
“It’s never been more rich for opportunity” for Georgetown students, said Allison Gilbert (COL ’92), co-founder of the Hoyas in Letters alumni initiative.
“There’s now a journalism program…there’s a creative writing minor,” Gilbert continued. “You have so many opportunities that so many young journalists didn’t have.”
The event was attended by three alumni accomplished in the media field: Russell Adams (COL ’98), an editor at the Wall Street Journal; Mark Bulik (SFS ’80), a senior editor at The New York Times; and Sarah Mimms (COL ’10), a deputy editor at Buzzfeed News. The panel was moderated by Georgetown professor Sanford Ungar.
This year’s panel focused on the topic of truth in media, an area the panelists regarded as critically important for media professionals and the public. Ungar particularly stressed the media’s current precarious situation.
Journalism is at “a new high in terms of threat, a new low in terms of awareness of how the media works in the United States,” Ungar said.
Much of the talk focused on the Trump administration’s aggressive stance toward the mainstream media.
“It’s alarming the way [President Trump] discusses the media and the First Amendment, but it’s not something I’m terribly concerned is going to be actionable,” Mimms said.
The panelists explained how the rhetoric of the president, who often refers to their publications as “failing” or “fake news,” can affect their work.
“We all see firsthand on a daily basis the grind and the pains that reporters and editors take to make sure every word is not only accurate, but that there’s no way we can be perceived as biased or unfair to anybody,” Adams said. “[When] you see the way the administration sort of lumps everybody into this big pile and tries to delegitimize everything that’s remotely critical, it’s hard not to be a little demoralized.”
The panel also stressed the difficulty of covering President Trump’s claims over the course of his campaign and presidency, noting they often questioned whether, and how, to label the president’s statements as false.
“It’s central to our mission to provide the kind of context that in this case, if he’s saying something that’s demonstrably untrue, to make that clear to the reader,” Bulik said. “We all wrestle with it. We have used the word ‘lie’ in a headline a couple of times; it was with deep consideration and decisions were made at the highest levels in the newsroom.”
The panel also addressed the role of their organizations in the rise of Trump’s popularity in national politics last election, an issue for which the news media has come under scrutiny following Trump’s win.
“Donald Trump is absolutely very good at playing the media,” Mimms said. However, she stressed that she “would be very hard pressed to say that because the media paid so much attention to him that sort of created him or turned him into a serious candidate.”
The Georgetown alumni stressed that they remain hopeful for the future of the media in the hands of a younger generation.
“There is a hunger out there for verifiable fact, we have seen our subscriptions rise,” Bulik said of The New York Times, a sentiment echoed by Adams regarding the Wall Street Journal’s subscriptions.
“That provides to some degree an opportunity for news organizations and for young people to have a future in news organizations,” Bulik said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

