
September 27, 2017 by Isabelle Groenewegen Leave a Comment 
Students of Georgetown, Inc.’s Uncommon Grounds coffee shop opened Monday on the second floor of the Barnes & Noble bookstore in the Leavey Center, almost a month after the start of the fall semester.
The opening was delayed by an inspection by the Department of Health required for all new restaurants in Washington, D.C.
Uncommon Grounds, which had been located in Sellinger Lounge since its opening 23 years ago, moved into the newly renovated bookstore over the summer. This occurred as the interior of the Leavey Center saw major renovations, including the installment of restaurants such as Crop Chop, a salad smoothie shop, and Chick-fil-A in the space formerly known as Hoya Court. 
Some members of The Corp had initial concerns that the new site, which opens onto the Leavey Esplanade, was relatively unknown to students and would not get as much foot traffic. Members were also concerned that competition from Georgetown-contracted restaurants would exacerbate the issue.
Uncommon Grounds Director Leia Idliby (COL ’18) said she shared those concerns but felt more confident following the success of the opening day.
“I first heard about [the move] in December, and I started to get a little nervous and worried once I realized I was probably going to be director, but now I’m super excited because it’s going really well. I’ve been getting a lot of compliments about the new space. It’s still a work in progress, but it’s really coming together,” Idliby said.
Hoya Snaxa Manager Caroline Moley (COL ’18) said the new location will serve students better. 
“I feel like it’s less distracting and more like a coffee shop. The other one had better foot traffic, but the seating wasn’t as good and they didn’t have the esplanade,” Moley said. 
Uncommon Grounds announced Monday a series of promotions on its Facebook page to celebrate the first week opening, including an open mic night with free coffee refills Tuesday, 50 percent off all breakfast items on Wednesday, lemonade pitchers for purchase on Thursday and a free small espresso drink on Friday for those who attend three or more Uncommon Grounds opening events this week. 
Idliby said that while open mic nights are an Uncommon Grounds tradition, immediate access to the esplanade will allow for some alterations and improvements to the event.
“We’ve always had open mic nights on Tuesdays, but now that we have this open space, we’re probably going to take advantage of it while it’s warm and sit outside,” Idliby said. 
Uncommon Grounds Director of Marketing MacKenna Strange (COL ’19) said the new open space can help emphasize the store’s focus on the arts and music with a series of upcoming events, including poetry slams.
“My goal going into this semester is to revamp our appreciation for the arts and making UG a more arts-centered location on campus. So we’re doing a sleeve collaboration and a poetry slam with Bossier. Our first open mic night is tomorrow, and we’re hopefully going to do an open mic night in collaboration with the Comedy Club,” Strange said.
As well as hosting arts events, the store will be open on Saturday as a flea market to raise funds for Hurricane Harvey relief efforts.
Calvin Griffin (COL ’19), who is organizing the market, said the vicinity of the Leavey Esplanade means there is enough space to host a market.
“I really wanted to leave my mark on the new UG, and the new location gave me a cool opportunity to do something like that. I think it’s something Georgetown needs, because I know so many people who just throw out their clothes,” Griffin said. 
Despite physical changes, Strange said employees of Uncommon Grounds wish for the coffee shop to remain the cultural center customers know it to be.
“I think that’s what separates UG from the other coffee shops on campus. Every Corp location has their own thing, their own brand, and we are known for loving and appreciating music and being a space that’s not just academic,” Strange said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 27, 2017 by Sarah Wright 1 Comment 
Rep. Pramila Jayapal (CAS ’86), a Democrat from Washington, attributed her career and political success to her time as an immigrant and student at Georgetown during a discussion in the Intercultural Center Auditorium on Monday. 
Representing Washington’s 7th district — which includes much of downtown Seattle and its suburbs — Jayapal is the first Indian-American woman to serve in the U.S. House of Representatives. 
The Georgetown University College Democrats, the Office of D.C. and Federal Relations, the Baker Scholars, the South Asian Society, the Georgetown Women’s Alliance, the LGBTQ Resource Center and the Institute of Politics and Public Service co-sponsored the event.
Jayapal first came to the United States from Chennai, India, to attend Georgetown as an undergraduate student to pursue a major in English literature. 
Jayapal reflected on the difficulties of assimilating into American culture, as well as the learning opportunities she found in her classes.
“That English literature major and the liberal arts education that I got here at Georgetown is the basis for everything that I do today,” Jayapal said. “It is the basis for how I think about issues, about rational perspectives that are part of my conversations. It’s about how I communicate, about how I write.”
After graduation, Jayapal worked in a range of fields before entering the public sector in 1991. She briefly worked on Wall Street, received a Master of Business Administration from Northwestern University and worked for a nonprofit based in Thailand and for an advertising firm in western Ohio and eastern Indiana. 
Jayapal said she benefitted from working in both the public and private sectors.
“Doing the jobs that you don’t want to do is actually just as important as doing the jobs that you do want to do, because it teaches you something about yourself and what is important to you,” Jayapal said.
After a two-year fellowship in India, Jayapal returned to the United States during the immediate aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, during which Muslims, Arabs and South Asians were persecuted and threatened with deportation. 
In response, she founded the nonprofit Hate Free Zone — now OneAmerica — and ultimately sued former President George W. Bush’s administration to stop the illegal deportation of 4,000 Somali immigrants and to end Arab and Muslim registration systems as part of her larger goals to reform the U.S. immigration system.
As an elected official, first in the Washington state senate and now as a congresswoman, Jayapal has worked to advance the rights of immigrants through the proposed Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors  Act and Deferred Action for Childhood Arrival, a program implemented during former President Barack Obama’s administration. 
Jayapal said she feels called toward a personal mission to further immigrant rights.  
“The fight is not just political; it is personal,” Jayapal said.
Once she entered public office, Jayapal found that she was often one of few women of color, if not the only one, in her sphere. 
Jayapal emphasized the importance of diversity in representation and in government. 
“The diversity of our experiences and our backgrounds and our voices mean that we do things differently,” Jayapal said. “We chair hearings differently, we craft different legislation, we tell different stories, we elevate different voices, we have connections to different communities. We expand our democracy, because we allow people to see themselves in us.”
Jayapal credits her devotion to public service to the sacrifices her parents made to send her to the United States for college. 
“It is that sacrifice that my parents made in allowing me to come here to Georgetown that is really the reason I’ve spent the rest of my life, the last 25 years of my life, fighting for other people to have opportunity,” Jayapal said. “If I learned one thing at Georgetown, it was that we human beings are in service to a greater good.”
GU College Democrats Chair Larry Huang (COL ’19) said the College Democrats invited Jayapal to speak at Georgetown because they thought her story would resonate with students who may have similar backgrounds. 
“We want to bring people to campus so that they can share their stories and inspire people,” Huang said. “People can see themselves in her shoes and in her story in a way that they wouldn’t be able to see in many other elected officials.”
[…] Representing Washington’s 7th district — which includes much of downtown Seattle and its suburbs — Jayapal is the first Indian–American woman to … Read more  here […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

