
December 8, 2017 by Jeff Cirillo 8 Comments 
As turmoil in the Department of State and widespread disaffection with the Trump administration’s leadership drive away top students from careers in foreign service, educators are sounding the alarm about the future of the nation’s diplomatic corps.
Interviews with nine graduate and undergraduate students, faculty members, administrators and former diplomats reveal that dwindling opportunities in the State Department have prompted some aspiring foreign service students to look elsewhere.
Meanwhile, former diplomats and faculty at the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service worry that a long-term devaluing of diplomacy could dissuade future students from pursuing public sector careers, potentially thinning the ranks of the U.S. Foreign Service for years or longer.
During Secretary of State Rex Tillerson’s term, the number of prospective foreign service officers has dropped dramatically: 9,519 people took the Foreign Service Officer Exam this year, a 34 percent decline from two years ago according to State Department records.
A State Department spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya that the drop in applicants for foreign service jobs “corresponds with an improving economy.”
But SFS Dean Joel Hellman said he is deeply concerned that students at one of the nation’s largest State Department feeder schools in the nation may be beginning to lose faith in the foreign service.
“There’s no question what’s happening at the State Department has caused concern across the entire community, and the diplomatic community,” Hellman said.

Dwindling Opportunities

Three members of faculty and staff say they’ve spoken to hundreds of graduate and undergraduate students who voiced doubts that public service is a viable career path, amid dwindling opportunities for new jobs and promotions and the administration’s flagging emphasis on diplomacy in world affairs.
The State Department has frozen almost all hiring since early 2017, a part of Tillerson’s extensive restructuring campaign to significantly reduce the department’s size. Intake of entry-level foreign service officers for next year is set to be around 100, nearly 75 percent lower than the previous year.
Hellman said the school has not yet seen evidence that smaller numbers of students are applying for foreign service roles. The university does not keep records regarding students who take FSO exams, a prerequisite for foreign service jobs.
But members of faculty and staff say reports of Tillerson carving out his department’s ranks are leading students to doubt they would be valued at the State Department. The department’s leadership has held up promotions and pushed out career diplomats while top political positions remain unfilled. Three of the department’s five career ambassadors, a rank equivalent to a four-star general, have retired in the past year.
Ambassador Nancy McEldowney, director of the SFS Masters program and a former career foreign service officer of three decades who resigned her post in June over objections to Trump administration policies, said the gaps in leadership are “tremendous.”
“When you pull all of this together, along with Tillerson’s very distant and distrustful management style, it’s not a surprise that morale is low at the State Department,” McEldowney said. “So of course it’s not a surprise to me that the number of people taking the foreign service exam is going to drop.”
Daniel Byman, SFS senior associate dean for undergraduate affairs, said he has received more “Should I go into government?” questions from students in the past year than ever before in his 15 years at Georgetown.
And Ambassador Barbara Bodine, director of the Institute for the Study of Diplomacy at the SFS, said she has talked to “a couple hundred” students in the past year whose confidence in the State Department has been shaken. Many say they oppose Trump’s strict immigration policies, antagonistic approach to allies and support for autocratic world leaders in Russia and the Philippines.
“With the current administration there is a different calculation on, ‘Do I want to be a part of this administration?’ And that’s tragic,” Bodine said. “Understandable, but tragic.”
Graduate students are particularly hesitant to pursue careers in the State Department with current hiring at a slow trickle. Students routinely come to the SFS Graduate Student Career Center, which advises graduate students on career paths after graduation, to express doubts about the State Department and form alternative plans, according to Anne Steen, the career center’s director.
High attendance at State Department information sessions show that students are still interested in foreign service, Steene said. However, Steen said talented students are casting a wider net, pursuing alternative options in the private sector such as think tanks, media organizations and NGOs.
“There is an awareness that the path is not as clear as it has been in the past,” Steen said.

Grappling with Doubts
In a Nov. 29 op-ed in The Washington Post, Madeleine Albright, former secretary of state under President Bill Clinton (SFS’68) and an adjunct professor in the SFS, wrote that more and more of her best students are telling her they “do not see a future for themselves in government.”
“In some cases, this is because they disagree with administration policies, but more often it is because they fear that their efforts and pursuit of excellence would not be valued,” Albright wrote.
Two of Albright’s graduate teaching assistants say the former secretary has been on a “campaign” to make sure her students are still considering government jobs, including weekly meetings with students over brown-bag lunches.
However, in the Trump era, students are pulled in two different directions by their affection for diplomacy and the current administration’s undiplomatic lean.
Kirby Neuner (GRD ’18), one of Albright’s teaching assistants, said he always looked to the foreign service for his career. He recently applied to multiple State Department positions, including the U.S. Mission to Somalia. Over the last year, however, Neuner has grappled with deep concerns about the administration’s commitment to international cooperation.
“There are some conversations you have where you think ‘Yes, this is the right work to do right now even though it’s going to be hard,’” Neuner said. “There are other conversations that sort of make me feel the opposite.”
While Albright and other administrators have argued fervently for Neuner not to become disaffected from public service, his mother, a Clinton voter in 2016, questioned why he would want to work for a government led by Trump.
Since before the election, Neuner had long planned to apply to the Bureau of Conflict and Stabilization Operations, a small office in the State Department which April media reports suggested was on the cusp of being eliminated. Trump has not appointed an assistant secretary to lead the bureau, one of a majority of assistant secretary positions that remain unfilled.
The bureau still exists, for now, and Neuner is still applying. Still, he doubts whether now is the right time to be entering public service.
Meghan Bodette (SFS ’20), an undergraduate, said she enrolled in the SFS intending to pursue a career in the foreign service, but she can’t see herself working in government during the Trump administration because of the president’s policies on immigration, refugees, climate change and international human rights.
“I look at the Trump administration and think, do I want to work for a government that’s trying to ban my friends from coming here? I think the moral and ethical answer to that, for me, is no,” Bodette said.

Diplomacy Devalued
The broader concern for the diplomatic community, according to Hellman, is not Tillerson’s management, but the sense that the Trump administration is “devaluing the role of diplomacy and America’s commitment to diplomacy globally.”
“I do see that there is reason for students to worry, that the very notion of American leadership is being hampered or weakened. And that leads to concerns about what role they might want to play in the foreign service and as part of America’s diplomatic corps,” Hellman said.
Some worry that the diplomatic corps may suffer for years, if not decades, from an exodus of top talent and a lack of young talent to replace them.
“They could absolutely do long-term damage,” McEldowney said. “When you lose your seniormost expertise, people who speak the language and know the region intimately, and you don’t take in people at the beginning, you create massive gaps. And that will take some time to rebuild.”
McEldowney said there is “no question that President Trump doesn’t understand diplomacy, nor does he value diplomacy.”
While Trump is “edging us closer to nuclear war with North Korea,” she said, he has not appointed an ambassador to South Korea or an assistant secretary of state for Asia. And amid flaring regional tensions, Trump has also left the assistant secretary post in the Middle East unfilled, as well as ambassadorships in Egypt, Jordan, Saudia Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates.
Bodine said Tillerson and his top aides have a “very narrow idea of what diplomats do,” and don’t appreciate the complex, daily nature of diplomacy: From tailoring motorcycle standards in the European Union for U.S. manufacturers to making the case for the importation of Washington state apples to Yemen.

Rallying Troops
Hellman, McEldowney, Byman, Bodine and Albright have all engaged with concerned students urging them not to count themselves out of public sector jobs.
“We’re working very, very hard to talk with students, to engage with students, so that we keep the commitment to public sector and service careers as we always have,” Hellman said.
Hellman said, setting aside practical considerations, that students who oppose the administration’s approach to diplomacy should want to participate in government to advocate a return to their own values.
“It’s precisely at a time when you worry and are concerned about the direction of the country that you should commit even more towards changing it in a way you think it should go,” Hellman said.
Junior foreign service officers, McEldowney added, are less affected by policy decisions than senior- and mid-level officials.
At least one SFS graduate student is convinced that now is as important a time as ever to enter the State Department. Dineo Brinson (GRD ’18) said she had planned on a career in foreign service since her undergraduate work in the 1990s. She finally came to Georgetown last year – and then Trump was elected.
But unlike some of her peers, the tumult at the State Department has toughened her resolve to pursue public service.
“They’re gutting a lot of people who had knowledge and institutional memory, and I think they need people with integrity and experience who are prepared to be in the foreign service, as a woman and a woman of color,” Brinson said.
The five members of SFS faculty also encouraged students to start the foreign service application process now, noting the lengthy process for students considering State Department roles. Even in the rare case of students who pass the notoriously difficult three-part test on their first try, the security clearance and medical clearance extend the application process at least 18 months.
After the clearance process is complete, successful applicants are given 18 months to choose whether to accept an offer, giving most successful applicants three years or more from the time they take the test to the time they enter the foreign service – jobs usually preceded by months of training.
“If you’re not taking the exam because you’re concerned about what’s going on now, and you don’t like Tillerson’s leadership now, and you don’t particularly like the Trump administration now, by the time you enter they’re all gone,” Bodine said.
Signs of Recovery
Thirteen months since Trump’s election, some members of the diplomatic community are hopeful that enthusiasm for the foreign service is set for a rebound.
“I think there was this initial concern that there would be no work so people stopped taking the test and stopped applying for the jobs,” Neuner said. “My sense now is there may be a swing back in the other direction.”
Even as entries into foreign services roles have taken a dive, applications to the SFS undergraduate school have never been higher. Last year’s application pool was the school’s largest ever, and marked the largest single spike in applications from one year to the next, according to Hellman. This year, the applicants for early admission also reached record heights.
As for Neuner, he said he still sees a career for himself in the foreign service, “even if the near future is a little bit murky.”
“The State Department and the foreign service will stick around after this administration,” Neuner said. “This is and always will be very important work. There is more than the little blips on the radar, which I hope is all this is.”

Kristin Stewart (SFS '99) says 
December 8, 2017 at 10:39 am
Don’t lose hope Hoyas! They didn’t even give the FS exam in ’99 under Albright when I graduated!

Stephen Carrig says 
December 8, 2017 at 11:09 am
Yes, please send on comments.

lance johnson says 
December 8, 2017 at 6:10 pm
Excellent article Jeff!  Sadly, Trump’s contentious issue is yet one more thing that makes being an international student away from home difficult, compounded by our complex culture and language problems. Welcoming and assimilation assistance must come from numerous sources to aid these young people embarking on life’s journey. Most struggle in their efforts and need guidance from schools’ international departments, immigration protection, host families, concerned neighbors and fellow students, and even informative books to extend a cultural helping hand so we all have a win-win situation.
   Something that might help anyone coming to the US is the award-winning worldwide book/ebook “What Foreigners Need To Know About America From A To Z: How to Understand Crazy American Culture, People, Government, Business, Language and More.” Used in foreign Fulbright student programs and endorsed worldwide by ambassadors, educators, and editors, it identifies how “foreigners” have become successful in the US, including students.
   It explains how to cope with a confusing new culture and friendship process, and daunting classroom differences. It explains how US businesses operate and how to get a job (which differs from most countries), a must for those who want to work with/for an American firm here or overseas.
   It also identifies the most common English grammar and speech problems foreigners have and tips for easily overcoming them, the number one stumbling block they say they have to succeeding here.
   Good luck to all wherever you study or wherever you come from, because that is the TRUE spirit of the American PEOPLE, not a few in government who shout the loudest!

Ad maius bonum? says 
December 9, 2017 at 11:22 am
Students should listen to Dean Hellman and understand administrations come and go. So do some policies. Diplomacy is deal making. If you want to try to effect change while serving your country a career in the Foreign Service will offer you that. However if you’re the type to pick up your toys and go home when you don’t get your way perhaps you should choose a different career path. Don’t end up like some of those career officers quoted in this article still crying about Trump.

David says 
January 12, 2018 at 12:43 am
Unfortunately,  even if you passed the FSOA this past year… unless you are already a Pickering or Rangel Fellow your chances of an offer are approximately 7 in 1000. If you’re consular cone it goes up to maybe 18 in 1000. 
Strange that the article doesn’t also mention civil service via the PMF, Pathways, or other routes. Those have also been severely curtailed, but represent a better chance at working at State.
[…] by recent dramatic political shifts to try to “make a difference in the world,” even as opportunities in public service appear less promising to some. Many applicants’ essays, for example, alluded to intense political debates over climate change, […]
[…] In Era of Trump and Tillerson, Students Lose Faith in Foreign Service Careers (Dec. 8) […]
[…] In Era of Trump and Tillerson, Students Lose Faith in Foreign Service Careers (Dec. 8) […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 8, 2017 by Grey Rosenzweig and Yasmine Salam 2 Comments 
Forty-five Georgetown graduates enrolled in law school in 2016, one of the top fields of study for those going directly to graduate school according to the Class of 2016 First Destination Report released by the Cawley Career Education Center.
Like these students before her, Corine Forward (COL ’19) plans to apply to law school. Forward’s future plans prompted her to visit the Cawley Center her freshman year to seek guidance on how best to seek out legal internships in Washington, D.C.
Upon arrival at the career center’s “drop-in hours,” Forward was turned away. Although she had checked the Cawley Center’s website to confirm when these informal hours were, Forward was told no one was available to speak with her that day.
“The woman at the desk referred me back to the website and making an appointment to see someone. I was a little bit thrown off because I just wanted to chat with her or maybe someone else,” Forward said. “She just kept referring me to the website and wasn’t being communicative like I thought she’d be. My impression then was that she was just there to deflect.”
Forward’s experience with the career center is not uncommon among students, and it highlights just one of many issues students have taken with the Cawley Center.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Void in the Cawley Center 
There are currently no available scheduled appointments for the rest of fall semester, nor are there any posted for the spring semester, according to the career center’s website.
The Cawley Center currently offers 15-minute “drop-in” sessions between 1 and 4 p.m. every weekday. These sessions do not require a scheduled appointment and were created as an attempt to make the center’s services more accessible to students, according to Beth Harlan, associate director of the Cawley Center.
However, when Kiren Chaudry (COL ’20) tried to drop in after failing to find an available online appointment, she was turned away.
“They told me I couldn’t make an appointment in person, and that I had to make one online, but every time I went online it said there was no appointment available,” Chaudry said.
The Cawley Center’s use of an online platform called Handshake, a website where students can look for employment and sign up for appointments, has streamlined the sign-up process for students.
However, the ease of using Handshake has caused the limited amount of appointments to fill up quickly.
“Our move to Handshake has provided convenient online appointment scheduling and has also meant appointments are booked well in advance,” Harlan wrote in an email to The Hoya.
International Students Left in the Dark 
Earlier this semester, international students voiced concerns over the Cawley Center’s Sept. 15 Career Fair, criticizing a perceived lack of employers who sponsored work visas for international students interested in working in the United States after graduation.
Of the 103 companies listed on the Cawley Center’s website participating in the event, 38 claimed to offer visa sponsorships, 23 reportedly accepted candidates who possessed a valid student visa and the remaining 52 required proof of permanent work authorization from companies that claimed to sponsored work visas denied that they did.
Ingrid Glitz (SFS ’18), an international student from Brazil who led a crowdsourcing effort to petition for additional resources for international students, said in a September interview to The Hoya that she was frustrated by the confusion and the inconveniences international students had to face to find out which employers might support them.
“When we got there, some of the companies were mad, actually. Some said they didn’t but they did, and some of the companies said that they did sponsor visas but they didn’t,” Glitz said. “So, the list was not completely correct.”
Cawley Responds to Students’ Need
Staff searches to offset the increased demand for career advice are currently taking place, Harlan said. The Cawley Center currently has eight full-time staff members listed on its website.
“As you know, demand for appointments is high this semester, as it is every semester,” Harlan wrote. “We are scaling our work and conducting searches to hire new staff to increase our capacity to meet students’ needs.”
Harlan said the Cawley Center’s hiring process will include a new health/science adviser, whose scope will be more focused on strategy for careers in these fields and building relationships with employers rather than strategy for graduate school applications.
These hiring efforts come after the program review carried out by the Career Center last spring resulted in an “implementation committee,” according to Susan Campbell, the Cawley Center’s interim executive director. This implementation committee is tasked with creating innovative and effective ways to improve the center’s services.
Other Efforts to Improve
The Cawley Center was recently designated to the Office of Academic Affairs, specifically under Vice Provost for Education Randy Bass, in a move from its previous designation under the Division of Student Affairs.
“Given our recent move to Academic Affairs, as well as students’ strong affiliation with their schools, we hope to build closer relationships with academic councils, professors, and deans,” Harlan wrote.
Bass said his office will strive to equip the Cawley Center with better resources to help students gain access to informative and helpful services.
“Responding to students’ needs has been a top priority of the Provost Office, Cawley and many other University staff. Career Center staff are deeply committed to supporting students’ career development in a variety of ways,” Bass wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Other initiatives to support students as they seek career advice include one-credit academic professional courses such as “Personal Narrative and Professional Discernment” and classroom visits to help students connect their learning to a larger career narrative and strategy.
The Georgetown University Student Association has worked closely with the center to improve its offerings. Last week, GUSA announced its collaboration with the Cawley Center to launch a pilot program granting 10 students a $1,500 stipend for working unpaid internships this spring.
GUSA President Kamar Mack (COL ’19) encouraged students to reach out to GUSA with their frustrations or any issues they may be having with the Cawley Center.
“We encourage students who have experienced difficulties to get in touch with us directly so we can talk through solutions to the problems they see,” Mack wrote in an email to The Hoya.
“The Cawley Career Education Center is one of GUSA’s closest and most critical university partners; we are certain that they would be open to respectful, constructive feedback from GUSA channels.”
While the career center is engaging in initiatives to improve its services, some of these efforts have left students frustrated. In an effort to utilize peer support, the Cawley Center recently partnered with the Writing Center to host its tutors for resume reviews.
In her visit to the Cawley center this October, Jane Yang (SFS ’18) was surprised to find the staffer reviewing her resume was a sophomore undergraduate student.
“I had a sophomore overlook my resume as a senior, and I don’t think I’ve ever felt so invalidated. It was very jarring,” Yang said. “I was very much expecting a professional who worked their full time to go over my stuff with me, but instead it was just a student and I could’ve just asked any other student to go over it at this point.”
This article has been updated to reflect that reporting on the Cawley Center’s career fair, including an interview with Ingrid Glitz (SFS ’18), was taken from a Sept. 22 article in The Hoya.

Concerned Hoya says 
December 8, 2017 at 8:49 am
The Career Center also has had no pre-law advisor since the position was vacated last month, so students with questions about taking the LSAT and applying to law school have nowhere to turn!
[…] Students Express Concern Over Career Center Offerings (Dec. 8) […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 8, 2017 by Erin Doherty 2 Comments 
The Office of the Provost declined to recognize the efforts of a group of Georgetown University graduate student workers Monday afternoon, setting back nearly yearlong efforts to establish a union, after saying the university does not regard graduate students as employees protected by its Just Employment Policy.
About 100 members of the Graduate Alliance of Graduate Employees, a group of graduate students that began organizing last January, marched through Red Square and the Intercultural Center on Thursday afternoon, calling for recognition and fair treatment.
Provost Robert Groves told GAGE organizers that the Just Employment Policy did not apply to graduate students in a Monday morning meeting. Adopted in 2005, the policy is intended to ensure fair compensation packages for university employees and full-time contract workers.
GAGE said it will continue to fight the decision and will draw on support from the American Federation of Teachers, an education-focused union affiliated with the University of Vermont and the University of Chicago that has been designated as the labor advocacy group’s bargaining agent.
With the assistance of AFT, GAGE plans to file a petition with the National Labor Relations Board and call for an election. The NLRB takes action to safeguard employees’ right to organize and to decide whether to have unions serve as their bargaining representative with their employer.
GAGE claims that a provision of the university’s Just Employment Policy establishes a basis for forming the union. The policy states that the university will “respect the rights of employees to vote for or against union representation without intimidation, unjust pressure, undue delay or hindrance in accordance with applicable law.”
It ensures a total compensation package “substantially greater” than minimum wage requirements in Washington, D.C., and the surrounding metropolitan area.
The university considers its relationship with graduate students educational and not akin to the relationship between an employer and an employee, according to Rachel Pugh, the university’s senior director for strategic communications.
“A graduate student’s relationship with the University is fundamentally an educational one and [Georgetown] has declined to recognize GAGE as a collective bargaining representative for a limited subset of graduate students,” Pugh wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The announcement comes after a yearlong effort by GAGE organizers to persuade the university to formally recognize their union. GAGE said it was pushing the university “to respect the rights of employees to vote for or against union representation without intimidation, unjust pressure, undue delay or hindrance.”
Students have said that embracing a union would align with the school’s Jesuit values affirming the dignity of labor, thereby allowing them to negotiate more favorable wages and work conditions.
GAGE received support from more than half of graduate student workers at Georgetown, which constitutes about 800 graduate students in the bargaining unit, according to GAGE member and sixth-year doctoral student Hailey Huget.
“Georgetown University Provost Robert Groves stated that we are not workers, that the hours we put into the classroom, in the laboratory, in hosting office hours and preparing syllabi, is strictly something we would do to further our education as students and provides no value to the institution,” GAGE wrote in a Facebook post published Monday afternoon.
The push at Georgetown for better work contracts for graduate students serving as teaching assistants and research assistants started Aug. 23, 2016, when the National Labor Relations Board ruled that student assistants can unionize and collectively bargain.
Nelms remains optimistic about the future of GAGE’s efforts.
“We will do everything we can to push for a fair and swift election, and call on our faculty and student allies to support us,” Deidre Nelms, a third-year doctoral student, wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We already have the numbers we need to win an election, and will continue talking to graduate workers, organizing, and moving forward.”
Nelms said she hopes the petition process with NLRB will move swiftly to avoid contention between the graduate students and university faculty.
“It would be horrible for our university to call on faculty and graduate workers to testify against each other, following UChicago’s example,” Nelms wrote.
Graduate students at the University of Chicago have voted to unionize, despite efforts from the school to delay the vote, according to a Chicago Tribune report. The University of Chicago students worked with NLRB to achieve this outcome.

Ad maius bonum? says 
December 6, 2017 at 2:57 pm
As determined as Ms Nelms appears to be, equating unionization with Jesuit values seems to be a stretch. Perhaps the real problem is systemic. When the student becomes the employee and the teacher becomes the employer it’s easy to see how disenchantment coupled with resentment can soon follow. This long standing model is what’s wrong and is in need of change. Then students can concentrate their energies on what they need to do – Graduate.
[…] “The university considers its relationship with graduate students educational and not akin to the relationship between an employer and an worker,” The Hoya reported last Friday. […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 8, 2017 by Yasmine Salam and Meena Morar Leave a Comment 
When Lebanese and Georgetown University elites filled an overflowing Lohrfink Auditorium in 2009 to celebrate a $22 million gift honoring former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, the audience and school did not know that fewer than 10 years later, the Georgetown alumnus who gifted the amount would be at the center of geopolitical instability and scandal in the Middle East.
The gift of Saad Hariri (MSB ’92) led the university to officially dedicate the Rafik B. Hariri Building, the newly renamed home of the McDonough School of Business, on Sept. 16, 2009. The son of the former prime minister, Saad Hariri, served as prime minister of Lebanon until Nov. 3, 2017 when he unexpectedly resigned during a surprise trip to Riyadh, plunging the region into crisis.
Saad Hariri is at the center of strife in the Middle East, and he is not alone. Through its ties to a Lebanese political dynasty and the Saudi royal family, Georgetown finds itself uncomfortably close to conflict and scandal in the region as two prominent Georgetown donors and alumni make global headlines.
Georgetown’s School of Foreign Service campus in Doha, Qatar — a country with its own hectic role in regional conflict — ties the university closer to the complex events and relationships in the Middle East.
Middle Eastern Power Politics
With an estimated net worth of $1.4 billion according to Forbes, Saad Hariri made international headlines after suddenly resigning from his position Nov. 3 while on a surprise trip to Saudi Arabia, and then resuming his post just as bewilderingly Dec. 5 after returning to Lebanon.
Saad Hariri officially rescinded his resignation Dec. 5 after a month-long political saga that threatened to destabilize Lebanon. He had allegedly been coerced by Saudi Arabian political figures to resign after being kept under house arrest in Riyadh, according to The New York Times.
Saad Hariri blamed increasing aggression from Iran and Hezbollah, a Lebanese Shiite Islamist political party and militant group, as his motivation to leave office in his resignation speech. The resignation announcement sent shock waves across the region as the Lebanese prime minister revived sectarian tensions between the Sunni majority of Saudi Arabia and Shiite majority of Iran over Middle Eastern domination. Hariri had spent three weeks on the move after fleeing Lebanon, stopping in Egypt, Paris and Cyprus.
Michael Hudson, a retired Georgetown Arab studies and international relations professor, said Saad Hariri placed Lebanon in a compromising position.
“Lebanon is always kind of walking on a tightrope, and in the current situation where there is so much polarization throughout the region, between the Sunnis and the Shi’a, what they’ve tried to do is to thread the needle. They have to be in reasonably good terms with neighboring Syria,” Hudson said in an interview with The Hoya.
During his role as prime minister, Saad Hariri handled increasing regional tensions. With Hezbollah rapidly gaining public support and expanding its presence, Saudi Arabia quickly grew impatient.
“The intent, I think, of the Saudis, was to break up the Lebanese government, in which Hezbollah, in their view, has too much influence,” Hudson said.
Hariri’s Georgetown Legacy
The Hariri family has left an immeasurable legacy at Georgetown. Saad Hariri’s donation was the largest individual gift to support the construction of the building according to Bart Moore, vice president for Advancement at Georgetown.
The $22 million gift, along with gifts from hundreds of other donors totaling more than $80 million, enabled the Hariri Building to become the first building at Georgetown funded entirely by philanthropy.
In addition to the Hariri building gift, Saad Hariri endowed two new scholarship funds at the McDonough School of Business: the Hariri Family Graduate Scholarship and the Saad R. Hariri Undergraduate Scholarship. As a Georgetown parent, Rafik Hariri was also a generous supporter of the university and served on the MSB Parents’ Council, an advisory committee of the parents of MSB students. Georgetown awarded him an honorary degree in 1996 in celebration of his work to advance education and opportunities for the underprivileged.
Former MSB Dean George Daly, who served in the role from 2005 to 2011, said Georgetown had approached the Hariri Foundation, the charitable foundation of the Rafik Hariri family founded in 1979, to offer financial support for the construction of the building.
Saad Hariri has engaged with the school on multiple occasions, including a May 2010 speech at the university during his first state visit to Washington, D.C.
His delivery of the inaugural Rafik B. Hariri Lecture focused on the resilience of the Lebanese people in the face of a challenging geopolitical climate.
Flexing Saudi Muscles
Saudi Arabia’s recent aggressive moves against its neighbors have also engulfed two other connections: prominent benefactor Prince Alwaleed bin Talal and SFS-Q.
Rooted in Sunni-Shiite sectarian strife, the tensions reflect Saudi Arabia’s fears of a loss of leverage over surrounding Shiite countries, according to Hudson. The Sunni Kingdom hopes to assert control not only over Lebanon, but also Iran, Yemen, Bahrain and Qatar, while its crown prince seeks to consolidate power.
Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, Saudi Arabia’s second most powerful leader, is at the center of increased Saudi-led domination. Saudi Arabia’s 32-year-old crown prince secured his ascension to the throne early last month through an alleged anti-corruption crackdown imprisoning potential opponents.
Among the dozens of influential businessmen, politicians and royals arrested was prominent Georgetown benefactor and Saudi billionaire investor Prince Alwaleed. He donated $20 million in 2005 to endow the Alwaleed Center for Muslim-Christian Understanding, a center dedicated to fostering interreligious dialogue established in 1993.
Crown Prince Mohammad’s efforts to consolidate power allude to his foreign policy aims for the future of his kingdom. A series of orchestrated moves and initiatives, such as alleged attempts to force Saad Hariri’s resignation and banning dialogue with Iran, forms part of his offensive foreign policy strategy.
“If you look at the initiatives that he’s [Crown Prince Mohammad] taken with foreign policy, you can see that he is moving Saudi Arabia from its very traditional role as quiet and passive to a much more aggressive stance,” Hudson said.
Qatari Collateral Damage
While Saudi Arabia’s new royal authority favors aggressive foreign policy strategies, Qatar’s position in the region remains unclear after the annual Gulf Cooperation Council Summit concluded a day early on Dec. 6 according to Al Jazeera. The future of the GCC, a regional intergovernmental political and economic union with six gulf country member states, including Saudi Arabia and Qatar, is under threat after a blockade against Qatar enraged tensions between Qatar and its Arab neighbors. Saudi Arabia along with five other Arab countries cut economic ties with Qatar in June 2017, imposing an air, sea and land blockade.
Despite both Qatar and Saudi Arabia being on opposite sides of the negotiating table in the GCC, Georgetown continues to maintain deep-rooted connections with both countries. Serving as an extension of the School of Foreign Service, Georgetown’s Qatar campus has not been affected by regional strife, according to current SFS-Q Dean Ahmad Dallal.
“So far, the day to day operations of the Qatar campus have not been affected by the political developments in the region,” Dallal wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The campus maintains a regular class schedule and there have been no interruptions to scholarship or research activities by members of our community.”
Robert Gallucci, the SFS dean at the time of SFS-Q’s opening in 2005, said Georgetown should continue to maintain a Doha campus because the region suits the university’s aim of promoting educational Jesuit values in the context of a rapidly developing Middle East.
“It is an important, vital region, where there has been chronic conflict and difficulty, and the idea that we, at Georgetown, could bring a first-class education in international affairs, that we could bring a liberal arts education, and indeed bring our Catholic, Jesuit values to an Islamic culture, made it an all the more tempting challenge,” Gallucci said in an interview with The Hoya.
Saad Hariri has resumed his position in a politically shaken Lebanon, having formally rescinded his surprise resignation. Prince Alwaleed’s status is unclear, but a Forbes report suggests he has rejected a plea agreement that would allow him to go free.
Despite its connections to ongoing Middle East strife, the university has not disclosed a public response to Saad Hariri’s spectacle and Prince Alwaleed’s arrest. A university spokesperson declined multiple requests for comment on Georgetown’s connections to the conflict.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 8, 2017 by Elizabeth Ash 1 Comment 
Democracies function best when they maximize female political participation, Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf said during her talk in Copley Formal Lounge on Wednesday afternoon.
The first democratically elected female head of state in Africa, Sirleaf received the 2011 Nobel Peace Prize for her efforts to secure women’s rights and increase their political participation. Through her advocacy work, she witnessed the positive impact female participation in politics can have on democracies, she told the audience.
“Success without democracy is improbable, and democracy without women is impossible,” Sirleaf said, quoting a sentiment famously expressed by Georgetown professor and former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. “We hold it to be true that democracies function best when they are truly representative and inclusive.
Since being elected president 2005, Sirleaf has helped Liberia recover from its 14-year civil war, which lasted from 1989 to 2003 and killed around 250,000 people. She also helped lead recovery efforts after the Ebola crisis in 2014.
Sirleaf said she is proud that her leadership serves as an example for girls and women, and she noted that greater female political participation across different fields is crucial to helping combat marginalization of all groups of women.
“I’m glad that a little girl can challenge her marginalization, pointing out that a woman is president,” Sirleaf said. “We must reach beyond counting and analyzing the few women at the highest level of politics and transition into building and sustaining a well-resourced horizontal bench for the next generation of leaders.”
While praising female leaders’ recent progress, Sirleaf questioned whether the current efforts are sustainable. She cautioned that policy changes alone will not fix the disparities in representation.
“It is becoming increasingly evident that top-down, legal and constitutional changes will be insufficient on their own in the long run to bring the equality that women seek,” Sirleaf said. “Statistics can paint an incomplete picture, leading us to believe that we should conceptualize political leaderships in vertical manner, as a ladder that men and women ascend.”
Sirleaf opened her speech by addressing the recent Liberian presidential elections, held Oct. 10. No candidate won the 50 percent of votes that are required for victory, prompting the Supreme Court to postpone the Nov. 7 runoff election between Vice President Joseph Boakai and former soccer star George Weah. This decision came after third-place finisher Charles Brumskine complained of irregularities and fraud in the election.
Sirleaf said that when she became president in 2005, she hoped that presidential authority would be transferred democratically during the 2017 election. Although the election was not a perfect example of a democratic transfer of power, she said that post-conflict recovery takes time.
“I accepted this invitation months ago, believing that Liberia’s historic 2017 election — an event marking the first time since 1944 that presidential authority would be transferred democratically from one leader to another — we assumed it would have been completed. It has not. In fact, it has become more complicated, but that is the nature of a post-conflict democracy,” Sirleaf said.
Regardless of which candidate wins, Sirleaf said she is proud of Liberia’s transformation under her leadership.
“In a few weeks, I will hand over leadership to another democratically elected president, which for Liberia, will be the first time in 74 years,” Sirleaf said. “I will leave behind a nation transformed from despair to hope; from a destroyed nation to one with a functional government and an open, democratic society; from a pariah state to a post-conflict success story.”
Democracy can be messy and unpredictable, Sirleaf concluded, pointing to challenges in Liberia, Kenya, Zimbabwe and the United States as examples. Despite its challenges — especially in post-conflict states — democracy still surpasses all other systems of government, she said, making her proud of her efforts to work toward democracy.
“It is clear that the ballot box has replaced bullets, and electoral disputes are settled through the courts. I take pride as a woman that this transformation has taken place under my leadership,” Sirleaf said.

W. E. Cooper says 
December 8, 2017 at 7:02 pm
Indeed, Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf made history when Liberians elected her as Africa’s first female president.
Unfortunately, she has performed dismally as president, primarily, because her two-term administration has been plaque with Nepotism, Corruption, Mismanagement  — especially, due to her employment of inept friends and family members who have acted with impunity.
According to her own accounting, investors have invested more than $16 Billion in the Liberian economy but there’s nothing to show for this huge sum or massive investment.
As a Liberian citizen, I can only say that she failed Liberia.
1) I expected her to pride herself as the mother of all Liberians but she selfishly only cared for her own, biological children and their children.
2) I expected her to fully re-integrate child soldiers who were not given opportunity to attend school due to the civil but she did not seek their interest.
Other areas of failure include Healthcare, the Education system which she labeled as “a mess”, Clean Drinking water,  Waste collection and disposal; etc.
The west continues to hail her as a success story but the majority of Liberians consider her an absolute failure.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 8, 2017 by Grey Rosenzweig Leave a Comment 
A drive organized by Georgetown University students donated 810 tampons and pads to local homeless shelter Thrive D.C. on Nov. 28 and Dec. 1.
The drive was an assignment for a course, “The Political Economy of Entrepreneurship,” taught by professor Jason Brennan. Kelly Pysh (MSB ’20) and Beibei Jiang (MSB ’19) launched their campaign, The Period Project, to raise awareness about the lack of feminine hygiene products available to women experiencing homelessness and to collect products for donation.
Pysh and Jiang reached out to local businesses, including Saxbys coffee shop, The Tombs restaurant and Chaia restaurant, all of which sponsored tabling events in the Leavey Center. Students could donate money or drop off individual tampons and pads, picking up a free Saxby’s coffee in return.
Brennan asked the class to “do something good with $1,000” provided by alumni and a grant from BB&T Bank, just as he has for the past six years he has taught the course. 
a5_period_FilePhotoAnneStonecipherForTheHoya.tif (18.82MB)
a5_period_FilePhotoAnneStonecipherForTheHoya.tif (18.82MB)
“The goal of this assignment is to push students to apply economic and philosophical concepts to action,” Brennan wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Feminine hygiene products are often not available to homeless women because of their cost, which can be prohibitive for women who are struggling financially.
Pysh and Jiang noticed the lack of conversation around the inaccessibility of menstrual hygiene products for homeless women and said feminine hygiene products are often overlooked when assessing the needs of the homeless.
“It’s on the top of the list for shelters partly because it’s culturally taboo, so most people feel uncomfortable talking about it,” Jiang said. “Secondly, it doesn’t occur to people as something important. It doesn’t occur to them to bring tampons and pads.”
After the conclusion of the drive Dec. 1, Pysh and Jiang delivered the supplies to Thrive D.C., a shelter in the Northwest quadrant that focuses on feminine hygiene products as a main component of its aid to homeless people in Washington, D.C. The students worked closely with Thrive D.C. volunteer and in-kind coordinator Spencer Baldacci.
Thrive D.C. has dedicated considerable resources to help women gain access to feminine hygiene products and to spread awareness about an issue that is often not discussed. Thrive D.C. serves women from all different financial backgrounds, some with housing and some without, but all in need of menstrual hygiene products.
Many women go without the tampons or pads because they’re too embarrassed to ask for them, forget to get them at a shelter, or were unable to obtain the type of product they need, according to Thrive D.C.’s website.
Baldacci noted the importance of having access to these products.
“It’s a huge need especially because it’s so expensive, and it’s not really something people treat as a basic necessity. It’s usually treated as a privileged product, when in fact it’s a product that’s completely necessary to have a sanitary lifestyle and to feel comfortable in public and to be able to live a normal life,” Baldacci said.
Pysh and Jiang said they came away from the two-monthlong project with a greater understanding and awareness of the homeless population and its needs.
“I hink we realized how much we can do, like our power to do something really big with not a lot of money,” Pysh said. “We did spend our class budget, but we raised all that money and collected all those pads and tampons without spending our own money. We can do a lot if we just care enough. It’s not like we need money to do something great.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 8, 2017 by Katrina Schmidt Leave a Comment 
A Washington, D.C. public high school graduated dozens of students in 2017 who did not meet necessary attendance requirements, according to a November report by NPR and WAMU prompting a District-wide investigation.
The report alleged that Frank W. Ballou High School, which has historically had low graduation rates, altered attendance records to allow students who missed far more than the allotted limit to graduate. In response to the report, D.C. Public Schools and the Office of the State Superintendent of Education are conducting investigations of Ballou alongside a review of District-wide practices.
In 2016, Ballou’s graduation rate was 57 percent. Its jump to 64 percent in 2017 was celebrated by the community, and made national headlines. Ballou not only increased its graduation rate, but all 164 of its graduates were accepted to college for the first time in the school’s history.
In D.C., the maximum number of unexcused absences permissible to still receive course credit is 30 missed classes. However, NPR and WAMU obtained documents showing that over half of the 164 graduates missed three months of school. Records show one student even missed 150 days of school and still graduated.
According to an email obtained by NPR and WAMU, only 57 students were set to graduate as of April 2017.
Teachers said pressure from school administrators to pass students was high.
Teachers described school policies designed to help students pass, according to NPR and WAMU.
For example, students were placed in credit recovery courses — accelerated classes intended for students who have failed a class — before having actually failed the corresponding course.
Another school policy that helps students pass classes, teachers told NPR, ensures the lowest grade a student can receive on an assignment is 50 percent, even if the assignment was never handed in or the student scored a lower grade.
Administrators control teacher evaluations, which the nearly dozen teachers interviewed by NPR and WAMU said enables administrators to respond to teacher criticisms with poor evaluations.
“If they don’t like you, they’ll just let you go,” said Monica Brokenborough, a former music teacher at Ballou.
The Office of the State Superintendent of Education aims to ensure their attendance policies are clear, transparent and consistently administered for all students in the District, Fred Lewis, community relations specialist for the office, wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Additionally, DCPS announced Dec. 4 that Ballou’s principal, Yetunde Reeves, was reassigned to another unspecified role.
“At this point, to be honest with you, I don’t know what mistakes were made at Ballou,” Mayor Muriel Bowser said at a Nov. 29 press conference. “We will hold everybody accountable for making sure that this school, just like any school in our system, is run in the way that meets our highest expectations.”
Ballou has been a struggling school for years. According to Ballou’s school profile on the DCPS website, 100 percent of Ballou’s students are considered “economically disadvantaged,” a designation based on family income. Ballou, located in Southeast D.C. is labeled a “priority” school, meaning it “needs intense support to address overall low student performance.”
Despite these challenges, Ballou has made progress in student performance on the Partnership for Assessment of Readiness for College and Careers, a standardized test used in various U.S. states to measure student progress. Scores in math increased by two points and English scores rose by 14 points in 2017 from 2016.
The allegations against Balloou come as a blow to Bowser, who launched the Every Day Counts! campaign in August to increase awareness about the importance of school attendance. She also noted in a public letter that all D.C. public school students can use Washington Metropolitan Area
Transit Authority services for free, another measure aimed to minimize barriers to attendance.
While the allegations regarding Ballou are focused on attendance, they are reminiscent of a 2015 report that found approximately one-third of high school graduates in Tennessee failed to earn all necessary credits for graduation. The state’s education department initiated the audit because of the difficulty Tennessee students were having with college admission.
The D.C. Office of the State Superintendent of Education, in conjunction with an outside firm, is expected to deliver its report within 45 days. D.C. Public Schools said it is beginning its investigation immediately.
“We take this issue very seriously, and we know that policies must be explained clearly and implemented with fidelity,” D.C. Public Schools’ Chancellor Antwan Wilson said in a statement released Monday evening. “This investigation will restore integrity to the process by providing students, parents, and the broader community with answers.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 8, 2017 by Meena Morar 1 Comment 
Two Georgetown University students and one recent alumnus have been awarded the Marshall scholarship, a two-year, nonrestrictive, fully funded scholarship to study in the United Kingdom.
Rebecca Kuang (SFS ’18), Annee Lyons (COL ’18) and Ben Johnson (NHS ’17) plan to further their academic careers on completely different paths from one another — ancient Chinese history, classics and aerospace medicine, respectively.
Forty-three scholars were chosen nationwide as winners of the highly sought scholarship this year. Georgetown has produced six winners in the past two years.
John Glavin, the director of the Office of Fellowships, Awards and Resources said it takes years of planning to receive a Marshall scholarship.
“You can’t just decide the summer before your senior year that you’d like to win one of these, because you have to carefully think about your choices and how you’re doing things and be ready by the time you’re a senior,” Glavin said.
Johnson and Kuang credit much of their success to the Carroll Fellowship Initiative, a four-year intensive honors program with the aim of preparing students for a future in fellowship and success. Lyons did not participate in the program as an underclassman, but entered the program the summer before her senior year.
“We are trained to think in ways that would make us competitive for these things, and we’re encouraged to do something called the ‘CRIG,’ creativity, risk-taking, independence and grit,” Kuang said.
The recipients described the scholarship as a chance to foster an international community between the United States and the United Kingdom, citing it as one of the most important draws for them.
“Marshall Scholars are encouraged to be ambassadors for these two countries, and as someone who’s never been to the U.K., being a part of that legacy is really cool to me,” Kuang said.
 
Rebecca Kuang
Kuang plans to study the legacy of warfare in China at Cambridge University with the Marshall Scholarship.
“For the longest time, the [People’s Republic of China] suppressed the history of World War II because it makes them look really bad. What I’m looking at is how China remembers the trauma of World War II now,” Kuang said.
Kuang’s interest in the region developed after she studied abroad in Beijing the summer following her sophomore year. She said the experience inspired her to write a novel about modern Chinese history.
“I got super into researching the past, and our relationship to the past and how we deal with the ghost of memories,” Kuang said.
Kuang hopes to be a professor of modern Chinese history after obtaining a Master of Philosophy at Cambridge.
Her novel “The Poppy War” is slated to be published in May by HarperCollins Publishers.
 
Anne Lyons
Lyons, a classics major, plans to obtain a Master of Philosophy at the University of Oxford with the Marshall Scholarship. She said she appreciates the academic community at Oxford as it relates to her interests in history.
“There are people at Oxford who have opened up ancient history to more social history, looking at slaves, women, the illiterate, seeing that experience. So much of that history was thrown in the trash, it wasn’t valuable. Now, it’s starting to be revalued,” Lyons said.
After her time in the United Kingdom, Lyons hopes to ultimately become a classics professor where she can “get paid to talk about [classics] all the time.”

Ben Johnson
Johnson, a human science major, pursued his interests in both mental health and medicine at Georgetown through Georgetown Emergency Response Medical Service and Project Lighthouse, a campus mental health advocacy and support group. With the Marshall Scholarship, Johnson plans to obtain two master’s degrees: one in human cognitive neurophysiology at the University of Edinburgh and one in space physiology and health at King’s College of London.
As a first-year medical student at Johns Hopkins University, Johnson will take a leave of absence for two years. He plans to finish medical school after his time in the United Kingdom, but he said the opportunities he will gain from his time abroad outweigh any inconvenience.
“My experience internationally collaborating with space researchers with other countries and the U.K. and the European space agency will be invaluable with making those very strong bonds and continuing to capitalize on international partnerships and what that can bring us in terms of future space missions,” Johnson said.
Johnson said he hopes Georgetown students will pursue their interests no matter how trivial they may seem.
“When I started I never would’ve thought that mental health would have come along for the ride, but it’s become such a big part of my interests,” Johnson said.
[…] book deal is far from her only recent success. Kuang was one of only 43 U.S. recipients of this year’s Marshall Scholarship, an award that funds up to three years of graduate study at any university in the United […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 8, 2017 by Will Cassou Leave a Comment 
The Hoya published its first issue today after transitioning to a new editorial and publishing staff for the spring semester Saturday.
Ian Scoville (COL ’19), the executive editor for the fall semester, began his yearlong term to serve as the 144th editor-in-chief of The Hoya, taking over from Toby Hung (COL ’18).
Scoville said he is eager to oversee The Hoya’s continued development across media platforms.
“I am excited to continue building on our success transitioning to an online daily publication, not only by providing readers with new and engaging forms of content, but by developing an even more inclusive culture that more accurately reflects the diversity of the Georgetown community,” Scoville said.
Maya Gandhi (SFS ’20), who served as opinion editor in the fall, and Christian Paz (COL ’19), who served as news editor, will take Scoville’s and Marina Tian’s (NHS ’19) places as executive editors for a semesterlong term. Gandhi said she is excited to continue working with the staff of The Hoya.
“Working with the staff of The Hoya has always been such an immensely educational and rewarding experience, and I’m excited to continue seeing the results of their hard work,” Gandhi said.
Paz said he is committed to maintaining The Hoya’s high standards for reporting.
“Providing this campus with accurate and fair coverage is an honor,” Paz said. “We will continue our sterling work and diligent reporting while being first to report breaking news as it happens.”
Emma Wenzinger (COL ’19), who served as copy chief in the fall, will serve as the new managing editor for the upcoming semester. Wenzinger said she is eager to assist continuing The Hoya’s expansion.
“After successfully shifting our focus toward our online presence this semester, I look forward to continuing to find ways to reach the Georgetown and larger D.C. community,” Wenzinger said.
Sagar Anne (MSB ’19), who was director of sales in the fall, will serve in the general manager position for a yearlong term, replacing Daniel Almeida (MSB ’18).
“The success The Hoya has had this past year has been phenomenal. Every day has been seen as an opportunity to engage with the Georgetown community, and our content has done nothing short of pleasing the readers. I look forward to working with The Hoya for another amazing year,” Anne said.
Tian will will begin her semesterlong term as chair of the board of directors until April 2017, taking over from Matthew Trunko (MSB ’18).
“It has been such a privilege and experience being a part of The Hoya, and I’m looking forward to further improving our institution as we move toward our centennial.”
Special to The Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

