
October 23, 2017 by Anabel Getz 1 Comment 
“I believe you. I support you. You are not alone.”
So shouted a crowd of sexual assault survivors, friends and family, activists and students outside the Department of Education on Thursday during the National Vigil for Survivors of Campus Sexual Assault. The vigil aimed to push back against Betsy DeVos and the Department of Education’s September rollback of Obama-era Title IX guidelines.
The department rescinded the 2011 “Dear Colleague” letter on sexual violence and the 2014 “Questions and Answers on Title IX Sexual Violence” last month. The policies had advised schools to use a “more-likely-than-not” standard for adjudicating accusations of sexual assault or misconduct and laid out appeals process standards for handling cases. The department argued the policies violated the right to due process, according to the interim guidance currently in effect while the department creates new permanent protocols, which are not expected for several months.
Delivering a speech at the vigil, Olivia Hinerfeld (SFS ’17) shared her experience as a survivor of sexual assault as a freshman at Georgetown. Her long period of successful recovery has been interrupted by the current administration’s rollback of protections for campus assault victims, according to Hinerfield.
“Now, four years later, I once again feel that fear crawling back in as this administration and Betsy DeVos work to undo everything that we’ve fought for,” Hinerfeld said. “But looking out at all of you gives me hope. We know that the Education Department can and must do better.”
The vigil was organized by sexual assault awareness organizations It’s On Us, End Rape on Campus and Promoting Awareness Victim Empowerment; sexual assault survivor advocacy group SurvJustice; and feminist activist groups Women’s March and the Feminist Majority Foundation.
Annie Clark, a women’s rights activist whose activism was heavily featured in the 2015 documentary film about campus sexual assault, “The Hunting Ground,” helped organize the vigil.
Clark said while there is currently heightened media attention toward the issue, sexual assault policy and prevention is a long-term matter. Clark alluded to a hashtag recently popularized on social media after dozens of allegations of sexual assault surfaced against movie director Harvey Weinstein.
“I think the recent hashtag of #MeToo and everything that came out with Harvey Weinstein investigations, make this a big talking point right now in the media,” Clark said. “But when the media excitement dies down, that doesn’t mean sexual assault goes away. We are here for the long haul, and what’s happening in this current administration is rolling back protections for survivors of sexual violence.”
Clark said the administration’s actions amounted to a reversal of recent progress on the issue of support for assault survivors.
“Regardless what this administration says, we are tethered together in a human family. And therefore we have a responsibility to each other to show up,” Clark said. “Regardless of why we’re here today personally, we all know that the status quo is unacceptable. This administration is moving us in so many different ways, backwards in time.”
Sexual assault survivors from other schools, including The George Washington University, Central Penn College and St. Paul Catholic High School, also attended the vigil.
Vigil attendee Chessy Prout became involved with PAVE after she decided to go public with her personal experience of sexual assault.
“What bothered me the most after my assault was that I didn’t know that what had happened to me was against the law. I thought I was being too sensitive. I thought I didn’t do enough. I thought it was my fault,” Prout said.
Prout was sexually assaulted at age 15, but did not tell anyone until her senior year of high school in an interview on the “Today” show in 2016. Prout said she tried to find a positive message in her experience by getting involved with activism.
“I decided that people need to care about survivors of sexual violence. A lot of times we’re put as the nameless, faceless victims and the perpetrators are given all the spotlight,” Prout said. “PAVE’s been a great resource for me and my family in helping me feel empowered, so I just want to keep on moving that forward.”
Members of the transgender community, including Swarthmore graduate Jay Wu, also shared their experiences at the vigil. Wu said sexual assault is “very much a transgender issue.” As many as one in two transgender individuals are sexually assaulted or abused in their lifetimes, according to research cited by the U.S. Department of Justice.
“The withdrawal of Title IX guidance around sexual assault was also actually the withdrawal of the last piece of Department of Education guidance that explicitly said that Title IX protects transgender students,” Wu said.
DeVos’ decision to roll back Title IX support ignores the needs of trans students, Wu said.
“I would hope that Secretary DeVos would actually listen to survivors and make decisions based on the needs of survivors, just as I would hope she would listen to trans students about the actual needs of trans students,” Wu said.

Jeffrey North says 
October 24, 2017 at 7:23 am
Due process protects everyone. A fair outcome requires a fair process. Whether there is a victim should be the decision of a fair process, not a starting assumption. Mattress Girl, UVA, Duke, CUA, Sacred Heart, Brandies, etc.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 23, 2017 by Bella Avalos 2 Comments 
Greater understanding of cyberspace and government support for improving cybersecurity are urgently needed, according to a panel of cyber experts who spoke Oct. 17 as a part of the Washington, D.C. CyberWeek.
The panel in the Healey Family Student Center Social Room featured David Fahrenkrug, a former U.S. Air Force analyst and current director of strategic planning at Northrop Grumman; Meredith Burkart, an assistant professor in the Center for Security Studies in the School of Foreign Service; and John Wood, the CEO of Telos Corporation, a private technology consulting company. Suzanne Hall, a managing director at PricewaterhouseCoopers, moderated the discussion.
D.C. CyberWeek is a weeklong festival that gathers leaders, experts and decision-makers from public and private sector technology communities.
The panelists emphasized the need for more experts in the cyber field. Wood, whom Gov. Terry McAuliffe (D-Va.) appointed in 2014 to serve in the Virginia Cyber Security Commission, said that he was particularly struck by the discrepancy between the requirements and the reality of cybersecurity experts’ capabilities for the United States’ current needs.
Wood said that the Chinese government has trained “cyber warriors” to fight for the country’s covert national interests. This gap is only exacerbated by the lack of interest that students in the United States have for science, technology, engineering and mathematics.
“In 1999, the Chinese government made the decision that they couldn’t beat us militarily, and they couldn’t beat us financially — and that remains to be seen — but they decided to build a cyber-warrior program, and this past year, the Chinese government graduated just under 2 million cyber warriors,” Wood said.
That program, coupled with the discrepancy between government spending on cyber funding and funding for other defense areas, has put the United States at a distinct disadvantage, according to Wood.
“We mentioned that the military made the decision — rightfully — that it’s not just air, land, sea and space that we defend, but there was a fifth domain called cyber,” Wood said. “If you look and see what goes into cyber, it’s less than what JPMorgan Chase [& Co.] spends on defending its own bank from a cybersecurity perspective.”
President Donald Trump’s 2018 fiscal year budget proposed $1.5 billion for the Department of Homeland Security to defend federal networks and infrastructure from cyberattacks, constituting 3.4 percent of the department’s total $44.1 billion budget.
Wood said he considers three necessities to catch up with other leaders in this field: leadership at the state and federal levels, investment and passion from the public.
“We need to have courage to make investments,” Wood said. “We need a race to the moon because we are falling behind.”
Burkart stressed the importance of communication between the government and the private sector and among private sector corporations susceptible to cyberattacks.
“In the last decade, we’ve learned the value of people talking to each other, of information sharing, and then following up on information that’s shared,” Burkart said.
In the seven years that she has worked for the government in the cybersecurity domain, Burkart said that she has seen a slow shift in the extent of the federal government’s engagement with the private sector. She said the lack of a single method to store data after a cyberattack is a major obstacle.
“It might take days; it might take weeks; it might even take certain teams offline to employ the methods to normalize that data and compare the two data sets to see what’s going on between them and get back to each other,” Burkart said.
Wood said the federal government still largely programs in Cobol, an outdated programming language, while the private sector has updated its programming systems.
The importance of data sharing lies in the discovery and prevention of attacks, according to Burkart. Burkart said the financial service roundtable, an agreement between major banks to share information after an attack, provided that the other parties do not use the information publicly to their advantage, was created in 2000 to foster collaboration in preventing new threats against cybersecurity.
Fahrenkrug said that the military must address foreign cyber threats, even if that includes monitoring personal data.
“The military’s role — and the national government’s role — is to address that: What are the actual threats to the country?” Fahrenkrug said.
Burkart said that cybersecurity defense should be built into a company’s business model, because costs associated with security are losses companies would prefer to spend now rather than later.
“As costs accrue, and more bad actors enter this space — and, by the way, more bad actors are capable of entering this space because the bar is much lower these days — there will be more threats to the private sector,” Burkart said. “And the potential cost will increase, and with that cost, I believe that more resources will be put forth to defending against it.”
[…] Security Newsfeeds > CERT-LatestNews > Washington Needs More Cybersecurity Skills, Experts Say – Georgetown University The Hoya […]
[…] Washington Needs More Cybersecurity Skills, Experts Say – The Hoya […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 23, 2017 by Emily Leng Leave a Comment 
Millennials must get involved in grassroots movements to effect positive economic change and fiscal reform, according to Sruveera Sathi (GRD ’17), one of the student speakers at the Clinton Global Initiative University forum this year.
CGIU is an annual meeting that unites 1,100 student leaders to speak about their work in education, environment, peace and human rights, poverty alleviation and public health.
Sathi spoke on Oct. 14 at the invitation of CGIU, and helped to advise and mentor other emerging leaders in activism.
Before studying physiology at Georgetown, Sathi attended the College of William and Mary, where she was involved with Up to Us, an organization dedicated to raising awareness and finding nonpartisan solutions for the national debt.
In an interview with The Hoya, Sathi discussed her experience with CGIU and Up to Us and the importance of getting involved and making a social impact in college.

How did you first get involved with Up to Us?
I was president of an organization called Net Impact, and the premise of Up to Us seemed very interesting from when I heard about it. It seemed like an issue that not a lot of young Americans were talking about. For example, no one I think on my campus prior to that was really talking about some of the economic repercussions of the long-term national debt. And the more I got to learn about it, the more I found out that the long-term national debt affects so many parts of our day-to-day life.

Like you said, the issue of the national debt is not very glamorous, so how have you been able to get young people and students engaged and involved?
It’s very abstract. It’s not something that just jumps to you right away, especially when there are so many different topics that people are passionate about, and that was definitely a challenge. What we did on our campus was personalize the issue, so while the national debt per se might not excite people, things that it can affect, like our opportunities for education, our earning potential in the future are all things that people can relate to. So that’s basically what we did on our campus as well, by making the issue more personal.

Why should young people be getting involved?
As I mentioned, because of the various issues that are affecting us on a day-to-day basis, you don’t think about the national debt as something that impacts us. We often forget that change like this actually starts from the ground up, from grassroots levels in college campuses with students understanding that fiscal responsibility is a priority. So that’s essentially what we’re doing in campuses across the country — trying to alert our policymakers, and that’s an essential part of the Up to Us campaign too, trying to get as many pledge signatures to send to our representatives, letting them know that fiscal responsibility should be a priority when they’re making their legislation.

What was the process like preparing for the Clinton Global Initiative University?
With Up to Us, after you partake in it, I think it’s the team leaders of the winning Up to Us team get invited to be a part of the alumni advisory board. And from that alumni advisory board, three of us were chosen to represent Up to Us at CGIU. I was one of those people, and what me and a fellow alumni did was speak at an office hours session at CGIU. And so these “Office Hours” were designed to provide the students who attended the conference an opportunity to connect and engage in conversations that were behind the speeches at CGIU. These sessions allowed participants to learn more about what we did and our career paths and our journey, and gave us an opportunity to share our advice, and honestly be inspired by the people who attended. I think we were as inspired by what the students were doing as the other way around.

What was the biggest thing you learned from this experience?
I think what I will take away from CGIU are honestly the connections I made with people there. So for example, there was one girl that attended our “Office Hours” session, and she was planning to do work in the health care field, and she connected with me on LinkedIn the other day. I connected her to some events that the organization I’m currently interning for, the Alliance for Health Policy, is hosting, and added her to our listserv. And she’s trying to make a trip down to [Washington, D.C.,] hopefully to attend one of our briefings about payment reform. And there was this one kid that attended our “Office Hours” too, and he brought a little prototype of this pacifier that he was making to hopefully give children in malnourished settings more supplements and vitamins for when they’re nursing, so babies that might not have access to nutritional sources otherwise. He made this little device, and he brought that to our “Office Hours.” It’s pretty easy to go into the routine of adulthood, but going to a conference like this just reminded me of the energy and ideas that are still out there.

Why is CGIU important?
It just gathers so many young people together that are so motivated; they’re looking to tackle social issues, and those types of minds and that type of energy in one space is really cool. Because that’s often what has the power to create lasting change.
Do you have any advice for freshmen or undergraduates about getting involved in community activism or having a social impact?
Be a sponge. Soak everything in. Initially, unless you absolutely know what you want to do from the get-go, use this time to define your interests. That’s kind of what freshman year is for. Then, after a while, narrow it down to a few that you are interested in, and find a way to make that work with your academics, your community engagement and outreach that you do, with your leadership, and make sure it lines up with your values. I think that’s really important: Make sure whatever activist work you want to do, what things you want to lead, what initiatives you want to be a part of, make sure they are line with your core set of values. And that means asking yourself what your values are. So going into that knowing what you care about is really important.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

