
October 25, 2017 by Sarah Mendelsohn 1 Comment 
Actress and political activist Jane Fonda called on progressive Americans to organize increased opposition to unfair labor policies in the United States during a discussion about sexual assault and harassment in the services industry Monday.
Partnering with the Restaurant Opportunities Center United, a workers’ advocacy group, Georgetown University’s Kalmanovitz Initiative for Labor and the Working Poor, which develops policy and strategies to improve American workers’ lives, invited Fonda to address labor activism and the presence of sexual harassment in the service industry.
Saru Jayaraman, co-founder of ROC, joined Fonda to present ways in which members of the Georgetown community can advocate for individuals earning tipped wages. Fonda is an Oscar-winning actress and an active anti-war and political activist. She was particularly outspoken against the Vietnam War.
The problem of sexual assault and harassment is a systemic and institutional problem inherent in capitalism which affects low-wage workers, Fonda said.
“It’s a systemic change we need,” Fonda said. “Let’s do away with capitalism.”
The event also included Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.) and D.C. Councilmember Elissa Silverman (I-At Large) to discuss the One Fair Wage campaign, which advocates for a higher minimum wage for tipped workers.
Jayaraman said the lower minimum wage for tipped workers forces them to depend heavily on tips, which can expose female employees to higher levels of sexual assault and harassment. Under current wage laws, tipped employees rely on gratuity payments from customers for customer service, therefore, are not paid the same standard wage other employees are.
“When you are a woman, as any woman who has worked here in this industry knows, who lives on $3.33, which is the shameful wage here in our nation’s capital, you must tolerate all kinds of abuse from customers in order to feed your family in tips,” Jayaramand said.
The federal government currently mandates that tipped employees can earn no less than $2.13 per hour and $7.25 per hour including tips, according to Jayaraman.
In Washington, D.C., tipped workers earned a minimum of $2.77 per hour as of January 1, 2017, but the Fair Shot Minimum Wage Amendment Act of 2016 raised that wage in July to $5 an hour, according to the Department of Labor and the D.C. Council website.
The Pew Research Center found that 3.3 million workers earn minimum wage or less. Forty-seven percent of these workers work in the  food-preparation and service-related industries.
Fonda said organizing is key to instigating progressive wage reform.
“Everything good that’s ever happened in this country has happened as a result of struggle, of organizing. What do I mean by organizing? Talking to people, listening to people,” Fonda said.
Canvassing is effective in establishing connections between people and mobilizing a movement to demand a change, Fonda said.
“Canvassing is a way for people of all socioeconomic, ethnicities to reach out and talk to people that they normally might not normally talk to, who then become part of a broader movement,” Fonda said.
Jayaraman urged the audience to write to council members in support of and vote for a One Fair Wage measure to require all bar and restaurant workers be paid the same minimum wage rate that will be on the ballot in Washington, D.C., in June 2018.
Norton said the lower minimum wage for tipped workers contributes to an environment more conducive to sexual harassment and assault.
“If your living depends upon how you present yourself to some sneering scoundrel, I’m not sure you have a way to protect yourself,” Norton said.
Jessica Martin, board member of ROC, said she faced abuse during her own time working in a low-wage job.
“The places where I dealt with sexual harassment the most were places where the wages were lower, even though it was one fair wage,” Martin said.
Jayaraman said the prevalence of subminimum wage jobs is an economic problem for America.
“We cannot sustain ourselves if we cannot consume, if we cannot live, if we cannot thrive, if we cannot feed our families,” Jayaraman said.
Fonda said activists should not fear lobbying organizations like the National Restaurant Association, which pushes for the maintenance of subminimum wages, when they organize at the grassroots level.
“I have seen people change in front of my eyes, people of all ages, and when you know that that kind of change is possible and even more so when people get together as an organization to create change, then you have hope,” Fonda said.

SFS 2016 says 
October 25, 2017 at 11:16 am
Lectures on human dignity from Hanoi Jane? Okaaaaay
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 25, 2017 by Will Cassou 1 Comment 
The United States cannot stabilize the Middle East by supporting authoritarian regimes, argued former Deputy National Security Adviser Elliott Abrams in a Monday discussion of his newest book.
During the event hosted by the Center for Jewish Civilization, Abrams, who advised former President George W. Bush on policy toward the Middle East, discussed his latest book, “Realism and Democracy: American Foreign Policy After the Arab Spring,” and explained why the United States cannot count on dictators to defeat Islamic extremism.
“Those dictators who we often rely on are not very good at defeating Islamist extremism,” Abrams said. “Islamist extremism is a set of ideas. It is a theory of the world. It is a theory of how God wants you to behave, how God wants society to be organized. It is a theory of political and national life.”
Abrams argued that extremist ideology should be confronted by dialogue and debate, to convince adherents that extremism does not accurately reflect the teachings of the Muslim faith.
“To defeat it, it needs to be debated, and the citizens need to be persuaded that theory is wrong, that is not what our religion, Islam, teaches,” Abrams said. “Policemen can’t win that debate. Soldiers can’t win that debate. They can beat you up, they can jail you, they can shoot you, but they don’t win that debate.”
Drawing from the outcomes of 2015 parliamentary elections in Turkey, Abrams said the self-perpetuating cycle of Islamist fundamentalist parties triumphing in elections after periods of military rule demonstrates that these regimes failed to sway civilians away from extremism.
Abrams also said the United States’ support of strongmen like Egypt’s former President Mohammed Morsi backfired, as they deliberately preserve Islamist organizations like the Muslim Brotherhood to maintain their appeal and repress centrist and liberal dissidents.
“[Morsi] wanted to be able to say to us in Washington that, ‘It’s me or the Brotherhood.’ So he saw an alternative, a moderate center, as a great risk,” Abrams said. “It’s not just Egypt; it’s standard for such dictators to crush the center.”
Abrams said the United States should instead protect and support Arab promoters of democracy through political means, such as providing them safe havens, as they represent the best option for stable democracies.
“It would be nice if we would begin to prepare for the day when there would be a more open political system by strengthening the center now,” Abrams said.
Abrams also cautioned against relying on nongovernmental organizations that are based in the United States and enjoy no political presence within the Middle East. According to Abrams, though they can be helpful for overcoming communication and cultural barriers, NGOs ultimately prove ineffective in spreading a message to the broader population.
Abrams said the failure of the Arab Spring does not mean that Islam is incompatible with democratic governments; rather, the failure of democracy movements signifies a lack of institutional memory or of regional support necessary for democracy to grow.
“Democracy will arrive slowly in the Arab world, late in the Arab world, and it may arrive and disappear, and arrive again in various forms, sometimes weak forms,” Abrams said. “Sometimes oddly enough, there will be more progress in the monarchies, progress toward becoming a constitutional monarchy, than there will in some of the other countries.”
Abrams remains convinced that securing democracy is the best way to stabilize the region and bring an end to the threats of terrorism.
“Defeating the Islamists is going to require more than policemen and soldiers,” Abrams said. “It’s going to require legitimate governments that can make arguments and defeat [Islamist] arguments and win the loyalty of their people.”
Special to The Hoya
[…] Source link  […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

