
September 13, 2017 by Tait Ryssdal 1 Comment 
Tait Ryssdal is a staff writer for The Hoya.
Georgetown is the third most expensive neighborhood in the country for college students to rent off-campus housing relative to market-rate rent in the Washington, D.C. area, according to a study by HomeUnion.
The average rent in the Georgetown neighborhood is $3,433 per month, 60 percent more than the Washington, D.C. Metro area market-rate rent of $2,145. The two school neighborhoods ranked higher than Georgetown for off-campus housing costs were the University of California, Los Angeles and Stanford University.
HomeUnion, an online residential real estate investment firm, compiled the list by first calculating the median rent within a two-mile radius of university campuses nationwide, then comparing these rents with averages in the nearest metropolitan area. Colleges with enrollment of 15,000 or higher were included in the study.
Rent costs in the District have skyrocketed relative to those in other cities due to a growing population and limited availability of housing, according to Brian McCabe, associate professor of sociology at Georgetown, whose research has investigated housing policy and urban issues.
“First, the population of D.C. is surging. It has grown tremendously in the last 10 or 15 years, so you have more and more people — and especially young professionals — looking for apartments in the city,” McCabe wrote in an email to The Hoya.
“Second, the supply of housing is constrained by various factors, including zoning restrictions that limit the height and density of buildings,” McCabe wrote. “As a result, you have a general constraint in the supply of housing. Together, these factors — limited supply and growing demand — push rents up.”
Director of the Office of Neighborhood Life Cory Peterson said limited on-campus housing may drive up demand for rentals in the Georgetown neighborhood.
“Knowing that students are only guaranteed three years of housing on campus can create a high demand for private rental properties near campus,” Peterson said. “Additionally, the neighborhoods around the university already have high property values which, in turn, makes rent higher when you purchase a home you intend to rent.”
Peterson said students looking for less expensive housing can consider applying for a fourth year of on-campus living beyond the university-required three years.
“On-campus housing is typically cheaper than living off campus. While not guaranteed housing for four years, students do have the opportunity to apply for housing and often receive housing for their fourth year,” Peterson said.
McCabe said students could consider living outside of the Georgetown neighborhood, or even outside of D.C., though students living far from campus may face their own distinct challenges.
“High-priced neighborhoods are expensive precisely because recent graduates and young professionals want to live there, thereby driving rents up,” McCabe wrote. “Seek out neighborhoods a bit more off the beaten path, check out some neighborhoods outside the city itself.”
Atreya Tadepalli (SFS ’19) said he has been forced to consider options far outside the Georgetown neighborhood for housing he can afford.
“When I first learned of the three-year Georgetown housing requirement, I thought it was ridiculous. But after comparing housing fees on campus to those off campus, I cannot say that outside housing is an automatic option,” Tadepalli said. “The rates have forced me to look even further outside the neighborhood, even into Rosslyn and surrounding areas.”
Georgetown students should not expect greater affordability any time soon, according to Peterson.
“I think rent will continue to trend at its current rate because there will always be a demand for private rental space near the university,” Peterson said.
[…] Georgetown Is Third Most Expensive College Town for Renters, Study Finds  Georgetown University The Hoya […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 13, 2017 by Hannah Urtz Leave a Comment 
Hannah Urtz is a staff writer for The Hoya.
Transit workers and union leaders have heavily criticized the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority bus service following two assaults on drivers in the past two weeks.
A woman was arrested Aug. 30 for throwing a cup of urine at her bus driver in Northeast Washington four days earlier. According to reports from the driver, Opal L. Brown, a 38-year-old passenger, urinated into a cup in the back of the bus and then threw the cup at the driver while disembarking after the driver told her to “have a nice day.”
Brown turned herself in on Aug. 30 and confessed to the attack because she “hates Metro,” according to a Metropolitan Police Department report.
The second incident involved a passenger spitting on a Metrobus operator’s face last Tuesday.
X2 Metrobus line not in service right now. Drivers refusing to get behind wheel as they protest for tougher safety measures. @ABC7GMW pic.twitter.com/EMr1Jaooh8
— Ryan Hughes (@ABC7Hughes) September 1, 2017

Union leaders and workers spoke out about Metro’s handling of the situation and handling of driver safety concerns. Leaders of the Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU) Local 689 called for increased security across transit lines, police escorts on the X2 line where the incident occurred and legislation making assaults on transit workers a felony.
“Metro must take accountability for their inaction over the last 10 years and they must develop a permanent solution to this increasingly dangerous problem now. A disgusting act like the one on Saturday can not only endanger the operator, but also endanger everyone on that bus,” ATU Local 689 wrote in a Sept. 1 press release.
Several drivers on the X2 route refused to work after the incident, requesting police escorts on their routes. Their requests were not met, and thus several buses were out of service for several hours on Sept. 1, according to WMATA.
WMATA responded to the union’s criticisms in a statement saying “absolutely no one should be assaulted for doing their job,” but the drivers must return to work.
“We disagree with impacting Metro customers who are simply trying to get to work and school by Metrobus Operators refusing to provide bus service in a disruptive and unlawful job action,” the statement said.
WMATA addressed their ongoing efforts to improve rider and operator safety in a statement. According to the statement, Metro Transit Police has stationed nearly 40 transit police officers throughout the Metrobus system, as well as equipped more than a third of buses with protective shields. It intends to outfit the rest of the fleet as they come from the factory.
The suspect was later arrested and charged with a misdemeanor, according to Metro Transit Police. However, union leaders continue to raise concerns.
“Local 689 believes that if community, management, and workers come together to address this issue, the lives of both transit workers and riders can be protected,” ATU wrote. “Assaults on transit riders and workers put everyone at risk. It is that danger that local 689 members hope to work with management on and work to make a safer transit system for all.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

