
October 26, 2017 by Caroline Gardner Leave a Comment 
The Anacostia Riverfront, the NoMa neighborhood north of Union Station, the Capitol East neighborhood and the Shaw-Howard University area are Washington, D.C.’s proposed locations for Amazon, Inc.’s second corporate headquarters, Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) announced Oct. 16.
D.C. is one of more than 50 cities in the United States and Canada, including New York City and Chicago, competing to host the e-commerce giant’s new base of operations nicknamed HQ2. Development of a new site would not begin until 2019, according to Amazon.
The deadline for cities to submit proposals to Amazon was Oct. 19. Amazon is expected to announce its final decision in 2018.
Bowser said the proposed sites offer access to airports, public transportation and cultural neighborhoods.
“[Amazon] said that their employees prefer to be able to walk or bike and not sit in traffic to get back and forth to the campus,” Bowser said at a press conference Oct. 16. “This is one thing they don’t like about their current headquarters. And so what we offer them is a distinctly urban experience.”
Amazon promises to invest up to $5 billion in construction of the headquarters over the next 10 to 15 years and generate 50,000 long-term jobs. The company plans to use between 500,000 and 1 million square feet of office space by 2019.
Speaking at the launch of Shop Made in D.C., a small business in Dupont Circle selling food, artwork and other household products made in the District, Bowser said Washington is an obvious choice for Amazon.
“Their first [headquarters] is, of course, in Seattle, Washington, so it makes sense to us for them to be in the other Washington, the best Washington, Washington, D.C.,” Bowser said. “For us, what the opportunity presents, is to bring good-paying jobs to Washington and be the end of a pipeline for D.C. residents who are training in STEM and training for STEM careers right now.”
A Sept. 9 New York Times analysis ranked the District as the second-best location for Amazon’s headquarters after Denver based on land availability, existing urban infrastructure and strong job growth.
Bowser said Washington has seen significant economic growth under her leadership and securing Amazon’s HQ2 for D.C. would help further that goal.
“My first focus is always on the fiscal strength of our city, and we’re going to make a pitch to a 50,000-person employment opportunity, but we won’t sell the barn to do it,“ Bowser said.
However, Bowser said she believes the benefit would be mutual, as D.C. could offer important resources to the company, including a growing technology scene, linkages with the rest of the country and locations for sustainable campuses.
“Our city’s growing tech scene, talented and diverse workforce, rich culture and inclusive environment already made Washington, D.C., an ideal location for Amazon HQ2, and now people can begin to think more specifically about how the tech company will fit into our community,” Bowser said.
Brian Kenner, deputy mayor for economic development, previously said in an interview for USA Today that the city is seeing strong growth in private sector employment due to companies like Yelp, which announced its opening of a D.C. office in August, establishing operational hubs.
Bowser said D.C. also offers Amazon access to an economic and political hub.
“We have many economic development professionals that are proposing and describing proximity to Washington, D.C., as a selling point,” Bowser said. “The truth is, we know that Amazon would choose a place where they can hire the best talent. And if they should go to a suburban jurisdiction, we know that they would be drawing on the very talent and workforce we can offer in Washington, D.C.”
Amazon demands more than 8 million square feet of office space, direct access to mass transit, an international airport no more than 45 minutes away from its campus and a sizable pool of skilled labor in a metropolitan area with a population of more than 1 million.
The District possesses significant connections with Amazon that could further incentivize its relocation to the nation’s capital.  Amazon founder and CEO Jeff Bezos owns The Washington Post and a 27,000-square-foot property in the up-and-coming neighborhood of Kalorama.
Hoya Staff Writer Christian Paz contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 26, 2017 by Alex Mooney Leave a Comment 
Washington, D.C. officials are divided over a new bill that would decriminalize fare evasion on Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority bus and rail services.
The D.C. Council is currently conducting hearings on the Fare Evasion Decriminalization Act Of 2017, which would eliminate the potential for arrest and the 10-day jail time that currently accompany charges of fare evasion for non-minors.
The bill would also reduce the violation for evading Metro fares from a $300 ticket to a $100 ticket.
The bill aims to provide a more accessible Metro for the District’s low-income residents, said Councilmember Trayon White (D-Ward 8), who sponsored the bill, during his presentation of the legislation July 11.
“Punitive approaches to fare collection does not seem to be the best use of resources,” White said. “Criminalizing riders will not result in an equitable transit system.”
Jail time for avoiding Metro fare disproportionately affects D.C.’s minorities and poorer residents, White said. The bill is designed to parallel legislation that other public Metro agencies in the United States have instituted. San Francisco and Portland, Ore., for example, have both decriminalized fare evasion in the last decade.
WMATA records show an 80 percent rise in police citations and warnings for fare evasion since the agency began more stringent enforcement, NBC Washington reported in May.
Metro’s mission should be to help people access their city, not to punish them for it, Councilmember White said July 11.
“With renewed public attention on the excessive criminalization of poor people and people of color, transit agencies around the country are re-evaluating their fare evasion policies,” White said at the presentation July 11.
Ronald Pavlik, chief of the Metro Transit Police Department, said during an Oct. 19 bill hearing that 92 percent of fare evasions end with either a warning or a $50 failure-to-pay citation.
“A typical failure-to-pay citation is $50 – half the cost of a speed camera fine in the District of Columbia,” Pavlik said. “And so long as this fine is paid, there is no admission of guilt, and criminal charges are avoided altogether.”
Metro’s focus on fare enforcement has contributed to a 20 percent drop in serious crime on the Metro in the first nine months of the year, compared to same period last year, according to a WMATA spokesperson.
The legislation has received endorsements from councilmembers Mary Cheh (D-Ward 3), Elissa Silverman (I-At Large), Anita Bonds (D-At Large), Robert C White Jr. (D-At Large), Brianne Nadeau (D-Ward 1), David Grosso (I-At Large) and Kenyan McDuffie (D-Ward 5).
Grosso has become an advocate for the bill, arguing that particular instances of excessive punishments by the Metro show the need to decriminalize fare evasion.
“I remember vividly the incident last year when a young woman, probably in high school, maybe in middle school, was physically roughed up and handcuffed by Metro Transit Police simply because she had a bag of chips and a bad attitude,” Grosso said at an Oct. 19 hearing on the legislation.
The legislation was introduced earlier this year after Metro announced that it would initiate measures to try to regain funds from fare evasion, including installing new locking systems on Metrorail fare gates and instituting new patrols to find fare evaders. Measures like these have played a part in a recent spike in citations and arrests for fare evasion in 2016 and 2017.
At the Oct. 19 hearing on the legislation, Pavlik said he is concerned that the legislation would hurt the department’s goal to create a safer Metro.
“This bill would hinder Metro’s efforts to reduce fare evasion and ensure the safety of our customers and employees,” Pavlik said.
Pavlik also said that fare evasion enforcement leads to fewer criminals on the streets, citing a specific incident of a fare evasion stop in which a man, stopped for fare evasion, had an outstanding warrant for second-degree murder.
“This is the story behind one of the more than 400 cases where a wanted individual with an outstanding warrant was arrested after being stopped for fare evasion — before they could commit a more serious crime,” Pavlik said.
Pavlik said in about 8 percent of MTPD fare evasion stops, the stop will lead to an arrest when a background check identifies an outstanding warrant.
An internal memo from WMATA Chief Operating Officer Joseph Leader earlier this year reaffirmed the Metro department’s commitment to ending fare evasion, which the office stated is unfair to paying passengers and costs the Metro critical funds.
“Fare evasion creates real and perceived fairness issues among customers, most of whom pay for every ride. It also directly results in the loss of revenue that Metro needs to provide safe and reliable bus and rail service,” the memo said.
Corbett A. Price, a member of the Metro board, tweeted about this revenue loss July 11, after the decriminalization legislation was first introduced.
“#Metro fare evasion cost the system $25million/yr in loss revenue. The taxpayers and paying riders are the victims,” Price wrote in the tweet.
If passed, the act would apply to all WMATA stations, but not those in Maryland or Virginia, as they are outside of the council’s jurisdiction.
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 26, 2017 by Meena Morar and Jeff Cirillo 2 Comments 
Student activists who pushed Georgetown University to commit not to invest in private prison companies now say the university is unfairly taking the credit for their activism in an Oct. 5 news release announcing the new policy.
The university announced the policy after a committee of the university’s board of directors accepted a March recommendation of the Committee on Investments and Social Responsibility, which makes recommendations to the board on ethical investment policies. Under the new policy, the university will encourage its external investment managers to avoid investments in private prison companies.
What the university’s announcement mentioned only briefly, however, was how the proposal came to the CISR in the first place: It was submitted by Eman Abdelfadeel (COL ’17), Sophie Bauerschmidt Sweeney (COL ’17) and Salma Khamis (SFS ’17), and accompanied by a three-month campaign launched last December by the student group Georgetown University Forming a Radically Ethical Endowment.
Abdelfadeel said the university’s statement took credit for the change while only briefly alluding to student involvement.
“Understating the fact that this was a call from students is indicative of a trend of the administration being unresponsive to the demands of the wider community and then taking credit for the work once it has become socially and/or financially appropriate for them to do the right things,” Abdelfadeel said.
The release made one reference to the students’ involvement, saying the CISR “reviewed a student proposal that included a request that the university divest from the private prison industry.”
“After finding investing in the private prison industry to be inconsistent with Georgetown’s commitment to socially responsible investing – which is reflected in the new SRI policy, CISR submitted a recommendation to the board that supported this strategy,” the release said.
A discussion of the activism that led up to the decision is lacking from the campus conversation, according to Christian Morris (COL ’19), a student organizer for GU F.R.E.E.
“I feel like it was worked for,” Morris said. “I want to bring it back to the fact that student activism, student pressure and conversations are happening. I haven’t heard anything about the demonstrations we did last year, or the events that we disrupted, or the proposal we submitted through Georgetown’s bureaucratic loopholes.”
A university spokesperson did not respond to requests for comment.
This is not the first time students have criticized the university for taking credit for activists’ efforts.
Lily Ryan (COL ’18), a member of the workers’ rights student activist group Georgetown Solidarity Committee, said the administration failed to acknowledge GSC’s role in a 2016 dispute with the university over its licensing contract with Nike.
Students associated with the GSC staged a 35-hour sit-in last December in the office of University President John J. DeGioia, demanding the university cut its contract with Nike unless the company agreed to allow independent workers’ rights inspections of its factories. After hours of negotiations between students and university administrators, the university ultimately agreed to the students’ demands and allowed the contract to expire at the end of the year. The parties struck a new contract in August which included an agreement to allow regular, independent inspections of Nike supplier factories.
A university news release announcing the new contract in August does not mention GSC, the sit-in or student activism. One line in the eighth paragraph of the release notes the university “engaged with faculty and student leaders” while negotiating the contract.
Ryan said the framing of the university’s statement disregards the pivotal role of student activists in pressuring the university to negotiate the new contract.
“What troubles me is that, as usual, there is no mention of the extensive efforts that students put into pushing Georgetown into a decision,” Ryan wrote in an email to The Hoya. “While I can’t speak for all students or student activists on campus, I don’t think we do it for the glamor or for the recognition by university administrators but I think it erases the work done by students, in the case of GU F.R.E.E., it was work done in large part by queer students and students of color.”
Ryan said the way the university represents student activism is important for reasons other than conferring credit.
“The stories we tell about victories and failures are important and it can be hard to tell stories about student activism when the activists are left out of the narrative,” Ryan wrote. “I knew when the statement was released about private prisons that it had taken time and effort on the part of a committed group of students, but I know that so many students don’t know, and that can be detrimental to promoting a culture in which students can engage in activism.”
As for the future, Abdelfadeel noted the work of divestment advocates is unfinished. The original group’s 2016 proposal to the CISR was more broad than the one enacted by the board of directors this month, also including a request for divestment from companies invested in private prisons, rather than only private prisons themselves.
“The original proposal to the CISR proposed divestment from private prisons and the wider industry that sustains it,” Abdelfadeel said. “It would be great to see a commitment from the university regarding the wider private prison industry.”
The proposal also called on the university to divest from any companies that benefitted financially from the Israeli occupation of Palestine, a request that was rejected by the CISR.
Abdelfaleel said there are common threads in the social implications of private prisons and the occupation.
“We found common themes of state violence — black people living and dying under the United States’ white supremacy and Palestinians living and dying under Israeli settler colonialism and apartheid. Moreover, there is an overlap in companies that empower the private prison industry and the illegal occupation,” Abdelfaleel said.
GU F.R.E.E. also continues to call for greater transparency in Georgetown’s investment records and promotes general public consciousness of the university’s investment policies.
Morris, meanwhile, said he hoped that this decision would prompt the university to look at other instances of state violence and adapt its investment policies accordingly.
“I hope there is something sustaining from the divestment of prisons, not like, ‘OK, we did it; it’s done,’” Morris said. “This should only be the beginning of Georgetown’s broader divestment movement.”

Camille Jenman C'95 says 
October 26, 2017 at 3:47 pm
Give ’em an inch and they will take a mile.

Dick Pointer says 
October 28, 2017 at 11:17 pm
Matthew 6: “Be careful not to practice your righteousness in front of others to be seen by them. If you do, you will have no reward from your Father in heaven. So when you give to the needy, do not announce it with trumpets, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and on the streets, to be honored by others.”
This article is ridiculous and only confirms the fears of those on the right that the only thing leftists or those seeking social justice really want is self-righteousness and recognition. To make things worse, somehow this, of all matters, made the front page. What a superfluous complaint.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 26, 2017 by Elizabeth Ash Leave a Comment 
President Donald Trump’s incoherent policies on China and North Korea threaten international stability, former National Security Adviser Susan Rice argued in a webcast for the National Committee on United States-China Relations’ 2017 CHINA Town Hall.
Georgetown University’s Berkley Center for Religion, Peace and World Affairs hosted the town hall as part of a nationwide dialogue at 85 different locations Wednesday night. The address was sponsored by the university’s Initiative for U.S.-China Dialogue on Global Issues, which fosters research and dialogue on matters of transnational importance.
Rice answered questions from Stephen Orlins, president of the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations, as well as questions emailed and tweeted by the national audience.
Rice condemned Trump for escalating tensions and risking conflict with North Korea through aggressive rhetoric. Trump has tweeted multiple insults directed at North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong Un, and threatened to “totally destroy” the country in his first United Nations address Sept. 21.
“The extremely heated rhetoric of President Trump, the threats that he was leveling — ‘fire and fury’ and the like, which were matching or exceeding the young Kim Jong Un’s rhetoric — was one, inappropriate, and two, dangerous. It risked precipitating miscalculation and inadvertent conflict,” Rice said.
At Georgetown’s event, Rice’s address was preceded by a conversation between Dennis Wilder, the Initiative’s managing director, and J. Bradford Jensen, professor and McCrane/Shaker Chair in International Business at the McDonough School of Business.
According to Rice, Trump’s criticisms of China’s permissive policy approach toward North Korea, threats to impose tariffs on Chinese exports and January phone conversation with Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen during his transition into office have contributed to a lack of cooperation with China in addressing the North Korea threat.
“The U.S.-China relationship works best when there’s a high degree of communication and maximized mutual understanding at the highest levels,” Rice said. “I think that President Trump came in with some pretty hot rhetoric around China that left the Chinese side not clear about what our intentions were.”
“It is hard to find coherence in this strategy right now,” Wilder said.
Rice said that the United States should handle North Korea’s mounting nuclear capacity in the same way that it previously handled the nuclear-armed Soviet Union.
“We can manage this problem — if we must — through robust deterrence, in the same way we managed the Soviet Union during the height of the Cold War,” Rice said.
Trump will travel to Asia on Nov. 3 and stay until Nov. 14. An Oct. 16 White House press release confirmed visits to South Korea and China as part of the official trip.
According to the press release, Trump will call upon the international community to “come together and maximize pressure” on North Korea in an address to the South Korean National Assembly scheduled for Nov. 7. He will meet with China’s president, Xi Jinping, the following day.
“The North Korean issue will dominate the president’s trip to East Asia, no question at all,” Wilder said.
Rice said that China’s rapid economic growth should not threaten U.S. interests if addressed appropriately. China is the second-largest economy in the world by GDP and was the world’s fastest-growing economy until 2015, when it was overtaken by India.
“We need to recognize that China is going to continue rising. Its economy, its population, its capacity ensure that it will be and remain a very powerful country for the foreseeable future,” Rice said. “I believe that with wise and thoughtful leadership on the United States’ part — steady leadership — that we can manage a world in which China grows and continues to prosper.”
Jensen, however, said China’s growth would eventually flatten as economic expansion is only sustained after countries first promote industrial production, female participation in the labor force, educational opportunities and physical infrastructure.
Both Rice and Jensen cautioned that the United States’ withdrawal from the Trans-Pacific Partnership will affect the political and economic dynamic with the countries in the Asian-Pacific region that are bound to the treaty, as well as China, which had expressed interest in joining. Trump formally withdrew the United States from the TPP, which had not been approved by Congress and never took effect, shortly after taking office in January.
“I think the power dynamic is shifting. It is not shifting in the United States’ favor,” Rice said. “The decision to cancel U.S. participation in TPP, I think, was an extremely big mistake.”
Jensen echoed Rice’s concerns.
“For people who watch trade, you know, we hope the next four years will be short and that the damage will be minimal, but it seems increasingly likely there will be damage,” Jensen said.
With China being an important world player in matters ranging from trade and climate change to cybersecurity, Rice said that she hoped the Trump administration would improve, instead of strain, relations with the country.
“I hope very much that the Trump administration is looking for areas where we can expand our cooperation, not just points of friction,” Rice said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 26, 2017 by Kevin Hautigan 1 Comment 
For most events in Gaston Hall, organizers do everything they can to make sure there will not be any “disruptors” in the audience. At this year’s TEDx Georgetown, they will be on the stage.
In its seventh year, the 2017 TEDxGeorgetown conference’s theme, “Disruptors,” focuses on speakers who “courageously pivot from the status quo to drive change.” The Saturday night event, expected to draw hundreds of attendees to Gaston Hall, is hosted by the student group TEDxGeorgetown, which receives funding and support from the Georgetown University Lecture Fund.
The conference has historically drawn about 800 attendees annually, according to TEDxGeorgetown Director of Logistics Stephanie Lu (COL ’18). As of Wednesday night, 700 people have registered online, with more sign-ups expected in the coming days. Tickets to the event are free for Georgetown students.
Lauren Stricker (SFS ’18), TEDxGeorgetown co-chair, said the current forward-looking social climate served as inspiration for this year’s conference theme.
“We decided that this is definitely a time of change and transformation in our society, and so we really liked the idea of people who were kind of challenging accepted norms and challenging accepted ways of going about different things,” she said.
American Sign Language interpreters will translate all the speakers’ speeches, according to Lu.
While past conferences focused on speakers from outside the Georgetown community, TEDxGeorgetown has included more student speakers in recent years, according to Stricker. About 10 percent of students who applied to be student speakers were selected, according to TEDxGeorgetown Director of Speakers Shifa’a Alsairafi (SFS ’18).
Stricker said the diversity of stories is a key factor in choosing which speakers to feature.
“TEDxGeorgetown sought out speakers with powerful stories understanding that the most impactful speakers can expose others to different ways of thinking even if their experiences are different from those of most students at Georgetown,” she said.
Alsairafi said personal narrative is also an important element in the consideration process.
“We look for stories. We look for personal stories that have a personal impact,” Alsairafi said.
Student speakers include Mélisande Short-Colomb (COL ’21), a student and 63-year-old descendant of the 272 slaves the university sold in 1838, and Matthew Wang (MSB ’18), a student entrepreneur who co-founded Spud Buds, a french fries company open at the university’s farmers market. Five students total will speak at the event.
Stricker said these students offer stories worth hearing.
“I have been so blown away by the people that I go to school with who are able to come forward and tell these stories,” Stricker said.
The four non-student speakers include Ahmad Ashkar, founder of Falafel Inc., a restaurant in the Georgetown neighborhood that donates part of its proceeds to fighting global hunger, and Jeff Galvin, founder and CEO of genetic technology research firm American Gene Technologies.
TEDxGeorgetown has also expanded lunch options for this year’s conference with more vendors at its lunchtime market, “TasTED.”
Alsairafi said, for her, the most important facet of the conference is the student speeches.
“One of the most rewarding aspects, for me, in doing this is being able to hear the stories of my peers at Georgetown. It really makes me appreciate how incredible and diverse our student body is,” Alsairafi said.
Special to The Hoya

Camille Jenman C'95 says 
October 26, 2017 at 3:52 pm
Wouldn’t it be funny if some group were to disrupt this lecture for the assault on the first amendment that the topic represents and to give them a taste of their own medicine??!!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

