
April 19, 2017 by Hannah Urtz Leave a Comment 
Edward B. Montgomery, dean and professor of economics at McCourt School of Public Policy, plans to leave Georgetown at the end of the 2016-2017 academic year to serve as the President of Western Michigan University, according to University President John J. DeGioia in a campuswide email April 12.
The trustees of Western Michigan University, a public research university in Kalamazoo, Mich. of approximately 24,000 students, named Montgomery its ninth president Wednesday. Montgomery said he and his wife are eager to join a large research institution.
“The opportunity to lead to a comprehensive research institution with a strong student-centric was very attractive. My wife is also from Michigan so it is a homecoming for her,” Montgomery wrote in an email to The Hoya. “At WMU I will be looking forward to working with their community to broaden access and improve affordability for students while enhancing the global reach of their programs.”
Montgomery came to Georgetown in 2010 after serving in the Obama administration as executive director of the White House Council on Auto Communities and Workers. Montgomery was appointed Dean of the Georgetown Public Policy Institute. He also became Dean of the McCourt School of Public Policy in 2013 when it was established on a donation from Frank McCourt (COL ’75).
“The launch of the school was really a transformative moment,” Montgomery wrote. “With the support of Mr. McCourt and President DeGioia, our great team we has been able to enhance the student experience, grow the faculty, and build two institutes that make the school an even more special place.”
Under Montgomery’s leadership, the McCourt School strengthened research opportunities for students and faculty, according to President DeGioia. Additionally, Montgomery’s leadership helped deepen the school’s engagement with various public policy questions, including those of economic growth and opportunity, health and health care, climate and energy, and international development.
“I will really miss the students, faculty and staff of the McCourt School. They are an incredibly talented group who made it fun to come to work,” Montgomery wrote.
DeGioia asked the university community to join him in congratulating Montgomery and wishing him well in his new position.
“I am deeply grateful to Dean Montgomery, for his extraordinary contributions to our University and his exceptional efforts on behalf of our entire community,” DeGioa wrote.
Though he looks forward to this new position, Montgomery said he will miss Georgetown and its unique sense of community.
“Georgetown is a place where people put down deep roots. The sense of community and collegiality is really special,” Montgomery said. “I have learned a lot while here and will treasure the memories.”
DeGioia will work with Provost Robert Groves to appoint an interim dean in the coming weeks, according to the email.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

