
November 6, 2017 by Emily Leng Leave a Comment 
Negotiation, rather than a military solution, is vital to achieving positive, sustainable peace with North Korea, former Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel said at a panel Nov. 2.
North Korea is under international pressure to end missile and nuclear tests on the Korean peninsula, where it has conducted six nuclear tests since 2006. The dictatorship has threatened to attack the United States mainland, territories like Guam and allies in the region including South Korea and Japan.
Co-hosted by the Office of Mission and Ministry and the Initiative on Catholic Social Thought and Public Life, the event featured Maryann Cusimano Love, an associate professor at the Catholic University of America, and Stephen Colecchi, the director of the Office of International Justice and Peace at the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops.
The panel was moderated by John Carr, director of the Initiative on Catholic Social Thought and Public Life.
The panel marked the beginning of the “Dahlgren Dialogues,” a new series of discussions on social justice hosted by the Office of Mission and Ministry.
Carr said the initiative “seeks to deepen conversations around social justice in light of the rich and deep theological heritage of our Christian Catholic faith.”
Hagel, who served as defense secretary under former President Barack Obama and previously as a Nebraska senator from 1997 to 2009, said the United States needs to put greater emphasis on diplomacy and dialogue when dealing with North Korea.
“Diplomacy at the most basic level, of sitting down across the table and asking each other that question: ‘Well, what is it that you want?’ And I don’t think you can start negotiation by demanding certain qualifications before you even sit down,” Hagel said.
Colecchi said dialogue is what is most needed considering the current state of relations between the two countries, with Trump consistently referring to the North Korean leader Kim Jong Un as “Little Rocket Man” and threatening to “totally destroy” North Korea during a speech to the U.N. General Assembly on Sept. 19
“The United States has great strength and patience, but if it is forced to defend itself or its allies, we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea,” Trump said. “Rocket Man is on a suicide mission for himself and for his regime.”
Colecchi said Trump must restart his relationship with North Korea.
“We need to open a dialogue. The only way you can transform a relationship is by talking,” Colecchi said.
Hagel called out Trump for his abrasive rhetoric, saying Trump’s strategy is “lowering yourself to the same standard as a ruthless dictator.”
Hagel, who also served as a sergeant in the Vietnam War, said while the United States may have other options to consider, the military option is most risky.
“There is no military solution, unless you are willing to pay a pretty high price,” Hagel said. “And that high price would be probably millions of dead South Koreans, tens of thousands of dead Americans.”
Hagel contrasted this approach with another push for greater negotiation and international cooperation, citing the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, in which Iran agreed to drastically reduce its nuclear capabilities in return for lifted sanctions.
“The most successful agreements that have been reached since World War II are multinational agreements, more than just two parties,” Hagel said.
The three panelists also emphasized the importance of religion and morality in policy considerations.
Cusimano argued against the false dichotomy between having a religious or spiritual life and understanding national security politics.
“The best policies that we use are those that have moral and legal support. The more moral and legal support there is for a policy, the more resources are available: public support, support of allies, support from others, to address whatever the problem is,” Cusimano said.
Colecchi further advocated for the role of religion and faith in world affairs, highlighting interdependence and mutual respect.
“Respect is the foundation for relationships individually, for relationships between peoples, and among nations. The [Catholic] Church has a capacity to speak with other religious traditions, to weave together shared moral norms,” Colecchi said. “Faith contributes a belief in humanity that allows us to build relationships where there weren’t any before.”
Colecchi is optimistic about the direction in which the world is progressing, citing international progress on issues such as human trafficking, advancing medicine, and support for developing societies.
“There are more things that unite people than divide them. And more and more, until we realize that our fates are all linked, we’re going to be in trouble,” Colecchi said.
The event concluded with an opportunity for the audience to ask questions, with one audience member asking Hagel for one piece of advice he would give to Trump.
“Listen. And learn,” Hagel said firmly. “Next question?”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 6, 2017 by Sarah Mendelsohn and Georgia Payne Leave a Comment 
Local news site DCist was shut down late Nov. 2 after billionaire CEO Joe Ricketts — owner of DNAinfo and Gothamist, DCist’s parent company — announced a decision to discontinue publishing both news organizations.
The decision follows an Oct. 26 vote by Gothamist reporters and editors to unionize following Ricketts’ purchase of the news site through DNAinfo in April. Ricketts initially refused to recognize the union, the Writers Guild of America, East, when he made the purchase, but the National Labor Relations Board voted Oct. 27 to legally recognize the labor union, requiring Ricketts and DNAinfo management to negotiate with the union. A week later, the entire news organization was shut down.
In Washington, D.C., local leaders and media observers condemned the decision, with Mayor Muriel Bowser and the Council of D.C. tweeting support for DCist. The news comes almost a month since another local news organization, Washington City Paper, announced its publisher was looking to sell the paper. Councilmember David Grosso (I-At Large) criticized the shutdown.
“Engaging more people in the DC political process gets more difficult when great local media like @DCist are unceremoniously shut down,” David Grosso tweeted.
Similarly, Councilmember Brianne K. Nadeau (D-Ward 1) praised the work of former DCist Editor-in-Chief Rachel Sadon, associate editor Rachel Kurzius and staff writer Christina Sturdivant. The three comprised DCist’s staff.
“[email protected] covered local politics and stories that others didn’t. @SeeSturdi @Rachel_Sadon @Curious_Kurz no longer on the beat is a big loss,” Nadeau tweeted, referring to the staff’s Twitter accounts.
Media critics and local news editors at the Washington Post, the Los Angeles Times and The New York Times were also quick to condemn the decision, decrying the deteriorating state of local news outlets. A 2016 Pew Research Center report on the state of news media found a drastic drop in newspaper circulation since the 2008 recession and a gradual decline in local television viewership since 2007.
Ricketts, founder of TD Ameritrade and DNAinfo, said the shutdown was a difficult business decision to make.
“DNAinfo is, at the end of the day, a business, and businesses need to be economically successful if they are to endure,” Ricketts wrote on all DNAinfo and Gothamist websites Nov. 2. “While we made important progress toward building DNAinfo into a successful business, in the end, that progress hasn’t been sufficient to support the tremendous effort and expense needed to produce the type of journalism on which the company was founded.”
DNAinfo covered news in New York City and Chicago, while Gothamist was the parent company for sites covering local news in New York City, Washington, Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Washington, D.C., the latter site being DCist. Though only the New York outlet of Gothamist chose to unionize, all five branches have been shut down.
News archives and links to news stories previously published on these sites were inaccessible for 24 hours soon after Ricketts released the decision, though archived versions are now online.
DNAinfo and Gothamist management previously indicated the group was sustaining financial challenges and said unionizing would present another obstacle.
“The decision by the editorial team to unionize is simply another competitive obstacle making it harder for the business to be financially successful,” a DNAinfo spokesperson told The New York Times Nov. 2.
Leading up to the decision, some DNAinfo and Gothamist writers worried it would negatively affect the entire network.
“This is a direct retaliation for unionizing,” former DNAinfo writer Noah Hurowitz said in an interview with Mashable Nov 2.
Dan Swartz, DNAinfo executive vice president, warned staff in April about retaliation.
“Would a union be the final straw that caused the business to be closed? I don’t know,” Swartz wrote in an email obtained by the New York Daily News.
Ricketts praised the work the outlets contributed.
“More important than large numbers of visits and fans, we’ve reported tens of thousands of stories that have informed, impacted, and inspired millions of people,” Ricketts wrote. “In the process, I believe we’ve left the world a better place.”
Management of Gothamist and DNAinfo shut down production on Thursday and plan to close the entire business within 90 days.  The DCist continued publishing articles five hours before Ricketts shut down the company.
Special to The Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 6, 2017 by Emma Kotfica Leave a Comment 
Former Counselor of the State Department Kristie Kenney is slated to teach a one-credit course on leadership development at Georgetown in the spring 2018 semester.
Kenney held the State Department’s fifth-highest-ranking position for one year before leaving in February 2017 after the Trump administration transition. She previously served as ambassador to Ecuador, Thailand and the Philippines, the first woman to do so in the latter two countries. Her intricate knowledge of diplomacy qualified her for an appointment at Georgetown, according to SFS Senior Associate Dean Daniel Byman.
“Part of it, of course, is her intimate knowledge of the State Department, of that world and that career. Part of it is her experience as a leader in some of the most important embassies around the world,” Byman said. “And part of it is she’s just a super smart and impressive person, and completely independent of her experience, she’ll just have a lot to offer in terms of her own leadership.”
Housed in the School of Foreign Service, the course is set to be open to all students.
Kenney attributed her leadership abilities to years of experience in diplomacy, which she plans to integrate extensively into the course.
“I will bring a lot of very real experiences that I’ve seen — things I’ve experienced myself, issues where I’ve been the leader through complicated times, so I think that all of that will come into the classroom with me,” Kenney said.
“Plus, I know a lot of people around town who are leaders at various levels — more junior leaders, more senior leaders — and I’ll bring them into it too, and then combine it and hear from students and what they want to do.”
Kenney added that her belief that anybody can learn to be a leader at any point in life inspired her to focus on teaching skills that can be applied in any situation.
“So when Georgetown started talking to me about what I’d like to teach, I said, ‘Oh, I’d like to teach leadership,’ and not just looking at what makes people good leaders, but helping people build their own leadership skills,” Kenney said. “It’s very practical: What can you do every day to be a better leader, so that everyone is a leader and makes an impact throughout their careers?”
Kenney said students in her class can expect to hear from a number of guest speakers throughout the semester who will contribute their own expertise in the foreign policy arena, including people working in the federal government, international business and NGOs.
Kenney has previously spoken on women’s leadership skills, a topic she hopes to incorporate into the course.
“Leadership under challenging circumstances, managing diverse teams, is something that matters a lot to me and I hope to you. [The course covers] gender issues in leadership as well: how women can be good leaders and how men can make sure that the women who work with and for them also have the leadership skills they need,” Kenney added.
Byman said Kenney’s passion, experience and background will make her an engaging and successful professor.
“Having met her now and hearing her talk, I’m really excited about the energy she brings and really just when you meet her, it’s just — she’s got really a perfect mix of curiosity and friendliness, yet at the same time a wealth of and really a depth of knowledge about the diplomatic world,” Byman said.
Kenney said that Georgetown’s reputation for diversity and passionate students encouraged her to come to the Hilltop.
“It’s such an international university and such a diverse student body — there’s students from the United States and pretty much all over the world, so to me that’s exciting because I will hear from a lot of different student voices,” Kenney said. “Georgetown’s always really been a leader in leadership issues and foreign affairs, so I think it’s hard to find a more historically exciting and yet very current school to be at.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

