
November 15, 2017 by Tara Subramaniam 3 Comments 
“Community in Diversity.” One of Georgetown’s oft-touted Jesuit values, the phrase is often mentioned by the university to entice prospective students. Students may catch a glimpse of it on a banner around campus in their day-to-day hustle or in the university’s promotional materials.  
Behind the flashy catchphrase, the question remains: What does it actually mean to be a community in diversity?
From an admissions perspective, of the 1,633 students in the Class of 2021, 227 are Asian, 183 Hispanic and a record 172 are black. Together, they make up 35.6 percent of the class — while nearly two-thirds of students, 64.4 percent, are white. By comparison, white students make up 58 percent of all college students nationwide.
This disproportionality is not limited to race. According to a study by The Equality of Opportunity Project published by The New York Times in 2017, the median income for a parent of a student in Georgetown’s Class of 2013 was $229,100, the 8th highest of the 2,395 U.S. colleges surveyed. More students at Georgetown come from families in the top 1 percent of income earners than from the bottom 60 percent combined. 
Despite the university’s efforts, challenges remain in promoting a true community in diversity — one that fosters a sense of inclusion for those of traditionally marginalized socio-economic, racial and sexual backgrounds. The numbers tell one story, but the students tell another.
Economic Straits
Emily Kaye (COL ’18) never thought she could get into an Ivy League school. Her admission to Cornell University was not only a surprise, but also an escape from the stress of impending foreclosure and her parent’s divorce.
“I was hyping up college so much in my younger years because it was like my escape, what I was looking forward to — to get out of this home life that hadn’t really given me what I needed to get out of it in terms of growing and learning,” Kaye said.
After a year at Cornell, Kaye transferred to Georgetown.
“I was looking for a school that would stimulate me more intellectually outside of the classroom and also feel more like a community around things that I valued, such as the independence and the drive that I grew up with,” Kaye said. “I found that in the Georgetown Scholarship Program, and that’s when I started to understand my identities more of being first-gen and low-income.”
Each year, GSP provides financial support and mentorship to at least 170 low-income or first-generation students. GSP creates a community of over 650 students to help them navigate the unfamiliarity of college.
“It’s important to recognize that part of this campus is really wealthy, but there’s another part that is not,” Kaye said. “We have to acknowledge those differences and learn from them, but not in a way that isolates other people.”
Fax Victor (COL ’19), another GSP student, said the organization has made tremendous strides in promoting diversity in ways beyond financial inclusion.  
“GSP, they do a great job of reaching out to other communities, like the Black House, the Casa Latina, to ensure that other people are not forgotten, that it’s not just about being low-income, it’s about the overall picture of just being together despite whatever differences we may have, either racially, ethnically or just in thoughts,” Victor said.
Victor grew up in Boston surrounded by elite universities like Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology — and detractors telling him he was not good enough to get into them.
“Things didn’t go my way when I was younger. My parents separated. I was stuck as a kid, in the sense that I had to grow up very fast,” Victor said. “Many people didn’t see the idea of me going to an elite college, period; it wasn’t heard of where I’m from. So the fact that I actually did it, and I still want to do bigger and better things, had me feeling like an underdog.”
The Road Less Travelled
Thanklessly compassionate. Thrilling. Challenging but rewarding. Meant to be.
While each student has different experiences both before and during college, Georgetown brings them all together. 
Amanda Scott (COL ’19) never went to high school. But Scott’s nontraditional education did not prevent her from pursuing her dreams: Having been homeschooled, she got her General Educational Development diploma at age 20 and attended Coastal Alabama Community College in Bay Minette, Ala., for two years before transferring to Georgetown. 
“College was not a standard or expectation for me growing up,” Scott said. “I didn’t know exactly what to expect when I came to Georgetown, because I didn’t come from a traditional background like a lot of my peers did. But I’ve really found that my work experience and background has helped me, helped my worldview.”
Like Kaye and Scott, GSP student Deshaun Rice (COL ’20) followed an unlikely path to Georgetown. After his junior year in high school left him in trouble at school and with the law, he had a change of heart that may have meant the difference between life and death.
“Eleventh grade I almost failed. I think I ended my junior year with, like, a 1.2 [GPA]. I actually was in a gang at that point and had been to juvenile. That summer I decided that if I don’t get anything changed, I’m either going to end up dead like my friend or behind bars. That wasn’t the life for me,” Rice said.
But by his senior year, Rice raised his GPA to a 3.7 and earned a full scholarship to Georgetown. Despite the GSP aid, the transition to college was difficult for Rice.
“I was behind when I got here, in terms of books people had read or even just how to take notes in class. I was almost dismissed from Georgetown because I had failed two classes spring semester of freshman year,” Rice said. “In the fall, when I came back to Georgetown, I was working three jobs because I was preparing to have a son. I really didn’t have any money when I came, so the first couple of weeks I didn’t have any food.”
The combination of financial and academic stress reached a tipping point after Rice’s first year at Georgetown, leading him to take a yearlong medical leave of absence.
“All of that just hit me. I didn’t know what was going on. I thought it was normal to feel like this,” Rice said. “I got depressed. I actually tried to attempt suicide. I failed and ended up being admitted to the Georgetown psychiatric unit.”
After a year away from the university, Rice feels more prepared to deal with the differences between his life back home and college life. 
“I feel like that time away from Georgetown helped me grow and mature and see that self-care and mental health is an important thing, especially as a college student at a top-tier, elite university where just the pressure of being here and the expectations people have of you can be stressful,” Rice said.
Room to Improve  
First-generation college students like Rice face distinct challenges. In particular, many struggle to navigate differences with their peers from more traditional backgrounds.
Scott, who identifies as openly bisexual in addition to being low-income and first-generation, said she feels that Georgetown supports certain aspects of diversity more than others.
“It’s more diverse than I had anticipated, in the sense that we do have an LGBTQ center. But sometimes, I am surprised at the lack of diversity,” Scott said. “Although on the surface there may be programs for LGBTQ students, for immigrant students and people of color, I think it’s really lacking in socio-economic diversity.”
Justus Pugh (MSB ’20), who said he specifically selected Georgetown because he felt its global mindset would embrace diversity, was surprised to find the diversity of the campus fell short of his expectations.
“I went to a very diverse high school. I was constantly surrounded by and engaged in talks about different cultures and religions and different ways of life, just learning how different everybody is,” Pugh said. “After being constantly surrounded by that, then coming to Georgetown, it wasn’t as immersive.”
Nevertheless, Sayako Quinlan (SFS ’18), who interned for the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access, believes the university has made progress in terms of including and providing support for groups with diverse identities through institutions like the CMEA.
“Throughout my first year, I noticed that for me, the most salient topic in diversity was race. However, as a half-Japanese, half-white person, that often meant racial advocacy for people more marginalized, more underrepresented or more oppressed,” Quinlan said. “The best way I could describe diversity at Georgetown for me has been a work in progress. The work the CMEA does is really helping to make it a place for all people.”
Now an outreach and strategic partnership chair on GSP’s student board, Victor is currently spearheading efforts to increase the diversity of Georgetown’s applicant pool. In high school, Victor attended the Crimson Summer Academy at Harvard, which offers 30 students across the Boston and Cambridge public school system the opportunity to take classes and be immersed in the culture of a college campus. He is now working with the admissions office to create a partnership between the CSA and GSP.
“This would one, contribute to the diversity of Georgetown, but also the thought that these students needed to know what Georgetown has to offer, because I feel like other schools don’t offer anything close to Georgetown,” Victor said.
Despite remaining challenges, Kaye said she commends the efforts by the university and GSP to continuously improve when it comes to diversity on campus. 
“The administrators are trying so hard to make this place what they know it should be. Especially compared to other universities, they are doing a good job,” Kaye said. “It’s helpful and productive to be critical of the university, but only in the context of what other universities are doing. I want to continue to hold them to a high standard.”

Hoya2019 says 
November 15, 2017 at 6:15 pm
“From an admissions perspective, of the 1,633 students in the Class of 2021, 227 are Asian, 183 Hispanic and a record 172 are black. Together, they make up 35.6 percent of the class — while nearly two-thirds of students, 64.4 percent, are white. By comparison, white students make up 58 percent of all college students nationwide.”
This is fake news.  It assumes there are only Asians, Hispanics, and Blacks.  Are Jew being considered White?  Are Arabs?  Anyone else?
Also, of the 64.4% of alleged Whites, at least 10% are Jews, despite Jews being 2% of the population in America.  
The number one disproportionate population based on national demographics are Jews.  Then Asians.  Non-Jewish Whites at Georgetown are actually in line with national statistics, if not underrepresented.

John Citizen says 
November 17, 2017 at 5:24 am
“Diversity” means chasing down White people. 
#WhiteGenocide
[…] Diversity, Defined (Nov. 15) […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 15, 2017 by Katrina Schmidt 1 Comment 
Members of student group H*yas for Choice delivered an open letter to Georgetown University administrators Monday demanding the university maintain its coverage of contraception in student health insurance plans.
Two rules issued by the Department of Health and Human Services on Oct. 6 rolled back a mandate of the Affordable Care Act, former President Barack Obama’s health care law, which required most employers to cover contraception in employer-provided health insurance plans. The actions expanded the list of organizations that can receive religious exemptions from the mandate to include nonprofit organizations, for-profit companies and institutions of higher education.
Georgetown has yet to say whether it will continue covering access to contraception under university-provided student health insurance plans. The Catholic university did not provide contraceptive coverage until the Affordable Care Act mandate was enacted.
Thirteen members of H*yas for Choice delivered the letter to the Office of the President. Annie Mason (COL ’18), co-president of H*yas for Choice, read the letter aloud to Joseph Ferrara, chief of staff the university president, before leaving copies for other administrators not present.
H*yas for Choice, a campus pro-abortion rights organization not officially recognized by the university, is calling on Georgetown to maintain its contraception coverage.
The open letter, addressed to University President John J. DeGioia and six other administrators, asks the university to clarify the nature of its decision-making process regarding contraceptive coverage and to include students in that decision-making process.
A student health advisory board, intended to provide a platform for student input on student health issues such as contraceptive coverage, was originally set to launch this semester, but has yet to be established. Administrators now planning to establish the board this spring.
Michaela Lewis (COL ’18), co-president of H*yas for Choice, said she hopes Georgetown would continue its contraception policy required by the Affordable Care Act.
“We are hoping that the university keeps the policy that it had to implement under the ACA,” Lewis said. “Because the university has implemented this policy when they had to, we know that it’s possible.”
Rachel Pugh, Georgetown senior director for strategic communications, said students will continue to have a platform to voice their concerns about health insurance.
“Senior leaders from Georgetown frequently meet with students on health insurance issues – with a session on health coverage with graduate students convened as recently as last week – and will continue to be accessible moving forward,” Pugh wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Mason said transparency is a crucial step the administration can take to acknowledge the complexity of the issue and commit to addressing it in a way that is “as humanizing and validating as possible.”
The contraceptive mandate, which required all employer health insurance plans to cover at least one form of birth control effective August 2012, exempted certain religious organizations with moral opposition to contraception. However, the exceptions were narrowed under the Affordable Care Act rule, excluding universities such as Georgetown with religious affiliations that provide health insurance for students.
The contraceptive mandate required insurance companies to directly cover contraception for individuals covered by religiously affiliated organizations with objections to contraception, a rule left unchanged under President Donald Trump’s administration’s rollback.
Pugh said Trump’s rules do not alter the system in which United Healthcare directly pays for contraception covered on the Premier Plan.
“As a religiously-affiliated organization, Georgetown receives an accommodation under which our insurer offers coverage at no cost to the University or plan participants,” Pugh wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We are currently reviewing the new regulations and in the meantime our current accommodation remains in place.”
Since 2013, Georgetown’s student health insurance has covered contraception through United Healthcare. This academic year, over 6,600 students are enrolled in the Premier Plan, the highest enrollment in university history.
Georgetown is not the first Catholic university to face pressure over contraception coverage since the mandate rollback. The University of Notre Dame initially decided to stop covering birth control last month, then unexpectedly reversed its decision on Nov. 7  after student backlash.
Amelia Irvine (COL ’19), president of Love Saxa, a student group that promotes traditional views of relationships and sexuality, said administrators should consider the university’s Catholic background in deciding whether to continue contraceptive coverage.
“They should definitely consider their Catholic identity and how that plays into their rights and responsibilities to their employees and their students,” Irvine said.
Irvine said Georgetown should consider ending contraceptive coverage because of “Catholic sexual ethics.” The Catholic Church officially opposes all forms of contraception.
Mason urged the administration to consider the needs of the community.
“Often we get sort of lost in legal rhetoric, and what’s Catholic enough, and what is the law, and maybe we could do this and what’s the cheapest,” Mason said. “We forget that these are actual experiences of people on this campus whom we see every day.”

Grandma says 
November 17, 2017 at 6:50 pm
Your article should mention that many of the contraceptives – the ones that really work – are abortifacient. That is, conception takes place but the lining of the uterus is rendered inhospitable to the developing baby so it dies and is cast out. Learn how the various contraceptives work. Many affect the woman’s immune system making her more susceptible to STDs. You want all this on your conscience – killing human beings, intentionally increasing your risk of venereal diseases you will carry for the rest of your life and which in most cases will render you infertile as well? The more people you have sex with, eventually your body rebels and sets up an immunity to sperm so that when you DO want to conceive a child, you can’t. And when you give in to a guy you are just teaching and forming him to be sexually uncontrolled. Not a nice legacy for his future wife. That’s for women. For men, besides STDs, you gradually lose the ability to deeply bond with your future wife, as God intended and weaken your sexual self control (which can be a big problem in your future married life) Think about your tomorrows. Sexuality is a divine gift you all need to reverence and control according to God’s plan for marriage and the family. Stop whining about how you need the school to pay for your contraceptives. They are deadly evils for you.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 15, 2017 by Sarah Mendelsohn Leave a Comment 
Seventeen Democratic members of the House of Representatives sued the General Services Administration on Nov. 2 over the agency’s refusal to provide documents regarding Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C.
The House members said they repeatedly requested documents, which the GSA is legally required to provide, regarding the financial history of the Trump Hotel, located in the Old Post Office Pavilion on Pennsylvania Avenue. The members of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform also requested records of payments the Trump Hotel received from foreign clients.
The GSA, which owns the Old Post Office Pavilion, signed a lease with the Trump Organization in June 2013 that allowed the company to transform the historic building into a luxury hotel. The hotel opened in September 2016 during the presidential campaign.
The lease prohibits any “elected official of the government of the United States” from profiting from the Trump Hotel. It also requires the Trump Organization to provide monthly statements about the finances and operations of the hotel.
The members are seeking to determine “whether the Office of the Presidency is being used for private gain,” according to a committee press release.
In their complaint, the 17 plaintiffs said that Trump’s refusal to give up ownership of the hotel not only violates the terms of the lease but also presents a conflict of interest for the president.
“President Trump’s refusal to divest his ownership interest in a company that contracts with the federal government raises numerous issues requiring congressional oversight, including oversight of potential conflicts of interest, oversight of GSA’s interpretation of the contract requirements, and oversight of GSA’s ongoing management of the lease,” the committee wrote in its complaint.
Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), the ranking Democrat in the House Oversight Committee, said that Republicans in Congress have failed to exercise proper oversight over the Trump administration.
Under the Seven Members Statute, federal agencies are required to submit information to the House Oversight Committee if at least seven of the committee members request the information. Cummings said the members sued after the GSA refused to obey the Seven Member Statute.
“Under the previous administration, this exact same agency—GSA—explicitly recognized our authority under this exact same statute—the Seven Member statute—and produced documents on this exact same issue—the Trump Hotel. But all that stopped on Jan. 20,” Cummings wrote in a statement. “There is one thing, and one thing only, that has changed in this case—President Trump is now sitting in the Oval Office.”
The 17 Democrats said the reasoning behind the GSA’s noncompliance with the Seven Members Statute is unclear.
“Following the inauguration of President Trump, GSA’s practice of honoring Seven Member Rule requests changed, but the rationale for the change has been shifting and contradictory,” they wrote.
Pam Dixon, a spokesperson for the GSA, wrote in an email to The Hoya that the “GSA does not comment on pending litigation.”
The House Democrats are not alone in worrying about the relationship between the Trump Hotel and the office of the presidency.
Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, an organization that uses legal means to demand governmental transparency, also filed a suit against the Trump Organization for accepting payments from foreign governments or officials in November 2016. The attorneys general of D.C. and Maryland filed a lawsuit against the hotel over foreign payments to the Trump Hotel in June this year.
The lawsuit is set to be litigated in the District Court for Washington, D.C.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 15, 2017 by Matthew Larson 1 Comment 
The National Park Service plans to ban sports and other recreational activities on the grounds of the Washington Monument and raise rates for those who want to use other facilities on the National Mall next year.
The field closures are intended to help maintain the newly installed turf on the monument grounds, according to the NPS. The six fields surrounding the Washington Monument have been closed since earlier this year for the installation of new turf, a project due for completion in 2018. The grounds would remain closed permanently if the proposed plan is approved.
The NPS also plans to raise fees for reservations and permits for those looking to hold games or events on the other fields of the National Mall and Rock Creek Park. Currently, rates to use some of the fields field are under $10 per hour, but the NPS is considering raising the fees to over $70 for a two-hour block.
A public comment period on the changes to hear feedback on the measures being considered has yet to be scheduled as of Tuesday night.
National Park Service spokesman Mike Litterst wrote in an email to WTOP that the NPS had been considering restricting access to fields surrounding the Washington Monument since the closure to put in the turf was approved. Litterst also noted that those seeking permits to use the fields would also now have to work with the NPS rather than with Washington, D.C.’s Department of Parks and Recreation.
“With the completion of the turf restoration of the National Mall we’ve been working to maximize our athletic field space in non-memorial/monument areas of the park,” Litterst wrote.
Litterst added that the revenue the NPS would receive from the higher field usage fees is needed to keep the Mall in good repair. The current fees only cover permit-filing costs, but the NPS needed to use extra money for a more expansive field upkeep program.
“[We will change the fees] from the previous flat fees based solely on administrative costs of processing (in some cases as little as $7 per season) to an hourly rate that will provide revenue for upkeep and management of the fields,” Litterst wrote in an email to The Washington Post.
The proposal has not been met with great enthusiasm by those who use the fields. Robert Kinsler, founder of D.C. Fray, a company that runs recreational sports leagues, has filed a petition on Change.org, which has over 6,000 supporters, seeking to prevent or modify these proposed changes. According to Kinsler, his petition has support from groups such as the D.C. Chamber of Commerce and the Social Sports Foundation.
In the petition, Kinsler wrote that restricting access to public land would go against the founding values of the National Mall. He also noted that it would affect the view of D.C. as a good place to live with a vibrant community.
“The total ban is antithetical to the purpose of the Mall,” Kinsler wrote. “Through the inception of the National Mall dating back to the [Pierre] L’Enfant plan of 1791 and the redesign by the McMillan Commission of 1901, a main intention of the Mall is to serve area citizens and the city by providing open recreation space.”
The NPS has also received pushback from elected officials. Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.) tweeted her opposition to the proposal on Monday.
Today we wrote NPS urging it reconsider its proposal to close athletic fields on Wash Monument grounds and raise fees for other fields on the Mall. The Mall must remain open and accessible to everyone. pic.twitter.com/rGWRmZoQd8
— Eleanor H. Norton (@EleanorNorton) November 14, 2017

Holmes is also circulating a letter among her colleagues in the House of Representatives that urges the NPS to reconsider its proposal. As of Monday, the letter had received signatures from seven House members.
“Space for intramural sports is already at a premium in the District of Columbia and throughout the region,” the letter read. “Closing six fields at the Washington Monument will impact local parks and recreation departments.”

Robert Kinsler says 
November 15, 2017 at 11:11 am
While this issue impacts local residents, it sets precedent across the country and hurts a uniquely American Tradition.
We are encouraging people across the country as well as around the DC Metro area to support our petition. You can find a direct link at http://www.YesMallBall.com
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 15, 2017 by Kara Tippins Leave a Comment 
Nonmilitary students must create a more inclusive culture for veteran students, argued former Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel at a ceremony Monday commemorating Veterans Day outside White-Gravenor Hall.
Hagel, a veteran of the Vietnam War, honored veterans who rebuild their lives after service.
“[They] return home not asking for favors or special recognition,” Hagel said. “They do not wallow in self-pity. Rather, they rebuild their lives.”
Creating an inclusive environment will help veteran students acclimate to campus life, according to Hagel.
“I think the bottom line is the common responsibility that we all have is to serve others in some way,” Hagel said in an interview with The Hoya.
In its seventh year, the Veterans Day event began as a crowd-funded project initiated by the Georgetown University’s Student Veterans Association, according to GUSVA President Cristine Pederson (SFS ’18). This year’s ceremony was sponsored by the Office of the President.
The ceremony was opened with a rendition of the national anthem by the Georgetown Phantoms, a performance by the Hoya Battalion Color Guard and an opening prayer by Fr. G. Ronald Murphy, S.J. Among the guests were active members of the military, veterans and family members of service groups.
Georgetown’s campuses are home to about 950 students with connections to the military, including service members, veterans and military families, according to Georgetown’s Veterans Office.
University President John J. DeGioia said he hopes current students will appreciate the sacrifices made by veteran students.
“We recognize in our midst [there] are other young people that have sacrificed significantly, so that we could have the kind of experiences that we have here at Georgetown,” DeGioia said in an interview with The Hoya.
In commemoration of Military Awareness month, Georgetown plans to host a series of 13 events directed at recognizing and fostering a feeling of inclusion on campus.
The Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity and Affirmative Action, which seeks to promote inclusivity on campus, plans to host an event entitled “Hiring Veterans Debunking the Myths” with Veterans Office Director LeNaya Hezel, on Nov. 16. The Georgetown Military Appreciation Football Game is scheduled for Nov. 18 and is free for all veterans.
As a five-year Marine Corps veteran, Pederson said balancing campus life with military experience “can almost feel like living a double life,” as veterans carry the weight of past service and mourn lost friends while living the life of a university student.
Pederson said growing more accustomed to civilian life in a college community can be challenging.
“There’s a huge disconnect between staff and faculty and the military and civilian populations,” Pederson said.
The military presence on campus is often overlooked by most Georgetown students, said Lauren Fraiser (SFS ’21), a member of the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps.
“A lot of people that I have talked to have no clue what ROTC is; they do not really know much about the military in general,” Fraiser said.
This feeling of detachment is not uncommon among veteran students, according to a study conducted by Brown University’s Watson Institute of International and Public Affairs. According to the study, when veterans are placed in a college environment, they find it hard to relate to their younger peers due to a disparity in life experience.
Between 2003 and 2019 it is expected that approximately 4.3 million service members will have returned home as veterans, many seeking to attend college for the first time.
Pederson called on civilian students to encourage a sense of unity at Georgetown.
“If you learn of someone who is a veteran, accept them into the community,” Pederson said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

