
December 7, 2017 by Sarah Mendelsohn 1 Comment 
The U.S. Senate confirmed Georgetown alumna Kirstjen Nielsen (SFS ’94) as secretary of the Department of Homeland Security by a 62-37 vote Tuesday.
Nielsen will fill the vacancy left by former DHS Secretary John Kelly, who left the department in July to serve as President Donald Trump’s chief of staff. Nielsen, who served as Kelly’s chief of staff at the DHS, will replace the acting secretary, Elaine Duke, who has led the DHS since Kelly left.
A Florida native, Nielsen attended the University of Virginia School of Law after graduating from Georgetown.
The DHS, founded in 2002 and currently the third largest government agency with around 230,000 employees, deals with national security concerns like immigration enforcement, transportation security, disaster response and managing the U.S. Secret Service and the U.S. Coast Guard.
Nielsen, a cybersecurity expert, said she views cybersecurity as the most important issue that the DHS will address under her leadership.
“It is my greatest honor to serve as Secretary alongside the remarkable men and women of DHS,” Nielsen wrote in a Dec. 6 news release. “Our nation faces a complex threat landscape that is constantly evolving. I will do my utmost to ensure that the Department meets the threats of today and tomorrow, and to ensure our frontline personnel have the tools and resources to accomplish their vital missions.”
Nielsen will be the first DHS secretary with experience working in the agency, which Trump said will assist her as she assumes leadership. DHS is the youngest federal cabinet agency, created in response to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Previous secretaries have served as governors and federal counsels before leading the department
“There will be no on-the-job training for Kirstjen. She is ready on day one,” Trump said in a news conference Oct. 12.
Nielsen is a “no-nonsense player and a policy wonk,” though her “regimented style” has frustrated some senior White House officials accustomed to a freewheeling environment, according to a New York Times story Oct. 11.
Nielsen faced challenges from Democrats on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee who said she lacked experience leading a large agency.
Senators Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.) and Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) voted against Nielsen, voicing their concerns about her independence from the White House.
“Throughout her confirmation process, Ms. Nielsen failed to demonstrate that she would provide the steady experienced leadership — free from political interference from the White House — that the department needs,” Hassan said.
Nielsen received endorsements from Kelly and former DHS secretaries Tom Ridge and Michael Chertoff, who served under former President George W. Bush.
In his opening statement at a hearing for Nielsen on Nov. 8, Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wisc.) said Nielsen’s experience in the DHS and time working with Kelly equip her well to lead the agency.
“Fortunately, when Ms. Nielsen served under Secretary Kelly, she witnessed firsthand how quickly and dramatically morale can be improved within DHS by providing its workforce the authority and support they need to perform the tasks they were hired to do,” Johnson said.

Mike Smith says 
July 19, 2018 at 4:28 pm
She is pathetic. Georgetown should revoke her diploma! Today she said she does not see any evidence that Russia meddled in our elections… that is after Trump himself admitted there is evidence they did, as well as the FBI, CIA, and NSA. Nielsen is also responsible for the implementation of this horrible policy separating children from their parents at the border. And she is so feckless she can’t even reunite them, even though she has been ordered to do so by a judge. She sure isn’t living up to Jesuit standards!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 7, 2017 by Emily Leng 4 Comments 
Jake Lyons (COL ’20) and Peter Hamilton (COL ’20) were elected president and vice president, respectively, of the Georgetown University College Republicans on Nov. 28, marking a shift in the club’s focus toward building a strong community among its members.
Lyons and Hamilton hope to increase GUCR’s membership and promote political discourse within the club to foster a community on campus for conservatism. The pair plan to launch a digital communications team and an editorial team and to host more community initiatives such as roundtable discussions and networking events.
Lyons said GUCR’s lack of community focus hindered the ability of club members to connect.
“Our lack of focus towards our membership, our lack of vision going forward, actually finding specific areas where we wanted to make a difference, we were lacking in that area,” Lyons said.
He also added that a strong  platform to express conservative ideas and rationales is the first step to increasing club membership. Hamilton noted that “conservative” has become a dirty word, so their main objective is to reframe the conversation around conservatism to create a space for people to defend Republican ideals.
Lyons and Hamilton have been members of GUCR since their freshman years. Both previously served on the club’s board.
GUCR board positions were widely uncontested this semester, according to outgoing President Allie Williams (SFS ’19), which she said contributed to a lack of ideological diversity on the incoming board. Williams also raised concerns that the incoming board would not continue the club’s legacy of fostering positive campus dialogue.
“I was very disappointed by the election this year,” Williams wrote in an email to The Hoya. “If more people had run for positions this year I believe we would be looking at a very different ideological makeup of the incoming administration.”
Lyons, who previously served as vice president, described himself as a “moderate Republican.” He said his own political leanings would not curtail the diverse breadth of political opinions in the club as GUCR aims to unite all different facets of conservatism.
Hamilton, who previously acted as director of membership, said he identifies as a strong conservative, both fiscally and socially. He initially supported Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) in the Republican primary and voted for President Donald Trump in the general election.
“I consider myself socially conservative because I support traditional family values,” Hamilton said. “I’ve always been tempted to describe myself as a moderate, but I wouldn’t say that that’s an accurate description.”
Under previous leadership, GUCR has been able to create constructive dialogue and contribute to a positive, optimistic and productive political climate on campus, Williams said. However, Williams said the new leadership may not continue this legacy.
“Unfortunately, I do not see the same level of commitment to discourse from the incoming administration. Nor do I see a commitment to recognizing that there is no set build for a ‘conservative,’ and that ideological diversity should be embraced and recognized through dialogue and debate,” Williams wrote.
Lyons responded that the incoming board has members “all along the conservative political spectrum.”
“As far as external dialogue – our leadership has been involved with diverse groups on campus and actively pushed for and helped organize events that foster dialogue.”
Maria Cornell (SFS ’20), the incoming chair of the Georgetown University College Democrats, said she wants to “foster a culture and conversation of respect between the two organizations and move forward together, and as a country more generally.”
A primary goal for Williams as president of GUCR was to create a dialogue on the issue of sexual assault on college campuses. Williams said she hopes the new administration will continue her efforts and that some members of the pre-transition board had hesitated to support an official stance on sexual assault in the past.
“One of the most frustrating parts of leading GUCR was the fact that certain members of my Board were unwilling to formally put the name of the organization on co-sponsorship opportunities regarding support for survivors,” Williams wrote. “I am hoping that the new administration will begin recognizing the importance of a nonpartisan fight for the rights and support of sexual survivors.”
Though the new board has not discussed an official stance on sexual assault survivors according to Lyons and Hamilton, they insisted there is no place in their board for anyone who does not fully support survivors.
“Allie Williams personally has been a very good supporter of sexual assault survivors,” Lyons said. “As a board, we have not had a discussion in the past about sexual assault survivors and the statement that some of the board members were not 1oo percent behind sexual assault survivors is definitely false. I’ve had conversations with every person on our board, and our board is 100 percent behind sexual assault survivors.”
Hamilton said that although an advocacy structure may be developed down the line, he and Lyons did not originally campaign on any specific policy issues. Lyons and Hamilton said they are both optimistic about the future of GUCR and the creation of a positive and accepting environment to further intellectual diversity on campus.
“Every person has a story. And every person has a million reasons why,” Hamilton said. “Something I was told in one of my classes here is that in order to have a truly fruitful discussion with someone, always assume the best intent.”
Editor’s note: This post has been updated.

James says 
December 7, 2017 at 11:26 am
Peter Hamilton’s “strong family values” = vociferous opposition to same-sex marriage and civil unions, never mind that same-sex couples could help raise kids who’d otherwise be aborted or left to rot in an orphanage.
Good god, what is happening to this campus. The backlash to gay rights has begun.

Alumnus Interested in GU's Political Culture says 
December 7, 2017 at 8:26 pm
Am I the only one who feels this article dances way too much around what the actual “ideological shift” was that occurred here? The new leadership, a “moderate” and a “strong” conservative (would they need a “mild” conservative to be truly ideologically “diverse?”) plan to “launch a digital communications team” and “host more community initiatives such as roundtable discussions and networking events.” This hardly seems a radical departure from Ms. Williams’s “commitment to discourse”  (whatever that really means). Are the Hoya and Allie hinting that the new GUCR leadership are maybe a bit sexist, as evidenced in their failure to support sexual assault survivors? If Lyons and Hamilton are the board members reluctant to support sexual assault survivors, it might be interesting to hear why they’d be against doing so. Are they just jerks? Do they (at least claim to) fear some kind of administrative over-reach in protecting survivors (or maybe it’s all a Soros funded conspiracy)? Alternatively, should we just assume that the Hoya’s editors chose a title that overstates the change that is really going on here, and maybe roll our eyes at Allie’s disappointment that GUCR can’t attract true “ideological diversity” in the Trump era?  Anyway, hope this comment doesn’t come off as disrespectful or overly harsh, but was genuinely intrigued in what things are like on campus these days when I read the title and am feeling let down.

Kevin says 
March 21, 2018 at 10:18 am
The GU College Republicans are a breath of fresh air.  Mr. Lyons and Mr. Hamilton, keep up the good work!

Jack the Bullfrog says 
March 22, 2018 at 9:21 am
Probably the saddest thing on the Hoya comments, putting aside how often I’m on here, is that the conservatives write self-congratulatory bon mots to themselves to suggest their pseudoideologies actually have support.
Best example? Look at the ratio of concealed carry supporters to opponents on this website as opposed to Facebook
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 7, 2017 by Caroline Gardner Leave a Comment 
Members of Georgetown University College Democrats elected a new executive board for the spring semester last week, producing a team that plans to work toward increasing diversity within the club.
Maria Cornell (SFS ’20) is set to replace Larry Huang (COL ’19) when his term as chair ends Dec. 31. Both Cornell and Huang said they are proud of what the club accomplished this semester and that they are looking forward to seeing what the new board achieves.
“There’s a lot of work to be done and a lot of ways to get involved,” Cornell said. “I’m excited to see what everyone comes up with.”
Cornell also hopes to do away with the application to the club and implement an interest form to create a more welcoming environment for prospective members.
“I hope to affirm the reputation that the Dems are a very accepting group on campus and bring in new voices,” Cornell said.
Cornell also plans to build coalitions with other on-campus groups to expand the goals of the club and to work with off-campus groups through canvassing, lobbying and partnering with College Democrats chapters at other Washington, D.C. schools.
Other newly elected members of the board include Anusha Agarwal (COL ’21) as the director of speakers; Rebecca Hollister (COL ’21) as the director of campaigning and off-campus affairs; Jenny Xu (COL ’21) as the vice chair and director of advocacy; Logan Arkema (COL ’20) as the membership director; Alvaro Carrillo-Sanchez (COL ’21) as the director of alumni and advancement; Jake Galant (COL ’20) as director of communications and Mark Massa (SFS ’20) as the treasurer.
In addition to making improvements within the club, the new board members said they would work to support Democrats on the national level, especially in the upcoming 2018 midterm elections.
“Campaigning within GUCD is particularly important to me because, while protests are a wonderful way to express opinions, having the right people in the legislature will eliminate panic and protests over bad policy,” Hollister said. “That is why it’s so important to not only vote, but to work to support candidates that will be representing students like us in the national arena.”
Huang said that he is excited to see what Cornell does in her new position as chair.
“Everyone who meets Maria always wants to spend more time with her because she is the best human being ever,” Huang said. “I spent 20 hours on this a week — it was my life, and it takes a special human being to keep me sane in all of that, and that was her. She will be great.”
The all-underclassmen, majority female board is representative of the general membership of the club. GUCD has benefitted from a surge in membership, with over 1,500 members on its email listserv, according to Cornell. Sixty-eight people applied to be involved in the leadership departments in spring 2017, and 201 applied in the fall.
Arkema also said he plans on working to diversify the club to reflect the nature of the Democratic Party.
“Membership of College Dems is not reflective of the people who vote for Democrats, it’s not reflective of Georgetown as a whole and it’s not reflective of the issues we need to be advocating for,” Arkema said.
The club struggles to keep its members through the spring and hopes to add more spring events and initiatives to raise retention.
Cornell and Jake Lyons (COL ’20), the recently elected president of the Georgetown University College Republicans, said they will work to increase collaboration between the two groups.
“At the end of the day, we all want to find solutions to the issues our country faces,” Lyons said. “By listening to different ideas instead of shutting them down, we’re going to find common ground.”
Cornell said she wants to “foster a culture and conversation of respect between the two organizations and move forward together, and as a country more generally.”
“As young people, Democrats really rely on us to go out and canvass, to call our representatives, to go out and volunteer and make sure our platforms are being heard throughout our community,” Cornell said. “We need to use our position as the future of the Democratic Party to start seeing the changes that we want to see in the current Democratic Party.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 7, 2017 by Sarah Mendelsohn Leave a Comment 
More than two months after a string of anti-Semitic vandalism incidents in two residence halls shook campus, the Georgetown University Police Department has not identified a suspect.
Swastikas were found painted in an LXR Hall elevator and bathroom on at least three occasions in September shortly after a swastika was carved into an elevator of Village C West. GUPD increased security and installed cameras around LXR in response to the vandalism.
GUPD Police Chief Jay Gruber said campus police have conducted extensive investigations and interviews to identify the person responsible, but the investigation is ongoing.
Jessica Keller (COL ’20), president of J Street U Georgetown, a pro-Israel campus group, said that the administration should have taken stronger action against the anti-Semitic sentiment on campus.
“The administration should do more to forcibly condemn the incidences of anti-Semitism that continue to plague our campus. It appears that actions of anti-Semitism and misogyny have only been bolstered by the inability of our society to condemn this hateful rhetoric, and I believe that more must be done, both by the administration and by other student organizations, to combat this threat,” Keller wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Rev. Mark Bosco, S.J., vice president for mission and ministry, and Todd Olson, vice president for student affairs, sent a campuswide email in response to the swastikas found carved in VCW, and University President John J. DeGioia sent another campuswide email in response to the swastikas found painted in LXR.
The emails condemned the acts of vandalism and promised those responsible would be held accountable for their actions.
Keller said although the university could do more, she appreciates its responses to the acts of vandalism.
“The administration’s efforts to vocalize their condemnation of anti-Semitism and efforts to stand alongside the Jewish community (i.e. attending Shabbat services in solidarity) went a long way in reassuring our Jewish student community that their safety and sense of community on campus are university priorities,” Keller wrote.
Tanner Larkin (SFS ’20), vice president of the Georgetown Israel Alliance, said the university addressed the anti-Semitic vandalism well but should have continued its campuswide updates to maintain Georgetown’s awareness of anti-Semitism on campus. The university initially sent campuswide announcements after each incident but stopped in September after incidents accelerated, apparently in response to widespread attention.
“Once students, faculty, and alumni stopped hearing about the swastikas, they wrongly assumed they had stopped appearing,” Larkin wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Larkin said the swastikas drawn in dorms reflect a larger problem with anti-Semitism on campus.
“It is important that people recognize that anti-Semitism is a bigger problem than just some graffiti. Swastikas are only the most glaring kind of anti-Semitism at Georgetown,” Larkin said.
Hasaan Munim (SFS ’18), president of the Georgetown University Muslim Students Association, said the Muslim community stood in solidarity with Jewish students at Georgetown and strove to provide support by attending Shabbat services and co-hosting interfaith dialogues.
“The immediate reaction was to look for ways to support members of the Georgetown community who are Jewish,” Munim said.
Georgetown University Student Association Press Secretary Aaron Bennett (COL ’19) said that GUSA condemns acts of hate such as the anti-Semitic vandalism and continues to support Jewish students at Georgetown.
“GUSA holds firm that hate is not welcome at Georgetown, and we stand in solidarity with members of our Jewish community, as well as all other communities on our campus affected by these incidents,” Bennett wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Since the first swastikas appeared in VCW and LXR, many groups at Georgetown have organized events to raise awareness about anti-Semitism on campus and provide spaces for conversations around diversity and inclusion on campus. GUSA partnered with the Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity and Affirmative Action to organize a lunch event called “Fostering and Promoting Interreligious Dialogue” on Nov. 2, according to Bennett.
GUSA, J Street U, the Jewish Student Association and other Jewish student groups on campus organized a “What’s a Hoya” event to discuss anti-Semitism at Georgetown. JSA President Claire Goldberg (COL ’19) said the group intends to continue spreading awareness about anti-Semitism at Georgetown.
Nash Hale (COL ’20), a resident of LXR, said many people in the dorm have moved on from the anti-Semitic vandalism.
“At this point, it’s been a few months since the last swastika. Everyone has moved on and put those events in the past,” Hale wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

