
April 21, 2017 by Hannah Urtz and Lily Steinberg 3 Comments 
 
In one of the most active attempts by a U.S. university to address a tie to slavery, Georgetown community members convened with descendants of the 272 slaves sold in 1838 to formally apologize for the university’s role in slavery.
University officials formally apologized to the descendants in the “Liturgy of Remembrance, Contrition, and Hope” in Gaston Hall, the construction of which in 1877 was made possible by the sale of 272 slaves that saved the university from the threat of financial collapse.
The liturgy service included speakers from the university, the Jesuit Conference of Canada and the United States and descendants of individuals sold by Georgetown as slaves. After the liturgy, attendees convened in Dahlgren Quad for the rededication ceremony of two buildings. The halls were renamed Isaac Hawkins Hall and Anne Marie Becraft Hall, after the first slave sold and the founder of a school for black girls in Washington, D.C.
The university relied financially on profits from a Maryland plantation until 1838, when it sold 272 slaves to raise funds necessary to keep the school open. Tuesday’s event constitutes a landmark development in the university’s efforts over the last several years to contend with this troubling past and the university’s participation in the institution of slavery.
Sandra Green Thomas, president of the GU272 Descendants Association, an advocacy organization of over 500 descendants, and a descendant of the Harris and Ware family lines, said the history of slavery is uniquely painful and pervasive.
“There is no comparison to be made between the enslaved of the Americas and any other group today or in history,” Thomas said. “Their pain was unparalleled. That pain is still here. It burns in the soul of every person of African descent in the United States.”
University President John J. DeGioia convened the Working Group on Slavery, Memory, and Reconciliation in 2015, seeking recommendations on how to acknowledge and recognize the university’s past involvement in slavery. The Liturgy of Remembrance, Contrition, and Hope and the dedication ceremony for Isaac Hawkins Hall and Anne Marie Becraft Hall are the result of these recommendations.
In a speech delivered at the liturgy, DeGioia said the event honored the university’s commitment to accounting for its past.
“We cannot hide from this truth, bury this truth, ignore this truth. Slavery remains the original evil of our republic. An evil our university was complicit in,” DeGioia said. “We do not seek to move on with this apology, but to move forward with open hearts to respond to urgent demands of justice that are still present in our time.”
Rev. Tim Kesicki, S.J., president of the Jesuit Conference of Canada and the United States, delivered the service’s homily. He spoke to the religious motivations for the university’s atonement.
“Now, nearly 200 years later, we know we cannot heal from this tragic history alone,” Kesicki said. “Many have confessed and labored to atone for this sin, mostly within the confines of our own religious houses and apostolic works. Because we are profoundly sorry we stand now before God and before you, the descendants of those whom we enslaved, and we apologize for what we have done and what we have failed to do.”
Marsha Prewitt, a descendent of a slave who worked on Georgetown’s plantation but was not sold, also attended the service, saying she was full of awe.
“I think the homily expressed it best, that someone actually now understands or is beginning to understand what our relatives have gone through, what it’s like to have your family separated, to be beaten, to be enslaved,” Prewitt said in an interview with The Hoya. “And now you hear people say that slavery was ok because you got to eat and you had a place to live, but no, it will never ever be ok.”
History professor Adam Rothman, a member of Georgetown’s Slavery Reconciliation Working Group, led the Georgetown Slavery Archive’s historical research to track the descendants of the university’s slaves. He said the legacy of slaveholding is a pivotal part of Georgetown’s history.
“None of us would probably be here at Georgetown, Georgetown would not even exist, had it not been for this history of slavery and the sale in 1838,” Rothman said. “So we ought to just have a moral obligation to understand and remember that history, and to use it as an inspiration to strive toward justice today.”
Though the Slavery Reconciliation Working Group completed its report last November, the university is working toward more permanent structures to focus on responding to its history with slavery, according to Rothman.
“It’s a big step,” Prewitt said regarding the rededication of buildings in an interview with The Hoya. “And anything they do that adds on is also a step in the right direction. I don’t think there will ever be a way to repay fully but I think it’s an effort in the right direction.”
After the liturgy, the dedication and renaming of Isaac Hawkins Hall and Anne Marie Becraft Hall was held in Dahlgren Quadrangle at noon. Members of the Georgetown community shared the stage with descendants of the slaves sold by Georgetown.
Karran Harper Royal, a descendant of one of the 272 slaves, spoke of moving forward while also remembering and honoring the past.
“[Georgetown] must be responsible for making sure that others understand what truly happened to bring this university to existence, and how we can all move forward together by continuing to educate students about the history with slavery,” Harper Royal said. “And these buildings will be from now on, forever, be a marker of that education.”
Jessica Tilson, another descendant, acknowledged Georgetown’s cruel legacy of slavery, but thanked the university for all it had done for her family since. Tilson, whose infant son died due to a rare disease, credits research conducted at the Georgetown University Medical Center with saving her other child’s life from the same disease.
“The same institution that sold my ancestors is the same institution that worked to save my son’s life and spared my daughter’s,” Tilson said. “I know that Isaac and my other ancestors wouldn’t want me to be angry. Because they know that what happened to them was horrible, but they know that their great-great-great-great-granddaughter benefited from their sale. I ask that you, Georgetown University, continue extending a helping hand.”

Andrew Hendry says 
April 21, 2017 at 10:56 am
The actions today are commendible. However the Board of Trustees and in particular President DeGioia must now account for why this took so long and only occurred after pressure. In my opinion, the reluctant University response tarnished its century old reputation as a moral leader and it will be a long time, if ever, that it regains that stature.

Mike Flynn says 
April 23, 2017 at 12:19 pm
Yes slavery is and was evil. Apologizing for something that happened over 150 years ago may make the Georgetown liberal administration feel better but it accomplishes nothing! None of my ancestors were in America until the 1920’s but apparently I still share the blame because of skin color? The 272 slaves were the true victims not distant ancestors who still use slavery as a crutch. Hundreds of thousands of Americans died in a war that ended slavery. All of us must do whatever is necessary to end injustice and racial discrimination. African Americans have made huge strides during my lifetime in all areas. Dwelling on past injustice is seldom productive and used by some as an excuse. At some point this country needs to get past this?

Teira Doom says 
June 17, 2019 at 6:40 pm
Mike Flynn, let us not forget that US gained its wealth off the backs of free black labor. Everything we are in this country is because of the Civil War and the repercussions that follow. Know your history. The Slave owners got reparations for the loss of their property. The newly freed got pretty much nothing. 
Slavery never really ended if you look at it from the perspective of social injustice.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 21, 2017 by Yasmine Salam 1 Comment 
 
Members of the Sexual Assault and Misconduct Task Force recommended increased mandatory sexual assault education to change campus culture in a panel Wednesday night in the Healey Family Student Center.
The task force, composed of over 70 members of the Georgetown community, presented 11 recommendations developed in response to results from the 2016 Sexual Assault and Misconduct climate survey last February. The event precedes the planned release of the group’s report later this year.
The recommendations include mandatory education for all graduate students as well as undergraduates, greater student involvement in fostering an inclusive social culture, greater cultural competency training for faculty and the establishment of a coordinated community response team on sexual assault.
“There is a need to make [sexual misconduct] education more extensive, more regular and, frankly, more required for all our undergraduates,” Vice President for Student Affairs and task force Co-chair Todd Olson said. “We will present in our report a case for a required first-year course that will cover not only key issues around sexual violence and bystander intervention, but we also believe should cover issues of alcohol and drugs on campus, issues of mental health and well-being.”
Vice President for Institutional Diversity and Equity and task force Co-chair Rosemary Kilkenny said the group concluded graduate students must also receive education after examining data from the climate survey. In the survery, 10.7% of female graduate students reported being “very” or “extremely” knowledgeable about the univeresity’s definitions of sexual assault and misconduct, about 15% less than female and male undergraduates respectively.
“What we learned from that is that graduate students are not very knowledgeable on what constitutes as sexual assault and they were also not knowledgeable on what resources are on offer,” Kilkenny said. “They also did not know how to access services. So we think it is essential to heighten their knowledge.”
University President John J. DeGioia convened the task force last year in response to the results of the climate survey to explore the issue and recommend solutions to prevent sexual assault on campus.
Olivia Hinerfeld (SFS ’17), who co-chaired the task force, said that despite recommendations depending heavily on university support, students still play an important role in confronting sexual assault on campus.
“Many of these recommendations fall on the university to commit more funding to public awareness campaigns to staffing, to education and to training,” Hinerfeld said. “But this is a student problem as well and we all have an obligation to work and making our campus a safer, more respectful and inclusive place. At the end of the day, social culture on campus is very much intersected with sexual assault.”
A pilot program designed to promote student sobriety at social events will be launched in the fall, according to Hinerfeld. The program will encourage student organizations to designate members of their groups to be sober at social events.
“These people would ideally go through the Bringing in the Bystander program so they have the knowledge to be thoughtful bystanders in these social situations,” Hinerfeld said.
Georgetown University Police Department resources should also be improved, according to the the task force. GUPD Chief Officer Jay Gruber said that increased training is crucial for officers to develop competence in sexual assault resistance.
“You need to know one of our goals as mentioned here is to increase the training of my command staff, making sure we have availability at all times to support the survivors,” Gruber said.
Olson said logistics prevented the task force from releasing the full report prior to the panel, but that the report is forthcoming.
“We are working on a full report that captures the context and rationale behind these recommendations. We had hoped to have that report ready very soon now. It is a complicated process; there are a lot of people weighing in on that so we are still working on that,” Olson said. “We will submit it to the president’s office soon.”
[…] great ideas of Georgetown students have often permanently changed the Hilltop. Changes to the way Georgetown responds to sexual assault and teaches bystander intervention were led by student activism. The creation of La Casa Latina and a full-time staff member to […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 21, 2017 by Tait Ryssdal Leave a Comment 
Jon Ossoff (SFS ’09), a Democratic candidate running for Georgia’s 6th congressional district, is set to face Republican Karen Handel in a June 20 runoff for a seat that has been held by a Republican for nearly four decades.
Ossoff earned 48.1 percent of the vote to Handel’s 19.8 percent, narrowly missing outright victory Tuesday. The field of 11 Republican and five Democratic candidates, including Ossoff, were vying to fill the seat vacated by Secretary of Health and Human Services Tom Price when he assumed that position in President Donald Trump’s cabinet.
The election reflects a larger partisan standoff in national politics. The Democratic Party is looking to rebuke Trump’s election through early special elections around the country, while congressional Republicans are trying to maintain their 237 to 193 majority in the House of Representatives.
Most recently, Democrats failed to secure a win in Kansas’ 4th congressional district in a special election April 11 to fill CIA Director Mike Pompeo’s seat.
In an address to supporters Tuesday night while votes were still being tallied, Ossoff offered a message of hope and resilience.
“We have defied the odds. We have shattered expectations. We are changing the world and your voices are going to ring out across this state and across this country. We will be ready to fight on and win in June if it is necessary,” Ossoff said.
Ossoff campaigned on a platform of grassroots strength and emphasized the idea of inclusion Wednesday night.
“Let’s show what people power is all about. Let’s show what it means when we say that we have more in common than we have apart; that we reject fear, scapegoating and division; that we choose to love one another and to make things happen,” Ossoff said Tuesday night.
Hanna Hope, chief of staff for the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service, predicted Ossoff would not win outright Tuesday night and that the race would go to a runoff in a Washington Post opinion piece published Tuesday.
“In any other year, this district is an easy win for Republicans,” Hope wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The fact that Ossoff has captured national attention says a lot about the state of the Republican Party. It’s remarkable to have this level of turnout on the left in an off-year, and especially in a special election.”
Hope also led a three-day student trip through GU Politics to observe the election campaign. The Hoya reported April 11 the six students attended a debate between the top five Republican contenders for the party nomination and met candidates including Ossoff and Judson Hill, a Republican.
In an interview with USA Today, Emory University political science professor Alan Abramowitz said the success of Ossoff’s campaign in a historically red district correlates with Trump’s low approval ratings.
The latest poll places support for Trump at 43 percent, according to Gallup.
“Just the fact that Ossoff is getting this close and has a chance tells you there’s been a significant swing,” Abramowitz said. “That tells us Trump’s unpopularity is hurting other Republican candidates and has the potential to hurt other Republicans in the midterms.”
Jack Dobkin (SFS ’19), who grew up in the 6th District, volunteered for Ossoff’s campaign and attended the GU Politics trip, said the outcome demonstrated Republicans’ decades-long hold on the district, despite having a Democratic front-runner in this election.
“The outcome of the race simultaneously did and did not surprise me. The election results did surprise me because Ossoff over-performed what many of the polls were saying, even if just by a few points,” Dobkin said. “The end results show just how entrenched the Republican Party’s roots in the 6th District are. Having said that, I don’t think that they’ve entirely escaped what they might view as a disaster just yet.”
Dobkin also commented on the long-standing trends that have affected the Democrats in the district, expressing that attitudes have shifted in light of the current political climate.
“Democrats and people who just don’t agree with the President’s performance so far have been energized in huge ways by the President,” Dobkin said. “For decades, Democrats in the 6th District have been discouraged and disillusioned with putting in any effort or candidates with a real shot.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 21, 2017 by William Zhu Leave a Comment 
Thousands of activists and scientists are expected to descend on the National Mall this weekend for the first ever March for Science. Marchers hope to promote awareness of scientific research and evidence-based policy decisions in government. The march, which will take place across the nation this Saturday, which is also Earth Day, is expected to draw around 50,000 people according to permits filed with the National Park Service.
According to the March’s stated goals, organizers aim to unite a broad nonpartisan group to show science’s role in creating a better society and to push back against efforts to hinder scientific research and progress, including President Donald Trump’s plan to cut budgets for the National Institutes of Health, the National Science Foundation, the Office of Science at the Department of Energy and the Department of Agriculture. The March in D.C. is scheduled to start at 2 p.m. near the White House, following several speaking events — including speeches by climate activist Bill Nye and Kathleen Rogers, president of the Earth Day Network — in the morning, and proceed toward the U.S. Capitol Building.
In an interview with The Hoya, Associate Professor Heidi Elmendorf, Georgetown’s director of undergraduate students and studies in biology, explained her reasons for heading the Hoyas March for Science in an effort to get the campus community to participate in the March.
Can you tell me a little bit about the March for Science and what it aims to achieve?
The March for Science underwent a rebranding very early on. For the first couple of weeks of its conception, it was known as the scientist’s march and then it became the March for Science and that is really important because the vision is to raise awareness about the importance about the role of science in society, to think of science as a common good that when we do research we are doing research to help us better understand the environment, protect things that we care about, do biomedical research and engineering work.
All of those activities and endeavors are important to us broadly in society and what we understand and how we work towards it should be a goal that is shared by everyone, so the March is hopefully many people, a broad range of people in support of science, science research, science education. The goal of it is to raise awareness of what is often hidden– we don’t think about how much basic research, it could be basic understanding, it could be history research, or government research matters in terms of how we live daily lives.
What was the main motivation or impetus for this March?
This is not a partisan event. It is a political event, because I think a great deal of scientific research and education is funded by the federal government through tax dollars, that makes things political. We pass laws based on scientific findings, we have regulations in place, we provide economic incentives or disincentives often because of scientific findings. So there is a deep intersection between policy, politics and science, but, the goal of the March isn’t a partisan goal, the goal of the March is to raise awareness and that awareness is necessary regardless of who is sitting in various positions in downtown D.C. or in people’s state governments
I think the timing is happening now because, people sense that this is going to be a period of dramatic change in federal policies and so if you care about things it is time to make your voice heard this is something that is important to our society.
The American Association for the Advancement of Science has recently endorsed the March. What do you say to critics of the March who may argue that this could risk politicizing science?
I think anytime you step forward to make a public statement, you can do great good with that statement or you run the risk of exacerbating what the problem was that led to the statement. For people that argue that science is independent of, should be independent of policy and politics, I simply don’t think that is right. I agree with the AAAS and it took AAAS, for the record, a very long time to debate this among the board and to come to this resolution, but we do want policy in this country to be based on evidence.
Some of that evidence is social science evidence, some of that evidence is science. It depends, but we want it to be evidence-based so we actually want policy to be influenced by scientific findings. So they are linked. We don’t want it to be partisan. There is a great difference, I mean, it turns out that when I look through a microscope or a student looks through a microscope, it doesn’t matter what their political leanings is. They are looking through the same microscope and they are seeing the same thing, but we want policy to be shaped by scientific findings. We want it to be evidence-based, but policy or government, funds scientific research.
The National Science Foundation, the National Institutes of Health, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Department of Defense, the Department of Energy, the EPA, all fund not just applied science, but the types of very very basic discoveries that helps us understand our world and make things like the iPhone you are recording this on possible. That money not always, but largely comes from taxpayer dollars. So science is part of politics in the sense that science is part of the common good in this country and the common good has to do with citizens and the common good has to do with our government. I don’t think they are separable. I don’t think we want them to be separable.
Do you have anything else to add?
I am hoping that students from across campus show up because it is a great way to show that the coming generation don’t take citizenship for granted, that they don’t take democracy for granted. This is one of many ways to become an advocate for issues that we think are important. So I hope that students from across the campus come to this and I hope when there are–and I am sure there will be marches for all sorts of interesting things or organizations that form, that science students feel compelled to join those, because I think you can care about the Arts and not be an Arts major on campus. That just has to be important to all of us.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 21, 2017 by Jeanine Santucci 5 Comments 
Aaron Warga (SFS ’18) was tabling in Red Square for Transgender Day of Visibility when an admitted student asked about Georgetown’s housing process for gender-nonconforming students. Warga was at a loss for what to say.
“They said ‘I am nonbinary, I identify as they/them/theirs. What are the housing policies here?’ And I said, ‘Yeah, it’s a pretty binary, gendered housing policy,’” Warga said. “There’s no gender-neutral housing or mixed-gender housing. That was clearly something that was very important to them and I don’t know if they’re here now.”
While Georgetown remains the first Jesuit university in the United States to have an LGBTQ Resource Center, student leaders and LGBTQ-identified students on campus have said the university does not offer enough spaces for the LGBTQ community.
The rejection of a proposed living and learning community for the 2017-18 school year called “Crossroads: Gender and Sexuality” by the Office of Residential Life symbolized the tension between Catholic identity and inclusion of queer students, according to the Georgetown University Student Association LGBTQ Inclusivity policy team Chair Grace Smith (COL ’18).
A Place to Call Home
Smith joined the LGBTQ Inclusivity team in the fall of 2016 within the administration of then-Georgetown University Student Association President Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) and Vice President Chris Fisk (COL ’17) with the goal of creating a community designated for students whom the current housing protocol does not accommodate.
Georgetown’s housing policy currently allows for students to live with other students who share their same gender identity, as long as those students identify as one of two binary genders — that is, as male or female.
Students currently have the option to change their names in MyAccess to reflect their chosen names. But when a student identifies as gender-nonconforming, they must choose to live with either men or women, even if they identify as neither.
“I imagine it to be very toxic to be placed in a living situation where, by being in that space, it’s implied that you’re a gender you don’t identify with,” said Warga, who planned to be the resident assistant for Crossroads LLC.
The LLC, though not explicitly proposed for gender-nonconforming students, was planned as a space where those students could find the appropriate housing and a sense of community.
Additionally, the space would have been a place to “promote knowledge, critical conversation and a deeper understanding of LGBTQ histories, cultures, and social and political movements,” according to LGBTQ Resource Center Director Shiva Subbaraman, who helped advise the students involved in the proposal, though the center itself was not involved in the initiative.
“Unlike some other identities, since this is an invisible identity, it is not often easy to find one another in safe ways,” Subbaraman wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Most important, it was hoped that the LLC would provide a way to start critical thinking and conversations on LGBTQ communities, and how it connects to our broader mission on campus.”
Grappling With Catholic Identity
When Smith met with representatives from the Office of Residential Living, she felt the decision not to approve Crossroads was not solely in the hands of university administrators like Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson.
“I think this is a much larger fight over how Georgetown wants to live its Catholic values and what those Catholic values are,” Smith said.
Olson cited the LGBTQ Resource Center, the Women’s Center and Campus Ministry as examples of Georgetown’s commitment to support students “in exploring their spiritual and personal identities and interests,” though he also noted the LLC proposal could not be approved.
“The proposal did raise concerns about how our housing arrangements align with our Catholic and Jesuit mission,” Olson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Georgetown has previously come under scrutiny for its alignment with Catholic values. In 2013, the late “The Exorcist” author William Peter Blatty (CAS ’50) filed a petition to the Vatican to strip Georgetown of its Catholic and Jesuit labels for not adhering to Catholic values. In January 2016, the Cardinal Newman Society published a 124-page dossier that has been cited by more recent versions of Blatty’s petition. Included in the report is 18 pages on “homosexuality” on campus.
“What’s really at contention is how progressive Georgetown wants to be and how radical they want to be, but also how Catholic they want to be,” Smith said. “And I think they’re seeing those as mutually exclusive in specific instances like this.”
LGBTQ Life on Campus in the Current Moment
The LGBTQ Inclusivity policy team has made progress in the last year to implement changes on campus for LGBTQ students, however. In March, the university began the process of making single-stall restrooms in public buildings both gender-inclusive and accessible.
Additionally, according to Executive Director for Residential Services Patrick Killilee, the team and the LGBTQ Resource Center succeeded in adding a statement to the first page of housing applications with contact information for transgender and nonconforming students to request “safe, comfortable and appropriate housing.”
However, even as the resource center approaches its 10th anniversary this fall, the university is not always a welcoming space for LGBTQ students, Warga said.
“During my freshman year alone I knew a gay student whose roommate immediately switched rooms after finding out he was gay, another gay student who was chased and called homophobic slurs outside his dorm, another whose floor mates banged on his door repeatedly calling him a faggot,” Warga said. “It should never be the case that someone feels unsafe or that they have to police the way they express themselves in their own living space, which is often their most personal and intimate environment.”
An Unwavering Effort
Smith said her ultimate goal is to see the approval of Crossroads before she graduates next year. The LGBTQ Inclusivity policy team plans to resubmit the housing proposal next semester and continue collaborating with Georgetown administration to “hold the university accountable to its commitment to queer students,” according to Smith.
“The LLC would have played a huge part in creating a space that normalized queerness, affirmed gender identity and made students feel safe,” Warga said. “Given the current political climate and rise in bias-related incidents on campus, I think there is clearly a need to create living spaces like these for LGBTQ students and other students with targeted identities.”

Sherman Roberts says 
April 21, 2017 at 4:10 pm
As an alumnus of the College (c ’65), I find this whole issue of homosexuality (and abortion rights) on/off campus highly offensive, scandalous, and political.
Fifty years ago, the Land ‘O Lakes Conference of 1967 never should have happened.  Because it did, the dire consequences of its vision of “modern” Catholic education have been appalling and devastating, and only God knows how many souls have been destroyed by the actions and behavior of Catholic universities (especially GU) who have adhered to (or modified) its bad philosophy.
Catholic faith and morals (and values) are not negotiable.  They are eternal and unchanging because they come directly from God, who revealed them through  Natural Moral Law, Sacred Apostolic Tradition, Sacred Scripture, and the Magisterium of the Catholic Church.
I would be surprised if the Jesuits and faculty at GU ever teach what’s in the Holy Scriptures, and the Catechism of the Catholic Church, on moral behavior, e.g., Chastity and homosexuality.  
For the benefit of all reading this I include the Catechism’s three paragraphs here:
Chastity and homosexuality
2357 Homosexuality refers to relations between men or between women who experience an exclusive or predominant sexual attraction toward persons of the same sex. It has taken a great variety of forms through the centuries and in different cultures. Its psychological genesis remains largely unexplained. Basing itself on Sacred Scripture, which presents homosexual acts as acts of grave depravity,140 tradition has always declared that “homosexual acts are intrinsically disordered.”141 They are contrary to the natural law. They close the sexual act to the gift of life. They do not proceed from a genuine affective and sexual complementarity. Under no circumstances can they be approved.
2358 The number of men and women who have deep-seated homosexual tendencies is not negligible. This inclination, which is objectively disordered, constitutes for most of them a trial. They must be accepted with respect, compassion, and sensitivity. Every sign of unjust discrimination in their regard should be avoided. These persons are called to fulfill God’s will in their lives and, if they are Christians, to unite to the sacrifice of the Lord’s Cross the difficulties they may encounter from their condition.
2359 Homosexual persons are called to chastity. By the virtues of self-mastery that teach them inner freedom, at times by the support of disinterested friendship, by prayer and sacramental grace, they can and should gradually and resolutely approach Christian perfection.
Sacred Scripture is Divinely inspired, and the Catechism is God’s authority.  Neither are negotiable.  GU may be striving to live up to its Jesuit identity, but it is not living up to its Catholic identity as a true, faithful Catholic university ought to be doing.
I wonder how many Catholic parents of existing (and prospective) students are aware of what’s going on at GU.  William Peter Blatty is a hero in making his appeal based on his due diligence, as is The Cardinal Newman Society, and other unsung heroes. 
Will GU continue following the ways of the world (lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, and the pride of life), or will it repent, amend its ways, and return to its true God-given Catholic identity?  That remains to be seen.
[…] the university could do more. As part of student government last year, she helped with efforts to create a Living Learning Community, a residence hall dedicated to LGBTQ students and issues. She says the school wouldn’t allow […]
[…] “Crossroads: Gender and Sexuality” Living Learning Community (LLC) was initially rejected by the Office of Residential Life in April, but was subsequently approved in December, according to […]
[…] “Crossroads: Gender and Sexuality” Living Learning Community (LLC) was initially rejected by the Office of Residential Life in April, but was subsequently approved in December, according to […]
[…] though it was approved in the end, the proposal for such housing was denied by the university in April of 2017. Original Georgetown housing policy required students, including […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 21, 2017 by Hannah Urtz Leave a Comment 
Jeff Mason, current White House Correspondents’ Association President, and two former Georgetown Institute for Politics and Public Service fellows reflected on the role of the White House Correspondents Dinner in D.C. politics at GU Politics’ inaugural Georgetown University Correspondents’ Dinner last night.
The night, modeled after the White House Correspondents’ Dinner scheduled for April 29 and co-sponsored by The Hoya, included a dinner in the GU Politics office followed by a discussion between former GU Politics Fellows Michael Steel and Scott Mulhauser in the Bioethics Research Library.
Mulhauser and Steel described their experiences attending the White House Correspondents’ Dinners, as well as working with members of the press and political communities in Washington, D.C.
Mulhauser said the Dinner’s outlandishness is a perfect fit for Washington.
“It is such a weird, odd, non-Washington thing but yet endemically Washington all at the same time,” Mulhauser said.
In the discussion, Mulhauser brought up the 2011 dinner, infamous for host Seth Meyers and President Obama’s jokes at then-attendee Donald Trump over the birther controversy, an incident some say encouraged him to run for office himself.
“It is thought by many that he was so irked at being mocked openly and not being part of this clique. It was sort of a joke about whether he’d run for president at that 2011 dinner,” Mulhauser said.
Steel remembered one interaction between former Speaker of the House of Representatives John Boehner and Obama that tested the his limits.
“The fourth or fifth year, President Obama did jokes about Speaker Boehner being orange. It was kind of like, ‘Ehhh… all right, we get it,’” Steel said.
Both panelists agreed on the importance of D.C. events like the Correspondents’ Dinner in advancing political ambitions. Mulhauser said these seemingly informal settings can make or break a politician’s career.
“These become sort of proving ground on whether you can take a punch and whether you can give a punch in an appropriate way, much like the State of the Union responses from the other party have determined the fates of governors and senators alike,” Mulhauser said. “These speeches and dinners show whether you’ve ‘got the s–t.’”
The main event of the evening was an interview and Q&A session with Jeff Mason. Mason, who also works as a reporter for Reuters, shared stories and insight from his time in the field.
Mason came to Washington in his quest to cover the 2008 residential campaign, after working as a foreign correspondent in Germany. Mason said Washington is an extremely relevant city to journalists, regardless of their field.
“Any journalist likes to be covering a big story, and the biggest story in the world was right here [in D.C.],” Mason said. “It just is, whether you’re interested in politics or not. That’s why it appealed to me.”
While the White House Correspondents Association is perhaps most famous for hosting the annual Correspondents’ Dinner, Mason highlighted the other kinds of work the Association does.
“The dinner gets a lot of attention, but that’s actually just a small part of what we do. On a daily basis, we advocate for press access at the White House on behalf of the global press,” Mason said.
Mason said this advocacy is pertinent given the Trump White House’s adversarial relationship with the press.
President Trump recently announced that he would not be attending the White House Correspondents’ Dinner. He will be the first sitting president in 36 years to miss the dinner. Mason commented on this unprecedented move, explaining how this impacts the relationship between the White House and the press.
“The president, of course, decided not to come to the correspondents’ dinner, and in my view, more egregiously, sort of banned his staff. I think it’s an unfortunate signal. We will have the dinner with or without them, and I think you will see the dinner will be very focused on the First Amendment and its principles — the importance of a free, independent press.”
Additionally, President Trump has frequently criticized news organizations like The New York Times and CNN. On Feb. 24, Press Secretary Sean Spicer prevented journalists from The Times and several other news organizations from attending his daily briefing, prompting protests from the news organizations omitted from the briefing and backlash from other groups who refused to attend the meeting.
According to Mason, the Correspondent’s Association does their best to mitigate any tensions between the White House staff and the press corp.
“It is our job to ask questions, and [Sean Spicer] can choose not to answer, and he does make that choice a lot, but we still ask. There is significant tension, largely related to the fact that this president has called the media the enemy of the American people. We reject that characterization,” Mason said.
Mason emphasized the responsibility the news media has to cover elections and candidates accurately, addressing claims that the media was directly responsible for the outcome of the most recent presidential election.
“There are plenty of reasons to be critical of the media in its coverage of any election, and perhaps this one in particular. But if someone says to me, ‘you guys are responsible for the outcome of this election,’ the media does not vote — the citizens vote. We have a responsibility to report accurately, the citizens have the responsibility to take that information and make their decisions.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 21, 2017 by Lily Steinberg Leave a Comment 
Sanctuary DMV consists of over 60 religious congregations who have pledged to provide aid to local immigrants through providing physical sanctuary, free legal aid and spiritual support.
Mizraim Belman Guerrero (SFS ’20), one of the students involved in outreach for Sanctuary DMV, and Austin Rose (COL ’18), who has been involved with Sanctuary DMV since it started, plan to form a team of Georgetown students and faculty to accompany immigrants attending mandatory check-ins with the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.
In January, President Donald Trump signed an executive order to increase the range of people who qualify as priorities for deportation. Since then, ICE arrests of immigrants around the country have increased. In the District alone, ICE reported it had arrested 82 individuals over the course of five days in the DMV area, according to Fusion, a media company owned by Univision. During the week of April 3, ICE reported it detained at least 367 individuals across the country.
ICE check-ins are meant for immigrants without documentation of which the government is aware, but who have low priority for deportation, often because they do not have criminal records or have strong involvement with their local communities.
Rose, who is also a student coordinator for the Immigration and Labor Project at Georgetown University’s Kalmanovitz Initiative for Labor and the Working Poor, said initiatives like Sanctuary DMV are important to protecting immigrants.
“This is a time where we really need to stand in solidarity with the undocumented community in D.C.,” Rose said. “They’ve been persecuted for a while. It’s not necessarily anything new.”
Organizations like Many Languages One Voice are working with immigrants in the D.C. area to have their voices heard. On May 1, there will be a nation-wide immigrant strike.
Hannah Kane, a Worker Justice organizer at Many Languages One Voice, said she has high hopes for the protest next month.
“We hope that immigrants will be organizing and defending their rights themselves,” Kane said.
Belman Guerrero said he is personally committed to the Sanctuary DMV initiative because of his status as a student without documentation and his work as an immigration and labor justice coordinator with the Kalmanovitz Initiative.
“I personally care because I am undocumented so this is something that personally affects me every day,” Guerrero said. “I’m in it because it’s helping immigrants, but I do also come from a religious Catholic background and a lot of the churches there are Catholic, so it ties into my religious background.”
According to Rose, accompaniment involves going with people to their ICE check-ins, and explained that it is important for several reasons.
“There are three purposes for accompaniment. Emotional, so just being there for people. Logistical, so calling people, making sure their kids are ok if they have kids, making sure their stuff is ok. And then the third is putting pressure on the ICE field office, where you report for the check-ins,” Rose said.
Rose said he hopes the organization provides an outlet for students to support immigrants.
“This is something in the works so people will have to be patient with it,” Rose said. “But I think that it’s something that can really help in a way that individual people, no matter if they have experience with this issue or not, can get involved.”
Rose said the current national political climate has motivated people to rally support for immigrants.
Since Trump’s election, thousands of demonstrators have mobilized around the country to protest the administration’s ban on immigration from seven Muslim-majority countries and policies advanced by the Trump White House. In Washington alone, protestors have gathered for the Women’s March on January 21 and the Tax March on April 15. Activists will also descend on D.C. for the March for Science this weekend and the People’s Climate March on April 29.
“I think right now, there’s a lot of momentum, a lot of anti-Trump sentiment,” Rose said. “Obviously, some people support Trump and are ok with his policies, but I think after he was elected the country was really shocked, and a lot of people are concerned with his presidency and want to provide a check against what he may do and some want to openly resist what he may do.”
Guerrero said he has seen support around campus.
“I think it’s going pretty well,” Guerrero said. “There definitely is a lot of support for undocumented immigrants here on campus it seems like. We had a meeting not too long ago where there were a couple students that came out to learn more about how to get involved with the sanctuary movement and we hope to continue those efforts in the coming weeks.”
Guerrero said people can help through accompaniment.
“It definitely doesn’t take a lot. You just have to have that initial drive to want to help out and be a part of the sanctuary movement,” Guerrero said.
Rose said anyone considering getting involved with immigrant rights should jump into it.
“If you are one of those people that wants to do something, and are looking for something to do, I really feel as though this is an ideal thing to do,” Rose said. “It’s ideal because it’s a low-bar commitment, because I know everyone is busy. It’s ideal because I really believe it can make an impact. It’s ideal because it’s needed.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 21, 2017 by Lucy Pash Leave a Comment 
The university fired former men’s basketball team Head Coach John Thompson III March 23, ending his 13 years of leadership.
Ten days later, the university hired Patrick Ewing (COL ’85), who helped Georgetown win the 1984 NCAA championship, following a hiring process led by Athletic Director Lee Reed and board members Kevin Martin and Paul Tagliabue.
Thompson was fired March 23 and Ewing was hired only 10 or 11 days later.
In an interview with The Hoya, Tagliabue discussed the hiring process and how his past as commissioner of the NFL influenced the hiring process.
Can you just describe the process that you went through to hire a new coach so quickly?
A: Basically, the process we followed was to develop a list of four or five dozen coaches who we were aware of who we thought might have an interest in the Georgetown position, and then we very quickly narrowed that down to about one dozen. The goal was to come down to about three or four at the bottom of the filtering process. And then at that point we would be in a position to do a bunch of research and then try to make a recommendation as to who would be the three or four candidates with the best qualifications and the best fit for Georgetown. From there we would get to a final decision.
How did you define what you were looking for in a Georgetown basketball coach?
First and foremost we wanted someone who would reflect and embrace the values of Georgetown — someone who believes strongly that there is a balance between academics and athletics that has to be respected and that academics are an important component of a student athlete. We also felt that it had to be someone who respected Georgetown’s values of diversity, commitment to service to others, and so the first thing was we wanted people who could lead at Georgetown and properly represent the university, not just winning basketball games but recruiting young men who would be assets not only athletically but also academically. The next thing was that we wanted someone who had a demonstrated success and experience in coaching basketball at the collegiate or NBA level. We wanted people who clearly understood the game as it is being played today.
What was it about Coach Ewing that made him stand out to you?
He in some ways defines Georgetown basketball in terms of tradition of success on the court with athletes who came and for the most part stayed for an academic experience, not just for a one-year experience. But the other thing is he’s got this unique personal quality of setting his goals very high and this confidence, and it’s not over-confidence and arrogance — just a confidence that when it comes to playing basketball, teaching basketball, coaching basketball, leading a program, that he can achieve at the highest level. He did that as a player, as a professional player. He’s developed those skills in coaching four different teams in over 14 years, and he just seemed to be a person who would redefine the program in terms of goals and levels of energy. And he has demonstrated over his career — when he came to Georgetown at 17 or 18 years old and now he is 54 years old, which is a 37-year interval — he has demonstrated that he is really a leader and someone who likes to be personally accountable for success and failure — is someone who embraces responsibility and leadership, not someone who shirks from that. So in the end he had all of the qualities we were looking for. There were three or four people we were still evaluating when it came to the final weekend before we announced the decision on Monday, but then Patrick emerged on the final weekend.
How did your experience as a basketball player at Georgetown influence your thinking about a coach?
My own experience was pretty irrelevant since it was 50 years ago, but what we really needed to focus on was how the game is played today: the style of play, fast-paced game, three-point shots, mobile athletes. So it was a mixture of personal qualities, institutional and personal leadership skills and understanding of the game of basketball today — not only how it’s played but how the athletes have to be recruited in a competitive environment. I would say those are the major things [we looked for].
How did your experience in the NFL influence your thinking about a coach?
I don’t know if it influenced my thinking as much as it made me familiar with what I would say best practices and good standards that you need to apply and the kinds of processes that have been proven to be the best because we had done a lot of work in the NFL involving the processes for hiring coaches, for hiring staff — how do you reach out in a quiet phase and identify candidates, some of whom may be obvious, or you may have to talk to other people involved with the sport, either in football or basketball. And we did that. We had a search firm working for us. They had lots of contacts at the collegiate level with coaches, lots of contacts with professional coaches in the NBA. So I’d say my experience in the NFL was mostly about the process for identifying a diverse pool of candidates, a deep pool of candidates, how do you go about vetting them, getting information about them without their name being displayed, minimizing public disclosure because most everyone that you’re considering has opposition where he’s employed. There were a few exceptions, but you want the process to respect the privacy of the candidates who may not even know you’re considering them. So my experience in the NFL was mostly about process, but we marry that experience with how President DeGioia hires the leaders of Georgetown and his processes which involve starting with a large group and narrowing it down. I would say the NFL experience and the Georgetown experience kind of merge, compliment and blend together well in this situation.
Some people thought that Georgetown would want to move away from the Thompson legacy, but the new coach was John Thompson’s greatest player. Did that thought enter into the hiring decision, and if so, how?
We discussed that. I had met with Coach Thompson and talked to him on his perspective on where the program was. I and the other members felt that Patrick demonstrates that he is his own man. He reaches out to people for advice. He’s got great relationships with former teammates and coaches, but he also understands that accountability and leadership is a personal matter and not something where he is going to be overly reliant on someone else. Some people think the Thompson legacy was a burden, and contributing to some of the dissatisfaction with the most recent Coach Thompson. But when you look at it in the proper perspective, it’s not a burden; it’s an asset. It’s a tradition of excellence, which became a standard for lots of universities all over the country. We talked amongst ourselves about what kind of steps you take, what kind of things you do, to make it clear that the Coach Thompson tradition, which included breakthroughs in terms of minority employment and diversity, breakthroughs in terms of academics like Proposition 48 — I mean he was one of the giants of the evolution of college basketball in many different dimensions, not just in terms of winning and losing on the court, but in terms of the societal effects of diversity and minority employment and academic fairness and academic standards. So that’s a tradition that we thought should be respected and built upon and not just be ignored.
Correction: This article previously quoted Tagliabue incorrectly. Ewing is 54 years old, not 64.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 21, 2017 by Matthew Larson 1 Comment 
Seventy Georgetown community members were provided free HIV testing Tuesday in an event co-hosted by the Student Health Center and the Georgetown Medical AIDS Advocacy Network to engage and educate students on the best practices regarding sexually transmitted infections.The testing followed a similar event last semester on World AIDS Day, Dec. 1, when 150 students were tested at the Student Health Center.
GMAAN, which normally works to offer free HIV tests to all patients at MedStar Georgetown University Hospital, received a grant from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention allowing them to offer the free testing in conjunction with the D.C. Department of Health. Using a rapid blood test method, participants received the results of their tests within 25 minutes.
Students can receive year-round STI testing from the Student Health Center by appointment, with costs varying according to students’ insurance coverage. Students without insurance can be charged up to $271 for HIV testing including lab fees.
Assistant Vice President of Student Health Dr. Vince WinklerPrins, who helped organize the event, said its main goal, besides offering the testing itself, was to help educate students on how often to get tested for STIs.
WinklerPrins said the prevalence of STIs at Georgetown compared to other universities is not above average. However, he said the Student Health Center is initiating more outreach-oriented practices to help educate students on when to get tested — ideally once a year for sexually active adults.
“I don’t think we have any bigger problem than other communities with college students have. But do we have a problem? Yes,” WinklerPrins said. “And if students are sexually active, if that’s something they feel they need to do, then they should know about the consequences of that. We should be having conversations with students about that.”
About 1.2 million people in the United States were living with HIV at the end of 2013, including 156,300 who had not been diagnosed, according to CDC estimates. The CDC website notes that people should receive routine testing for HIV and other STIs.
WinklerPrins said he considers Tuesday’s event a success.
“I feel good about our efforts to do some education and programming during the event, during the wait between when you get tested and when you get the results,” WrinklerPrins said. “I hope some people found it useful and helpful.”
Free HIV testing events will continue next semester according to Nicole Du (COL ’16, MED ’20), who organized the event as a representative of GMAAN. However, according to Du, the group is currently constrained in the testing it is able to offer.
“We only have free HIV tests,” Du said. “We can’t offer any other STI tests at the event because they aren’t free, because to get it organized and send it to a lab, that costs money. Student Health can do it, but it gets billed to insurance or paid out of pocket.”
Reproductive justice group H*yas for Choice Co-president Emily Stephens said the outcome of the event is promising, but it reflects the university’s failure to take action on its own.
“H*yas for Choice is extremely grateful to the medical students who volunteered their time to test students, and think these numbers demonstrate the need for continued free access to certain sexual health services on campus,” Stephens wrote. “While H*yas for Choice is proud of the progress we have made advocating for, planning, and promoting these events, Georgetown University has not done enough to prioritize student health.”
Stephens noted that other universities offer free testing for all STIs on a consistent basis. She also said the Student Health Center did not promote the HIV testing with a campuswide email despite requests from HFC to do so.
“And yet, Georgetown sends numerous emails reminding students of free flu shot opportunities on campus. This double standard perpetuates stigma surrounding sexual health, and H*yas for Choice is disappointed in the university’s lack of action.”
Du said in the future, GMAAN hopes to expand educational opportunities surrounding other STIs, potentially including free tests. Free STI testing is critical due to the fact that many students decide not to get tested because the cost will get billed to their insurance, according to Du.
“From my own experience, my peers — myself included — didn’t know what high-risk sexual behavior was and what that could lead to,” Du said. “I think people don’t understand how often you should get tested or if you’re worried about STIs where to go. It’s cost prohibitive.”

Hannah says 
April 24, 2017 at 8:21 pm
In other news, 47 students learn of shocking HIV + diagnosis today.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 21, 2017 by Marina Pitofsky Leave a Comment 
Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority officials announced Monday its plans to install wireless voice and data services in the first tunnel segment of the Red line, covering stops from Glenmont to Silver Spring, in addition to 30 underground stations that will have free Wi-Fi service by the end of the year.
This announcement expands a pilot Wi-Fi program, in which WMATA officers installed wireless service on segments of the Blue, Orange and Silver lines between Potomac Avenue and Stadium Armory December 2016.
Stops that will receive Wi-Fi by the end of the year include the rail system’s busiest stops, including Smithsonian, Farrugut West, Crystal City, Dupont Circle and Rosslyn.
The stops included in the plan will account for over 60 percent of current underground metro system.
According to an April 19 WMATA press release, all remaining metro stations will be equipped with Wi-Fi by mid-2018. Metro is working with wireless carriers AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile and Verizon to ensure coverage.
According to WMATA General Manager Paul J. Wiedefeld, Metro will invest in Wi-Fi to meet the needs of riders and improve the transit experience.
“Customers have told us that they want the ability to stay connected while on Metro, and we are pleased to have worked with the wireless carriers to deliver this service,” Wiedefeld said in the release.
The announcement comes after Metro’s March 23 announcement that it will increase fares by 10 cents during rush hours and 25 cents during non-rush hours in an effort to combat a predicted $1.1 billion budget deficit by 2020 due to declining ridership.
WMATA will also eliminate 14 low-traffic Metrobus lines, reducing service hours and cutting nearly 1,000 jobs.
At a March 23 press conference, Wiedefeld referenced various factors which have affected ridership, including increases in crime on Metro trains and delays and malfunctions caused by old tracks or train cars over the past few years. The Hoya reported Dec. 10 that a security report presented to the Metro board Dec. 1 recorded 5.4 crimes for every million riders in 2016.
Metro employees will also install a new radio system for trains and emergency responders over 100 miles of tunnel walls. The process of installing the wireless cables and radio system will require weekend track outages, according to Wiedefeld.
Free Wi-Fi has also been offered at six Metro stations as part of a pilot program that was initiated in August 2016, including Metro Center, Gallery Place, Judiciary Square, Union Station, Archives and L’Enfant Plaza.
Wiedefeld told the Washington Post he would use the results from the program to determine how WMATA would expand Wi-Fi across the system.
At the time, Wiedefeld said the program would assess riders’ needs while using WMATA services.
“We are listening to our customers’ ideas about ways to improve their experience riding Metro,” Wiedefeld said in an Aug. 29, 2016 statement.
WMATA spokesperson Dan Stessel told the Washington Post on Monday the initiative comes at minimal cost to WMATA since most installations only involve making prior networks that WMATA employees use available to the public. WMATA spent a total of $5 million “building out” its network to employees and launching its pilot program.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 21, 2017 by Ben Goodman Leave a Comment 
The event was co-sponsored by the Office of Community Engagement, the Justice and Peace Studies Program, the American Studies Department and the African Studies Program.  Terrence Johnson, associate professor of religion and government, introduced Brooks and addressed the historic partnership between Jews and blacks in the 20th century, especially during the Civil Rights Movement.
“When we think about the 1960s, the so-called golden age of the relationship between African-Americans and Jews, I think it’s important to take note that it’s a lot deeper than the folks who are the most prominent,” Brooks said.
Brooks highlighted that the propagation of racist and anti-Semitic tropes since the election season has made it more imperative than ever that blacks and Jews unite.
“We have an administration committed to taking us backward,” Brooks said. “We have two communities who are committed as a consequence of a canon of social justice to stand in opposition to it unapologetically.”
Brooks said that any reluctance to support the Black Lives Matter premise is empty and wrongheaded.
“Black Lives Matter is the moral predicate to the ethical conclusion that all lives matter. Unless the first is true, the second can never be true,” Brooks said.
Brooks rallied against the notion that Jews and blacks only fit together tactically, instead arguing that a shared commitment to justice through faith binds the two groups together.
“This is not just a union of convenience. The movement of the 1960s was based in the churches and the synagogues — it had a moral impulse to it,” Brooks said. “To the extent, across the country, we are seeing a return to grounding our efforts in faith. I think that is a moment for hope.”
Collaborating through faith and broad ideals has more lasting power than agreeing on specific issues alone, according to Brooks.
“If we are united by what we believe in as opposed to merely what we agree on, we will be together long enough to agree on more,” Brooks said.
Brooks noted the solidarity the NAACP has shown to harassed Jewish journalists on Twitter as evidence of the benefits of solidarity between the two groups.
“When we saw alt-right anti-Semites putting echo symbols around the names of Jewish journalists, we put echo symbols around the name of the NAACP and my name,” Brooks said. “We wanted to make it abundantly clear that these are our people too.”
Brooks maintained that absolute agreement on every problem is not necessary for a functional and productive relationship, pointing to often-differing views between members of the two groups on Israel and Zionism.
“We cannot paper over political differences with respect to affirmative action or differences with respect to Israel or the platform for black lives, or any of the differences that may stand to separate our communities,” Brooks said. “But we must fundamentally understand that we need not have consensus to appreciate that we share a moral foundation.”
Brooks extended his wish for dialogue between blacks and Jews to the setting of college campuses, saying that students should not be excluded from advocating for social justice efforts based on their positions on other issues.
“On the college campus, if you exclude anyone with per-se assumptions about who they are or what they represent, it’s dangerous. Not just in terms of foregone relationships and friendships, but also in us creating the very walls we are trying to dismantle,” Brooks said.
Brooks concluded by urging all attendees to incorporate the storied past of the alliance between the black and Jewish communities to create real change in the present.
“This is a moment for our history to inspire the present. This is not a moment for us to philosophize about this relationship,” Brooks said. “This relationship is best understood, appreciated, and discovered in work — a common endeavor.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

