
December 26, 2017 by The Hoya Staff Leave a Comment 
Political art, inspired by both protest and populism, encounters renewed vitality in the era of President Donald Trump.
The weekend of Trump’s inauguration featured scenes of celebration and resistance in Washington, D.C., that foreshadowed a year of political division.
Members of the Georgetown community confronted uncertainty and disruption after the new Trump presidency issued an executive order restricting travel from seven Muslim-majority countries.
In 1838, Georgetown’s Jesuits sold 272 slaves to a Louisiana planter to keep the university financially afloat. Now, descendants of those slaves are navigating life as Georgetown students.
Patrons know The Tombs for its college-friendly fare and distinctly Georgetown traditions. But the neighborhood staple also houses a richly evocative and nostalgic collection of art.
After becoming a slave at 16 and a freedman at 60, Yarrow Mamout rose to prominence as a financier for black and white merchants at Georgetown. His enduring legacy — as captured by two famed portraits — continues to kindle interest nearly 200 years after his death.
Money woes plague students who narrowly missed the cut for the Georgetown Scholarship Program, the university’s largest resource for financially disadvantaged students.
Some discussions of sex remain taboo at the country’s oldest Catholic university.
 
Even with a dwindling number of Jesuits in Georgetown classrooms, the increasing inclusivity of the university signals a fuller realization of its values, argues opinion writer Will Simon.
 
As a player in the ’80s, Patrick Ewing (CAS ’85) helped transform Georgetown into a basketball powerhouse. But will his return to the Hilltop as coach help save a beleaguered program that has fallen on tough times?
 
Georgetown touts “Community in Diversity” as one of its core Jesuit values. But some students still face challenges to finding their place on campus.
Mayhem in the State Department could be driving prospective foreign service students to take their talents elsewhere.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

