
January 13, 2017 by Ian Scoville 3 Comments 
William Peter Blatty (CAS ’50), the writer and producer of the 1973 horror film “The Exorcist,” died yesterday at the age of 89, according to the Associated Press.
The cause of death was multiple myeloma. Blatty died at a hospital in Bethesda, Md., according to the AP.
Blatty initially rose to fame after the publication of “The Exorcist” in 1971, a novel detailing the demonic possession of 12-year-old Reagan MacNeil, and its subsequent Oscar-winning film adaptation. The novel was inspired by a case of an exorcism Blatty learned about in a class at Georgetown.
Georgetown and the surrounding area featured prominently in the film. The film includes shots of Dahlgren Chapel, Healy Hall and “The Exorcist Steps,” the 97 steps located next to Car Barn where a priest is possessed to jump from a window and tumbles to his death in the film.
The steps were officially commemorated in a ceremony in October 2015, featuring Blatty, the film’s director William Friedkin, Mayor Muriel Bowser, D.C. Councilmember Jack Evans (D-Ward 2) and University President John J. DeGioia.
Blatty launched a petition in October 2013 calling on the Vatican to strip Georgetown of its Catholic and Jesuit labels, claiming that the university did not uphold Catholic morals. The Vatican rejected the petition, which garnered over 2,000 signatures, in May 2014.
Blatty said in a 2003 Lecture Fund address at Georgetown that he wrote “The Exorcist” to further explore the spiritual side of human beings.
“Terror has never been my day job,” Blatty said. “When I was writing [“The Exorcist”] scaring people was the furthest thing from my mind.”
A full obituary will be published next week. 

Manuel Miranda says 
January 18, 2017 at 7:31 am
The Hoya has misreported on Mr. Blatty’s petition.  It was not “rejected.”  On the contrary, in April 2014, the Congregation for Catholic Education ruled that it had “established a well founded complaint” and promised administrative.  Meanwhile the petition continues its course in the Vatican with regard to judicial recourse.  This has been widely reported elsewhere. 
Manuel Miranda

SFS '15 says 
January 18, 2017 at 9:40 am
This article’s claim that the Vatican “rejected” the Blatty petition is factually incorrect, FYI. A correction is necessary.
https://www.ncregister.com/blog/reilly/exorcist-authors-canon-law-case-against-georgetown-continues

Michael Blatty says 
February 20, 2017 at 5:04 am
You might be curious to know that my father wrote for “The Hoya” when he was a student at GU (1946-1950.) Several of his manuscripts are housed in Lauinger Library. Although from an impoverished family, he was able to attend Georgetown because of a full scholarship awarded him and he was always deeply grateful for this. He loved his years as an undergrad at GU and although he took issue with its willingness to support pro-abortion groups, his love for the university was strong until the very end. Thank you for remembering him on your pages. Michael Blatty (College 1970-74)
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

