
October 5, 2017 by Madeline Charbonneau 1 Comment 
Former Secretary of Education John King Jr. said the United States must push for diverse student bodies and teachers in public schools to close the nation’s racial achievement gap, in a lecture organized by the Georgetown College minor in education, inquiry and justice Tuesday.
Students of color and low-income students are disproportionately educated in low-performing schools, King said, a disparity that significantly contributes to achievement gaps between white and non-white students. These gaps come from the United States’ history of institutional racism, according to King.
“For students of color, disparities in educational opportunity and achievement are inextricably linked to our nation’s continued struggle to grapple with issues of race and bias,” King said. “It is America’s brutal legacy of slavery and the imposition of segregation that first made the education of black people a punishable offense and then established a separate, inferior system of schools for black children.”
Analyses by The Education Trust, a Washington, D.C.-based education research and advocacy organization, have found deep racial disparities in access to high-achieving schools. A 2010 study by the group found that black students in California are six times more likely than white students to attend schools in the bottom third of the state for achievement levels.
Educational disparities and de facto segregation in schools hurt all students, according to King. Not only do they keep students and teachers alike from facing their implicit biases, but they also prevent students from unlocking their full potential.
“Diversity offers us a better path, in terms of academic outcomes and brighter futures for all of our students,” King said. “Students in socio-economically and racially diverse schools, regardless of their economic status, achieve stronger outcomes than students in schools with concentrated poverty.”
King also emphasized the importance of having diversity in teaching staff in addition to the student body.
“All students benefit when they learn from adults who are diverse,” King said. “I believe it is important for white students to see teachers and school leaders of that community who are of color. It helps them get a sense of what diverse adult leadership can offer.”
King also derided President Donald Trump’s budget proposal to cut federal funding for public education. The president’s fiscal year 2018 budget proposal called for a $9.2 billion, or 13.6 percent, spending cut to federal K-12 and higher education initiatives.
“There’s no other way to think about that except that it is an assault on the American dream and an attempt to really dismantle public education in serious ways,” King said.
King proposed that supporting education should not be a partisan issue and highlighted a Tennessee program that allows all state residents who graduated high school to attend community college for free.
“I think the better alternative can be found in Tennessee, a state with a Republican governor and a Republican legislature. … [T]here is a guarantee that if you graduate from high school in Tennessee, then you can attend community college for free,” King said.
King stressed the importance of education for a functioning society throughout his talk, noting several times that quality education for all children is vital to the nation.
“The strength of our democracy depends on ensuring that all of our young people are prepared to be effective citizens and help resolve the great challenges we face as a society,” King said. “If we are unable to confront the history of race and racism in our schools, then we will not be able to move past the impact of racism in our society.”
[…] have always longed to teach. When former Secretary of Education John King Jr. spoke at Georgetown on Oct. 3 and, in his remarks, called on the audience to be “champions of equity and […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 5, 2017 by Hannah Urtz Leave a Comment 
Red line commuters can expect six weeks of disrupted service starting Oct. 16 as the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority starts the next phase of a water damage mitigation project.
Trains are scheduled to run on a single track on weeknights after 9 p.m. through Nov. 24 in the suburban Montgomery County, Md. sections of the line. Train service will also be limited on weekends from Oct. 21 through Nov. 19.
Riders should expect minor delays and congestion, according to WMATA. The work will impact Georgetown students leaving from the Dupont Circle station on their way to the National Mall and Capitol Hill areas and back, particularly in the evenings and on weekends.
The service disruptions follow WMATA’s announcement last week that it will expand a pilot project launched in July to mitigate water leaks. The project, which seeks to reduce the water damage to the railcars and tunnels, is testing a “curtain grouting” technique to add a waterproof membrane to the exterior of the tunnel walls using a proprietary polymer-based material.
WMATA hopes to complete the new phase of the project by the end of November.
The program has already seen success on the treated segments, according to WMATA. Two test segments — a 2,000-foot section of inbound track between stops at Medical Center and Bethesda and the entire Medical Center interlocking — have remained dry and undamaged, despite heavy rainfall in late July and August that brought more than three inches of precipitation in one day.
District officials began weighing in on and discussing possible courses of action for these repairs in July. Montgomery County Council President Roger Berliner said the pilot program is much-needed, despite the service disruptions it may cause.
“Red line riders will greatly benefit if this innovative approach to preventing water from entering the system works,” Berliner said, according to a WMATA press release in July. “As everyone knows, water and electricity are not a good combination. While there will be unavoidable disruptions, in the long run, our community will be much better served if this approach works out.’
WMATA General Manager and CEO Paul J. Wiedefeld said the project has shown promise as a solution to the line’s persisting problems with water damage.
“Since this tunnel segment was constructed, Metro has fought a battle against Mother Nature, and Mother Nature has always had the upper hand,” Wiedefeld said at a July press conference. “Just as we have addressed the root causes of track infrastructure problems and railcar reliability issues, I want to address the water infiltration problem head on and find a sustainable solution. Our Red line riders deserve nothing less.”
Christine McNeill (SFS ’20) rides the Metro’s Red line regularly to get to and from her internship at the U.S. Capitol. According to McNeill, these disruptions will only further add to the headache that is public transportation in Washington, D.C.
“Frankly, public transport in D.C. is just bad, and construction will only make it worse. Now I basically won’t be able to take the Red line,” McNeill said.
WMATA Board Chair Jack Evans said at the July conference that the project “perfectly illustrates why we need a dedicated funding source for our Metro system.” WMATA leadership, including Evans and Wiedefeld, have said that a dedicated permanent funding stream is necessary to save the financially troubled transit system, but policymakers in D.C., Maryland and Virginia have not agreed to a concrete proposal.
“Fixing this problem will not be cheap or easy, but it is absolutely necessary and the right thing to do,” Evans said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

