
April 27, 2017 by Montana Boone Leave a Comment 
Washington, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) plans to expand the pool of confidential advocates for survivors of sexual assault, codify the duties of the District’s Sexual Assault Response Team and clarify the rights of survivors when they access emergency care in legislation proposed April 3.
Announced April 13, the legislation also requires prosecutors to explain their decisions to survivors if they choose not to prosecute an accused perpetrator, prohibits the removal of a person’s clothes without consent and clarifies the right of a survivor to compensation under individual insurance policies.
Interim Metropolitan Police Department Chief Peter Newsham, who served on the Sexual Assault Victims Rights Task Force, a group of representatives from local law enforcement, sexual assault victim advocates, treatment providers and legal experts convened in October 2014, said the legislation focuses on better serving survivors of sexual assault and addressing their needs in a comprehensive way.
“We talked about our experience with survivors, how we feel we could — in a way — we could successfully navigate cases through the criminal justice system, which is not always the easy thing,” Newsham said in an interview with The Hoya. “But when you’re talking about sexual assault, whenever you’re dealing with a sexual assault survivor, the focus has to be on the survivor and making sure that they control the process.”
Resources would be available to any sexual assault survivor who is at least 12 years old, ensuring that all minors receive the same resources as those who are adults, under the legislation proposed to D.C. Council Chairman Phil Mendelson (D).
Bowser and the D.C. Sexual Assault Victims Rights Task Force drafted the legislation to amend the Sexual Assault Victims’ Rights Act of 2014 and better study incidents of sexual assault in D.C.
In a January 2016 report, the task force concluded the District should expand resources available for survivors after a 2013 Human Rights Watch report criticized MPD for mishandling sexual assault cases.
The HRW report noted that cases were frequently not properly investigated and that victims often faced cold and inconsiderate treatment, discouraging victims from reporting assaults.
Bowser said the Sexual Assault Victims’ Rights Amendment Act of 2017 provides support and help to sexual assault survivors.
“Ensuring the safety of every Washingtonian has been my administration’s top priority since day one, and this legislation will help us do more to provide critical support for the victims of sexual assault,” Bowser said in an April 13 press conference. “Through this legislation, we can ensure that every victim of sexual assault — no matter their background — is treated with fairness and dignity.”
Newsham said the new act will work to improve current police and District government officials’ practices.
“In policing, we have evolved quite a bit in how we approach sexual assault investigations. This is an evolution. I don’t think we’re done. I think there will be also additional legislation in the future that will help us provide better service to the victims. I would call this one step forward in the right direction,” Newsham said.
Taskforce member Michelle Garcia, the director of the D.C. Office of Victim Services and Justice Grants, said the legislation’s strength lies in its specific programs dedicated to survivors of sexual assault, such as expanding the number of sexual assault advocates across the District.
“Right now, sexual assault victims have a right to a confidential advocate in very narrow circumstances,” Garcia said. “They can also provide information about what their options are and assist victims in making informed decisions about what choices they want to make [and] how they want to move forward, whether that’s through the criminal or civil justice systems or other directions.”
The task force worked for over a year and a half to examine the systems that were already in place in the District to look at best practices and develop recommendations, according to Garcia.
“This package of the legislation reflects that very thoughtful and deliberate process, and we absolutely believe that this package will contribute to a better response for victims and survivors, more accountability for offenders and an overall safer and stronger District of Columbia,” Garcia said.
Laura Kovach, the director of the Georgetown University Women’s Center, said the additional support for advocates is key in encouraging survivors to report instances of sexual assault.
“A sexual assault advocate can help survivors navigate processes, advocate on their behalf with healthcare and law enforcement and be a supportive presence for them from start to finish,” Kovach wrote in an email to The Hoya. “If our community resources are strong and survivors have access to advocates they are more likely to get the care they need and possibly pursue the criminal justice system.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 27, 2017 by Hannah Urtz Leave a Comment 
Press freedoms have declined in the United States and around the world as authoritarian governments and strongmen erode journalist protections, according to Reporters Without Borders’ 2017 World Press Freedom Index that was announced yesterday.
Compiled in partnership with The Washington Post and presented at the paper’s office, the report concludes that press freedoms around the world have reached a tipping point, with attacks on the media becoming common and the protection of journalists worsening in democracies. The United States in particular fell from 41st to 43rd in Reporters Without Borders’ ratings, now ranked behind France, the United Kingdom, Belize and Burkina Faso.
Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark and the Netherlands were in the top five nations for press freedom, based on analysis of opinion pluralism, media independence, transparency, infrastructure quality, legislative restrictions and general editorial environment.
Washington Post Managing Editor Cameron Barr said journalism faces a uniquely difficult time in modern history.
“This conversation comes at a complex time for journalism. Governments and non-state groups are restricting the ability for reporters to do their jobs, in some cases through the use of intimidation and violence,” Barr said in the event introduction. “Fake news is proliferating, making it harder for readers to discern what is truth and what is fiction. And just about anyone with access to the Internet can practice journalism, or claim to.”
Since the start of his presidential campaign, President Donald Trump has repeatedly attacked the news media in the United States, referring to major news outlets as “fake news” and labelling the press the “enemy of the American people” in a Feb. 17 tweet.
Presented by Reporters Without Borders’ North America Director Delphine Halgand, the event featured a conversation with a panel of journalists from Turkey, Syria and Canada, who discussed the state of press freedom around the globe.
Reporters Without Borders has published the World Press Freedom Index annually since 2002. The index measures the level of freedom of information in 180 countries and reflects the degree of freedom that journalists, news organizations and citizens enjoy in each country, and the efforts made by authorities to respect and protect this freedom.
The U.S. rank has varied significantly over the last decade, typically standing between the high 30s and 40s.
Halgand said the United States’ fall in rankings reflects dwindling media freedom and animosity from the government.
“This year’s index reflects a world in which attacks on the media have become commonplace, and strong men are on the rise. This index highlights the danger of a tipping point in the state of media freedom, especially in leading democracies,” Halgand said.
Reporters Without Borders listed the relationship between Trump and the media, as well as the lack of legal protection for journalists both at home and abroad, as the main reasons for this lower ranking.
“Despite the bleak outlook under Trump, it bears repeating that his predecessor left behind a flimsy legacy for press freedom and access to information,” Reporters Without Borders stated in their online report.
The Reporters Without Borders report emphasized the fact that American journalists are still not protected by a federal “shield law,” which would guarantee their right to protect their sources and other confidential work-related information. A number of states with better scores than the U.S. have shield laws, including France, the U.K. and Norway.
According to the Freedom Index Report, prolonged searches of journalists and their devices at the U.S. border have increased, with some foreign journalists being prevented from traveling to the United States. after covering sensitive topics such as Colombia’s insurgent Revolutionary Armed Forces or the Kurdish ethnic group in Syria, Turkey and Iraq.
For example, in Turkey, President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan has led a crackdown on journalists and dissidents, jailing 81 reporters in 2016 — more than any other country — according to the Committee to Protect Journalists. Turkey ranks 155th out of 180 in the Reporters Without Borders report.
Prior to presenting the Freedom Index, Halgand called attention to the many journalists who have been persecuted and detained in conflict zones, including journalist and Georgetown graduate Austin Tice (SFS ’02), who went missing in Syria in 2012. Georgetown and the GULC Bar Association have provided aid and support to Tice’s family, and a group of students started a petition to urge former President Barack Obama free Tice last November.
“Here today, I am thinking especially of one American journalist. His name is Austin Tice. Thank you for not forgetting him, and for working with us to do everything possible to bring him home,” Halgand said.
Tice, a former Georgetown Law student and Marine Corps veteran, went missing in Syria in 2012 while working as a freelance journalist covering the conflict there for McClatchy Newspapers, The Washington Post, CBS and other media outlets. Reporters Without Borders believes that Tice is still alive, currently being held captive in the Middle East.
Reporters Without Borders launched a pro bono campaign to #FreeAustinTice in February 2015. This campaign, motivated by the nonprofit’s desire to raise awareness for captured journalists and assist their family members, encouraged supporters to sign a petition addressed to Obama and to spread awareness through social media. Supporters posted photos of themselves blindfolded on social media as part of The Blindfold Pledge, acknowledging Austin’s unanswered kidnapping.
According to Reporters Without Borders, the blindfold symbolizes the fact that when journalists are silenced, all people are all deprived of information.
Georgetown University journalism professor and former reporter for The Washington Post Athelia Knight attended the event and said she appreciated the mention of Tice.
“I am pleased that Austin Tice was mentioned in the opening remarks by Delphine Halgand. Clearly, he has not been forgotten by the world press,” Halgand said. “I hope he is released soon.”
Hoya Staff Writer Molly Cooke contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 27, 2017 by Patricja Okuniewska Leave a Comment 
President Donald Trump is challenging standing trade rules and agreements, but the extent to which he will continue to do so is uncertain, according to the speakers at the International Trade Under Trump event in Healy Hall on April 25.
The event, hosted by the Alexander Hamilton Society, featured panelists Michael Smart, former director for international trade on the National Security Council, and Rodney Ludema, Georgetown professor of economics and former chief economist of the U.S. Department of State. Georgetown professor of government Robert Lieber moderated the event.
Lieber introduced the panel and said Trump’s policies have been characterized by a populist spirit.
“The issues and positions that [Trump] took during the election campaign were highly controversial,” Lieber said. “The positions he and his administration have adopted since that time often represent considerable changes from what transpired during the campaign, like the impulses of nationalism and populism which were expressed by President Trump during the campaign and were expressed by many of his supporters and voters.”
Throughout his presidential campaign, Trump criticized existing trade deals and proposed expansions to the free trade regime former President Barack Obama pursued during his term. POLITICO first reported Trump was considering signing an executive order to initiate the United States’ withdrawal from the North American Free Trade Agreement, a multilateral deal between Canada, Mexico and the U.S. that removes tariffs on trade between the three nations.
The White House announced Wednesday night it would not withdraw from NAFTA, but would move “swiftly” to renegotiate the agreement, after calls from Sen. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) and other Republican senators not to withdraw.
Ludema said the uncertainty surrounding Trump’s actions will have a negative impact on international trade.
“I think it’s part of the problem from an economic standpoint that we really don’t know the answers to these questions, and that’s actually by itself extremely bad for international trade. International trade relies on investments. Uncertainty itself kills that,” Ludema said. “We’re already in this protectionist climate simply because of the guessing game between Donald Trump’s rhetoric on the one hand, and what he’ll actually do.”
Lieber noted that Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), a 2016 Democratic presidential candidate, opposed the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a major U.S.-led trade agreement in Asia. Former Secretary of State and Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton did so as well, though after calling the agreement the “gold standard” in 2012.
The TPP was a multilateral trade agreement between 11 Asian, North and South American countries including the United States that reduced tariffs and other barriers to free trade between the 12 nations, and included a mechanism for countries to settle commercial disputes.
Lieber said this opposition from both sides of the political spectrum demonstrated the challenges free trade proponents faced during the presidential campaign.
“The challenges to an open political trading regime become very evident well before the election,” Lieber said.
Smart noted Trump’s criticism of existing trade agreements, namely NAFTA, which Trump had criticized and signaled support for a potential withdrawal before announcing he would not withdraw after the event, as he approaches his 100th day in office.
“What do we see as we approach the 100-day mark of the administration? Well, I think what you see is a deceleration of his ambition to get out there and renegotiate,” Smart said.
The Trump administration is receiving significant pushback from trading partners and the private sector, according to Smart. Smart added the administration may face difficulties negotiating with other parties to the agreements.
“I think one of the biggest flaws in the thinking of this administration is that the U.S. has all the leverage — when we say we want to renegotiate and essentially set the terms. And while the U.S. does have a lot of leverage, the other side has some too. I think they’re starting to discover that,” Smart said.
Smart also said the administration has signaled intent to use trade remedies, including the pursuit of antidumping and safeguard policies, even more so than previous administrations. Throughout his campaign, Trump signaled support for stricter World Trade Organization regulation of Chinese economic policy.
“The United States has never been bashful about using these trade remedies; to listen to the campaign rhetoric, you’d think that they were.” Smart said. “But the administration came in and they were even more determined to be even more aggressive — and China is really their target.”
Ludema said he believes the administration’s protectionist campaign rhetoric will be limited by its powers under current World Trade Organization rules.
“I expect reality to come crashing in and I expect rationality to prevail. As a result, what I think is going to happen is that in order to make good on campaign promises, the Trump administration is going to have to take some protectionist actions,” Ludema said, “[But] they’ll do those things that are already legal to do under existing rules.”
Smart said he is less hopeful about the administration’s harm to the present system and order.
“The more aggressive use of trade remedies is something this administration is absolutely going to do,” Smart said. “About half of all WTO decisions have been about trade remedies, and so the way we administer these rules has come under heavy international scrutiny.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

