
October 20, 2017 by Isabelle Groenewegen 52 Comments 
Students opposed to the student group Love Saxa plan to present a petition to the Student Activities Commission on Monday, demanding the advisory board strip the group of its funding and no longer grant it access to campus facility benefits on grounds that it holds intolerant and hateful beliefs.
Love Saxa, a group that advocates for marriage between a man and a woman, returned as an active student group this year, after spending a year in restoration, the process by which a group recovers its access to benefits.
Jasmin Ouseph (SFS ’19) submitted a formal notice to Assistant Dean for Student Engagement Erika Cohen Derr on Sept. 25, arguing Love Saxa’s definition of marriage and relationships violates the Division of Student Affairs’ Student Organization Standards, which disavows groups that foster hatred or intolerance.
 
 
The standards state: “Groups will not be eligible for access to benefits if their purpose or activities … foster hatred or intolerance of others because of their race, nationality, gender, religion, or sexual preferences.”
GU Pride President Chad Gasman (COL ’20) and David Friedman (COL ’20), president of Georgetown University Queer People of Color, joined Ouseph in her complaint.
According to Love Saxa’s constitution, the group promotes marriage as a “monogamous and permanent union between a man and a woman” and opposes hookup culture and pornography.
Love Saxa receives $250 allocated through SAC. The advisory board oversees over 130 student groups and allocates $330,000 each year from the university’s $1 million Student Activities Fee.
SAC Chair Ricardo Mondolfi (SFS ’19) said SAC has a range of sanctions available.
“I have no idea what the commission is going to decide but there is a full range of options available from nothing to suspension of access to benefits,” Mondolfi said.
Gasman said Love Saxa’s emphasis on the primacy of heterosexual marriage denies the validity of queer relationships.
“When they deny certain individuals who are queer access to this ideal standard of a relationship, they immediately say that all queer relationships are not as valid as heterosexual relationships,” Gasman said. “They also specifically call homosexuality and any non-heterosexual view a distorted view of human sexuality which is directly homophobic.”
Love Saxa President Amelia Irvine (COL ’19) said Love Saxa is committed to Georgetown’s mission and Catholic teaching.
“We have never advocated for violence toward any individual or group, not have we ever targeted any individual or group,” Irvine wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Gasman said the request to defund Love Saxa returned following a viewpoint in The Hoya written by Irvine (“Confessions of a College Virgin,” The Hoya, Sept. 8, 2017, A3). Love Saxa has had a contentious relationship with queer student groups on campus since protests in 2013 led by then-GU Pride President Thomas Lloyd (SFS ’15). Love Saxa took a year hiatus in spring 2016 after members did not submit a budget.
“‘Confessions of a College Virgin’ seemed to be a good article about the problems of hookup culture and the idea of abstinence in college, which I don’t think is objectionable at all,” Gasman said. “It’s fine if you want to remain abstinent in college, but at the same time she decided to use that article as a platform to espouse her homophobic ideology, which wasn’t relevant at all to the idea.”
In the opinion piece, Irvine defended Love Saxa’s exclusionary definition of marriage.
“Marriage is a conjugal union on every level — emotional, spiritual, physical and mental — directed toward caring for biological children,” Irvine wrote. “To us, marriage is much more than commitment of love between two consenting adults.”
Mondolfi said the hearing on Monday will consist of the individuals who petitioned against Love Saxa presenting to the commission for 5 to 10 minutes and then answering questions, followed by Love Saxa representatives, who will do the same. SAC commissioners will then determine whether Love Saxa is violating a specific rule in the Student Organization Standards. Love Saxa can then appeal the decision.
Mondolfi said that if the hearing results in sanctions for Love Saxa, they will be tailored specifically to the complaint that has been put forward, as SAC has done with other student groups.
“SAC’s role is usually to act in ways that will correct the specific violation. For example, we had a club earlier this year that partnered with a non-Georgetown organization and gave them money in ways they shouldn’t have. We could’ve sanctioned them in any way — and what we said is ‘you can’t partner with other organizations’ —  the sanction was very specific,” Mondolfi said.
Irvine said the students should not shut down dissenting world views.
“At a university, the free exchange of ideas should be celebrated, not squashed,” Irvine wrote.
According to Gasman, even though Georgetown is a Catholic university and some Catholics do not condone same-sex marriage, Jesuit principles advocate acceptance of all individuals.
“We’re calling on the university to follow Jesuit principles and follow its own policies for student conduct and not allow hateful groups on campus that foster an unwelcome and hateful environment for queer students because, at the very least, if they can’t stamp out homophobia and actually commit themselves to queer people, they can make sure they are not funding homophobia, which is what they’re doing by funding Love Saxa,” Gasman said.

Gail says 
October 20, 2017 at 10:40 am
Love Saxa promotes the beliefs of many and should not be dismissed! Their beliefs are just as important and need to be protected with the same fervor as others’.  You cannot honor one group by taking away from another.  That only furthers divisiveness and intolerance among us.  Marriage between a man and a woman should not be diminished because others may disagree.  When will all people begin to stand together and support one another?!

SFS 2016 says 
October 20, 2017 at 1:21 pm
Basically a bunch of students that dont like Catholic teachings decided to attend a Catholic school and then got upset there is an organization that actually follows Catholic teachings. Good Lord the quality of a diploma from this school falls further everyday.

Henry says 
October 27, 2017 at 12:43 am
When you set up shop in Sodom, it’s one of the risks you take.  Sometimes you convert the heathen, and sometimes the heathen converts you.

Jeff Townsend says 
October 20, 2017 at 1:34 pm
“Love Saxa receives $250 allocated through SAC.”
Regardless of who’s right and who’s wrong, this seems to be about making a point.

George Ashur says 
October 20, 2017 at 2:22 pm
I can’t help but wonder who is being intolerant here — those who hold a contrary view, or those who insist that there can be only one view, and you must comply or we will shut you down.

COL '15 says 
October 20, 2017 at 3:35 pm
The petition is asking for the university to follow it’s Jesuit values, not it’s Catholic ones. I wish I could say this was a logical error, but based on the university’s actions in the past, it seems very possible for this to be the case

Bob kelly says 
October 20, 2017 at 3:39 pm
I am not a grad or affiliated with Georgetown but this ridiculous assault on this pro traditional marriage is embarrassing for an institution of the gravitas of Georgetown. Rise above the PC world of everything must be non offensive to anyone. Please. Be a leader not a follower. Be a true institution of curiosity and exploration not a lemming like the rest of our colleges. Unless of course that will affect your federal funding…

Hoya2019 says 
October 20, 2017 at 6:03 pm
Where are those Georgetown Academy guys when you need them?

John Machir '71 says 
October 21, 2017 at 6:00 pm
Gail,
You are 100% correct. While I believe that anyone should be able to marry whomever they want regardless of their sex. I also acknowledge
that many people disagree. Because they disagree does not make them hateful or raciest. They are entitled to there beliefs. The is the problem with our PC world. Why should the LGBT Community get to set standards. They have no more right to decided what’s right or wrong than Love Saxa

Maximus300 says 
October 21, 2017 at 10:49 pm
I am amazed these protesting students do not recognize the absurdity of their position.  By stating their opposition to Love Saxa’s definition of marriage and relationships they are guilty of “fostering hatred and intolerance” toward Love Saxa’s “sexual preferences”. As I read it that makes them guilty using the same absurd logic.  What an idiotic drama for a supposed Catholic institution.

SFS'18 says 
October 27, 2017 at 8:03 pm
Maximus300
I imagine that these protesting students fully recognize the logical absurdity of their position and are taking this action precisely in an attempt to dictate to others what can (and cannot) be said, done, or even thought. The veneer of inclusion and tolerance is simply that; don’t let it fool you.

Scotus says 
October 21, 2017 at 11:38 pm
“I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith.” Hold fast to the truth and do not be discouraged. The notion that it is hateful to keep the faith and promote repentance instead of indulgence for all our sins is laughable. The administration would do well to reflect on Saint Paul’s second letter to Timothy. 
“For the time will come when people will not put up with sound doctrine. Instead, to suit their own desires, they will gather around them a great number of teachers to say what their itching ears want to hear.”

DR '88 says 
October 22, 2017 at 12:07 pm
The views of Love Saxa are consistent with the views of Pope Francis. Does Ouseph believe that Francis is fostering hatred? Does the Hoya believe that the first Jesuit pope is refusing to follow Jesuit values? 
https://www.independent.co.uk/news/people/news/pope-francis-warns-that-same-sex-marriage-threatens-the-family-and-disfigures-gods-plan-for-creation-9986028.html

Aquinas says 
October 22, 2017 at 1:26 pm
This is utterly ridiculous, perhaps one of the most illiberal things that has ever happened at Georgetown, along with the Lecture Fund’s inviting Cecile Richards to speak without even taking seriously its commitment to “fostering dialogue between differing viewpoints.” 
The actions taken against Love Saxa make it manifestly clear that the perpetrators are diametrically opposed to the very foundations of liberal education. They betray an utter unwillingness to even understand the motivations of the other side, and therefore resort to calling them a hate group. Seriously? Do you really think that anyone and everyone who has ever believed that marriage is between one man and one woman-basically every philosopher before the 1970s- is motivated by hatred? 
Proponents of traditional marriage oppose same-sex marriage not because they hate gays or want to deny them human dignity; they do so because they think marriage is not merely a social construct, but a reality based in the order of nature which cannot be redefined, cf. Robert P. George et al., What is Marriage?
LoveSaxa is not even asking people to accept its view on marriage. It simply asks for its own right to exist and promote this view, which anyone capable of understanding an argument should recognize as not based on hatred. One can recognize as legitimate/well-intentioned the reasons for one’s believing something without necessarily endorsing a given proposition.

SFS grad says 
October 22, 2017 at 2:51 pm
Anti-Catholic bigotry is nothing new. It’s just never been so bold and publicly acceptable

Dr Julio Banderas says 
October 23, 2017 at 10:51 pm
“Fascist…no tolerance for opposing views…” 
Therefore, LGBT = Fascist!

Althea Gardner says 
October 24, 2017 at 1:26 pm
I am sickened by the lack of tolerance from students at a Catholic university. When you enrolled in a Catholic institution, did you not know the  beliefs the school was founded on? Why not enroll in a public liberal school? Or an institution of higher learning with beliefs more compatible to your own? People enroll in Georgetown for it’s prestigious reputation and it’s background of providing quality education. As a devout Catholic, I am tired of Catholic bashing. I am sick of hearing how my morals are archaic and unreasonable. I try to be tolerant of all and lead by example. I think Love Saxa is trying to do just this. Why should they be ridiculed and labeled as a hate group for showing the truth as taught by the Bible. This young woman has more tolerance and moral conviction than most people twice her age. Would BYU change their policies? What about other faith based schools? I applaud Love Saxa and Amelia for standing up for Catholic values.  I am sure they can find $250 from a different source.

mike periu says 
October 24, 2017 at 2:17 pm
The intolerant and radical LGBTQ students moving forward with this complaint (because to be clear not all LGBTQ people are intolerant or radical but these students are) will likely find an accommodating ear with SAC. This is the state of many Catholic institutions of higher learning today. Any view that is anti-Catholic is embraced as “loving and welcoming” while sound Catholic doctrine is held up as “hateful and ignorant”.  
The problem starts with administrations that happily put the school’s Catholic identity on the back burner to avoid confronting our popular, secular culture. 
It is completely unacceptable that the school even consider banning a group that promotes traditional values. 
A social, sexual radical that attends Georgetown does so for 1 of 2 reasons: 1) to incite a scandal they can leverage for their cause or 2) they don’t associate Georgetown with Catholicism because the University does not put it front and center. Either one is a problem. 
Personally I think Georgetown should differentiate itself from the pack by proclaiming sound Catholic doctrine and EVANGELIZING which is the main purpose of a Catholic institution of higher learning. Otherwise it should abandon its Catholic identity because it is not authentic. Even if the school doesn’t go this far it certainly should discourage or ban groups that promote Church teaching.

Todd Crown says 
October 24, 2017 at 2:29 pm
Georgetown Students – How crazy has the liberal movement gotten?  Georgetown is a catholic institution.  Our religion is build on the basis of matrimony.  Matrimony by definition is based on “One Man, One Women” having  natural relations to create life.  You bozo’s don’t get it.  Keep pushing your silly agenda on traditional catholic based values and watch the your liberal agenda get pealed back to where is was 10 years ago.  I don’t agree in bigotry, I don’t believe in persecution of anyone who believes differently that I do.  But I will defend my religion and the foundation that supports our beliefs.  You want to flag a group that simply represents what is core to our beliefs and call them a hate group?  Keep it up and you will lose.  I guarantee it.

William Meeks says 
October 24, 2017 at 3:43 pm
It would seem to me that Love Saxa is simply advertising their sorority as people with a specific belief in search of like minded individuals. The LGBT sorority does the same thing. In the Constitution people have a right to voice their opinion & live under their beliefs, they do not have a right to enforce it on others, or silence them simply because they choose to live or think differently.  The LGBT community is attacking Love Saxa based off a perceived threat that in fact only happens when they attempt to enforce voiced acceptance of LGBT when none is warranted & only when those beliefs are different from theirs. If love Saxa Is to be punished then the LGBT group should be punished equally due to the same difference in opinion. If anything the author of this article should be punished for choosing sides & exacting a public chastisement without due process. Opinions are not one size fits all, especially if your not going to respect both sides until it’s time to render a verdict.

Phillip Rose says 
November 2, 2017 at 1:21 am
Georgetown has been a Catholic University in name only for some time.  Georgetown is no more Catholic than Madeline Murray o’Hare was a Christian.  They proved that when they covered the crucifixes on campus during an Obama visit so as to not offend anyone?  That in itself is offensive to Catholics.    Secular school and an ultra leftist one at that.
[…] reported by the student newspaper, The Hoya, the organization had been promoting Catholic doctrine regarding marriage, so it shall […]
[…] reported by the coed newspaper, The Hoya, the group had been selling Catholic doctrine relating to marriage, so it shall now […]
[…] Catholic doctrine regarding marriage as the union of one man and one woman, which LGBT groups have decried as “directly […]
[…] Catholic doctrine regarding marriage as the union of one man and one woman, which LGBT groups have decried as “directly […]
[…] spiritual, physical and mental—directed toward caring for biological children,” Irvine told The Hoya. “To us, marriage is much more than commitment of love between two consenting […]
[…] spiritual, physical and mental—directed toward caring for biological children,” Irvine told The Hoya. “To us, marriage is much more than commitment of love between two consenting […]
[…] “much more than commitment of love between two consenting adults” and that they were focused on “caring for biological children,” The […]
[…] Catholic doctrine regarding marriage as the union of one man and one woman, which LGBT groups have decried as “directly homophobic.” […]
[…] Pupil Actions Fee (SAC) at Georgetown College is holding a listening to on whether or not to take away recognition and funding from the conservative pupil group Love Saxa, […]
[…] Pupil Actions Fee (SAC) at Georgetown College is holding a listening to on whether or not to take away recognition and funding from the conservative pupil group Love Saxa, […]
[…] a woman, is under fire from LGBTQ groups on campus, PRIDE and Queer People of Color, according to The Hoya, Georgetown’s student publication. A pro-choice student senator filed a notice on September 25, […]
[…] a student submitted a formal notice to the University Assistant Dean for Student Engagement, arguing that Love Saxa’s views on marriage are “hateful” and should thus […]
[…] a student submitted a formal notice to the University Assistant Dean for Student Engagement, arguing that Love Saxa’s views on marriage are “hateful” and should thus be […]
[…] a student submitted a formal notice to the University Assistant Dean for Student Engagement, arguing that Love Saxa’s views on marriage are “hateful” and should thus be […]
[…] when a student submitted a formal notice to the University Assistant Dean for Student Engagement, arguing that Love Saxa’s views on marriage are “hateful” and should thus be stripped off its […]
[…] when a student submitted a formal notice to the University Assistant Dean for Student Engagement, arguing that Love Saxa’s views on marriage are “hateful” and should thus be stripped off its […]
[…] a student submitted a formal notice to the University Assistant Dean for Student Engagement, arguing that Love Saxa’s views on marriage are “hateful” and should thus be […]
[…] a student submitted a formal notice to the University Assistant Dean for Student Engagement, arguing that Love Saxa’s views on marriage are “hateful” and should thus be […]
[…] a student submitted a formal notice to the University Assistant Dean for Student Engagement, arguing that Love Saxa’s views on marriage are “hateful” and should thus be […]
[…] a student submitted a formal notice to the University Assistant Dean for Student Engagement, arguing that Love Saxa’s views on marriage are “hateful” and should thus be […]
[…] Students at Georgetown University, Washington, DC, have begun organizing against an anti-LGBT campus group which critics claim is intolerant and therefore should not receive University support. Campus newspaper The Hoya reported: […]
[…] a woman, is under fire from LGBTQ groups on campus, PRIDE and Queer People of Color, according to The Hoya, Georgetown’s student publication. A pro-choice student senator filed a notice on September 25, […]
[…] Love Saxa’s promotion of heterosexual marriage discriminates against queer relationships and is homophobic, said Gasman, the president of Georgetown University Pride, told the Hoya. […]
[…] a woman, is under fire from LGBTQ groups on campus, PRIDE and Queer People of Color, according to The Hoya, Georgetown’s student publication. A pro-choice student senator filed a notice on September 25, […]
[…] liberalism demand a mile. Chad Gasman, a sophomore at Georgetown and the president of GU Pride, told The Hoya that this petition, which he helped to file, will “force Georgetown University to actually be […]
[…] Irvine, president of Love Saxa, told The Hoya that the group views marriage as “a conjugal union on every level—emotional, spiritual, […]
[…] Love Saxa is a student organization that promotes marriage to be “a conjugal union on every level—emotional, spiritual, physical and mental—directed toward caring for biological children.” […]
[…] Love Saxa is a pupil group that promotes marriage to be “a conjugal union on each stage—emotional, religious, bodily and psychological—directed towards caring for organic kids.” […]
[…] According to Chad Gasman, the president of GU Pride, a pro-LGBTQ student group at Georgetown: […]
[…] According to Chad Gasman, the president of GU Pride, a pro-LGBTQ student group at Georgetown: […]
[…] According to Chad Gasman, the president of GU Pride, a pro-LGBTQ student group at Georgetown: […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 20, 2017 by Deepika Jonnalagadda Leave a Comment 
More than 1,300 people have signed a petition launched Oct. 10 by Aja Adams, a Washington, D.C. artist who identifies as LGBTQIA, is seeking credit and compensation for a mural design she claims was stolen by artist Lisa Thalhammer.
The conflict began in 2016 when Adams said she was approached by Thalhammer to collaborate on a grant application for the D.C. Commission on the Arts and Humanities. The grant involved the opportunity to paint a mural on the Open Arms Housing building, a shelter for homeless women, as well as a monetary award of $50,000.
Located at 57 O Street NW, Thalhammer’s “She Persists!” mural depicts an African-American woman with outstretched hands on a rainbow-colored backdrop. Adams said the winning design submitted by Thalhammer is a manipulated version of Adams’ original mural sketch.
Thalhammer claimed sole authorship after winning the grant, listing Adams and her partner Michelle Stearn as members of the personnel team rather than collaborators on the grant application.
By Adams’ account, when she refused the $10,000 Thalhammer offered in exchange for her work on the mural and dropped the project, Thalhammer agreed to design the mural.
However, according to Adams, the work Thalhammer submitted to the DCCAH closely resembled the original sketch Adams claims she drew in 2016, not the new redesign she had been expecting.
Thalhammer denies Adams sketched the original design.
“Along with the women from Open Arms and others from the community, I brainstormed with Aja about ideas for the artwork, but the fact is that I created and sketched the original concept drawing for my Open Arms mural application,” Thalhammer wrote in a statement to The Hoya.
Adams said she did not receive monetary compensation from Thalhammer for her alleged role in the design. She said she had been blocked by Thalhammer on all forms of communication and was unable to reach out to receive compensation.
However, Thalhammer said she made several offers to speak over Skype and was always turned down by Adams and Stearn.
Since her original posting, Adams has received a widespread online response, with over two hundred shares. Adams said this response has encouraged her to keep fighting for her cause on her Facebook page.
Adams brought up her concerns of copyright infringement in an email to Arthur J. Espinoza, the executive director of the DCCAH. The commission replied by asking Adams to prove her status as co-collaborator of the design. Adams was unable to do so, as Thalhammer had registered the design under her name with the U.S. Copyright Office in August.
The DCCAH will continue to stay out of the dispute, according to DCCAH Chief of External Affairs Jeffrey Scott.
“We take copyright matters very seriously and after an initial review, we determined that this is a contractual disagreement between the two parties,” Scott wrote in an email to The Hoya. “CAH has no plans to take any further action at this time.”
Unable to garner support from the commission after a yearlong conflict, Adams turned to social media last week, posting her story on Facebook and starting a petition on Change.org, a website that facilitates online petitions.
“We ask for your signature so that Aja can receive payment and credit for designing the mural, so that grantor DCCAH and grantee Lisa Marie Thalhammer can be held accountable for exploiting this community of women of color, and ultimately so that we can keep fighting for the creative dignity of all artists,” the petition reads.
In response to people who support Adams, Thalhammer acknowledged the element of race involved in the accusations she is facing.
“And to all the petition signers and critics, I hear your frustration as it involves the color of our skin and inequities that are systemically associated to that. We all, every single one of us, need to take a step back, look in the mirror, and work towards healing ourselves and healing the histories of our lineages. Let’s try to truly become the change we want to see in the world by ending our quick judgements of others,” Thalhammer wrote in a statement to The Hoya.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 20, 2017 by Yasmine Salam Leave a Comment 
Late-night sessions in Lauinger Library, exploring the monuments and adjusting to unfamiliar weather patterns are new experiences not only for many first-year and transfer students, but also for five School of Foreign Service in Qatar students studying at Georgetown’s Washington, D.C. campus this semester.
The five students showcase the diverse student body on SFS-Q’s campus. They hail from India, Pakistan, the Philippines, Syria and Massachusetts. Massachusetts native Katharine Danilowicz (SFS-Q ’19) has lived in Panama, Bangladesh and Pakistan due to her father’s diplomatic career. It is her first time in the United States since fourth grade.
Danilowicz said she wanted to learn more about life on the Hilltop after hearing about it from her family.
“My grandfather, father and brother all went to Georgetown, so I very much felt like I had to get some of the Hilltop experiences they always talked about,” she said. “What I’ve enjoyed the most is just having the D.C. experience. Finally getting jokes about Lau, complaining about Leo’s, eating sandwiches at Wisey’s and getting to check out interesting places in D.C. with experiences we wouldn’t get in Doha,” Danilowicz said.
For Ritica Ramesh (SFS-Q ’19), who was raised in Qatar, the resources provided for her major of study determined her choice to study on the main campus.
“I’m pursuing a certificate in American Studies, and my major focuses on American diplomacy, and I figured it would be a great experience to study in D.C,” she said. “My personal interests lie in criminal justice, and there are a lot of avenues and classes available in D.C. to pursue that interest.”
A Rocky Transition
Established 12 years ago, SFS-Q is located in Doha’s University City, an area of concentrated higher education centers including branches of universities such as Texas A&M University, Virginia Commonwealth University, Carnegie Mellon University, Cornell University and Northwestern University.
Ten students from Doha are currently on campus this semester, according to SFS Assistant Dean Lisa Gordinier. Every semester, Gordinier is tasked with facilitating the transition for students from Doha. The summer session always sees the most students visiting from Qatar’s campus, with approximately 30 students, Gordinier said.
The transfer students attend information sessions at the beginning of their semesters on the main campus, which explain university services such as Counseling and Psychiatric Services and the Academic Resource Center. All SFS-Q exchange students are invited to take part in New Student Orientation and the international pre-orientation program.
Danilowicz said the university’s resources eased the transition, though the weather has required an adjustment, as have the relatively spartan dorms.
“The weather has definitely shocked me the most. It’s already starting to get way too cold for me and it is only October,” Danilowicz said. “Also, they definitely spoil us with the dorms back in Doha. Our dorms are compared to hotels and we never have a roommate. So this was the first time I’ve had a roommate. She’s great, and it’s been a great experience, but it definitely is new.”
Different Campuses, Different Cultures
Though academic life is comparable on both campuses, the D.C. campus offers more outlets for socializing and meeting new people, Hunain Ali (SFS-Q ’19) said.
“Campus life at main campus is much better. It is way more active and lively than GU-Q,” Ali said. “Most of the students at main campus live in dorms, so it makes sense as to why it is more active. Academically, I would say it is pretty much the same.”
Class sizes and relationships with professors set the two campuses apart, according to Ramesh.
“In Qatar, the classes are smaller and you have a much closer relationship with your professors. You eat lunch with them, you go to events with them, you spend a lot of time with them — in a way, they become your friends, too,” she said. “That’s something that always blows my mind because you have these top-tier academics, and they’re personally invested in your success and educational journey at a very micro level.”
Ramesh said D.C. has a distinctive atmosphere of advocacy, which the Doha campus lacks but makes up for in school pride.
“There’s also a culture of advocacy and activism on campus here that also goes beyond just Georgetown and infiltrates the general D.C. community. In Qatar, we do most of our advocacy within Georgetown. But, at the end of the day, we still have as much Hoya Pride as they do here, and we still Bleed Hoya Blue, so that common link is great,” she said.
Syria native Jamal Khatib (SFS-Q ’19) moved to Boston with his family when the civil war broke out in 2011. Khatib said the recruitment opportunities drew him to spending a semester at Georgetown D.C., but he did not realize how competitive and cutthroat the recruitment process would be.
“I chose to study abroad this semester primarily because I heard the recruitment connections and opportunities here are much stronger. I wanted to use this time to secure a summer internship in New York,” Khatib said. “The process was really exhausting, I was constantly going to information sessions, networking events, interviews and dinners with prospective bosses, which was a lot.”
U.S. students can be intimidating to approach, according to Ali.
“Students at Qatar campus are much more approachable and easy to talk to. But again, maybe I’m not aware of the American culture and how things work here,” he said. “I thought it would be much easier to socialize and meet new people here than in Qatar.”
Danilowicz said that there is a similarity that links Hoyas from both campuses.
“At the end of the day, both campuses are full of Georgetown students who are incredibly intelligent and passionate and who are working to do amazing things and improve their communities,” she said. “That’s core to what Georgetown is and, despite the fact that each campus caters to different populations, it’s key to who their students are and what they want to do.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 20, 2017 by Will Cassou Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University plans to invest $120 million to upgrade Wi-Fi infrastructure in all 66 campus buildings, over the course of five years, through an agreement with Verizon Wireless.
Improvements have already been completed in Alumni Square and the Preclinical Science Building, resulting in speed improvements from two to 10 times the previous speeds, according to Vice President of University Information Services Judd Nicholson. However, other residence halls are not scheduled to receive improvements until 2018.
Students will receive notification before improvements begin, and some living in the Southwest Quad have received email notifications about preliminary testing to precede the improvements. Nicholson said that students have been involved from the very beginning of the process, with the Georgetown University Student Association and the Student Technology
Advisory board helping UIS test new technology and reporting back to Nicholson.
The improvements follow an agreement reached in January with the mobile and broadband services company after a two-year search for a solution to a technical problem related to usage capacity that could significantly impact the operations of the institution.
The agreement would also allow Georgetown to stay up-to-date with rapidly evolving Wi-Fi technologies, Nicholson said.
While planning improvements to the university’s Wi-Fi, the administration noted inconsistencies in the operation and usage of the Wi-Fi in specific areas, according to Senior Director for IT Infrastructure and Chief of Operations Scott Allen.
“We have Wi-Fi everywhere, but there are some locations where the signal was weak, and what you end up with is sometimes your computer may switch from one network to another, and, although you have Wi-Fi, it can be frustrating,” Allen said.
Installing the new Wi-Fi network would cause service outages of varied length, depending on the extent of the renovation in each particular building. Students expressed concern over the repercussions of the Wi-Fi outages and called for improvements to be made when classes are not in session.
“Wi-Fi improvements are necessary. It is very frustrating for Wi-Fi to stop working while streaming a video or writing on a Google Doc,” Maria Pombo (COL ’ 20) said. “Nevertheless, I think this improvement should be done when classes are not on, like Thanksgiving break or Christmas break, because turning off the Wi-Fi on campus for an extended period of time can negatively impact students.”
Nicholson said that to complete the large-scale improvements across campus within five years, work on the Wi-Fi in dorms and buildings will be done during the school year.
“The first year we’re trying to touch about nine buildings, then, after that, we significantly ramp up to about 30 or so, with the goal of completing all 66 buildings by the end of that five years,” Nicholson said. “So we will be working to collaborate with student affairs and the residence hall leadership and the students to be in the residence halls and the dorms and the classrooms during the year.”
Measures are being taken to limit the effects this will have on students, Allen said.
“We look at the usage patterns of every single building, and then we work with Verizon to actually schedule any disruptive work to minimize outages during periods,” Allen said.
The improvement project is one of many major Wi-Fi-related undertakings the university has engaged with in recent years. In January 2016, UIS overhauled the Wi-Fi system of Lauinger Library, although without the assistance of Verizon.
Though the university has also checked and updated Wi-Fi in every building since 2007, the university’s current partnership with Verizon establishes a standardized way to improve Wi-Fi campus-wide over a number of years, as opposed to working with multiple vendors and organizations on each project.
“Verizon submits to us plans for doing the replacements, and we review those plans and work with Verizon to make sure we’re applying lessons learned from the past and applying what we know about university usage,” Allen said.
The university has made its building plans and some details of the agreement with Verizon available on its website, as well as suggestions for students to adjust during the coming improvements. Nicholson expects that the agreement will lead to prolonged development.
“I would say this project and the contractual agreement with Verizon is an effort to put us in position to do continuous improvement,” Nicholson said.
Special to The Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 20, 2017 by Elizabeth Ash Leave a Comment 
The Office of Planning and Facilities Management has installed 33 free feminine hygiene receptacles in the past year in partnership with the Georgetown University Graduate Student Government, though a lack of funding has stifled plans to install receptacles across campus.
GradGov’s efforts are part of its We For She initiative, which aims to provide free feminine hygiene products and services on campus.
The Facilities Management Office contracted Workplace Essentials, a restroom services company the university works with to provide a variety of services, to provide and stock the 33 new receptacles. By GradGov’s calculation, each Workplace Essentials receptacle initially costs about $357 per year.
After the first three years, Georgetown is slated to own the machines outright and pay only for product refills.
However, financial constraints have prevented GradGov and OFM from installing additional machines across campus. GradGov President Rima Mandwee (GRD ’18) said GradGov has faced trouble getting funding from the OFM’s limited budget.
GradGov plans to contribute $1,000 to the program and encourage organizations to match their donation. Eventually, they hope the administration will fund most or all of the free feminine hygiene initiative.
Mandwee said the lack of available feminine hygiene products appalled her when she arrived on campus in 2015. Mandwee started the campaign last year to address the deficiency.
“For some reason no one has gotten upset about this before. I don’t know how the school has gone for so long without feminine products in bathrooms,” Mandwee said.
The initiative has also received support from Students of Georgetown, Inc., which contributed $2,142 to place six receptacles in Regents Hall and the Leavey Center, according to Corp Chief Financial Officer Jared D’Sa (COL ’19). HoyasForShe week, a university collaboration with the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women that promoted gender equality on campus in February 2017, inspired The Corp’s donation.
Vice President of Planning and Facilities Management Robin Morey said the university is considering an expansion of the program to more campus locations.
“Planning and facilities management is supportive of this initiative,” Morey wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The new program provides the product for free with the hopes that the dispensers do not become damaged. There are a total of 30 locations across campus. We plan on evaluating the new program and consider expanding it to more locations.”
A number of U.S. colleges provide free feminine hygiene products for students, including Emory University, the University of Minnesota and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. At others, like Brown University, the student government supplies products.
Piper Donaghu (COL ‘17), co-president of the Period Empowerment Project at Georgetown, an undergraduate student group that promotes menstrual hygiene as a human right, said the university does not provide adequate support for feminine hygiene.
“We can equate the absence of feminine hygiene products to a lack in toilet paper. People would be outraged if the Georgetown bathrooms did not provide this,” Donaghu wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Ultimately, Mandwee and GradGov believe the university should provide the same.
“There’s no feminine products in bathrooms, but it’s okay, because we have those bags for wet umbrellas. We fund that, but we don’t fund feminine products. I find it very strange,” Mandwee said. “I don’t know if people realize it until you point it out, but to me, it’s just ludicrous.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

