
October 17, 2017 by Madeline Charbonneau Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Graduate Student Government voted to support the publication of a letter from student activists in support of the withdrawn Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program to encourage Georgetown alumni in the U.S. Congress to pass the Dream Act of 2017.
The letter, which condemns President Donald Trump’s Sept. 5 decision to terminate the DACA program, thanks alumni in Congress who have voiced support for the Dream Act, which granted temporary protections to immigrants brought into the U.S at a young age, and encourages other alumni in the legislature to support the act and uphold Jesuit values.
Claudia Soliz Castro (GRD ’17), who drafted the letter and is currently pushing for support from the undergraduate Georgetown University Student Association, said the letter was met with overwhelming support in the GradGov general assembly Sept. 14, with 36 of 37 members voting in support and one abstention.
“The letter got a lot of support,” Soliz Castro said. “It was very successful. I was very happy. Maybe part of me was expecting a little more pushback, but I was very glad to see that that was not the case.”
Following Trump’s decision to terminate DACA, Georgetown University President John J. DeGioia issued an official statement calling the choice to end the program “unconscionable.”
Soliz Castro said she wanted to unify the graduate and undergraduate student body behind the administration’s efforts. She reached out to a representative of GradGov, Jon Ettinger (GRD ’18), to present the letter to the general assembly after drafting it.
After making slight changes to the language of the letter, the general assembly voted to support it.
“I was able to help facilitate getting Claudia in front of the graduate student assembly to present this idea and some of the language of the letter that she had already drafted up and help support and further flesh out some of that language in the graduate assembly,” Ettinger said.
The change in format would allow the letters to more directly praise those who have already supported the Dream Act and encourage those who had not to uphold the values of the university and support such an act, Soliz Castro said.
Soliz Castro has also been working with other student governments to pass the letter in their respective organizations. The Medical Center Graduate Student Organization and Georgetown University School of Medicine Student Council have both since passed the letter by majority vote in their respective assemblies. However, some student governments’ constitutions, like that of the Georgetown University Law Center’s Student Bar Association, do not allow for policy stances within the student government, which prevents them from voting to support a letter like this.
Since the letter’s approval in the general assembly, GradGov President Rima Mandwee (GRD ’18) has provided Soliz Castro with assistance in reaching out to other student governments to gain support.
The GUSA Executive, led by President Kamar Mack (COL ’19) and Vice President Jessica Andino (COL ’18) declined to comment while the letter is being finalized.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 17, 2017 by Matthew Larson 1 Comment 
Washington, D.C. residents who purchase home composting systems would receive a $75 rebate from the District government under a bill Councilmember Mary Cheh (D-Ward 3) proposed Oct. 3.
The legislation seeks to incentivize home composting systems for residents as part of a local government effort to reduce food waste by as much as 80 percent.
D.C. residents currently have the option of joining a community compost network with 50 composting sites around the city or going to government-run sites in each ward where they can drop off their compost for free.
The bill would formally amend the Sustainable Solid Waste Management Amendment Act of 2014, which prioritized government resources for sustainable methods of recycling and composting over landfilling and incineration. The new bill would also provide training to residents who purchase home composting systems to further the original bill’s goal and ensure proper usage.
The bill does not yet provide for curbside pickup of composting.
Cheh said she is optimistic for the bill’s success because District residents have shown willingness to contribute to environmental causes.
“There is certainly an educational component and an incentive component,” Cheh said in an Oct. 5 interview with DCist. “But I think it will fall on receptive ears, either because they have this ethic of progressive environmentalism or because they just like the idea of reconnecting with natural things.”
An April 2017 District of Columbia Compost Feasibility Study commissioned by the Department of Public Works found strong demand for a curbside collection program, as the city generates up to 234,000 tons a year in organic waste. A citywide, mandatory composting program could recover up to more than half of that number, the report suggests.
Cheh said much of the 234,000 tons of waste comes from single-family homes.
However, since Washington’s curbside pickup program is potentially years away from being instituted, the best way to immediately address the environmental problem is to have people compost themselves, Cheh said.
“When you consider that at-home waste is the largest percentage of food waste that we have, if we’re able to get a handle on that, it could have significant environmental and economic benefits,” Cheh said. “We want to give people an incentive to do that and make it accessible for all people.”
Still, critics say the cost of composting systems may create an economic barrier. For example, at home improvement store the Home Depot, the median cost of home composters is $100, making the bill’s rebate critical to helping the program achieve success.
In order to receive the rebate, residents will have to complete an in-person training class administered by the Department of Public Works and submit a claim to the city. Cheh emphasized the importance of the educational portion of the bill to the program’s success.
“You do have to be informed about it. It’s like anything else. There’s a lot of inertia and a lot of uncertainty about how to [compost],” Cheh said in the DCist interview. “I think if we could educate them and show them all the benefits, I think they’d begin to embrace it.”
A potential stumbling block to the home composting systems’ success is whether they will attract rodents or other pests. Last year, the Department of Health issued a warning that alerted residents to increased numbers of rats around the District as part of a long-term trend, due in part to trash not being stored properly, which could be a factor when composting.
The bill sets guidelines for composters to not amplify the rodent issue.
“A person may compost on their property,” the bill reads. “Provided, that the composting is conducted in a manner which will not promote the propagation, harborage or attraction of vectors, or the creation of public nuisances.”
Cheh’s bill is part of a long-term effort to reduce the city’s waste by as much as 80 percent. Christopher Shorter, director of the D.C. Department of Public Works, said the effort helps save money and makes the city more environmentally friendly. The District is currently looking into purchasing a site where it can build a composting center to expedite this process.
“Ultimately, we are going to be a more environmentally friendly city because many more of our residents will be separating their food waste and reducing landfill, which is the ultimate goal,” Shorter said in an interview with The Washington Post.

Kumudini Sandesha says 
November 11, 2017 at 12:17 am
Compost is rich in nutrients. It is used in gardens, landscaping, horticulture, and agriculture. The compost itself is beneficial for the land in many ways, including as a soil conditioner, a fertilizer, addition of vital humus or humic acids, and as a natural pesticide for soil. In ecosystems, compost is useful for erosion control, land and stream reclamation, wetland construction, and as landfill cover. Organic ingredients intended for composting can alternatively be used to generate bio-gas through anaerobic digestion.
https://goo.gl/Tb6WTR
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 17, 2017 by City News Editor Leave a Comment 
A Washington, D.C. government initiative announced Oct. 6 will target the housing affordability issues individuals experiencing homelessness face in the District.
The Landlord Partnership Fund will work to foster a positive relationship between landlords and tenants enrolling for public housing and promote affordable housing and stability across all eight wards, according to D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D).
The fund, subsidized by the Coalition for Nonprofit Housing and Economic Development and financed by local business groups including the pro-business growth DowntownDC Business Improvement District, will cover certain costs incurred by landlords of tenants whose rent is subsidized by a Department of Human Services Homeless Services intervention, according to a news release from Bowser’s office Oct. 6.
In turn, landlords are expected to relax screening criteria for people experiencing certain barriers to housing, including poor credit and past evictions, that have prevented them from securing affordable housing on their own.
According to CNHED’s website, the fund is especially needed in D.C., which is facing a severe shortage of affordable housing and a shortage of landlords willing to lease affordable units to households with histories of homelessness.
This initiative is a part of Bowser’s policy commitment to eradicating homelessness across the District, as the mayor’s office is also implementing a plan to open shelters for individuals experiencing homelessness in wards across the city.
“My administration is committed to making homelessness in DC rare, brief, and nonrecurring, and the Landlord Partnership Fund as well as the improvements we are making to our homeless services system are going to help us reach that goal,” Bowser said in her Oct. 6 announcement.
The Landlord Partnership Fund will be modeled after other similar housing initiatives.
In order for landlords to be eligible for this initiative, they will be required to enroll in the initiative through the CNHED. The costs covered by this fund will be unpaid rent up to $5,000 and property damage up to $2,500.
CNHED President and CEO Stephen Glaude commended the efforts to contribute to the fund’s endowment thus far.
“Those contributing to the Fund should be applauded for their willingness be a part of the solution,” Glaude said in a Oct. 6 news release.
Still, professor Joseph McCartin, executive director of Georgetown’s Kalmanovitz Initiative for Labor and the Working Poor, said there is still work to be done to tackle the causes of homelessness.
McCartin, whose institute develops strategies and public policy recommendations for improved labor and quality of living standards, said he doubts the immediate efficacy of these programs.
“I fear that the partnership is not going to be able to address to full need that the situation now presents, but I think we will have to see how it unfolds,” McCartin said.
McCartin said privately funded initiatives may be the best resource to address housing issues, as President Donald Trump’s administration announces budget cuts for the Department of Housing and Urban Development in 2018.
HUD currently operates on $46 billion in budget allocations, but Trump’s proposed 2018 budget would cut $6 billion in HUD funding.
These cuts are dangerous for the working poor in the District who desperately need federal intervention to keep up with the housing prices, McCartin said.
“The budget cuts that have been proposed are a serious threat to the working poor, especially in cities like Washington, which are pricing poor people out of the housing market,” McCartin said. “The current political climate isn’t good for poor people, and there’s no denying that. We simply have to turn that around if we are going to have livable cities.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

