
March 3, 2017 by Matt Bennett and Jeff Cirillo 5 Comments 
The Georgetown University College Republicans came under fire this week for inviting advocacy group Former Muslims United Director Nonie Darwish, who some critics have called Islamophobic, to speak on campus Tuesday evening.
Darwish promoted her new book, “Wholly Different,” which explores the differences between Christian and Islamic values, at the event.
Darwish, an Egyptian-born American, is head of the Former Muslims United, which seeks to protect former Muslims from persecution, and founder of pro-Israel advocacy group Arabs for Israel.
During her speech, Darwish strongly criticized Islamic values.
“Under Islam, the values of Islam, number one is jihad, everyone is sacrificed for jihad, the man has to die for jihad, the woman has to be oppressed,” Darwish said. “Because her role — number one — is to support jihad and to even ask her husband to become a jihadist. That is a good wife under Islamic law.”
Georgetown’s Bridge Initiative hosted an alternative event starting a half hour before the Darwish talk titled ‘Muslim Responses to Islamaphobia with Wajahat Ali.’ Ali is an Al Jazeera journalist and State Department official.
Darwish’s comments invoked a strong reaction from some members of the audience. On several occasions, GUCR moderators asked shouting audience members to quiet down and allow Darwish to speak.
The controversy over the event has been picked up by several right-leaning publications, including The Daily Caller and the Washington Examiner. According to the Washington Examiner, students shouted pro-Muslim slurs to Darwish at the event and she had to be escorted in and out by security.
According to Georgetown University College Republicans President Allie Williams (SFS ’19), the Examiner’s account is inaccurate. Williams said Darwish took questions from emotional and, at times, belligerent audience members, and there were occasional shouts, but there were no large protests and the event was largely civil.
“I don’t think they were protesters, they were just students who were challenging her,” Williams said. “That was the reason of the event.”
Williams also said there was a large police presence of over Georgetown University Police Department officers, most in plain clothes, due to the controversial nature of the speaker at the public event. However, she said the event went without incident and Darwish was only escorted off campus as a standard precautionary procedure.
“She had a book signing at the end,” Williams said. “There was no issue with her leaving or anything like that. At no point was I worried about anything happening to her or her safety.”
The day before the event, former GUCR Executive Board member Javon Price (COL ’20) resigned his position, writing in a Facebook post that he was motivated to do so by the Darwish event.
“As not only Republicans, but moral human beings, capable of both empathy and compassion, we should also fight against proponents of hate speech,” Price wrote. “With the invitation and sponsorship of event highlighting Nonie Darwish and her hate-filled book, we are giving a platform to a dangerous and toxic ideology. I for one, reject and condemn any organization that hides behind the righteous principles of free speech.”
According to Williams, Price voted to maintain Darwish’s invitation before his resignation. Williams said the public nature of Price’s resignation is disappointing.
“I totally respect his choice to resign, but I don’t respect the way in which he publicly made a statement about us all being bigots,” Williams said. “I don’t appreciate the way in which he publicly tried to slander everyone.”
Williams defended the decision to invite Darwish, saying there is a “double standard” in the reaction to speakers that are invited to campus.
“We believe that she has a personal story and I believe she has every right to share that personal story on our campus so we gave her a platform to do that,” Williams said. “We’re a Republican organization, no matter who we bring there’s obviously going to be backlash.”
This post has been updated. 

gary fouse says 
March 3, 2017 at 8:43 pm
I happen to know Nonie (not well), and I know why she left Islam. It was because she couldn’t understand why she was supposed to hate Christians and Jews. I am not talking about all Muslims, but it is time they and the rest of us faced up to the intolerance that exists today within Islam. Virtually every Muslim-majority country persecutes religious minorities.  Why is that? It is because Islamic religious texts tell them to (Koran Hadith, Sunna).

The Real SFS 2016 says 
March 4, 2017 at 1:15 am
Shame on Javon and shame on Rabbi Gartner for trying to disrupt the event.  I know the latter “only” hosted another at the same time in order to hurt attendance, but a more appropriate response would have been to host their “Islamophobia” event at another time or attend the CR event and engage in dialogue.  But Rabbi Gartner is super liberal, just like the rest of Campus Ministry, so it is to be expected.

Sean says 
March 6, 2017 at 7:14 pm
For at least five years, I have read authorship and watched videos at the GU campus-located Prince Al-Waleed Center for Muslim-Christian Understanding.  The ACMCU web record has a complete recorded zero of past publicized seminars in venues of expectable size, WITH PUBLIC ATTENDANCE by Christian GU community residents. 
Instead, what I see in posts there are silent persons (without questions), and none of them are curious regarding violence found in Islam’s texts (Qur’an & Sunnah), subsequently brought to reality during by the life of Muhammad.
Based on that, I now firmly believe that John Esposito, Jordan Duffner, Engy Abdelkader, and others working there are essentially motivated by avoidance of dialogue between Muslims and Christians.  Why?
They know how a thoroughly open, fully free arena for discussion would be revelatory — and therefore use endless smears of “Islamophobe”, “racist” and “bigot” against every critic — no matter if opposition derives from rigorous scholarship.

Charlie says 
March 5, 2017 at 4:38 am
What the hell? “Pro-Muslim slurs” ? This can’t be real. If you are think there is such a thing as a “pro-Muslim slur,” much less one that would be “shouted at Darwish,” then God help you. These are the same people who are scared by the words sharia and jihad without caring to understand the meaning behind them. 
There’s a reason why everyone who takes an actual course on Islamic studies ends up realizing Islamophobia is real — because the people spewing the nonsense about how Muslims hate everyone or feel the intrinsic need to oppress women don’t understand Islamic law or history. Take a couple of classes from certified professors of Islamic studies, read books that aren’t funded by the Islamophobia industry, and realize that everyone is human. 
People are free to listen to extremists like Nonie Darwish, who represent 0.01% of Muslims, and take her word as gospel to massage their confirmation bias, but they’re deluding themselves if they think that she is some savior to Muslim women who are too oppressed to speak out by themselves against the tyranny they live under. She has the right to say whatever she wants, but please, just do not report anything with the words “pro-Muslim slur” ever again. You go to Georgetown for God’s sake.

Laura Graham says 
March 6, 2017 at 4:10 pm
Why does Javon still title himself as secretary of the GUCR on his Facebook, the very place he announced his resignation? Was he reappointed?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 3, 2017 by Isabelle Groenewegen 1 Comment 
The university is working to implement a free speech and expression policy for faculty, according to university administrators at the second Hoya Identity Town Hall on Monday.
Georgetown’s Committee on Speech and Expression, consisting of four administrators and four students, develops the free speech and expression policy, which was first introduced in 1989.
The role of free speech on campus has been a focus of conversation this week, after the Georgetown University College Republicans hosted advocacy group Former Muslims United Director Noni Darwish on Tuesday and and the conservative blog Georgetown Review hosted journalist Asra Nomani, who have both been accused of holding anti-Islamic views.
The policy does not currently apply to faculty, as it is not included in the faculty handbook. Philosophy Professor Wayne Davisaid it is important the free speech and expression policy applies to all community members.
“Currently it only resides in the student handbook and we want to put it in the faculty handbook so that it’s approved by the board of directors and governs everybody,” Davis said.
According to Davis, the free speech and expression policy must be further revised before it is applied to faculty.
“One of the goals we set out is to take this general policy, clean it up, make it legally tighter and put it through the approval process we use for the faculty handbooks. The other thing we’ve noted, looking through this, is that the language of grossly obscene or grossly offensive is legally indefensible — it’s very hard to approve if something merely offensive or grossly offensive,” Davis said.
Academic free speech has come under the spotlight in recent months, following a Twitter exchange between School of Foreign Service professor Christine Fair and Nomani over Nomani’s vote for President Donald Trump. Nomani filed a complaint with the university against Fair after the exchange.
Davis said it is important the university have an effective free speech and expression policy for faculty members.
“The university thought it was very important to get out in front of this and state that we’re for speech and we want to engage people in discussion, we’re not going to simply for close ideas. Since one of the things we look out for in the faculty senate is academic freedom and all the conditions necessary for education and learning, we thought maybe we’ve got to look at our speech and expression policy — see it it’s up to snuff,” Davis said.
Davis said controversial speakers will continue to be invited to campus in the spirit of academic freedom and the free exchange of ideas.
“There’s a paragraph in the new policy saying — corollary to both speech and expression — that the idea is to engage people in reason, you can’t do that if you don’t have an environment where people are free to talk and free to comment,” Davis said.
According to Assistant Dean for Student Engagement Erika Cohen-Derr, the Bias Reporting System can be an effective tool in supporting those hurt by hate speech. The current bias reporting system, which was introduced in 2004, enables students to report bias online and find resources to support them through bias incidents.
“At a time when we’re talking a lot about alliance, about how we want to support and lift up the community, how we want to demonstrate support for our brothers and sisters, having good information on the Bias Reporting System, knowing when to use it, knowing how to share this information with others — this is one way that you can be an active contributor to creating a more positive climate.” Cohen-Derr said.

Sherman Roberts says 
March 22, 2017 at 6:11 pm
The infestation of Relativism in the 21st has been a curse!  It will continue unless brave souls do something about it. 
GU is a Catholic University.  Being faithfully Catholic is an ALL or NOTHING proposition.  What about Ex Corde Ecclesiae and the mandatum for professors/teachers?  Has GU been faithful to our Lord and His Church?
The Land ‘O Lakes Conference and Statement of 1967 was scandalous and never should have happened.
Attached is a blog for those who wish to learn some wisdom and be proactive ….
https://www.ncregister.com/blog/tworner/in-this-age-of-relativism-we-must-speak-the-truth
Sherman Roberts, alumnus, College ’65
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

