
November 8, 2017 by Alex Mooney Leave a Comment 
Construction on a new medical/surgical pavilion and helipad at MedStar Georgetown University Hospital will begin in January 2018, in accordance with the 2017-2036 Campus Plan.
The new 477,000-square-foot pavilion is expected to cost $567 million and to be completed by December 2022, two years later than initially estimated.
The project received the District of Columbia City Zoning Commission’s approval in June 2017, after the Georgetown Community Partnership agreed on size and specifications for the project in June 2016.
The GCP, a group of university administrators, students and neighborhood residents created after the 2010 Campus Plan’s contentious drafting and approval process, addressed concerns from the Old Georgetown Board, an advisory committee of three architects who conduct reviews of historical sites for the U.S. Commission of Fine Arts, in March 2016.
The new medical/surgical pavilion will have 156 private patient rooms, a new emergency department, improved operating rooms and a rooftop helipad with direct access to the emergency room.
The new helipad is not expected to add any noticeable noise from flights over campus compared to its current location, according to MGUH President Michael Sachtleben.
The renovation will also include the demolition of the currently abandoned Kober-Cogan Hall, which is expected to be torn down by June 2018. Kober-Cogan previously housed the department of psychiatry and served as part of MGUH.
The updates come after decades without a large-scale renovation of the facilities at the MedStar hospital, the main building of which was constructed in the 1940s.
“We are in aged facilities. In fact, in the main building where my office is and where we still care for patients today was dedicated by Harry Truman,” Sachtleben said during an update on the project Monday.
Parking for the hospital is set to be moved underground, where three levels will be tunneled out under the space between the current hospital and campus buildings, Darnall Hall and St. Mary’s Hall.
Sachtleben said the project will transform MedStar’s medical research capacities while also revitalizing the northern side of campus.
The plan will double the existing green area in the north section of the campus, adding a field where there is now a parking lot between St Mary’s Hall and the current medical center and layers of rooftop green space on the new medical building.
Eric Fisher, managing director of Trammell Crow Company, which is managing the development of the pavilion, said he expects the renovation to create a more pleasant environment for those on the north side of campus because of the new green space and newly constructed Pavilion.
“St. Mary’s, Epicurean, Darnall Hall — all of these resident elements here will now be overlooking a beautiful landscape area,” Fisher said.
Robin Morey, vice president for planning and facilities management, stressed the project will eventually improve student life despite the sight of construction on the north side of campus for the next four years.
“The investments that MedStar and Georgetown are making in this project will also improve the physical embodiment of the campus itself, by minimizing Georgetown traffic and congestion along Reservoir Road, improving our green space, adding sustainability features, and really making the campus much more-friendly from a pedestrian perspective,” Morey said.
Sachtleben said the hospital requires new and improved facilities
“We’ve got world class faculty here, world class nursing, world class care going on in the facilities, but we don’t have those world class facilities,” Sachtleben said. “This tower, what we will be building, will bring that world class facilities for our patients that we care for, for the families, and for all of our caregivers.”
Currently, the hospital facilities prevent medical officials from performing their jobs effectively, hospital officials explained.
Sachtleben said the emergency room is “overcrowded and antiquated” and the operating rooms are outdated, for example.
“[The limits] really impact our ability every day to deliver on our promise of excellence of care to our parents,” Sachtleben said.
The 20-year campus plan, approved Dec. 1, 2016, prioritized student housing renovations, future academic spaces and detailed the MGUH expansion. Under the D.C. zoning code, all universities in Washington, D.C., are mandated to submit campus plan agreements to the zoning commission every ten years outlining student and campus growth.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 8, 2017 by Katrina Schmidt Leave a Comment 
The Washington, D.C. Metro Red line is set to halt service between the Silver Spring and Fort Totten stations in Maryland from Nov. 25 to Dec. 10 for a second round of major planned track maintenance this year.
The improvement project will cut service on the easternmost end of the Red line, the Washington Metropolitan Transit Authority’s oldest and most used rail route. The line will operate in segments from the westernmost Shady Grove station to Fort Totten in the east, with a shuttle providing service from Fort Totten to Silver Spring.
Additionally, from Dec. 2 to Dec. 3, work will extend to the end of the Red Line in Glenmont. The Glenmont, Wheaton, Forest Glen, Silver Spring and Takoma stations will all be closed during this weekend.
WMATA warned passengers to expect delays and crowding. The closures will affect students using the Red line at Dupont Circle, and restrict students who wish to travel to downtown D.C. to using the Blue, Orange, and Silver lines that run through the Rosslyn station.
Four miles of track from Silver Spring to Fort Totten will see repairs and replacement in these repairs, replacing an interlocking, a part of the track where trains can cross from one track to another.
Metro also plans to install new sections of track and rail ties and update signals.
The work is scheduled to begin the Saturday following Thanksgiving and continue through early December, a time period typically characterized by lower ridership due to the holidays. In 2016, ridership peaked in the summer months before falling to its low in December, according to Metro’s Vital Signs Report for the first quarter of 2017.
The upcoming Red line project is one of WMATA’s 2017 Back2Good initiatives, which also include retiring old trains and rolling out more new 7000 Series trains, improving station management and maintaining escalators.
“Preventive maintenance is the anti-SafeTrack that prevents emergency conditions and will begin to cut infrastructure related delays to trains in half,” WMATA CEO Paul Wiedefeld said in a Dec. 2016 testimony before the U.S. House of Representatives Subcommittee on Transportation and Public Assets.
In the past, Metro often put off maintenance — a practice that has become increasingly unsustainable as the 50-year-old system has aged.
Metro’s infrastructure woes came to the fore in 2009, when nine people died and 80 were injured after a Red line train collided with a stationary train on the southbound track between the Takoma and Fort Totten stations. A National Transportation Safety Board investigation found significant structural problems in the Automatic Train Control system and the track circuits monitoring activity on the rail lines.
Near collisions occurred in 2005 on the Blue line between Rosslyn and Foggy Bottom due to similar problems, and an investigation of the 2016 derailment of a train near East Falls Church station found Metro had neglected repairs of rail ties and tracks in the time leading up to the event.
The work will take place over 10 working — and commuting — days, as well as two weekends, and the closures are expected to affect thousands of passengers.
Takoma station, which will be closed for all service during the work, has an average of 5,108 passenger boardings per weekday so far this year, according to the 2017 Historical Metro Ridership report.
“Customers who normally use Takoma, Silver Spring, Forest Glen, Wheaton or Glenmont are strongly encouraged to use other Red Line stations, travel during off-peak times or consider alternate travel options,” a Nov. 2 Metro news release said.
These stations are all north of Fort Totten on the Red Line, and those hoping to travel further into Washington, D.C., than Fort Totten will need to make use of the shuttles or use other transportation.
This work is part of planned preventative work following a year of updates to the Metro system through the SafeTrack program. SafeTrack compressed three years’ worth of updates into one year, as part of Wiedefeld’s “Back2Good” agenda, announced in 2016 when he took over, to repair the rail service and renew trust in the system.
“That has to come to an end,” Wiedefeld said in a June interview with The New York Times. “You could get away with it when you were a 20-, 25-year-old system. Going into your 40s and 50s, you can’t do that anymore.”
Now, after 15 “surges” to repair parts of the rail service in most need of attention, Metro’s Back2Good strategy is focused on preventative maintenance.
Councilmember Jack Evans (D-Ward 2), chairman of WMATA, told The New York Times.  In the same article, Evans said the completion of SafeTrack repairs marked success in saving WMATA from collapse.
“We saved the patient from dying,” Evans said. “The patient is still very, very sick.”
 
 
 
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

