
September 28, 2017 by Jeff Cirillo 1 Comment 
Colin Powell, former secretary of state under President George W. Bush, said the United States will “come through” its struggle to fully accept immigrants in a speech in the Fisher Colloquium on Wednesday.
“Right now we’re having some diversity problems because of certain political issues we can go into, but we’ll come through that,” Powell said in the speech covered exclusively by The Hoya. “We are a nation of immigrants. We are a nation of diversity. And we’ve had trouble with diversity over the years, and we still have trouble.”
He added that political circumstances will not stem the tide of an increasingly diverse society.
“Whether the political system likes it or not, it’s happening. It’s going to continue to happen. We are a vibrant economy because of immigration,” Powell said. 
He also alluded to problems with U.S. immigration policy by comparing citizenship requirements in the United States to the strict policies in Switzerland and Sweden.
“You can go to Switzerland, and it’ll take you forever to become a citizen, and you probably won’t make it. Same thing with Sweden: Look at the trouble they’re having with their immigrants. We have trouble with our immigrant policy, and I wish we could get an immigration policy that makes sense,” Powell said.
Powell’s remarks came in response to an audience question at an event titled “Leadership Without Authority,” the first in a McDonough School of Business speaker series of distinguished leaders. His speech included anecdotes from his 2012 book, “It Worked for Me: In Life and Leadership,” and tips on effective leadership that he learned through decades of public service.
A retired four-star general who served in the Reagan, Clinton and Bush administrations after 35 years of military service, Powell was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Army in 1958 as a member of the first generation of recruits to serve in a fully desegregated army. 
Noting America’s complex historical relationship with immigrants, Powell told the packed crowd that his own personal story is a testimony to the American dream. Born in Harlem to Jamaican immigrant parents who first arrived through Ellis Island, Powell went to school in the South Bronx and attended the City College of New York, a public university where 84 percent of students are nonwhite.
“Most people were the first in their family to go to college, or even finish high school,” Powell said. “There ain’t no legacy students they have to take care of.”
In 2013, the college opened the Colin Powell School for Civic and Global Leadership in Harlem. Powell said he was proud to start as a “street kid” and achieve as much as he did. When he visits his alma mater, he tells graduating students not to send their own children there, too.
“Go find somewhere else to send them,” he recalled saying. “This school is for the Ellis Island kids.”
On leadership, Powell said good leaders do not gain authority through titles or formal powers, but through building relationships of trust.
“You don’t get authority from above, you get authority from the people whose lives you control. You can’t be a good leader if your followers don’t believe in you,” Powell said. “If you’ve created that bond of trust, they’ll do anything you ask of them.”
According to Powell, these bonds of trust give leaders power up and down the chain of command, whether they have formal authority or not. He shared an anecdote from his time as national security adviser to President Ronald Reagan, when he was in the Oval Office briefing the president about a troubling situation. As Powell expounded on the complexities of the issue, the president remained silent, irking Powell, who expected the president’s input.
Then, finally, the president hopped up out of his chair. 
“And then he said, ‘Colin, Colin, look: The squirrels came and got the nuts I put out in the Rose Garden,’” Powell said. “He was telling me he trusted me, he hired me, he knew I could handle it.”
To work effectively with followers, Powell said strong leaders must first discover what their deputies are capable of handling on their own.
“Your job as a leader is to make sure you’ve identified that range, and then give it to them,” Powell said. “Trust them.”
[…] Via source […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 28, 2017 by Hannah Urtz Leave a Comment 
Georgetown must continue to facilitate spaces for meaningful dialogue and open exchange of diverse ideas, according to a panel on free speech and expression held Tuesday evening in the Healey Family Student Center Social Room.
The panel, featuring Georgetown University Student Association President Kamar Mack (COL ’19), Assistant Dean for Student Engagement Erika Cohen-Derr, associate professor of government Fr. Matthew Carnes, S.J., and English Department Chair Ricardo Ortiz, convened to discuss the ways that Georgetown can continue to provide outlets for free speech, while also addressing the tensions created between opposing student groups, diverging viewpoints and provocative speakers on campus.
In light of recent bias-related incidents involving anti-Semitic graffiti and swastikas found on campus in LXR Hall and Village C West, the panel discussed how both students and faculty can ensure that students are comfortable expressing their own views and feel safe on campus.
Carnes expressed that it can be challenging — as both a professor and a community member — to navigate the tension between the right of individuals to express themselves and their right to feel safe and respected on campus.
“There are some things that are our values that we absolutely believe in, about the dignity of each person and everyone’s inalienable right to be here, and how every member of our community — in their diversity — contributes to who we are. Those are things that are non-negotiable,” Carnes said.
The panel also discussed the course of action for polarizing or disagreeable speakers on campus.
Mack said that affirming the feelings and positions of dissenting student groups and individuals, particularly those from marginalized or disadvantaged communities, is one of the best ways to encourage free speech on campus.
“We also wrestle with the idea that Georgetown is a place where we need to encourage civil dialogue. The philosophy that I have looking at it is when there is speech that is not in line with the beliefs or values of individuals or communities in question, the response is always more speech,” Mack said. “The response is bringing in alternative perspectives, whether that be a protest or demonstrations or a campaign. To the extent that we can encourage that, we like to do that.”
Cohen-Derr also emphasized the need to cultivate an inclusive mindset on campus that addresses the many sides to a belief or argument.
“The question that I always struggle with is: What are our collective responsibilities to one another?” Cohen-Derr said. “If a student group that espouses a certain view and wants to host a speaker that will really amplify that view and really put those views out there, what is that group’s obligation to those who would feel personally attacked, insulted, hurt, unheard or invalidated by that viewpoint?”
Georgetown has a comprehensive speech and expression policy that outlines guidelines for the “untrammeled expression of ideas and information.” The policy dictates that individuals may not obstruct or otherwise interfere with the freedom of others to express views they reject and holds the university responsible for promoting a lively and fearless freedom of deliberation and debate, while protecting that freedom when others attempt to restrict it.
Carnes said that this policy and its preamble, written by Rev. James Walsh, S.J., illustrate the values that Georgetown holds and guides students and faculty alike in navigating the often murky waters of free speech issues on college campuses.
“It’s really rich and worth reading. It is a policy that both affirms our stance as a university and also our sense of community. I think it’s worth reflecting on,” Carnes said.
The policy also requires any speaker that comes to campus to take questions from members of the Georgetown community. This policy both generates more speech and opens up exchange and ideas on campus, Carnes said.
Ortiz agreed that the university policies underscore the community’s commitment to creating an environment for the civil exchange of ideas. He added that the policies have the power to reach into the classroom and influence discourse.
“For faculty, it’s really important to understand the relationship between these policies and what should happen in the classroom. The production of speech and knowledge [is done] through a set of processes that embrace a kind of freedom, openness and honesty and commitment to the truth,” Ortiz said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

