
March 2, 2017 by Jeff Cirillo and Hannah Urtz 6 Comments 
More than 1,400 students and alumni have signed a petition to dismiss the head coach of Georgetown’s men’s basketball team John Thompson III as of Wednesday evening.
The petition, launched Feb. 25 by Roey Hadar (SFS ’17) and Brendan Doyle (COL ’17), will be delivered to university administrators Friday.
An event created on Facebook to advertise the petition has about 1,700 students invited and over 450 students marked “attending.”
Director of Intercollegiate Athletics Lee Reed said in a statement to The Hoya that Georgetown remains committed to Thompson.
“We remain confident in Coach Thompson’s ability to lead a team comprised of student athletes who achieve academically, are prepared for a future beyond Georgetown, and will be competitive on a national level,” Reed said in the statement.
The petition is addressed to Georgetown University President John J. DeGioia, Reed, board of directors Chair William J. Doyle and members of the board of directors.
The petition argues that Thompson has led the team to its worst four-year record of any period in Georgetown basketball since the 1970s, and that a change is necessary to secure the basketball program’s future.
“We acknowledge the immensely valuable contributions Coach Thompson and his father John Thompson, Jr., have made to this University, including to the personal development of players and to the integrity of the Athletic Department,” the petition reads. “We believe, however, that both a change in coach and a change in approach, facilitated by conducting the Athletic Department’s affairs with a greater willingness to engage the University’s fan base and the media, will help the program succeed in the long-term.”
Hader and Doyle aren’t the first to call Thompson’s abilities as a coach into question. A Feb. 24 commentary in The Hoya called for the university to remove Thompson, citing a loss of faith in the men’s basketball team, while an article in fan discussion website Casual Hoya last month also called for the coach’s removal.
ESPN’s Jeff Goodman published a column yesterday detailing the tensions around Thompson’s tenure. ESPN shows “Around the Horn” and “Pardon the Interruption” referenced these articles while discussing Thompson’s future.
Hader said he and Doyle first shared their concerns in a comment thread on the Georgetown basketball blog and Casual Hoya. According to Hader, Georgetown’s 86-80 loss against St. John’s provided the final push to launch the petition.
“We started messaging on Facebook with each other also, trying to come up with ideas. Then we drafted up this petition on either Thursday or Friday, and made it public on Saturday just after the St. John’s game,” Hader said.
The two fans were motivated to start the petition, according to Hader, by what they saw as the increasingly dire state of the men’s basketball program.
“If we don’t make a change, donors will eventually stop donating, season ticket holders will eventually cancel their subscriptions, students will continue to become increasingly apathetic about the basketball program and eventually that will adversely impact other parts of the university,” Hader said.
Doyle said the response to the petition has been largely positive.
“We’ve heard a lot of support from current students, from recent alumni, from other alumni,” Doyle said. “A lot of people have been willing to tell us that they’re supporting us, and we’re hoping we can leverage that support into making a meaningful change.”

The Real SFS 2016 says 
March 3, 2017 at 8:10 am
Knowing Roey is behind this makes me suspect there may be some racial animus behind this petition.  
I hope I’m wrong.  
But I know there is a long history of Jewish people taking advantage of African Americans, from owning the slave ships that brought them to North and South America and dominating the slave trade, to having a higher percentage of slave ownership than the non-Jewish White population in the south prior to the Civil War, to the exploitation of black musicians during the Motown era, etc.
I’ll wait a few days before signing the petition until I know more about what’s behind it.

Eye Roller says 
March 3, 2017 at 7:47 pm
“The Real SFS 2016,” dragging in race to the conversation, accusing a guy of racism, and then dragging his faith into it while bringing in anti-Semitic tropes? Looks like somebody’s trying to be an anonymous troll. (And yeah, yeah, I know what comes next. You’re gonna go after me for being anonymous too, accuse the kid of being racist with no proof again, and peddle a couple more lies about Jews while trying to bait another response. Nice try, loser.)

The Real SFS 2016 says 
March 4, 2017 at 1:10 am
Nope.  They’re actually historical facts.

Jon Ward says 
March 3, 2017 at 11:26 am
While these students certainly are entitled to their opinion, they are misguided.  Coach Thompson is an excellent coach who has achieved immense success while upholding the difficult off-court standards Georgetown demands.  He is much more qualified than any likely replacement candidate.  The efforts to dismiss him based upon two poor seasons are unjustified and harmful to Georgetown’s basketball and athletic programs.  I hope that the administration has a broader and better perspective than those who have signed this petition, and I am proud to stand up as one of the many supporters of JT III.

Money says 
March 3, 2017 at 5:51 pm
JTIII makes WAY too much money to be losing this often. I’m fine with keeping him if it means drastically reducing his nearly $3,000,000 salary.

Mike Flynn says 
March 7, 2017 at 11:12 pm
JTIII is a good man but a bad coach. I cannot think of any ranked team using the Princeton offense? A good coach tries to get his best players on the floor and adapt the offensive and defensive style to the strengths of his players size and talents. You don’t hitch a race horse to a beer wagon! Georgetown never had a great offense even under Big John but a suffocating defense helped mask problems scoring. JTIII has never created a defense like his dad’s that put fear in the hearts of opponents. Bad offense plus a mediocre defense equals a bad team. 
If you have a big team most coaches go inside then out. If your talent is more guard heavy you press and drive more. The other glaring weakness is JTIII’s in game lack of ability to make quick adjustments. Being a good coach in the Ivy League doesn’t necessarily translate to the Big East. I have never seen him call a time out and rip into his players when they play lackadaisically? 
Face facts! If JTIII wasn’t the son of John Jr. he would have been fired years ago. He is both incompetent and untouchable?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 2, 2017 by Toby Hung 2 Comments 
The Committee on Investments and Social Responsibility plans to advise the board of directors to establish a policy of no direct investment in private prison companies and to avoid commingled funds with investments in private prison companies “to the maximum extent possible,” according to a memo published by the committee today.
CISR also concluded that divestment would not be effective in promoting a resolution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
The committee’s memo comes in response to a petition submitted by Eman Abdelfadeel (COL ’17), Sophia Bauerschmidt Sweeney (COL ’17) and Salma Khamis (SFS ’17) to Georgetown in October, which demanded that the university divest from private prison companies and companies that contribute to the “occupation of Palestine.”
After its review of the proposal, CISR has concluded by a majority vote that the proposal does not merit consideration by the board of directors. Specifically, the committee took issue with the petition’s request to divest from companies and funds that have investments in the private prison industry.
“CISR found that these companies do not have sufficiently direct involvement in the industry,” the report stated.
In the memo, CISR also recommended that the university use other methods of exploring peaceful resolutions to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
“In reaching this conclusion, the Committee took into consideration the views of University community members, many of whom are deeply concerned about this conflict and have many different perspectives and ideas on how to address it,” the report stated. “CISR encourages the Georgetown community to use the resources of our university – academic research, teaching and learning, co–curricular programming, and community–based service – to create dialogue, foster understanding, and explore peaceful solutions to this conflict.”
In its original proposal, which was endorsed by at least 17 student groups, the three students requested that the university publicly disclose its investments, setting a deadline by Jan. 13. In late January, University Chief of Staff Joe Ferrara declined the group’s request, citing that it is not the university’s standard practice to disclose investments.
This article will be updated as more information becomes available.
Clarification: An earlier version of this article stated the GU F.R.E.E. submitted the proposal. It was independently submitted by three students.

Eman says 
March 2, 2017 at 7:06 pm
Thanks for covering this! Just a few clarifications.
1.  GU F.R.E.E. did not submit this proposal; the 3 students that you listed this.
2. We submitted this in October, not December.
3. The occupation of Palestine is legally recognized and not a matter of opinion so I’m not sure why the Hoya has always put it in quotation marks in your pieces.

The Real SFS 2016 says 
March 3, 2017 at 8:02 am
Eman,
Thanks for your comments.  Frankly, I and others I know have gotten exhausted pointing simple mistakes in the Hoya, both in their news and opinion division.  It’s like they don’t do the work of basic journalism and investigate stories before they publish them anymore.  Sad!
TRSFS2016
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 2, 2017 by Ian Scoville 2 Comments 
Christopher S. Celenza, the vice provost for faculty affairs at Johns Hopkins University, will serve as the next dean of the Georgetown College starting July 1, according to a campuswide email from University President John J. DeGioia sent Thursday morning.
Celenza also serves as a professor in the German and romance languages and classics departments at Johns Hopkins.
Celenza has a long history in scholarship, according to DeGioia. He served as chair of the classics department at Johns Hopkins, founding director of the Charles Singleton Center for the Study of Pre-Modern Europe, a multi-departmental study focusing on the history of premodern Europe, and vice dean for humanities and social science.
DeGioia said Celenza is well-known for his work in academia.
“Dr. Celenza is known for his exceptional scholarship — he is the author of seven books, 40 articles and book chapters, and countless published reviews and short notes — and is the recipient of numerous awards,” DeGioia wrote.
DeGioia convened a search committee after College Dean Chester Gillis announced in March he would conclude his term at the end of the 2016-17 school year. Gillis will rejoin the theology department as a professor following a sabbatical next year.
This article will be updated as more information becomes available. 
 

best woman college in rajasthan says 
April 20, 2017 at 4:11 am
This web is really great. Love it so much. I can’t wait for the next article.
[…] https://www.thehoya.com/university-appoints-new-dean-for-college/ […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

