
January 23, 2018 by Elizabeth Ash Leave a Comment 
Streamlined communication and feedback systems at the Cawley Career Education Center are set to be implemented via Google form later this week, thanks to a collaborative effort between the Georgetown University Student Association and staff at Cawley.
The effort is also slated to include a series of focus groups to provide feedback on specific aspects of the career center’s offerings.
The first focus group intends to address how Handshake, a new software Cawley employed last semester to facilitate scheduling appointments and provide students with information about internship opportunities, can provide better access to industries Georgetown students are interested in exploring. The group is set to meet Feb. 2 at 1 p.m.
The Google form, which can be found on GUSA’s website, aims to serve as a permanent outlet for student suggestions on what they would like to improve about their experiences with the career center, according to GUSA President Kamar Mack (COL ’19).
“We realized the campus would benefit from some mechanism to give consistent feedback to the career center,” Mack said.
Mack said students in the past had struggled with the inaccessibility and lack of user-friendly  interface of the online platform the career center used to book appointments.
“If you go to the website and there are no appointments, the site would just read ‘no appointments,’ when, in reality, students could come for drop-in hours during that time,” Mack said. “We’re trying to find more things like that, that we can make subtle improvements on the layout of the site and how it interacts with staff.”
Also meeting Feb. 2 at 1 p.m., the second focus group hopes to address student concerns about staff availability. Students have previously experienced difficulties accessing career advice at crucial points throughout their time at Georgetown.
The student demand for Cawley must be met through innovative methods, Mack said.
“The sheer size of the population it serves in comparison to the number of staff members is a challenge any office would face in their shoes.” Mack said. “Finding ways to make sure they’re serving all of the students that come in is something that has to be tackled creatively and effectively. How can the career center utilize appointments, utilize drop-in hours, utilize other types of support to give students access to staff?”
Both focus groups are open to the public. Cawley staff will moderate discussion in the career center’s lounge.
The launch of these initiatives will allow a larger portion of students to contribute feedback, Susan Campbell, Cawley’s interim director, said.
“The focus groups and Google form, being managed by GUSA, will provide additional forums, giving every student an opportunity to participate,” Campbell wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Recently, Cawley has taken steps to improve services, particularly for international students, who expressed criticism of the Sept. 15 career fair’s perceived lack of international employers. In December 2017, Cawley hosted focus groups for international students in conjunction with the Office of Global Services and the Center for New Designs in Learning and Scholarship.
Using feedback from the December focus groups, Cawley hired new staff and requested the inclusion of an “international” category from Handshake, according to Jodi Schneiderman, Cawley’s manager of career programs and operations.
“Since then, we have hired an international student who will work specifically on international student career programming,” Schneiderman said.
In February, Cawley plans to host two student workshops geared toward international students. On Feb. 2, the career center hopes to identify companies that offer job opportunities for international students. The second workshop, focusing on how international students can access effective networking opportunities, is set for Feb. 23.
Furthermore, the Office of Academic Affairs from the Division of Student Affairs now oversees Cawley after an external program review mounted by Student Affairs, the Cawley Career Education Center and the Office of the Provost. The program review, which engaged national experts weighing in on a multi-month internal assessment of services and improvement, determined that the center would be better served under this purview, according to Vice Provost Randy Bass.
“Many of the goals for improving services that we collaboratively developed with Cawley over the past several months have to do with more closely connecting Career Services with the schools and the academic curriculum — whether it is better alignment with emergent fields and careers, or credit-bearing internships and other opportunities for students to really think about their development sense of vocation and purpose in light of their academic study,” Bass wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Bass also emphasized the growing recognition of the link between career and academic concerns.
“Furthermore, we believe that the trend line in higher education is for Career Services to be more closely connected to academic affairs,” Bass wrote.
Campbell said Cawley will consider all data collected from students when evaluating offerings for the 2018-19 academic year in its strategic planning this May.
“Cawley regularly assesses service offerings and how to best meet the career readiness needs of students,” Campbell wrote. “The assessment process has consistently included input from students — through surveys and bi-annual meetings with school deans and academic councils.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 23, 2018 by Sarah Mendelsohn Leave a Comment 
Nearly 12,000 protesters marched from the National Mall to the White House on Saturday for the second annual Women’s March to rally for social justice issues ranging from women’s rights and sexual assault prevention to immigration reform and racial equality.
The Washington, D.C. Women’s March came nearly a year after the Jan. 21, 2017 Women’s March on Washington, which aimed to rally support for women’s rights and protest President Donald Trump’s inauguration.  The 2018 march centered on the upcoming midterm elections and proactive resistance to the Trump administration through the slogan “Power to the Polls.”
While this year’s march saw a decrease in attendees from last year’s 725,000 protesters,  Saturday’s march maintained the energetic and determined spirit of the global women’s movement. Each speaker’s call to action drew raucous cheers from the crowd.
This year’s march and rally focused on how people can contribute to the effort to bolster rights for women and minorities. Beginning at 11 a.m., speakers, including members of Congress, called on citizens to vote in the upcoming midterm elections and for women to run for office.
Last year’s march was one of 673 simultaneous worldwide movements to protest Trump’s election to office. Over 4 million people gathered to demonstrate in sister demonstrations in all 50 states and countries around the globe, prompted by a Facebook post by a woman in Hawaii after the November 2016 election.
This year, people took to the streets once again to advocate for equality and civil rights. These marches echoed the message of the #MeToo and #TimesUp social media movements to raise awareness about and eradicate sexual assault. Protesters also marched in support of the rights of transgender people, the protection of people with disabilities and the protection of “Dreamers,” immigrants without documentation who were brought to the United States as children.
“I think we’ve moved from doing the important culture change work to now starting to think about institutional change and passing policies,” National Organizing Director at Planned Parenthood Kelley Robinson said to the crowd in D.C. on Saturday.
Representative Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) also emphasized the importance of women voting and running in elections.
“Nothing is more wholesome to a government, to a country, to a society than the increased participation of women in the leadership and in the rank and file. We need women’s participation,” Pelosi said.
Georgetown University students joined the pink-clad crowds Saturday to march on the White House. Madeleine Gibbons-Shapiro (COL ’21) said that she joined the march to support the collaboration between women and minorities to fight for their civil rights.
Gibbons-Shapiro said that she would like to see a continued effort to support marginalized people on Georgetown’s campus.
“One thing we’ve seen happen this year that’s a really good step in the right direction is the [Living Learning Community] that’s dedicated to gender and sexuality,” Gibbons-Shapiro said. “A continued support of ‘Dreamers’ and people who are traditionally discriminated against, especially in our predominantly white institution — it’s important for Georgetown to support all these different people.”
The Washington, D.C. march was one of many marches held in cities throughout the country. The official Women’s March, organized by the national Women’s March organization, was held in Las Vegas this year. Organized under the theme “Power to the Polls,” the 2018 Women’s March aimed to inspire women to run for elected office and vote. The theme is the focal point for a yearlong campaign to “channel the energy and activism of the Women’s March into tangible strategies and concrete wins in 2018,” according to the Women’s March website.
The 2018 midterm elections will determine which party holds a majority in the Senate and the House. In other words, it will decide the balance of power for the rest of Trump’s term. With the legislative and executive branches currently controlled by the Republican party, Democrats are determined to win seats in the legislature—at least 24 seats in the House and two seats in the Senate to gain a majority of the votes in Congress. All House seats are up for election, and Democrats will be targeting 91 of the seats currently held by Republicans while Republicans will be targeting 36 Democratic seats in the House, according to NBC News.
Arizona and Nevada will be hotly contested states in the midterm elections because they are traditionally red states that may vote blue this election. For this reason, the Women’s March held its primary demonstration in Las Vegas, encouraging Democratic voters there to take to the polls. The Women’s March sought to rally Democrats and independents and encourage them to vote in order to grow Democratic power and strengthen the opposition to Republicans’ and the Trump administration’s policies by electing more Democrats into office this year.
“Women’s March has created a powerful movement that has ignited thousands of activists and new leaders,” Tamika Mallory, co-president of the Women’s March, said in a statement on the “Power to the Polls” website. “In 2018, we must turn our work into action ahead of the midterms. This new initiative will address voter registration and voter suppression head on. We marched for justice in D.C., we created our plan in Detroit and now we’re bringing the power of the polls to Nevada.”
According to The New York Times, some activists felt that the Women’s March this year was too focused on electing Democrats and neglected to address the need to include more marginalized groups. Fox News opinion writer Jen Kerns questioned the Women’s March’s ability to effect serious change and said that it has functioned as an outlet for anger more than as a political movement.
“After much public dialogue over the last year, the questions must now be asked: What exactly has the Women’s March accomplished and are the protesters capable of turning their angst into action? Will Saturday’s protests accomplish anything more, or just serve as a self-affirming feel-good moment for President Trump’s opponents?” Kerns wrote Sunday.
The marches on Saturday came hours after the government shutdown Friday night. Republicans and Democrats failed to compromise on military spending, the wall on the border with Mexico and protection for immigrants without documentation allowed in the country through the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. The Women’s March rallied support for immigrants without documentation in response to the shutdown.
Trump said that the marches were about a celebration of “historic milestones and unprecedented economic success and wealth creation that has taken place over the last 12 months” and the “lowest female unemployment in 18 years” in a tweet Saturday.
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 23, 2018 by Joe Egler Leave a Comment 
Precise language is essential to the national discourse on abortion, the death penalty and euthanasia, according to Lila Rose, the founder of Live Action, an American anti-abortion nonprofit organization. Rose keynoted the Cardinal O’Connor Conference on Life held in Gaston Hall on Saturday, where she spoke about the importance of acknowledging the rhetoric used during the abortion debate.
This year’s conference, titled “(Ir)religiously Pro-Life: The Future of the Movement in a Secular World,” was the largest student-run conference in the United States focused on Catholic life issues, drawing over 700 high schoolers, college students, young adults and scholars from around the country – the largest showing in the conference’s history, according to organizers.
Rose, who founded Live Action in 2008 at the age of 15, spoke about the obstacles that the anti-abortion movement faces in today’s world, including unity.
“Whether we are Catholics or Protestants, whether we are Republicans, or Democrats or independents or we don’t poll by a particular religious label or a particular political label,” Rose said. “Whether we’re students or professors, young or old, we’re all here because we share a common concern for the inviolable right to life.”
Rose also said that the language used during the abortion debate is especially important, and she encouraged the audience members to communicate their message clearly when speaking to the opposition.
“The abortion lobby in our country, today and from the beginning, have been masters at seizing the language and using it to mask the violence and the pain and the regret that so many men and women experience,” Rose said. “We tell the truth, and with the truth, the lies lose power.”
The conference is named after Cardinal John O’Connor (GRD ’70 ), who died in 2000 and is most known for his strong anti-abortion position. O’Connor received a Ph.D. in political science from Georgetown’s School of Foreign Service and served as the former archbishop of New York.
Michael Khan (COL ’18), a co-director of the event, said that this year’s conference specifically targets younger people in an effort to get them involved in the anti-abortion cause.
“With this theme in particular, that’s exactly the audience we’re targeting, because millennials are more likely to be less religiously affiliated than older Americans,” Khan said. “So, the question we want to pose at this conference is speaking to those millennials and maybe people who are nominally Christian or religious, or don’t believe at all.”
Claire Smith (COL ’19), a board member for Georgetown College Republicans who attended the conference, said Rose’s speech offered a new perspective on the abortion debate.
“I went to the Pennsylvania delegation’s March for Life reception around Capitol Hill yesterday,” Smith said. “It was really interesting to see the way that [Rose] talked about it from more of an outside perspective.”
A panel discussion, breakout discussions, Catholic Mass and remarks by University President John J. DeGioia followed Rose’s keynote address.
According to Julia Greenwood (COL’19), a co-director of the conference and a board member of Georgetown Right to Life, the breakout sessions intended to expand upon the topics presented in the speeches.
“The breakout sessions will address a variety of different aspects of the consistent life ethic and the pro-life movement,” Greenwood wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We have speakers coming to talk about various topics including the death penalty, natural law and end-of-life issues.”
The conference, which fell a day after the annual March for Life, an anti-abortion rally organized in observance of the anniversary of the Supreme Court’s Roe v. Wade decision that, in 1973, overturned laws restricting a woman’s right to have an abortion, drew opposition from members of pro-abortion rights student group H*yas for Choice.
According to HFC Co-President Annie Mason (COL’18), the conference did not allow for an open dialogue on the abortion debate.
“In terms of trying to create a space that would spark dialogue that should represent different opinions, that’s really not the way to go about it,” Mason said. “In terms of the message they’re trying to get across, I don’t think the point is to engage with the pro-choice community.”
Twenty-five members of H*yas for Choice gathered outside the event in Healy Hall Saturday following an email message sent out calling on members of the club to “stand up to anti-choice bulls–t.”
Despite the opposition, Smith said she appreciated hearing Rose’s perspective on the abortion debate, especially the ways in which she drew from her experiences with Live Action to inform her current stance.
“Hers especially was a new point of view, especially as someone who has been from Live Action and who has done more exposés,” Smith said. “I think it was interesting to hear about that and to see how much work they put in.”
Correction: A previous version of this article stated that over 200 students attended the conference. Over 700 attended, according to organizers.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

