
September 25, 2018 by Olivia Eggers Leave a Comment 
At a time when the press’s relationship with the executive branch is increasingly strained, protecting the First Amendment rights of both journalists and whistleblowers —those who leak information about a person or organization engaged in illegal activity —is increasingly important, panelists said at a forum in Gaston Hall on Monday night.
Hel in partnership between Georgetown University’s Free Speech Project and the Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University, “Secrets and Leaks: Whistleblowers, Journalists, and National Security,”focused on the intersection of investigative journalism and national security.
Speakers included Martin Baron, executive editor of The Washington Post; Carrie Cordero, former counsel to the assistant U.S. attorney general; Jameel Jaffer, director of the Knight Institute; Alberto Mora, former general counsel of the U.S. Navy known for leaking information about torture at Guantanamo Bay; and Laura Poitras, a documentary filmmaker who reported on the National Security Agency’s PRISM surveillance program after receiving classified information from Edward Snowden.Sanford Ungar, the director of Georgetown’s Free Speech Project, moderated the event, which was co-sponsored by The Hoya and Lecture Fund.
Panelists analyzed the current relationship between media and the government, addressing President Donald Trump’s rhetoric about the press and its impact on potential leakers.
“People are afraid,” Baron said of potential government sources. “They’re afraid they’ll be prosecuted; they’re afraid of being blackballed, that they’ll be shifted into a lower-level position or into some obscure corner office.”
Jaffer said the White House’s public attitude toward the media affects not only government sources but also journalists.
“I think that the statements that the White House is putting out there have an inevitable, and I think quite deliberate, chilling effect on would-be leakers and probably on journalists too,” Jaffer said. “I think they’re a lot more careful about decisions with sources than they might have been 10 years ago.”
The panel used the cases of Snowden and panelist Mora, among others, as examples of whistleblowing, noting that while rhetoric toward journalists who publish leaked information has become more hostile, protections for those who release classified information related to national security have historically lacked protection under the First Amendment.
Looking at more recent cases, including a New York Times op-edpublished Sept.. 5 written by an anonymous source in the White House, Baron argued that the Trump administration has inaccurately characterized leaks as threats to national security.
“What’s at risk is reputations, with the politicians involved, the president involved, and his administration, and they fear risk of embarrassment,” Baron said.
The panelists debated benefits and drawbacks of government leakers and the dangers they face when disclosing confidential information to the press. Ungar pointed out an apparent contradiction in the protections afforded journalists but not whistleblowers.
“This is an odd system we seem to have around here, where reporters have protection but often people who give them information do not have protection,” Ungar said.
Jaffer indicated that whistleblowers should be given the same protections as journalists when releasing the information is beneficial to the public.
“Why should we deny whistleblowers the protections we give to the press in those instances in which the disclosures are in the public interest?” Jaffer said.
Those who release classified information on national security, like Snowden, have little protection under the First Amendment. However, Poitras and Mora argued that leakers make this sacrifice to fulfill their civic duty.
“It’s the burden of the press and the public to demand the government tell us what it’s doing,” Poitras said.
Baron said First Amendment protections should extend to leakers of classified information, referencing the intentions of the founders who initially articulated these free speech protections.
“The public is supposed to be a check on government, and the reason we have this amendment is not just a guarantee of a free press, but of free expression for all,” Baron said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 25, 2018 by Emily Leng Leave a Comment 
Female economic participation cultivates a more equitable and productive economy, women’s rights experts said at a panel in Riggs Library on Friday, Sept. 21.
Hosted by the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security, the panel provided intervention strategies to overcome systemic barriers to women’s economic participation in Latin and Central America.
The panel featured Greta Schettler (GRD ’11), chief operating officer of WEConnect International; Lucia España, project director for the Women’s Empowerment for Economic Development and Resilience Project; Miriam Müller, World Bank social scientist; and Andrea Saldarriaga Jiménez (GRD ’16), gender parity task forces coordinator at the Inter-American Development Bank. GWIPS Executive Director Melanne Verveer moderated the event.
Verveer emphasized the benefits of having a society in which men and women participate in the economy equally.
“Where the gap between men and women on a certain number of metrics is closer to being closed, those countries are far more prosperous and economically competitive,” Verveer said. “As the former head of the World Bank said, ‘Gender equality is smart economics.’”
Entrepreneurial women and working women can have positive impacts on both the economy at large and local communities, Schettler said. She has previously worked at the U.S. Department of State.
“We’re starting to capture some really great data that not only are women really growing their business, but they’re also employing more women, and then also giving back,” Schettler said. “They are women who care about their communities deeply, and they want to look at how they can also contribute back to their communities and their economies.”
According to Schettler, economic gender equality can also improve the global economy.
“If we think globally about women, women control 80 percent of the consumer purchasing power,” Schettler said. “This is not just about human rights; this is smart business.”
España, who oversees development projects that help female entrepreneurs learn business and finance skills in Guatemala and El Salvador, highlighted the importance of empowering women through economic and business knowledge.
“With this project, they were able to connect the economic knowledge with resilience in order to not lose their own small business operations after the natural disasters,” España said. “This was also helpful to empower them and to have more impact outside the community.”
All of the panelists agreed that ingrained gender roles and social expectations present challenges to establishing economic equality between men and women in Latin America. Systemic barriers influence the low female labor force participation rates in Central American countries as compared to the rest of the world, Müller said.
“Norms in a country affect which types of policies are put out, how they are implemented, but they also affect women’s individual choices; they may affect discrimination, so they really play a fundamental role at the micro level,” Müller said.
Governments and selection boards often overlook women’s projects because of pre-existing gender norms, according to Jiménez.
“These norms also translate into how governments are also implementing policies and programs, and it’s just astonishing to see that even in this day and age, with all of the experience that we have, countries still feel like women are just secluded to the household,” Jiménez said.
Governments must include more people in policy development in order to reform the current cultural norms that exclude women from the mainstream economy, Schettler said.
“They don’t understand how to unpack the cultural norms; they don’t understand what really works, what doesn’t work, how do we really make change happen,” Schettler said. “The more that they can bring people in, and bring these ideas in, the more likely that they’re going to see movement.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

