
February 2, 2018 by Jeff Cirillo and Yasmine Salam 2 Comments 
Four potential tickets have emerged in the upcoming race for the Georgetown University Student Association executive election.
Election day is set for Feb. 22, with this year’s official campaign period beginning Feb. 8. Candidates are not permitted to campaign until this date. Tickets are required to attend one of two information sessions hosted by the GUSA Election Commission, held on Tuesday and Thursday this week, or to collect 100 student signatures by Feb. 10 to participate in the election.
Based on information session attendance, the four expected tickets are: Josh Sirois (SFS ’20) and Casey Doherty (COL ’20); Sahil Nair (SFS ’19) and Naba Rahman (SFS ’19); Hunter Estes (SFS ’19) and Richard Howell (SFS ’19); and Logan Arkema (COL ’20) and Jonathan Compo (NHS ’20).
Sirois has served in the GUSA senate including on the Finance and Appropriations committee, while Doherty led GUSA’s Dreamers advocacy efforts on the Federal & D.C. Relations committee and is the coordinator for Georgetown Opportunities for Leadership Development.
Nair is director of external outreach at Innovo Consulting, a group that connects social entrepreneurs and nonprofit organizations to Georgetown students. Rahman led Model United Nation’s National Collegiate Security Conference last semester and has been involved with Georgetown University Social Innovation and Public Service Fund, a $1.5 million student-run fund that allocates grant money to student and alumni social ventures.
Estes, who served on FinApp during his sophomore year, previously directed membership for Georgetown University College Republicans in 2016. Estes also served as the head of the Georgetown chapter of the Knights of Columbus, the world’s largest Catholic service fraternal organization, last semester. Howell is also a member of the Knights of Columbus and serves on the Lecture Fund’s associate board.
Arkema is the Georgetown University College Democrats’ membership director and a GUSA senator for West Campus, which includes Southwest Quad. Arkema campaigned for his senate seat on a promise to conduct all GUSA business in the character and voice of the cartoon hero Batman. Compo, a former cartoonist for The Hoya, is currently Mask and Bauble Dramatic Society’s technical director for its “Footloose” musical production this spring.
Mack offered advice on the upcoming election period to the prospective candidates at Thursday’s information session.
“Through this campaigning process, you’re going to talk to hundreds and hundreds of students, and you’re going to find out what people care about on campus,” Mack said. “It’s going to be a grueling process.”
On election day, students can vote on Hoyalink or in person at polling booths in Red Square or the Leavey Center operated by the GUSA Election Commission.
A potential cause for contention during the campaign emerged at the info sessions: All three seats on the GUSA Constitutional Council, the student association’s judicial body that adjudicates disputes over GUSA bylaws, are vacant. The three former justices resigned this semester.
By GUSA bylaws, the Constitutional Council adjudicates any decisions made by the Election Commission regarding violations of election and campaign rules. The most recent case before the Constitutional Council in December 2016 involved a dispute over the results of a referendum on senate restructuring. The results of the 2016 referendum were ultimately invalidated by the council in January 2017.
The February ballot will also include a referendum, approved by the GUSA senate Jan. 21, that would reform the senate’s current geographically organized structure into elections by class year and move elections for nonfreshman senators to April from the fall.
Applications for new constitutional council justices are due Friday evening. Mack and Andino said they hope to nominate new justices before the election. Nominees must be approved by the GUSA senate.
According to FinApp Committee Chair Christopher Holshouser (MSB ’18), if the council is not functional by the start of campaigning, the senate would hold a vote to resolve any election disputes.
GUSA Election Commissioner Grady Willard (SFS ’18) also informed candidates of a new electoral rule that prohibits them from contracting any external businesses for campaign support.
Willard especially warned against promotional events at bars and other off-campus sites. The new rule responds to an incident in last year’s executive race, when candidates John Matthews (COL ’18) and Nick Matz (COL ’18) allegedly held a promotional event at a bar on M Street.
Bouncers allegedly coerced students to submit ballots to gain access to alcoholic drinks, according to Willard.
Last year’s GUSA executive race was among the tightest in recent electoral history, with Mack and Andino receiving 50.74 percent of the vote — a 34-vote margin — after four voting rounds.
As with previous years, campaigns are allowed to “dorm storm” and knock on doors only outside of quiet hours, except for on election day when tickets can campaign all day.
The debates for vice presidential and presidential candidates will be held in Intercultural Center Room 115 on Feb. 14 and in the Healey Family Student Center’s Great Room on Feb. 19.
Tickets are required to fill out a form to declare their candidacy and must declare all “significant” campaign staff. Tickets cannot spend more than $300 on a campaign, and receipts must be submitted by midnight on election day.
All candidates must also abide by Office of Residential Living policies and the Code of Student Conduct.
Formal complaints alleging campaign violations against campaigns can be submitted to the Election Commission. Complaints can only be filed by candidates and university officials, not campaign staff or students.

JM says 
February 8, 2018 at 12:33 am
Can we get some proof on this “bouncers allegedly coerced students to submit ballots to gain access to alcoholic drinks” comment?  I was there, and I assure you this did not happen.

Harold Kuntz says 
February 8, 2018 at 4:10 pm
“Bouncers allegedly coerced students to submit ballots to gain access to alcoholic drinks, according to Willard.”
This is quite literally, factually, objectively, fake news, and told by someone who clearly has never been to a bar / has never consumed an alcoholic beverage! I hope Willard gets Smirnoff Ice thrown at him (literally) every day for the rest of his life!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 2, 2018 by Grey Rosenzweig Leave a Comment 
Claudia Corral sent her application to Georgetown University on Oct. 25 from a small restaurant across the street from her home in Ocean Park, Puerto Rico. Her home had been without Wi-Fi since Hurricane Maria hit almost a month earlier.
Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico with 155 mph winds Sep. 20, following Hurricane Irma, which hit just two weeks earlier, on Sep. 6.
Georgetown typically receives about 40 early applications annually from Puerto Rico. This year, Georgetown received only 23 applications, according to Ismael Herrero, the interviews chair of the Georgetown University Alumni Club of Puerto Rico. Of those 23 applicants, eight students were accepted, including Corral.
Many applicants were offline and faced difficulties in applying, and power still has not been completely restored to the residents of Puerto Rico as of February 2018. The university worried about the effect of the hurricane on Puerto Rican applicants, according to Associate Member of the Office of Undergraduate Admissions Jaime Briseño.
“We knew that there were a number of students who, because of the hurricane, did not apply, and that’s consistent with a lot of our peer institutions. Everyone saw a drop in the number of candidates,” Briseño said.
The hurricanes flooded Corral’s neighborhood; she and her friends kayaked over their neighborhood’s streets and attended school in short stints because of the school’s low diesel fuel reserves. Following Irma, Corral did not have Wi-Fi at home for 86 days. She only hoped that everything she was sending was getting to Washington, D.C.
But Corral had been intent on applying to the Hilltop since she attended an information session in 2016. Exploring College Options — a special recruitment program sponsored by Duke University, Harvard University, the University of Pennsylvania, Stanford University and Georgetown — cohosts sessions like the one Corral attended every year in all 50 states, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico.
For students who cannot travel to the District to visit Georgetown themselves, the program has offered a more accessible resource to students who may not otherwise have applied.
But after the 2017 hurricanes’ devastating effects on communities in Puerto Rico, hosting another session became nearly impossible because of travelling and scheduling difficulties, prompting the consortium to drop the annual trip.
Two of the schools in the consortium, Georgetown and Harvard, did ultimately attend in early December 2017. For some applicants, it made a huge difference.
After the Storms, Stress
After attending her first information session for the Exploring College Options program in 2016, Corral knew Georgetown was the school for her.
“I’ve never gone to D.C. or seen Georgetown, but after that meeting I started doing research and I started looking into the classes and I was like, ‘Wow this is my school,’” Corral said in an interview with The Hoya. “People were like, ‘You’re crazy, how could you just choose this school?’ But I just knew it was for me.”
When it came time to apply, Hurricanes Irma and Maria had hit, leaving Corral’s home without power and, crucially for the application process, without Wi-Fi.
Corral and five other families in her neighborhood were the only ones who stayed behind when Hurricane Maria arrived. They kayaked to each other’s houses on the flooded roads and went to the restaurant across the street together where they had access to free — but unreliable — Wi-Fi.
The outages during Hurricane Maria gave Corral time to reflect on the supplemental questions asked on Georgetown’s application.
“It was just overall a really stressful situation, but it made for good writing. During Maria I had so much time to myself that I just wrote,” Corral said. “A lot of the questions that the application would ask like ‘What’s your sense of community?’ I never knew what to answer for those until Maria came. Because that’s when I really got to know who was in my community.”
Three weeks later, around the time when Corral was finally able to return to school, 84 percent of Puerto Rico remained without power and most of the island had little access to clean running water.
Although Corral was able to submit her early admission Georgetown application in October using the Wi-Fi in the restaurant across the street from her home, the mail in Puerto Rico had been running weeks behind, and she worried that she would not hear back in time about whether she got in.
Corral was not alone. Cristian Bernaschina, another early action Georgetown applicant from Puerto Rico, first visited Georgetown’s campus in eighth grade but did not seriously consider the school as a possibility until his junior year of high school. When he attended an information session for the first time in 2016, he started to picture a future for himself at Georgetown.
While Bernaschina had already sent in most of his application, he was still waiting on supplemental letters from his teachers.

Getting to San Juan
The destruction in San Juan from Hurricane Maria presented serious hurdles for the Exploring College Options universities. The group was unable to coordinate a joint information session in Puerto Rico for logistical reasons, leaving all plans for travel to San Juan and St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands, suspended.
Briseño, who reviews every application sent in by Puerto Rican students, as well as by students from Texas, the Caribbean and Latin America, was determined to make it to Puerto Rico despite the hurricane. He said he considers Puerto Rican students an important part of Georgetown’s campus.
“For us, we always had our message to the alumni community and the students that we didn’t want them to feel like ‘Well, that’s just too bad,’” Briseño said in an interview with The Hoya. “We were going to go back whether it was by ourselves or with one of our partners in the program.”
Harvard and Georgetown scheduled their own information session for early December, months after the originally scheduled Sept. 27 session, to give the island more time to recover from Hurricane Maria.
“We wanted to make every effort possible and let folks know that we are happy to consider extenuating circumstances, and we invite students to talk and discuss this,” Briseño said. “Often they include it in their essays, and the counselors and teachers would have included it in their letters of recommendation.”
Harvard admissions officer Abdiel Garcia wrote in an email to The Hoya that the university “found it important … to convey information about educational opportunities to students on the island, especially in times of social and economic challenge.”
“In that vein, shortly after Maria there were conversations about rescheduling the trip to the island at some foreseeable and appropriate time,” Garcia wrote. “We are grateful for our longstanding relationships with our peer institutions, Georgetown included, and we are thankful to all the folks who were involved in making this trip possible.”
Briseño emphasized that the other universities in the program are just as passionate and committed to Puerto Rican applicants as Georgetown and Harvard, and were only unable to attend because of insurmountable logistical challenges.
Georgetown’s decision to come to San Juan despite the hurricane made all the difference for students who applied to the university — apart from reaching applicants who may not have applied otherwise, during the hurricane, the info session provided a sense of normalcy, according to Corral.
“By the time the meeting was held, everything was a lot calmer. It was kind of nice; I don’t know, it felt normal, like something normal was finally happening, like we were having a college meeting, and we weren’t worried about anything else. I like that they came and visited,” said Corral.
Bernaschina believes that Georgetown’s decision to move forward with the information sessions will have a lasting impact on future applicants.
“I really feel that it helps, at least in Puerto Rico. Since a lot of people haven’t had the opportunity to visit Georgetown, the info sessions are very helpful,” Bernaschina said. “They really pass on the essence of the university.”
Georgetown also made efforts to ease the application process for students in affected areas by accepting students’ supplemental essays and letters of recommendation after the early action deadline of Nov. 1.
The university decided to send acceptance letters to students by email in lieu of the traditional mailed packets after several applicants called Georgetown’s admissions office with concerns about the island’s delayed mail service.
Corral got her email from Georgetown in December.
“I was kind of scared, and I wasn’t sure I was going to get in, but when I got in, that was amazing,” said Corral, who plans to start her first semester in the College in August 2018.
On Dec. 14, Bernaschina was also accepted: He received his acceptance email into the McDonough School of Business Class of 2022 on Dec. 14. He plans to attend in the fall.
“Every time I go to the Hilltop it’s like I fall in love more and more,” Bernaschina said. “I’ve been there a few times and I can really see myself there.”
This post has been updated.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 2, 2018 by Erin Doherty Leave a Comment 
A pilot program for off-campus mental health stipend program for low-income students is set to launch after a university contribution of $10,000  to the Georgetown University Student Association in support of this initiative.
University administration committed $10,000 in donated funds on Thursday, according to Rachel Pugh, the university’s senior director for strategic communications. This contribution will supplement the $1,217.89 already raised by SaxaFund, a crowdfunding platform to launch student initiatives, as of press time.
The stipend will provide off-campus mental health support for approximately ten to 20 students with demonstrated financial need. The pilot program is expected to launch within the next three weeks, according to GUSA President Kamar Mack (COL’19).
Students will be selected for the program by the financial aid office and a Counseling and Psychiatric Services case manager.
CAPS currently provides individualized mental health care for a maximum of two semesters, after which the service refers students to off-campus providers, according to Rachel Pugh, the university’s senior director for strategic communications. Only about 55 percent of psychiatrists accept private insurance, according to a 2014 study by the National Institutes of Health.
Dr. Vince WinklerPrins, Assistant Vice President for Student Health said these efforts reflect university commitment to student wellness.
“We are deeply committed to well-being of our students and always looking for innovative ways to continue to serve them,” WinklerPrins wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We are actively exploring new avenues for robust, sustainable, long term support that address both access to off-campus services and cost and we hope to have new resources in place this fall.”
The announcement of the university’s commitment comes after a series of discussions between GUSA and university officials to make mental health services more affordable for Georgetown students, Mack said.
“When students make their voices heard and students express things that matter, the university hears it and donors hear it and a lot of that has to do with the fact that this issue got brought forth and now is being implemented,” Mack said.
The GUSA mental health policy coalition, led by Kenna Chick (SFS ’20), launched a petition in November requesting funds for the pilot program from the Office of the President and through the creation of an alumni fund. Though the petition garnered over 1,000 signatures, student mental-health advocates turned to SaxaFund to raise the necessary money, in lieu of university support. The petition demonstrated the widespread student support and need for improved mental health support on campus, according to Chick.
“It’s nice to know that people care about something we’ve been fighting for a long time,” Chick said. “Administration has always been very supportive in the sense that they definitely recognize the issue and so to hear today them announce that they are giving a financial contribution, we’re definitely very happy.”
It is unclear what has changed since November to prompt university administration to provide funds for the program, but Mack said he is excited about future collaborations between GUSA and the university administration.
“The whole point of this process is to better understand how the off-campus therapy stipend process would work at Georgetown,” Mack said. “The big picture conversation of making mental health affordable can be attacked in a number of ways and this is a way that we’re addressing it in spring 2018.”
The program will supplement the mental health services already on campus, including CAPS, and will serve as a longer-term solution for students, Mack said.
“There was always the understanding of the problem and an understanding of the importance of addressing it,” Mack said. “Making mental health affordable is a tricky situation and our hope is to get closer and closer to that ultimate goal.”
Thursday’s announcement serves as the beginning of a longer-term mental health initiative that Mack and GUSA Vice President Jessica Andino (COL ’19) think will affect Georgetown students for a long time.
“This issue is one that is going to need continuous focus, we haven’t completely solved the problem of mental health affordability,” Mack said. “We’re about to launch into the next GUSA campaign season, so we hope that this issue of how do we make mental health, and more generally, student health more affordable is a continuous conversation.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 2, 2018 by Meena Morar Leave a Comment 
After nightfall on Jan. 24, Cameron Hull (COL ’18) searched the streets of the Georgetown neighborhood for figures lying in the darkness. As the temperature dipped into the 30s, she tallied the number of homeless individuals she encountered over three hours, conducting a survey of each and offering them snacks, socks and gloves to stave off the cold.
Hull was one of hundreds of volunteers who participated in Washington, D.C.’s Point-in-Time count, an annual effort on behalf of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to physically count the number of homeless people in cities across the country on a single night in January. Georgetown University’s Center for Social Justice and the Georgetown Ministry Center, a local charity serving chronically homeless individuals, coordinated the count within the Georgetown community.
The annual count brings student participants to face a vision of D.C. that is often shielded from those on campus, Hull said.
“It’s a population that’s super visible, but oftentimes not really talked about in the context of social justice — especially in a college campus where social justice is talked about a lot,” Hull said in an interview with The Hoya. “Ít’s important for people to connect those two dots of this general social justice idea with a population that we walk by every single day on M Street.”
The results of the D.C. count — set to be released in May — will provide a snapshot that contributes to the country’s most comprehensive estimate of the national sheltered and unsheltered homeless population. But they will also reveal how effective the policies of Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) — who has touted ending homelessness as a top priority since her 2014 election — have been in battling the city’s shortage of affordable housing.
Homelessness by the Numbers
A week after the District released the results of its 2017 Point-in-Time count last May, Bowser celebrated the progress her administration had made toward making homelessness in D.C. “rare, brief and non-recurring.”
In just the span of a year, the District had seen a 10.5 percent decline in the total number of people experiencing homelessness from the 2016 Point-in-Time count, including a nearly 22 percent decline in the number of families experiencing homelessness.
But the figures belied the fact that Washington’s homeless population of 7,473 was higher than the 7,298 individuals reported during Bowser’s first year in office in 2015. A 2016 report by the U.S. Conference of Mayors found Washington, D.C., to have the highest rate of homelessness of any U.S. metropolitan area, with 124 out of every 10,000 residents experiencing homelessness.
Despite the surge in overall homelessness over the last two years, Georgetown Ministry Center’s Development Manager Sarah Hartley applauds Bowser for embracing a “Housing First” approach that has mitigated chronic homelessness.
Housing First prioritizes finding permanent housing for individuals experiencing homelessness without preconditions such as sobriety or treatment, which has helped those trapped in long-term homelessness as a result of substance abuse or mental illness.
“If we get people into a more stable condition by putting them in housing, it leads to overall better outcomes,” Hartley said in an interview with The Hoya. “That’s been true in D.C., and not that it’s been completely eradicated, because we’re dealing with a difficult, service-resistant population, but we’ve seen it in our program, thanks to the mayor’s Housing First policy and all of this money that’s been allocated to vouchers.”
For James Davis, who has been homeless since 2003, the Housing First policy represents a positive improvement since it allows individuals to address underlying conditions that entrench people in chronic homelessness.
Davis himself grappled with a chronic depression that left him homeless after the death of both his parents, a divorce and the loss of his job within a two-year period.
“You put someone into housing, then you provide them with continued care like family planning, job training, you can deal with any mental health issues that need to be addressed, any substance issues that need to be addressed,” Davis said. “The recidivism rate has been really good across the country with the Housing First program.”
Housing Prices on the Rise
A key culprit driving D.C.’s high homelessness rate is the dearth of affordable housing for poor families, a trend which has seen soaring housing prices — pricing out longtime residents with the arrival of affluent newcomers.
Online real estate database company Zillow estimated the median listing price for a D.C. home to be $535,000 in December 2017; three years earlier, in December of 2014, the median listing numbered at $463,000.
Leonard Hyater Jr., who became homeless after losing his job, said affordable housing is the most pressing matter the city needs to address to combat homelessness.
“They’re taking people out of their homes, they’re moving the undesirables and moving the rich people in,” Hyater said. “I call that gentrification.”
Hyater now resides in the New York Ave. Men’s Emergency Shelter and works as a vendor for Street Sense Media, a D.C.-based newspaper covering issues of homelessness and poverty.
Faced with the prospect of a housing affordability crisis, Bowser pledged in December to invest $500 million in affordable housing and joined mayors and CEOs from across the country this week to build public-private  solutions.
Bowser also announced her intention on Jan. 21 to make good on a promise she made in 2014: to permanently shutter the dilapidated D.C. General Hospital shelter by the end of the year and replace the facility with smaller shelters in all eight wards.
The D.C. General Hospital, long plagued with complaints of poor sanitary conditions and internal dysfunction in a facility overcrowded with 250 families, gained notoriety after the 2014 disappearance of eight-year-old Relisha Rudd from the converted hospital.
Although Davis said he supports the decision to tear down the D.C. General Hospital given its history of problems, he remains skeptical that constructing eight new shelters will address the deeper crisis of affordable housing in D.C.
“The answer is more housing,” Davis said. “When you say affordable housing, you get the development of people building high-rise condos, but you keep people out by saying you’re going to put a certain amount od affordable units in a building. It’s not accessible to people.”
The Sting of Stigma
Georgetown Ministry Center’s Communication Manager Carolyn Landes said another obstacle to surmount is the stigma that surrounds chronic homelessness, particularly from those who find themselves on the streets as a result of mental illness.
“It is important to remember that when someone is homeless, and especially in the population where we serve, it’s never because they choose it,” Landes said. “We liken our population to somebody that maybe has a terminal or chronic illness. If it were a cancer patient, it wouldn’t be someone we would let languish on the street.”
Hull said participating in the Point-in-Time count inspired her to reexamine the way homeless individuals are often dismissed in society.
“Even something as simple as engaging with someone on M Street, engaging with someone’s humanity, making eye contact, stopping and speaking with someone, is a good way for people in the Georgetown community to realize that it doesn’t take a lot energy-wise or money-wise to engage with someone, even in a small way,” Hull said.
Hyater said he routinely encounters disparaging attitudes as a homeless individual.
“When I first became homeless, I was treated like I was less than human,” Hyater said. “It wasn’t pleasant. An individual will raise their voice at me, or he or she will think they can just talk to me in any kind of way. To me, that’s very disrespectful.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 2, 2018 by Joe Egler 1 Comment 
Open dialogue between the LGBT community and the Catholic Church is necessary to eliminate stigmas associated with LGBT Catholics, author Fr. James Martin, S.J., said Wednesday at a book talk cohosted by the Georgetown University Library and the LGBTQ Resource Center.
Martin discussed his latest book, “Building a Bridge: How the Catholic Church and the LGBT Community Can Enter into a Relationship of Respect, Compassion, and Sensitivity,” which was published in June of 2017.
Martin has authored 11 other books and has made appearances as a commentator on CNN, NPR, Fox News, Time, HuffPost, The New York Times and other news outlets. Pope Francis also appointed Martin as the consultor for the Vatican’s secretariat for communication in 2017.
Martin’s speech was part of the annual Ellen Catherine Gstalder Memorial Lecture, a lecture that honors the life of Ellen Catherine Gstalder (COL ’98), who died of leukemia in 2004.
Martin called for shared and celebrated life experiences between people from all walks of life.
“We’re called to experience life with them and suffer with them, and to be joyful with them, too,” Martin said to the audience. “To celebrate life with them, because Jesus came here to experience all parts of our lives, right? Not just the dark parts. So can you rejoice with LGBT people.”
Martin’s acceptance of the LGBT community in the Catholic Church has drawn criticism from conservative members of the Catholic Church, he said. In September, he was disinvited from the prominent Catholic Seminary Theological College for backlash over his divisive views. Despite the backlash, Martin still remains outspoken in his belief that LGBT individuals deserve to be welcomed into the church.
“You can’t be sensitive to the LGBT community if all you do is issue documents about them, preach about them or tweet about them, without actually knowing them,” Martin said. “One reason I think the institutional church has struggled with that sensitivity is that many church leaders still do not know many gay people.”
Martin also spoke about the distinction between the challenges faced by women and members of the LGBT community within the Catholic Church.
“Now, some people say, ‘no, women are more marginalized,’” Martin said. “Women are marginalized in this church, but not to that extent. There are no things that are comparable for LGBT people. ”
Martin said that if the church fails to interact with members of the LGBT community, it is failing to follow Jesus’ call for acceptance.
“That lack of familiarity and especially friendship means that it is more difficult to be sensitive,” Martin said. “How can you be sensitive to a person’s situation if you don’t know them?”
To forge unity among the two communities, Martin urged Catholics to reach out and befriend members of the LGBT community if they have not already.
“One invitation is for the hierarchy to come to know LGBT Catholics not as just people you give communion to, not as objects of pity and certainly not as objects of scorn, but actual friends,” Martin said.
Ultimately, Martin said, building these bridges is not important solely for unity within the church, but something Jesus himself would do.
“When Jesus encountered people on the margins, he saw not categories, but individuals,” Martin said. “[LGBT people] are seen as the other. But, for Jesus, there is no other. There is no ‘us and them.’ There’s just us,” Martin said.
Martin concluded by reiterating the importance of dialogue between members of the LGBT community and the Catholic Church, again using Jesus as an example.
“This is what the church is called to do with people who feel like they’re on the margins,” Martin said. “Encounter them. Listen to them. Accompany them. Heal them. Help them. Love them. Because that’s what Jesus did.”

James Valentini says 
February 4, 2018 at 10:12 am
The stakes are high, Georgetown.    Choose wisely.
I suggest everyone read the incredible book titled “An Unpublished Manurscript on Purgatory.”     It is a true account of a 19th century French nun who died and came back to her convent months later to witness to another nun to write down everything the Lord permitted about purgatory.   The alive nun with great reluctance obeyed and over the course of the next few years produced this docuement that not only details the pains and reasons for purgatory, but implicates all of us “pious ones.”     One message that kept coming through in her writings is how much more angered and saddened was Our Lord by the sins of the faithful and of the clergy than he was of greater transgressions by the pagans and unchurched.     It is the TRUTH!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 2, 2018 by Quinn Coleman Leave a Comment 
Student leaders from the Georgetown University Student Association shared their recent achievements and future initiatives during an inaugural State of the Campus address in Healey Family Student Center on Wednesday evening.
Around 50 students attended the event, held one evening after President Donald Trump’s first State of the Union address. The event featured speeches from GUSA President Kamar Mack (COL ’19) and Vice President Jessica Andino (COL ’18), as well as GUSA Senate Speaker Ben Baldwin (SFS ’19) and Vice Speaker Sylvia Levy (SFS ’18). A question-and-answer session followed both speeches.
Aaron Bennett (COL ’19), the press secretary for the GUSA executive, also delivered remarks.
The leaders presented GUSA’s major projects over the past year on a range of issues, including providing greater accessibility to mental health resources, expanding food resources to low-income students and advocating for Georgetown students affected by the termination of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals policy, an Obama-era executive program that provided work authorization and legal protection to about 800,000 immigrants without documentation who came to the United States as children.
GUSA leaders said they hope to enhance current initiatives and push forward on long-term efforts, acknowledging that many projects will take many more years to actualize. Planned future initiatives include the launch of a racial climate survey, expanding access to off-campus mental health services and continuing work with the university board to address the larger issues affecting all students.
Mack and Andino used their addresses to shed light on the achievements of their administration since taking office last March. They focused on three broad categories that guided their policy pursuits: making Georgetown more affordable, expanding accessibility to campus resources for “people from all backgrounds” and advocating for students in “big picture” conversations.
Andino said she was proud of the executive’s efforts to pursue its goals.
“Our administration has never gone a day without asking questions without the pursuit of solutions, and from this we have learned that the labor of student government is precisely that: asking questions,” Andino said.
Mack said all their policies are attempts to instill permanent solutions in the Georgetown community.
“We must ask the right questions and answer them. And we truly wish to enact lasting, meaningful changes,” Mack said.
Last spring, Mack and Andino worked with Robin Morey, vice president of planning and facilities management, to expand access to affordable food through an extended Saturday Georgetown University Transportation Shuttles bus service with stops in Dupont Circle and Trader Joe’s, located on 25th Street.
The GUSA executive’s most significant affordability initiative came in November with the announced launch of a pilot program in collaboration with the Cawley Career Education Center, which granted 17 students a $1,500 stipend for working unpaid internships.
Andino said she hopes the program will grow to capture more students.
“We hope to see this program continue to expand from the 17 students who were awarded this past fall into a sustainable program that supports hundreds of students in a given semester,”Andino said.
Both the GUSA executive and senate have also worked with the university on issues involving sexual and mental health. In October, the senate passed a resolution urging the university to implement some of GUSA’s recommendations and the recommendations of the Sexual Assault Task Force, including increased resources for health and well-being services and improved training for faculty and staff.
Levy voiced the senate’s commitment to promoting improved resources for sexual assault survivors.
“We are committed as a GUSA senate, and the executive as well, to continue to push this work forward and to make sure our campus centers survivors and does not let its community members fall through the cracks,” Levy said.
Baldwin addressed student concerns regarding senate accountability. In an effort to reach more students, the senate has made an archive of legislation and meeting notes available on the GUSA website and plans to hold meet-and-greets with senators along with office hours in common rooms across campus.
“Our journey together as a Georgetown student body is far from finished,” Mack said. “We are confident in the future of GUSA, because we know that Georgetown students will continue to do what they’ve always done — asking the hard questions and doing what’s necessary to create meaningful change.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 2, 2018 by Montana Boone Leave a Comment 
A discount food ordering app designed by Georgetown students Aaron Rutter (COL ’20) and Sahaj Sharda (SFS ’20) launched this week.
The app, Dynos, works with local Georgetown restaurants to provide students with access to discounted food during restaurant off hours. According to Rutter, the app uses the principle of supply and demand to give its users discounts.
“The app dynamically prices food at restaurants based off of supply and demand. So that means that it discounts food,” Rutter said. “So if a bakery has, like, 20 leftover pastries at the end of the day, they’ll end up throwing them out, so the thought was, why waste food, and instead allow them to make some money on it.”
Users can use the app to order food from local restaurants like Wingos, Georgetown Gourmet and Dog Tag Bakery at a discounted rate. Three to four-hundred people have joined the service in the app’s first week.
The idea for Dynos was born after Sharda travelled to India the summer after his freshman year. While in a local market with his grandfather, Sharda was struck by the bartering process over goods between vendors and shoppers.
“My grandfather took me to a market, and it’s very interesting because it was a bazaar where there were no fixed prices on anything,” Sharda said. “What I noticed was, over the hours, there’s a small little stand that was selling some sorts of delicate foods, and over the hours people would come up and they would negotiate and as it came to times that were away from lunch or dinner, the prices would go down substantially, and they would go back up later.”
After that day in the market, Sharda called Rutter, asking him to co-found an app that would allow restaurants and students to benefit from price fluctuations. Because neither Rutter nor Sharda had tech experience, they reached out to members of the Georgetown faculty for help. One of their advisers was economist and Georgetown McCourt School of Public Policy professor George Akerlof.
Akerlof said the app is beneficial to both students and restaurants.
“They are taking advantage of the fact that the restaurants have times when the marginal cost to them of an extra customer is much less than at other times, and therefore if the app attracts extra customers at those times the restaurants are willing to give them a break (i.e. a discount),” Akerlof wrote in an email to The Hoya. “It is a Dynos-generated win for the restaurants, win-for-the-students.”
Rutter and Sharda also consulted with Eric Burger, a Georgetown research professor of computer science. Burger said he encouraged the students to formulate a business plan and tap into a market.
“I did, you know, help encourage them to find someone to actually do the programming, but more about how to start a business, how to get a business plan going, how to kind of find a market,” Burger said.
In addition to consulting with professors, Rutter and Sharda spoke to Loren Sumerlin, who runs the Auxiliary Services at Georgetown. Sumerlin provided them with insight on how to pitch their app to restaurants. The co-founders also worked with Students of Georgetown, Inc. on development and marketing strategies.
Rutter said he has noticed a lot of the support from the Georgetown community has emerged from a desire to promote a technologically savvy culture on campus.
“What we’ve noticed so far, not just from professors, but sort of from speaking to administration, like people in the administration, is they’re all really for the app, not for, not specifically because they like the idea, but it’s more so because they want to sort of like brand Georgetown as like a tech-friendly environment,” Rutter said.
While Dynos is seeing an increasing number of users, Rutter and Sharda are not currently making money from the app.
“The tough part with the app is that we’re sort of in this food space where we’re competing with Uber Eats and also Grub Hub,” Rutter said. “We’re not charging them a monthly fee to be on the app. That’s all things we hopefully can do in the future once we’ve like made a name for ourselves. But in terms of how we make money, we right now don’t have any cash flow coming in. We only have user flow.”
Rutter and Sharda hope to begin profiting from their app soon and expand the restaurant list to the Washington, D.C. area including American University and The George Washington University.
Sharda wants other Georgetown students to develop their entrepreneurship skills.
“I don’t know if creating an app necessarily is what I would recommend,” Sharda said. “But, broadly I think the core tenets that I would recommend that every student here at Georgetown, broadly, try to develop is entrepreneurship.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

