
September 19, 2018 by Noah Berman Leave a Comment 
Former White House press secretary Sean Spicer criticized the media and academia at-large for traditionally leaning left at an event on Monday cohosted by the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service and Georgetown University College Republicans.
During the event, which was named after a book Spicer published in July about his tenure in the Trump administration, “The Briefing: Politics, the Press, and the President,” Spicer discussed his time as press secretary in the White House. Mo Elleithee, executive director of GU Politics, moderated the discussion.
Spicer resigned from his role as White House press secretary in July 2017 after vocalizing his disagreement with President Donald Trump’s appointment of Anthony Scaramucci as the new communications director. Prior to working as the White House press secretary, Spicer was the communications director and chief strategist of the Republican National Committee. He is currently the president of RigWil LLC, “a strategic consulting firm that provides insights to C-suite corporate and association executives,” according to Spicer’s website.
Spicer talked about the differences between working in public relations for public and private entities. He contrasted working for a private entity and reporting directly to its leader with serving the American people when he worked as a representative of the federal government.
“When you work for a public official, ultimately you’re responsible for the American people,” Spicer said. “You’re serving the person that was elected but ultimately you do have a more paramount responsibility to the American people as a whole.”
Nevertheless, it is still the job of a spokesman to represent the views of the candidate, Spicer said.
“You represent a client, and if you get to the point where you’re uncomfortable, it is your duty to resign,” Spicer said.
Spicer also discussed the role of the press in the current political climate. A free press is part of what makes America the nation that it is, Spicer said. However, he critiqued the media industry for bias and for neglecting to retract false stories.
“I have never seen an industry where there is such a refusal to call out their own,” Spicer said. “When a story comes out that is demonstrably false, they refuse to do that.”
Spicer suggested punishing journalists who report falsities and exalting media organizations that report fact. He added that the bias of news media leads to much of the political divide that separates the country today because it is easier for people to solely listen to viewpoints they agree with. Spicer highlighted that many mainstream institutions and publications feature left-leaning ideology more than conservative thought, and that this isolates conservatives.
“The problem with the left is that they’ve never understood the frustration of the folks on the right,” he said.
Spicer said he was initially drawn to working with the press by the high-energy environment of getting a story out on time.
“The press used to be a daily battle,” Spicer said. “No excuses. Either you got the story out there or you didn’t. I loved that intensity, that knowing that you didn’t have to wait five weeks down the road to wait for that story to come out.”
Spicer encouraged his audience to listen to other points of view without condemning them as false or incorrect.
“The second that we demean people to the point that, just because you’re on the left and I’m on the right, that your thoughts and views are unacceptable, we’ve lost,” Spicer said. “If you can’t sit back and listen to somebody, we’ve lost what makes this country great,” he said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 19, 2018 by Tara Subramaniam Leave a Comment 
Corruption within soccer governing organizations across the globe has ramifications beyond the impact on the sport, BuzzFeed news reporter Ken Bensinger said Monday evening in a discussion of his book “Red Card,” which was published in June.
The Georgetown University Journalism Program, The Hoya and the Lecture Fund co-hosted the event, called “The Fall of FIFA.”
Former chair of the Lecture Fund, Aiden Johnson (COL ’19), said the Lecture Fund invited Bensinger to speak because they felt the topic was increasingly relevant.
“Some of us stumbled upon an interview Ken had done and then his book,” Johnson said. “We ended up reading it and deciding he was a really good person to talk about an important lecture that had cross sections on politics, sports and journalism.”
Bensinger’s book traces the roots of corruption in FIFA, soccer’s international governing body, which was initially exposed in a secret U.S. probe of the organization in the early 2000s.
“This is the story of how the U.S., the country that arguably cares the least about soccer in the world, was the one that came along to break up this cabal of corruption that had been going on for 40 years,” Bensinger said.
Bensinger was struck by the influence soccer has on the way things happen in the world today, he said, noting the influence of former British intelligence offer, Christopher Steele.
“It’s really telling the influence that this sport has on a much larger stage,” Bensinger said. “An FBI agent got tips from Christopher Steele and it turned into a bona fide case. The success of the FIFA case, and the tip Christopher Steele gave them seeded the ground for that relationship. It is hard to think about what the political landscape would be in this country right now if that relationship had not existed.”
Bensinger said his coverage of the deep-rooted corruption in soccer began with an interest in corruption in America.
“This story started from an article I did about a very corrupt American. It sprung from my interest in cons and con men. This man, Chuck Blazer, was the most powerful American soccer official ever and also the most corrupt American soccer official ever,” Bensinger said.
While the political influence of soccer may be new to the United States, the two are often intrinsically connected in other countries, Bensinger said.
“In other parts of the world, soccer really transcends justice,” Bensinger said. “The president of Argentina, at least for the time being, was the president of Argentina’s most popular, largest soccer club. A supreme court justice of Guatemala was convicted in this case. The currency of soccer in these countries far transcends just what happens in the sport.”
He hopes his writing paints a picture about a complex system of corruption that goes beyond one World Cup or a few high-ranking officials, Bensinger said.
“This is a story about how multiple generations of people in the sport became corrupted and how waiting behind them were sharks’ teeth, like one tooth comes out and another tooth comes in,” Bensinger said. “It’s like every time someone gets knocked out, the next guy would come in and he was equally corrupt, if not more so.”
According to Bensinger, his book’s exposure of the current system of corruption has not yet triggered a reform or eliminated the issues within the world of soccer.
“People who live in that world have zero incentive to make it go away,” Bensinger said. “I don’t get the sense that this has scared people straight. I think this has convinced people to get a little sneakier.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

