
January 26, 2018 by Katrina Schmidt Leave a Comment 
A two-weeklong exhibit simulating the experience of solitary confinement is on display in the Intercultural Center as part of the Georgetown University Prisons and Justice Initiative’s most recent efforts to explore the issue of mass incarceration in the United States.
The exhibit by the National Religious Campaign Against Torture features a replica solitary confinement cell and a nine-minutelong virtual reality video, produced by The Guardian, that immerses viewers in solitary confinement. Located in the ICC Galleria, the exhibit opened Jan. 16 and will close Jan. 30.
The exhibit is hosted each day by a formerly incarcerated individual who experienced solitary confinement, along with Prisons and Justice Initiative staff and student volunteers. These hosts discuss the virtual reality experience with viewers and share their own incarceration experiences.
The hosts and their backgrounds with the prison system give another dimension to the experience, Director of the Prisons and Justice Initiative Marc Howard said.
“Nothing can replace the experience of meeting somebody who’s actually been there,” Howard said. “I think it makes it really powerful; it really hits home.”
The Prisons and Justice Initiative began in February 2016 to address issues concerning the prison and criminal justice systems on Georgetown’s campus. The initiative conducts research, hosts events and leads programming in prisons.
Narrated by formerly incarcerated individuals and experts on solitary confinement, the video describes what it is like to be held in solitary confinement. By wearing virtual reality goggles, viewers are transported into a cell and listen to narrators describe the emotional and physical experience of spending time in solitary confinement, whether it was for hours or years.
The video places viewers into a typical solitary confinement cell, which usually measures from 6 feet by 9 feet to 8 feet by 10 feet. While solitary confinement goes by many names, it has certain characteristics, according to the NRCAT. It lasts for 22 to 24 hours per day in a cell alone or with one other person. The hallmark of solitary confinement is removal from typical contact with other people. Individuals in solitary confinement do not have access to prison programming or activities. Cells often induce sensory deprivation due to their small size and lack of external stimuli.
Initially, the virtual reality goggles were only going to be available for the first two days of the exhibit. However, the overwhelmingly positive response allowed the exhibit to secure them for its duration, Howard said.
“I think the virtual reality goggles really help to drive it home,” Howard said.
Howard estimated that over 500 people, including university staff, students and visitors, have watched the virtual reality video.
The exhibit highlights statistics about solitary confinement and mass incarceration in the United States. Estimates place between 80,000 to 100,000 people in solitary confinement as of 2014, according to a report by the Arthur Liman Public Interest Program at Yale Law School and the Association of State Correctional Administrators.
The idea for the exhibit developed when the filmmakers of “Rikers: An American Jail,” a documentary that showcases experiences of men incarcerated in Rikers jail in New York, mentioned the NRCAT’s model cell exhibit to Howard. After learning about it, Howard began organizing plans to show it at Georgetown. He credited the support of the Office of the President as key to securing the exhibit.
The celebration of Martin Luther King Jr. Day in January also inspired the timing of the exhibit. King was held in solitary confinement, which is when he wrote his famed “Letter from a Birmingham Jail.”
Howard pointed out King’s role as a civil rights leader and the high incarceration rate of African-Americans, particularly African-American men.
“This is an issue that really connects with Dr. King’s legacy,” Howard said.
Howard saw the idea as a way to open up a space for Georgetown students and professors, as well as the greater Washington, D.C. community, to discuss reform.
“I think we as citizens, as engaged, informed citizens have an obligation to confront the reality that in this country we’ve been putting people away and forgetting about them, and losing sight of their humanity and their suffering,” Howard said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 26, 2018 by Bella Avalos and Madeline Charbonneau Leave a Comment 
Four middle school students from Ward 6’s Eliot-Hine Middle School radio program covered the 49th Annual NAACP Image Awards in Pasadena, Calif., on Jan. 15.
The students acted as news correspondents at the award ceremony, where people of color are celebrated for outstanding achievements in television, film and music. The awards were first presented in 1967 and first nationally televised in 1994.
The student radio program, which launched in 2012, is mentored by Mandrell Birks, the host of a D.C.-based domestic violence radio program called “The Sighlent Storm.” Birks began teaching a radio production class at Eliot-Hine in 2012, which culminated in a joint radio-television broadcast program a few years later.
Birks collaborated with TV One, Southwest Airlines, The Washington Teachers Union, Clarke & Associates and the Eliot-Hine community to cover the expenses and logistics for the trip. TV One offered Birks press credentials to cover the event, which the station aired a live broadcast of Jan. 15.
Since the start of the program, students have interviewed former First Lady Michelle Obama’s executive director of her Reach Higher Initiative, Eric Waldo; actress Queen Latifah; and D.C.’s nonvoting congressional delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.).
Eliot-Hine’s radio program makes it distinct in the District as the only public school with such a program. Councilmember Charles Allen (D-Ward 6) commended the school for providing the students with an opportunity to explore media arts.
“I’ve been a really big fan of this program for quite some time because of the experience it provides for kids,” Allen said.
Allen said he is proud of students’ progress in the years since the program’s conception, describing the students as having started with “bare-bones equipment” and transforming the production into a  “very professional production.”
However, in past years the school has suffered from declining facilities and low test performance. In an April 2016 article from Greater Greater Washington, a volunteer-based news source that advocates for improving the quality of life in D.C., Virginia and Maryland, Eliot-Hine was described as “falling apart,” citing faulty toilets, heating units and windows, among other issues.
Allen said that the most recent invitation to attend the NAACP Awards is a measure of the program’s success and a reflection of all the help the students have had along the way.
“With a lot of help and support, they were able to make it happen,” Allen said.
There are 200 students currently enrolled in the middle school. Only 5 percent of students met or exceeded district expectations in math, and 9 percent met or exceeded expectations in English and language arts, per the D.C. public school website. The average test score in the 2016-17 school year was 21.5 percent, and Eliot-Hine ranks 49 out of 56 of the local public schools. Comparatively, the top school has 60 percent of students meeting expectations in math and 64 percent meeting expectations in English and language arts.
According to Allen, the D.C. local government is investing in the improvement of schools across Ward 6, including Eliot-Hine.
“We’ve spent — across all the middle schools in Ward 6 — a bit over $100 million dollars into rebuilding the schools, and Eliot-Hine is one of them,” Allen said. “That’s happened in the last couple of years, and we’re excited about what’s to come here in rebuilding.”
However, Allen said the radio show has been a constant positive factor at the school even before the D.C. government began the rebuilding effort, and that it creates a draw to the school.
“As a middle school student? You can’t learn how to run a board, you’re not going to get to be in front of a camera interviewing the mayor, elected officials, celebrities,” Allen said. “You don’t get to do that at every school. But at Eliot-Hine you do, and so it’s a great program and one that I’m really proud to support.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 26, 2018 by Elizabeth Ash Leave a Comment 
Student mental health advocates are aiming to raise $4,000 for a pilot program to fund off-campus therapy for lower-income students through Saxafund, a crowdfunding platform for Georgetown University student initiatives, after administrators did not commit funding for a wider pilot program last year.
The proposal, launched by the Georgetown University Student Association’s mental health policy coalition, seeks to subsidize the costoff-campus mental health services for students with financial need to supplement limited services offered by the university.
GUSA originally aimed to solicit $40,000 from the university for a 40-person pilot program, The Hoya reported in November.
GUSA representatives discussed their proposal with University President John J. DeGioia on Nov. 20 and Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson on Dec. 1. Though the administrators committed to allocating resources to the goal of making student health care more affordable, they did not commit funding to the initiative.
The activists’ new $4,000 target would fund seven students’ off-campus therapy for one semester in the 2018-2019 academic year. GUSA hopes raising money through SaxaFund will spur other donors — such as alumni and philanthropists — to follow-up with their own contributions.
The mental health policy coalition ultimately wants the university to commit long-term funding to expand the initiative, GUSA President Kamar Mack (COL ’19) said.
“In the long term, we hope to see a sustainable, thorough solution implemented by the University such that all students have a long term arch of affordable mental health care, regardless of their financial background,” Mack wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Grace Perret (COL ’20), director of communications for the GUSA executive, said student fundraising could also inspire short-term contributions from the administration.
“GUSA members working on the program have spoken with Dr. Olson about the possibility of the university matching the contributions made via SaxaFund. This would double the number of students who could participate in the fall 2018 pilot program,” Perret said.
Rachel Pugh, Georgetown’s strategic director for communications, said GUSA and university administrators are “continuing to discuss the issue.”
If implemented, the stipend program would supplement Georgetown’s Counseling and Psychiatric Service, which operates on a short-term model. Students can use CAPS for one or two semesters, after which they may be referred to an off-campus provider. Therapy in D.C. averages between $150 and $225 an hour; under Georgetown’s student health insurance, the average deductible for medical services is $250, and the copay is $25.
To be eligible for the therapy stipend, students would need a referral from CAPS, demonstrated financial need and student health insurance.
Kenna Chick (SFS ’20), GUSA’s mental health policy coalition chair, said finding sufficient funding for off-campus therapy is a pressing issue.
“Mental health struggles are often time-sensitive. While we are exploring other long-term ways to address this issue, such as through increasing the coverage under United Healthcare, expanding CAPS, etc., these options would take a couple of years to be in effect,” Chick wrote in an email to The Hoya. “By that time, these students would have, at best, graduated if not have transferred, taken medical leaves of absences, or faced significant mental health crises.”
Chick said the stipend program is necessary for students who currently only have access to limited mental health resources on campus.
“We want to ensure that students who are struggling now have better options and access to the care that they need so that they have the opportunity to reach their fullest potentials,” Chick wrote.
Because CAPS is designed for short-term care for only one to two semesters, Mack said, many students seek longer-term therapy off campus but have trouble affording premiums and copays.
“We recognize that the ultimate solution for Georgetown may employ a number of strategies to mitigate this problem; however, this therapy stipend program will help us support current students as we develop this strategy,” Mack wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Donations made through SaxaFund are deposited into the platform’s Georgetown University Alumni and Student Federal Credit Union account. Once a project meets its goal or passes its fundraising deadline, the money is transferred from SaxaFund’s account directly to the project teams.
SaxaFund is run by GUSA, GUASFCU and Students of Georgetown, Inc. and operates independently from the university.
As of Thursday night, the campaign had collected $47.89, according to SaxaFund’s website.
GUSA and SaxaFund are collaborating on several events and campaigns to incentivize students to contribute to the project, which will likely take place in February and March, Perret said. The groups have also started a letter-writing campaign to widen their reach beyond the university community.
The off-campus therapy stipend would fill a gap in campus services according to Amy Park (SFS ’20), a member of GUSA’s mental health policy coalition.
“I know of many students, my fellow peers, who struggle with many mental health issues, but those issues aren’t addressed because they feel like they don’t have the proper resources.” Park said. “CAPS being a short-term provider, a lot of students don’t get the care that they need once that term expires.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

