
February 15, 2018 by Sarah Mendelsohn 2 Comments 
Three Georgetown University Student Association vice presidential candidates discussed their plans to make GUSA more inclusive and increase affordability for students at a debate held Wednesday evening.
Richard Howell (SFS ’19), Naba Rahman (SFS ’19) and Casey Doherty (COL ’20) discussed policy issues including mental health, affordability and inclusivity at the debate, which was organized by the GUSA Election Commission in the Intercultural Center.
Vice-presidential candidate Jonathan Compo (COL ’20) did not participate in the debate.
Campus media, including The Hoya, The Georgetown Voice, The Georgetown Review and The Georgetown Heckler along with GUSA senate’s Financial and Appropriations Committee and the audience asked the candidates questions.
The three candidates outlined their campaign platforms in their opening statements.
Doherty and Josh Sirois (SFS ’20) plan to deliver actionable policies to increase GUSA’s accessibility to students, while Rahman and Sahil Nair (SFS ’19) aim to cultivate a participatory platform led by students’ needs.
Howell and Hunter Estes (SFS ’19) are running on a platform of reducing tuition costs, creating a stronger sense of community at Georgetown and encouraging a culture of charity and community service projects.
The candidates discussed GUSA apathy on campus and presented their campaigns’ strategies for addressing that problem.
Nair and Rahman plan to reach out to clubs on campus in an effort to connect students to GUSA’s resources. GUSA must empower students to participate in its policy-making process, Rahman said.
“One thing that Sahil and I are pushing for are the community voices initiatives. Basically, we recognize this is a campus run by clubs, not necessarily by students, so what we want to do is have a rotating roundtable, essentially, where each club at one point in the semester can have face time with the executive,” Rahman said.
Doherty discussed her ticket’s plan to create a GUSA general body, which would widen its student engagement on campus regarding the organization’s policy debates.
“What we want to do is have a monthly meeting where students can come in and hear from the different policy teams about what they’re working on and they can get involved with a very specific project,” Doherty said.
Howell said he and Estes would work to make GUSA more interactive with the student body.
“We’re tired of seeing an insular, closed-off GUSA that doesn’t interact with the student body, and that passes resolutions only to improve its resume,” Howell said.
The candidates all offered plans for reducing the cost of attending Georgetown. Estes and Howell’s plan calls for a leaner GUSA budget. The ticket has also pledged to push the university to implement a tuition freeze policy, in which a student’s tuition rate remains the same throughout their four years at Georgetown.
“I think a huge problem is the fact that every year, tuition increases,” Howell said.
Doherty and Sirois’ plan does not directly address the cost of tuition, instead focusing on cutting costs from meal plans and textbooks. They proposed an online textbook trading hub that would give students access to cheaper class materials. Doherty also called for more transparency in the tuition-setting process.
“We also want more transparency, so we want students in with the provost discussing tuition in general,” Doherty said.
Rahman called for more flexible meal plans and a wider range of dining options to make the dining system more accessible.
“[We want to] make sure we advocate for smaller meal plans with our actual contractor, making sure to advocate for an open dining plan in order to ensure that the system we have right now is more accessible and has more options,” Rahman said.
The candidates also focused on how to improve mental health initiatives on campus. Doherty said she and Sirois intend to expand the availability of mental health resources for students.
“Josh and I hope to increase resources for CAPS [Counseling and Psychiatric Services] and transparency surrounding mental health issues,” Doherty said.
Rahman called for increased resources for CAPS and more funding for the GUSA mental health stipend program, which is currently slated to provide financial aid for off-campus counseling for ten to 20 students.
“Regarding the stipend itself, I think it’s great, [but it] doesn’t go far enough financially,” Rahman said.
Howell echoed the call for increased resources for students regarding mental health, but advocated for a focus on meditation and teaching students methods for dealing with stress.
“I would like to work first with the John Main Center and NSO [New Student Orientation] to teach reflective, meditative and coping methods with stress,” Howell said.
The debate ended with two-and-a-half minute closing statements from each candidate. The presidential debate will be held Monday, Feb. 19 in the Healey Family Student Center at 7:30 p.m.

Jane Hoya says 
February 15, 2018 at 8:44 am
Hunter and Richard fo GUSA have my vote!

DOJ Special Counsel Intern says 
February 16, 2018 at 4:21 pm
[[@Dreeben, flagging for review]]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 15, 2018 by Jessica Lin Leave a Comment 
The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences is set to introduce an interdisciplinary Master of Science in Aging and Health degree program next fall to confront issues facing an increasingly senior and aging population in the United States.
The new program is set to be housed in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences but to draw from both undergraduate and graduate teaching faculty in Georgetown’s School of Nursing and Health Studies, McDonough School of Business, Law Center and McCourt School of Public Policy.
The number of Americans ages 65 and older is projected to more than double from 46 million today to over 98 million by 2060, and the 65-and-older age group’s share of the total population will rise to nearly 24 percent from 15 percent, according to the Population Reference Bureau.
Norberto Grzywacz, dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, developed the program in response to the increasing demand for expertise on aging issues as world demographics shift and the 65-and-older age group continues to expand.
“Aging occurs because of biological reasons, but its impact on societies where people are living longer and having fewer children are wide ranging. One sees impacts on the economy, health-administrations systems, public policy, law, and so on,” Gryzwacz wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The new Aging and Health program is the first to encompass all these dimensions and more in the training of its students.”
The creation of the program involved a two-year preparatory process, during which the Graduate School developed the curriculum and faculty body, conducted market research and settled other logistical issues. The Executive Committee of Graduate Studies approved the proposal last January, followed by assent from the university’s Board of Directors last June.
Gryzwacz says it is necessary for scholars to leave their disciplinary comfort zones to facilitate productive dialogue to address society’s issues related to aging.
“Urgent and complex social problems are often intractable within the framework of individual disciplines. Having such interdisciplinary programs offers an opportunity to turn a small portion of the university towards societal good,” Gryzwacz wrote.
Pamela Saunders, associate professor and program director, said the program will bridge a gap in knowledge on aging in the Washington, D.C. metro area, where no other degrees in gerontology, the study of aging, are offered.
In anticipation of the recruitment process, Saunders said the primary challenge lies in unraveling the popular misconception of aging as a depressing or dull topic to study. The program aims to combat this negative sentiment surrounding the very idea of aging with the message that a master’s degree in aging can provide learners with skills and knowledge applicable in the marketplace.
Saunders cites the growing market for well-trained gerontologists, especially in the realm of health care, as a primary incentive to join the program.
Stressing the versatility of the programs’ teachings, Saunders said students will enter the workforce with strong problem-solving skills and a clear conceptualization of aging issues ranging from transportation logistics to health care financing.
“Aging goes with everything. You could study marketing and aging and understand how to market to an older population; you could study economics and aging and understand how to develop health care products,” Saunders said. “So a knowledge of aging is going to enable you to do almost any career.”
Saunders said the program will attract three groups of people: new career students interested in studying aging, mid-career students wanting the specialization for job purposes and early retirees hoping to contribute their own experience or revamp a career of some kind.
Associate professor Robert Friedland, who will teach the “Health Care Economics” course this fall, said his class will educate policy and business-oriented people who understand that an aging population poses many contemporary policy issues.
“The primary goal of the course is to better understand how the financing of care can affect the organization and delivery of care and to fully appreciate the challenges when this structure fails to meet the needs of people,” Friedland said.
Elliott Crooke, senior associate dean of faculty and academic affairs at the Georgetown University Medical Center, said the program’s partnership with the Medical Center will allow students to better understand the challenges facing our older generations in areas extending beyond biology.
“Indeed, we often think of age-related disorders when we think of aging, and that is a critical component of well-being, but issues involving policy, economics, employment and ethics are intertwined in our master’s program so that candidates can achieve a comprehensive examination of the complex issues facing our seniors,” Crooke wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 15, 2018 by Katrina Schmidt Leave a Comment 
The American Friends Service Committee, a Quaker organization that promotes lasting peace with justice, published its biennial report on Washington, D.C.’s progress as a “human rights city” Jan. 9, revealing that the District still behind other cities with regards to guaranteeing its residents’ rights.
The report, updated by the AFSC’s D.C. Human Rights Steering Committee, examines 10 factors affecting human rights in D.C., such as income inequality, public education, health status and discrimination. The report ultimately concludes that D.C. government and services fail to address human rights violations in numerous contexts. However, the report also offers recommendations for solutions to these problems.
Jean-Louis Peta Ikambana, director of the D.C. Human Rights Learning Program; Mai Abdul Rahman, researcher at Howard University’s School of Education; Claudia Concha and Karen
Hopkins, representatives of Human Rights Educators USA; Jim McCabe; and David Schwartzman, Professor Emeritus at Howard University, collectively authored the report.
“In developing these reports, we strive not to simply catalogue the failures of our limited government, but to illustrate for our fellow D.C. residents what we should be striving to achieve,” the report’s authors wrote in a Feb. 8 news release.
This is the third report on human rights in D.C. from the AFSC. The first was published in 2012
and delivered to former Mayor Vincent Gray (D) and the D.C. Council.
Although AFSC published its first report on human rights in D.C. in 2012, a D.C. Council Resolution declared the District a “human rights city” in 2008. This resolution was the first of its kind in the United States, and 10 cities have since followed in D.C.’s footsteps.
“The Resolution noted the importance of ongoing discussions among residents and local authorities to identify the issues and inform the actions that could lead to meaningful and positive economic and social change,” according to the AFSC report.
A human rights city is a municipality that takes international human rights law and standards into consideration when drafting its laws and policies, according to the U.S. Human Rights Network.
The 2012 and 2015 reports both used a grading scale — from “A” for “excellent” to “F” for “failure” — which was not continued in the 2017 report. The 2017 report takes a qualitative approach, describing changes in D.C. relevant to each category.
One of the key points of the report is that D.C. continues to have higher income inequality than all 50 states, a factor that influences several other areas of concern. This fact is particularly relevant to five of the other categories of the report; poverty plays a great role in many of D.C.’s human rights violations, as enumerated by the report.
Within this severe income inequality is a further racial divide, the report states. The unemployment gap between black and white D.C. residents has only grown, according to a 2017 report by the D.C. Fiscal Policy Institute. The income gap between black and white D.C. residents is consequently large — the median income for white households was $120,000 while the median income for black households was $41,000 in 2015, according to a 2016 article in Washington City Paper.
Rachel Bergsieker, human rights learning associate for the American Friends Service Committee, said the improvements are clear.
“While we are seeing important improvements in some areas, D.C. still has a long way to go before it is truly a ‘human rights city,’” Bergsieker said in the news release.
A new category evaluating the rights of service workers at D.C. universities primarily focuses on the lack of educational benefits available to service workers, particularly in comparison with other employees. Because many service employees like custodians or food service workers are employed by third-party companies, they receive few — if any — benefits for themselves or dependents.
Georgetown University does not provide any educational benefits to its food service employees or their dependents, as they are technically employed by Aramark and Epicurean & Company. This also applies to the university’s custodians, who are employed by P&R Janitorial Services. However, custodians directly employed by the university do have access to Georgetown classes, financial support at another educational institution and corresponding benefits for dependents.
The report gained information about third-party workers’ retirement benefits through a relatively informal survey.
“Workers interviewed on campuses knew little about how much was in their retirement account and would like to know more,” the report states. “It seems that financial education has not been a priority of the vendors or the unions.”
The report’s authors noted that the goal of the report is to seek action and not merely to list D.C.’s problems.
“We hope to mobilize D.C. residents to effectively demand and secure their human rights and to hold our elected officials accountable for falling so far short of that goal,” they wrote in the news release.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 15, 2018 by Alex Mooney Leave a Comment 
Reflection on Pope Francis’ role in facilitating interfaith dialogue is necessary to understand the Catholic Church and Jesuits more broadly, University President John J. DeGioia said in an event titled “The Francis Factor at Five Years: Reflection and Dialogue” on Tuesday evening.
Hosted by the Initiative on Catholic Social Thought and Public Life, which was founded to promote dialogue on Catholicism and national and global issues, the event was led by a key adviser to Pope Francis and the editor-in-chief of La Civiltà Cattolica, Fr. Antonio Spadaro S.J.
It featured a reflection on Pope Francis’ first five years as the bishop of Rome and leader of the Catholic Church.
The conversation included Greg Erlandson, the director and editor-in-chief of Catholic News Service; Sr. Norma Pimentel, the executive director of Catholic Charities of the Rio Grande Valley; and Kirsten Powers, a CNN political commentator.
In his opening remarks, DeGioia touted the role that the initiative has played in helping the community understand Pope Francis’ role over the past five years.
“The Initiative has helped to foster a rich context for us to understand the leadership of Pope Francis, his call for dialogue, his challenge to care for creation and his commitment to the poor and vulnerable,” DeGioia said.
DeGioia also highlighted the event as an opportunity for Georgetown to examine its role as a modern Jesuit institution.
“This moment provides for us a time of reflection and conversation,” DeGioia said. “We seek to deepen our understanding of the tradition that animates our community and strengthen our enduring commitment to our mission as a Catholic and Jesuit institution at this challenging time in our world.”
In his reflection of the pope’s first five years, Spadaro spoke about the vision for the church moving forward, specifically emphasizing the pope’s encouragement of intrareligious understanding in world politics.
“Francis seeks to dispel the narrative of a toxic final clash of religions that nourishes the fear of chaos,” Spadaro said. “This is why Francis is carrying forward a systematic counternarrative to the narrative of fear. There is a need to fight against the manipulation of this era of anxiety and insecurity.”
Spadaro also outlined the pope’s thoughts on the Catholic Church’s involvement in public life. He said that Catholics must be actively involved in society, not removed from it, if they hope to help forge peace in the world.
“Faithful Christians should not opt for considering the church as a counter-society … but a church that is in the world society and endowed with it,” Spadaro said. “A church that extends their relationships in order to gather synergy for the constitution of peace.”
Cooperation, particularly with those who have different ideological views, is also needed in a divided world, Spadaro said.
“The pope rejects the mixing of politics, morals and religion that leads to the use of language that divides reality between the absolute good and the absolute evil,” Spadaro said. “This is why Pope Francis wants to meet the major players in the action, to create an encounter in which all sides can think together, seeking the greater good.”
In the dialogue following Spadaro’s speech, panelists Erlandson, Pimentel and Powers reflected on the pope’s role throughout his papacy.
Erlandson stressed the importance of Pope Francis as a modernizing and revitalizing figure for the Catholic Church today.
“At a time when the church was maybe a bit moribund — and certainly in the United States — he became this completely new voice,” Erlandson said. “I think one of the great contributions [of Francis] was just reinserting the church into the national and international dialogues on the concerns and issues of the day.”
Powers also emphasized the role Pope Francis has played in bringing the Catholic Church back to mainstream society as well as to former Catholics.
“He has made the church relevant in a way that maybe it wasn’t to secular culture before,” Powers said. “And I think for people who were Catholics, who felt rejected by the church for various reasons, they now were feeling … well maybe there is something there. Maybe I can come back. Maybe I’ll be welcomed.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

