
December 14, 2018 by Yolanda Spura Leave a Comment 
A universitywide proposal banning firearms, weapons and explosives on campus was unanimously approved by Georgetown University’s faculty senate Nov. 28 and is set for final review Jan. 17, according to an email sent to members of the Georgetown community.
Georgetown prohibits weapons on campus through its Code of Student Conduct and Human Resources Policy Manual, but has not previously instituted a universitywide policy.
The new weapons policy, which is based on the policy currently in place at American University, will be located in Part IV of the faculty handbook, according to the email sent by faculty senate President Wayne Davis.
The policy applies to anyone present on campus, including students, faculty, employees and visitors; it prohibits all firearms, explosives and weapons on Georgetown grounds or property, at events, and in any vehicle controlled by the university. A date to implement this policy has not yet been set.
Violators of the policy, which will be overseen by the Georgetown University Police Department, will be subject to the university’s disciplinary process and may also be referred to local law enforcement officials. Penalties for violating the policy may include confiscation of the weapon, suspension, barring from campus and university activities, dismissal or termination.
The restrictions are part of the university’s efforts to promote a safe learning and work environment for the Georgetown community, according to the policy.
Although a Washington, D.C. law that restricts concealed handguns in public was declared unconstitutional in July 2017, the portion of the law that bans guns at schools, universities and hospitals was not struck down.
The Georgetown board of directors approved the posting of 21 regulatory signs advertising the university’s ban of weapons around campus Nov. 1.
The policy includes several exceptions, including for law enforcement officers, easily identifiable toys, chemical compounds for scientific research and pepper spray. Armed objects on display for artistic or cultural value and inert objects used by university-recognized groups in activities are also allowed, but only with prior approval from GUPD.
The faculty senate worked in conjunction with GUPD and the Office of General Counsel to draft the policy, which will be sent out to all faculty for objections or suggestions. The senate will review the policy Jan. 17.
Co-Chair Margaret Gleason (COL ’22) of Georgetown’s chapter of March For Our Lives, a national movement in favor of stronger gun violence prevention measures, said the policy may help students feel safer on campus.
“March For Our Lives Georgetown is strongly in favor of the proposed policy regarding firearms, weapons and explosives on Georgetown’s campus,” Gleason wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We hope that the implementation of this policy will help all Georgetown students feel safer in our community and ensure that we never have to experience the tragedies that too many communities across our country have endured.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 14, 2018 by Connor Thomas Leave a Comment 
Kathleen Kraninger (LAW ’07) was confirmed as the new director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau by the U.S. Senate in a 50-49 vote Dec. 6.
Kraninger, who was nominated by President Donald Trump and sworn in Monday, replaces Acting Director Mick Mulvaney (SFS ’89), who is also the director of the Office of Management and Budget.
The position was vacant after former President Barack Obama’s appointed director, Richard Cordray, stepped down in November 2017 and installed his deputy as the replacement director. The move created a standoff with the Trump administration, which had simultaneously appointed Mulvaney as acting director of the CFPB.
This prompted a dispute over who had the authority to fill the interim position: Trump under the Federal Vacancies Reform Act, which allows the president to temporarily appoint officers of an executive agency, or Cordray under the Dodd-Frank Act, which formed the CFPB.
The CFPB was created after the 2008 financial crisis to hold companies in the finance industry accountable and protect consumers’ interests.
Kraninger said she hopes to reduce the bureau’s spending and prioritize individual privacy in a July 19 opening statement before the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs.
“Under my leadership, the bureau would limit data collection to what is needed and required under law and ensure that data is protected,” Kraninger said. “The bureau must be accountable to the American people for its actions, including its expenditure of resources.”
Kraninger is one of several Georgetown alumni to serve as political appointees under Trump, including White House Chief of Staff John Kelly (GRD ’84), Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen (SFS ’94), former White House Chief Strategist Steve Bannon (GRD ’83) and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer (CAS ’69, LAW ’73).
Kraninger most recently served as the associate director of general government programs at the OMB. She has also held positions as a clerk for the Senate Committee on Appropriations and as deputy assistant secretary for policy at the Department of Homeland Security.
Her narrow confirmation was generally welcomed by Republicans, who said her breadth of management experience qualified her for the position, but opposed by Democrats, who contended that she did not have experience regulating the financial sector, according to NPR.
As the associate director of the OMB, Kraninger oversaw the Trump administration’s controversial Puerto Rico disaster relief efforts and policy of family separation at the border. During her confirmation hearing, Democrats pressed Kraninger to describe her role in formulating those policies, but she declined to comment, according to Politico.
Critics of Kraninger argue her lack of financial regulation experience undermines the independence and strength of the bureau.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), who spearheaded the bureau’s creation in 2010, circulated a Nov. 27 letter to her Senate colleagues opposing Kraninger’s nomination and confirmation.
Kraninger would “undermine the agency’s consumer protection mission and return to the pre-crisis approach,” Warren wrote. “A vote to confirm Ms. Kraninger is a vote to defang the consumer watchdog.”
During his time in office, Mulvaney scaled back the bureau’s enforcement activities. Mulvaney also asked Congress to assume control of the bureau’s budget and give the president more control over its director, according to NPR.
“He wants me to get it back to the point where it can protect people without trampling on capitalism,” Mulvaney said at a Nov. 2017 press conference.
Mulvaney also began the process of changing the name of the CFPB to the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.
Trump called Kraninger the “right leader at the right time,” crediting her ability to hold the CFPB accountable for overspending during Cordray’s term because of her background in policy and management.
“The BCFP has been the subject of numerous congressional investigations due to its poor management and employment practices, reckless spending and violations of due process,” Trump said in a July 19 news release.
Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), chairman of the U.S. House of Representatives Financial Services Committee, expressed his support for Kraninger.
“We have seen some of that good under the leadership of acting Director Mulvaney, and I have no doubt that will continue under the leadership of Kathy Kraninger,” Hensarling said in a June 18 news release.
Kraninger inherits an internal investigation of a senior official at the CFPB who posted racially charged blog entries in 2004. She declined to comment on the official’s future on her first day as director, according to The Washington Post.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

