
April 24, 2018 by Will Cassou Leave a Comment 
Former Director of Georgetown University’s Center for Latin American Studies professor Marc Chernick passed away at 62 after suffering a heart attack while at a peace meeting in Cali, Colombia, on April 18. Chernick had worked at Georgetown for over 20 years before recently receiving emeritus status.
Chernick was buried April 22, and a memorial will be held in Riggs Library this Friday.
At Georgetown, Chernick led the CLAS from 2013 to 2016 before Fr. Matthew Carnes, S.J., took over in 2016, and he led the Master of Arts in Latin American studies program from 2009 to 2013. Chernick also founded the Georgetown summer program on conflict resolution and human rights at the University of Los Andes in Colombia.
“I think he really made Georgetown the place to study Colombia; I mean, it’s remarkable how many people came here because they wanted to be involved in the peace process or understand it in a deep way,” Carnes said in an interview with The Hoya.
Chernick had an immense network and knowledge that greatly benefited Georgetown’s CLAS because of his deep involvement in the peace process in Colombia, both Carnes and Dean of the School of Foreign Service Joel Hellman said.
Chernick was a notable force in the peace process in Colombia. He was one of the only foreigners being considered to sit on the peace commission before he passed.
“He dedicated his life to the peace process in Colombia and furthering and advancing it. I’m just very happy that he was able to see the peace process come to fruition before he died,” Hellman said.
Armed conflict between the Colombian government, several paramilitary groups, and far-left guerilla groups such as the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia and the National Liberation Army began in 1964, making it the oldest ongoing conflict in Latin America. Between 1958 and 2013, an estimated 220,000 Colombians were killed; an estimated five million civilians were internally displaced by the conflict between 1985 and 2012. All parties involved in the conflict have been accused of numerous human rights violations, according to the Human Rights Watch.
Chernick arrived in Colombia in the 1980s, when then-President Belisario Betancur was conducting early peace talks with FARC, and worked continuously for the next three decades on the peace process, eventually participating in the peace negotiations in Havana, Cuba, in September 2012.
Although the first agreement reached in August 2016 between FARC and the Colombian government was rejected in an October 2016 referendum, the two parties agreed on a revised deal on Nov. 24, 2016, that was ratified by the Congress of Colombia on Nov. 29.
“He had this undeniable hope that a peace could be achieved even when things started to look pretty negative, and so he was very inspiring to me,” Carnes said.
Colleagues and former students of his described him as modest, passionate and extremely dedicated to his work in Colombia.
“Marc was someone who was humble in some ways, soft-spoken, but with a tenacious set of beliefs and a desire to engage people,” Carnes said.
Chernick was not just interested in academia and international relations but also in their real-world applications, his colleagues and former students also said.
“This is someone who in every sense of the word was a true scholar-practitioner, someone who loved studying the country but who really felt himself called to contribute to its work for peace for the last almost three decades he’d been working on this,” Carnes said.
Chernick also had a great ability to create connections and build bridges; he formed deep, meaningful and lasting bonds with his students, according to Carnes.
“Everyone always talks about how personally he engaged each student, and the number of memorials the last few days I’ve been reading of students who felt like he was their personal mentor, that he really heard them and helped them discover what their vocation or calling was really remarkable,” Carnes said.
Christopher Wahoff (GRD ’11) was invited by Chernick’s family to speak on behalf of Chernick’s students at his memorial service Sunday, and he reflected on his relationship with Chernick, who served as a mentor and even as a groomsman in Wahoff’s wedding this past year.
“Ever since I was his research assistant, he’s sort of guided and supported every step that I’ve taken throughout my professional career and has been a very good friend and mentor, and I always look to him for advice and a good debate, but that was just the kind of person he was,” Wahoff said.
Hellman echoed that he wanted to emphasize the personal connections that Chernick cultivated as a significant contribution to Georgetown in addition to his extensive work in Colombia and with the CLAS.
“I wouldn’t want anyone to miss the human qualities that made him beloved among the students that he worked closely with, that helped bring together the community,” Hellman said.
Correction: A previous version of this article quoted Hellman as saying “he was able to come to fruition before he died.”
Special to The Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 24, 2018 by Cady Stanton Leave a Comment 
The official photographs of former President Barack Obama’s presidency were mostly unplanned documentations of everyday moments during the president’s day, former Chief Official White House Photographer Pete Souza said at the 10th annual Michael E. Jurist Memorial Lecture on Thursday.
The event featured a selection of images that Souza captured during his time documenting the presidency. The photos Souza displayed at the event included an image of Obama visiting Walter Reed Hospital to see wounded veterans, the president playing with his daughters Sasha and Malia in the snow on the White House lawn and a scene of him bodysurfing while on vacation in his home state of Hawaii.
Souza is a photojournalist who documented Obama’s time in politics, from his days as a senator from Illinois to his presidency. Of the more than one million photos of Obama and his family, all of them revealed different aspects of the presidency. Souza followed Obama throughout his day, he said, providing a glimpse into Obama’s daily activities.
“The CliffsNotes version of what I did everyday was that I would show up to the White House, be there when he came down to the Oval Office in the morning, and I would just tag along with him all day long until he went home at night,” Souza said. “The reason I did that was so that I would be around when these little moments happened that told you so much about him.”
As an installment of the Michael E. Jurist Memorial Lecture Series, the event honored the legacy of late Lecture Fund chair Michael Jurist (SFS ’07). Jurist served as chair from 2006 to 2007. Previous speakers for the event have included Vox CEO Ezra Klein in 2016 and sports commentator Stephen Smith in 2014. The dialogue was sponsored by the Georgetown Lecture Fund, the Institute of Politics and Public Service at the McCourt School of Public Policy, the Office of Public Affairs, the Georgetown University Student Association Fund, the department of film and media studies, Students of Georgetown, Inc., and club tennis.
Obama prioritized spending time with his daughters despite the demands of the presidency, Souza said after he witnessed the everyday occurrences of the White House.
“I really admired that even though he was, let’s face it, the busiest man on the planet, he would still make time with his girls,” Souza said. “Even if it was for only five or 10 minutes, when he was with them, he was all in.”
According to Souza, he used particular cameras with a quiet shutter to be able to capture Obama’s daily life candidly and to minimize distractions for the White House.
“I use very quiet cameras, so that I can occasionally go right behind him, to show things from his perspective,” Souza said.
The Sandy Hook shooting on Dec. 14, 2012, in which 20 children were killed at school in Newtown, Conn., stands out as the hardest day of Obama’s presidency, Souza said, referring to an image he took of Obama visiting the victims’ families.
“Trying to imagine the horror of sending your six-year-old off to school, kissing them goodbye, putting them on the school bus, sending them off to what we all consider a safety zone, and the next time you see your child, they’ve been shot to death … I think all those thoughts are going through his head,” Souza said.
Though most photos Souza took were spontaneous and candid, Souza planned how he wanted to capture Obama leaving the Oval Office for the last time, he said.
“That picture was taken with forethought in mind,” he said. “But that’s probably one of the few times. The other times, everything’s just kind of on the fly.”
Out of the more than one million photos taken, Souza said that he could not choose a favorite, as he is more focused on the overall depiction of Obama through the photographs rather than the individual images.
“Each picture is only one compartment of his life,” Souza said. “The difficulty I have answering a question like that is that I sort of always looked at it as creating the best body of work and not saying, ‘This is the picture that is, you know, the best picture, my favorite picture.’”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

