
January 18, 2018 by Erin Doherty Leave a Comment 
John Thompson Jr., Georgetown University’s men’s basketball coach from 1972 through 1999, was known for his commitment to helping his students. He symbolized his investment in his players with a deflated basketball placed prominently on his desk that reminded players their lives were not measured solely by their performance on the basketball court.
Thompson’s spirit was on display Monday evening at the annual “Let Freedom Ring!” event at the Kennedy Center. The program honors the life and legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. by awarding an individual with the John Thompson Jr. Legacy of a Dream Award based on the recipient’s commitment to service in the community.
Georgetown presented the 16th annual Legacy of a Dream Award to Steve Park, the executive director and founder of Little Lights Urban Ministries. This organization works with families living in public housing communities in the Washington, D.C. area by providing familial, economic and spiritual support.
“There’s a part of D.C. that is often ignored, and what Little Lights tries to do is go into these public housing communities like Potomac Gardens, Hopkins and Benning Terrace, and to do it long term,” Park said in the video tribute at the program.
The event was hosted jointly by Georgetown University and the Kennedy Center and included a speech by University President John J. DeGioia and video tributes to Park, Thompson and King.
In a speech, DeGioia quoted a segment from Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s speech from the day before he died, echoing, as Park has done, the importance of helping others and taking action to spark change in the D.C. community.
“Let us rise up tonight with a greater readiness. Let us stand with a greater determination. And let us move on in these powerful days, these days of challenge, to make America what it ought to be,” DeGioia said, quoting King. “We have an opportunity to make America a better nation.”
The event also featured musical performances by Grammy-winning and Tony-nominated performer Vanessa Williams, the Let Freedom Ring Choir led by the musical director Reverend Nolan Williams, Georgetown’s Jazz Ensemble and members of the department of performing arts.
Since its inception as an after-school program in Park’s parents’ Tae Kwon Do studio in 1995, Little Lights has served over 900 children and families in public housing communities in Southeast D.C. — communities where many families live on less than $12,000 a year. The program has also expanded into six different sites.
Today, in addition to after-school tutoring for students, Little Lights offers summer camp programs and Christian mentoring. The organization also supports families by hosting economic empowerment events for adults, including job training and Friday night dinners with worship.
Little Lights is committed to providing support for children and adults who otherwise might not have a strong network, Crystal Jenkins, a program coordinator for Little Lights, said in the video at the program.
“A lot of kids don’t have anyone to help them with homework when they get home,” Jenkins said, “But when they come to Little Lights, it’s a place for them to come and get love.”
Anthony Minter, a Little Lights board member and minister at the First Rock Baptist Church in D.C., said that Little Lights is committed to making long-term impacts on individuals in these communities.
“It’s one of the greatest challenges that we need to figure out: How do we improve the whole living situation for those who are in some challenging lifestyles?” Minter said. “How do we help to raise them up without pushing them out?”
In keeping with its commitment to developing permanent solutions for local community members, Little Lights attempts to hire from within these communities and offers job training for adults.
Park’s obvious passion for helping others also stands out to colleagues.
“There’s not a lot of words to describe [Park], because I’ve never met anyone like this guy,” Jenkins said.
Minter echoed Jenkins’ comments.
“The work that [Park] is doing, I just believe is monumental. He has a heart for people, certainly for the kids, but not just for the kids, I think just for people,” Minter said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 18, 2018 by Georgia Payne Leave a Comment 
Washington, D.C.’s Wards 7 and 8 were left in need of maternity care centers after two D.C. birthing wards servicing the area closed late last year.
Well-known in the D.C. area for serving individuals in need as it accepted patients without regard for their legal status or ability to pay, Providence Hospital set affordable rates and offered charity to the District’s poorest. The hospital, located in the northeast D.C. neighborhood of Michigan Park, closed its birthing ward Oct. 16.
Now that D.C.’s only public, not-for-profit hospital, United Medical Care — which presides over Southeast Washington — closed its birthing ward after a December board vote, no labor and delivery services remain operational in Washington’s eastern half.
UMC has made arrangements with Howard University Hospital and Unity Healthcare to provide prenatal care at community clinics in Wards 7 and 8. Additionally, the UMC news release asserted that other D.C. hospitals are well below capacity and should be able to provide care to affected mothers.
UMC originally closed its birthing ward in August after the D.C. Department of Health Services found deficiencies in the quality of care provided there. On Dec. 14, UMC announced that they would not seek to renew their obstetrical services license.
Although these two closures are not related, they exacerbate the dearth of prenatal and natal care that had already existed in the D.C. area.
Aza Nedhari, founder of Mamatoto Village, a D.C. nonprofit group that works with low-income women, fears that sending these mothers to other hospitals could overwhelm the birthing wards..
Even if other D.C. hospitals like MedStar Washington Hospital Center and The George Washington University Hospital can accommodate the influx of mothers, Ward 7 and 8 mothers will face yet another hurdle as they struggle to coordinate their prenatal care from community clinics with their deliveries at a hospital, according to Nedhari.
“What I feel is going to end up happening is when you increase capacity you diminish quality,” Nedhari told The Washington Post Oct. 28.
Even if many mothers deliver children through the emergency ward, they will likely need prenatal care from an obstetrics ward prior to giving birth, according to Melissa Fries, chairman of Women’s and Infants’ Services at Washington National Hospital Center
“The biggest risk factor for infant and maternal mortality is a lack of prenatal and obstetric care,” Fries told The Washington Post on Jan. 16.
However, the location change still presents a strain to Ward 7 and 8 mothers, and there is concern that larger institutions in the city will be unable to absorb the added patients.
Additionally, many of the mothers in Wards 7 and 8 are members of minority groups, whose pregnancies have an infant mortality rate that averages 8.2 per 1000 births, compared to 1.7 per 1000 among white mothers, according to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
The UMC Board reviewed several options before ultimately deciding to keep their birthing ward closed. Alternatives included reopening the ward with the same services as before after addressing the DHS’s concerns and reopening the ward under a new, better-staffed policy.
A Dec. 16 press release from UMC stated that the decision and leaves room to revisit implementing the new policy later “due to the investments of time, management, and resources that would be needed for such an approach to be successful.”
According to UMC, most mothers deliver through the emergency ward.
UMC holds that their ward failed previously because of the low volume of patients, which made it challenging to provide proper care and staffing to the ward said UMC Board Chair Ruby LeMay.
“We remain committed to the residents and patients of this community. The unfortunate reality about OB is this: long before the DOH decision to restrict OB, mothers made a conscious choice not to deliver their babies at United Medical Center,” LeMay wrote in a Dec. 16 news release.
According to LeMay, UMC will be assisting with this changeover process.
“We will work with the DOH through this transition period and look forward to doubling down our efforts to deliver high-quality in all the other services that we offer at United Medical Center,” LeMay said.
Special to The Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

