
April 18, 2018 by Elizabeth Ash Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University Student Association senate elections for sophomore, junior and senior representatives are set to run between Wednesday and Thursday evening, following a current GUSA senate campaign to promote greater diversity and inclusivity within the body.
Six rising seniors, 12 rising juniors and 13 rising sophomores have declared candidacy in the upcoming race. Each grade receives six seats in spring elections. Another round of voting will elect seven freshmen and three at-large representatives next September.
This year marks the first spring elections for GUSA senators. A campus-wide referendum passed Feb. 22 switched the senate from geographic representation, which divided voting districts by dorm region on campus, to class-based representation. This referendum also moved upperclass senate elections to April.
After the passage of the referendum, current GUSA senators Juan Martinez (SFS ’20) and Madison Álvarez (SFS ’21) planned Senate Outreach Week from April 4 to 8 to empower students who might not have otherwise run for GUSA senate. Martinez serves as chair of the Equity and Access Committee and Álvarez is vice-chair of the GUSA’s Socioeconomic Advocacy Policy Coalition.
Álvarez said they reached out to students to offer mentorship for those who may feel intimated or excluded from GUSA.
“We wanted to let these students know that they are welcome and wanted by the Senate, educate them on the often confusing internal structure of the Senate, and offer ourselves as mentors for those who wanted extra support during their campaign,” Álvarez wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The week included Facebook publicity campaigns with the hashtags #BecauseInclusivityMatters and #BecauseDiversityMatters, as well as office hours during which prospective candidates could meet with former senators for advice.
Martinez said inspiration for the project came from his personal experiences with GUSA senate campaigns.
“The original inspiration for Senate Outreach Week came to me my freshman year. As a queer Latino and an undocumented student, the idea of putting myself out there in running for Senate was terrifying,” Martinez wrote. “For one, friends who held similar identities to me were simply not involved in GUSA and could therefore not provide advice on how to run a senate campaign took into account my various identities.”
Álvarez agreed, adding she would not have run for senate without the email of support she received from former GUSA Vice President Jessica Andino (COL ’18).
“When I got an email from the outgoing VP (a woman) offering herself as a source of support for any women who took the risk of running, I decided to go for it, even though I was the only female contending for an At-Large seat,” Álvarez wrote.
Giving back through mentorship is crucial for GUSA’s future diversity, Álvarez said.
“Now that I have the chance to mentor other new candidates in the same way I once was, I feel like I’m giving back to the same community that once supported me in my time of need.”
The outgoing senate class has the best socioeconomic and LGBT representation compared to previous years, according to demographic data compiled by Martinez and Álvarez. Forty-three percent of senators identified as a part of the LGBT community, compared with an estimated 4.1 percent of the national population. However, the survey showed underrepresentation of racial and ethnic minorities, women, individuals with physical and/or mental disabilities and religious minorities.
Candidates who attended office hours praised the program for providing support and helpful advice.
Senate candidate Brandi Coleman (SFS ’21) said meeting with current senators made elections feel less competitive.
“Being in an environment like Georgetown it is easy to get wrapped up in the competitiveness of it all, but from the moment I met the former senators to the moment I decided to run there has been a huge support of one another,” Coleman wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Candidate Kimberly Nuñez (COL ’21) attended office hours with Martinez and credited him for her decision to run.
“While I was considering running for GUSA senator, he made me realize the extent to which being a student senator can contribute to enforcing the action that is needed on this campus,” Nuñez wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Senators offered honest insight, according to candidate Jaydon Skinner (COL ’21).
“They were very transparent about their experiences in the Senate, and more than willing to share their advice with me about running,” Skinner wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I left feeling encouraged to make an election bid.”
Current GUSA senator Eliza Lafferty (COL ’21), who said she intends to continue hosting weekly office hours if re-elected, commended the Senate Outreach Week for promoting diversity and gender equality.
“I’m so proud of how many female candidates and people of color are running,” Lafferty wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Last election, and in the past, the senate has been a male-dominated entity. It is incredibly empowering to see such a strong, diverse group seeking leadership positions.”
Although attendance at office hours was not as high as was hoped, Martinez is optimistic for the future of the program and its impact.
“Taking into consideration the short timeline we had due to the changing in elections’ time I would say outreach was pretty successful,” Martinez wrote. “Although attendance was not spectacular at every session, an overwhelming majority of individuals that attended went on to sign up to run this elections cycle.”
Senator Chad Gasman (COL ’20) said the week was “marginally successful,” but was doubtful about progress. Gasman said more students of color are running this year than before, but fewer women are running than ran last year.
Álvarez and Martinez acknowledged it is too early to assess Senate Outreach Week’s success. However, a March 25 amendment to GUSA bylaws, which modified the candidacy registration form to ask optional questions about identity, seeks to track diversity in the senate.
Students can vote at the GUSA Election Commission’s booth in Red Square on Thursday afternoon or via HoyaLink. The GUSA Election Commission hopes to release results by Friday at 1 a.m., Election Commissioner Minji Doh (SFS ’19) said.
The Election Commission will compile responses and present findings to the senate, according to Doh.
“The data collected in this form will only be viewed by members of the Election Commission, who are authorized to handle private information, and under no circumstance be revealed outside of this body,” Doh wrote. “The information is collected to be used to form non-identifying aggregate statistics that will be presented at a public meeting of the GUSA Senate.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 18, 2018 by Jessica Lin Leave a Comment 
A new fare payment app that would allow Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority riders to pay using smartphones is planned to launch next year, WMATA announced April 10.
The app, designed to serve as a virtual alternative to the SmarTrip cards currently required to pay fare, would enable passengers to tap their smartphones to pass through fare gates, according to the April 10 news release.
The mobile fare payment platform would minimize costs for Metro and save time for riders, according to WMATA General Manager and CEO Paul Wiedefeld.
“Mobile fare payment is the future of transit, giving customers the ability simply to tap their phone and go, all without stopping at a fare vending machine or using a separate card,” Wiedefeld said in the news release. “Not only will this be a better, easier experience, but will cost less to operate.”
Through the app, users would be able to check fares, obtain real-time service information and add money to their SmarTrip accounts. Riders can also set their balance to reload automatically.
Sean Hampton (COL ’20), a regular Metro rider, takes the Orange, Blue and Silver lines from Rosslyn to Capital South and back three times a week for an internship. He said the ability to view his card balance on the app would ease his commute.
“I think the most helpful feature would be the ability to check how much is on your card in somewhere that’s not the station,” Hampton said. “There have been times where I’ve been in a rush, and I get up to the stall, and I find out I only have $1.”
The new program addresses some of the complications that caused a similar pilot program for mobile fare payment to fail two years ago, according WMATA Manager of Media Relations Sherri Ly.
“[The new program] builds upon the existing SmarTrip platform, rather than a wholesale change to an open payment system,” Ly wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The technology, approach and solution is different, the mobile fare payment system leverages the existing infrastructure and does not require modification of hardware.”
The app attempts to improve on the service of existing fare vending machines, which are often inconsistent, Hampton said.
“Sometimes I’ll be trying to catch the [Georgetown University Transportation Shuttle] bus that comes back from Rosslyn, and then I find out I have to go put in exit fare, which is not that easy to do,” Hampton said. “Often, the machines that take cards don’t work and you have to use cash, and I don’t always have one or two dollar bills on me.”
The app is part of WMATA’s ongoing initiative to improve its fare collection program, which includes upgrading existing fareboxes, faregates and fare vending machines, according to the April 10 news release. The initiative is set to be completed by the end of 2019, and the new models of equipment, which would be replacing 15-year-old machines, are set to be installed by 2020.
The app attempts to save money in the long run, as WMATA would be able to limit the number of vending machines needed in stations for riders.
“By accepting mobile payments, we can reduce the number of vending machines in stations, which will save several millions of dollars annually and more than offset the cost of mobile implementation,” Ly wrote.
Hampton noted having both platforms would allow for protection in the case of a technical malfunction.
“We’ve seen the entire Wi-Fi at Georgetown go out for a day,” Hampton said. “I have no doubt in my mind that the D.C. Metro can have some sort of technical failure, and I can only imagine the kind of trouble that they’d have in the city if all of sudden everyone was unable to use their Metro app.”
Despite potential technical challenges, Greg Garback, executive officer of WMATA’s finance department, said he trusts the app’s technology, noting it will make metro riding more efficient.
“It’s remarkably elegant in its simplicity,” Garback said in an interview with The Washington Post.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 18, 2018 by Sarah Mendelsohn 2 Comments 
Government majors Amanda Scott (COL ’19) and Shakera Vaughan (COL ’19) were each awarded $30,000 by the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation for their government-related extracurricular activities and community service. The scholarship, awarded to students dedicated to implementing positive change through public service, must be used for graduate education.
Scott plans to use the award for law school, while Vaughn intends to apply hers toward a master’s degree in public administration.
Scott and Vaughan are both members of the Georgetown Scholarship Program, which provides both programmatic and financial assistance to students from low-income families and first-generation college students. Their receipt of the Truman Scholarship marks the second consecutive year in which two Georgetown students received the scholarship.
Scott, who grew up in Mobile, Ala., attended a community college for two years and graduated summa cum laude before starting at Georgetown.
Scott said that her experience with prejudice as a bisexual woman in Alabama inspired her to pursue a law degree. Scott views a career in law as a way for her to advocate for poor and marginalized communities and push for progressive change, she said.
“I came to be interested in studying law indirectly through my interest in civil rights advocacy,” Scott wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Growing up openly bisexual in Alabama and experiencing prejudice, I became involved in the movement for LGBTQ civil rights and came to see the law as a means to achieve justice for the poor and marginalized communities. I came to see civil rights attorneys as the champions of progressive change.”
Scott said the Truman Scholarship will ultimately enable her to use her law degree to pursue her goal of helping disadvantaged communities.
“Receiving the Truman Scholarship is a life changing opportunity, in the same way being admitted to Georgetown was, because it will give me the resources and network to help me achieve my dreams of going into public service,” Scott wrote.
Scott said she applied to the Truman Scholarship to prove to herself that she is capable and worthy of a prestigious award.
“I’ve gone through a lot in my life to get to this point and to stay here,” Scott said in an April 13 university announcement. “I applied because I wanted to show myself that I am good enough — that people like me are good enough.”
Vaughan grew up in Richmond, Va., and intends to go to graduate school to study public administration next year. Vaughan said she hopes her master’s degree will equip her with skills to implement change in Richmond’s city government.
“Studying public administration will help me to gain the skills in public management and policy analysis, both skills I believe are vital to enact structural change in my city’s local government back home,” Vaughan wrote in an email to The Hoya.
By attending graduate school, Vaughan said she will be able to achieve her goal of addressing income inequality, an issue she believes stems from ineffective policy.
“I know that a lot of poverty and the education gap can be traced back to poor policies and also how they are administered,” Vaughan wrote. “I know I want to spend my life dedicated to fixing that and a graduate degree would bring me one step closer to that. The Truman Scholarship now makes my goal possible.”
Vaughan draws her inspiration to work for policy changes from her community in Richmond, according to the university announcement.
“I am doing all of this for my community back home,” Vaughan said. “Ultimately, it is the city of Richmond that drives me towards my goals.”
Receiving the scholarship is especially meaningful for Vaughan, who now sees graduate school as an attainable goal.
“This scholarship means everything to me, because it makes graduate school an option now,” Vaughan said in the April 13 news release. “It brings tears to my eyes knowing that the people who sat on my panel believed in my vision and wanted to help me accomplish this.”

Philip A. Fabiano says 
April 20, 2018 at 9:26 pm
Perhaps I missed it but what exactly was “their government-related extracurricular activities and community service”?

Hoya says 
April 23, 2018 at 3:26 pm
Scott interned at the U.S. Department of Justice and the DC Mayor’s Office and Vaughan interned at the Office of Michelle and Barack Obama and the Office of Senator Tim Kaine
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

