
April 20, 2018 by Sarah Wright 6 Comments 
Two days since his last meal, Deshaun Rice (COL ’19) cannot concentrate. Fatigue seeps in. Words blur together. He sees things from the corners of his eyes — things that are not actually there.
Hunger was never something Rice expected to encounter at Georgetown University. He thought college would provide an escape from the poverty and insecurity of life in his hometown, Memphis, Tenn. Instead, he frequently finds himself running out of swipes on his meal plan, money to spend on food and energy to attend class.
“You get to class, you are expected to be alert, attentive, responsive and things of that nature,” Rice said in an interview with The Hoya. “But you can’t if you’re going around and you haven’t eaten for two or three days.”
Food insecurity is not anomalous among college students nationwide. When the Wisconsin HOPE Lab and Temple University released their report on food insecurity April 4, the study found 36 percent of surveyed college students across the country reported experiences of food insecurity in the 30 days prior to being surveyed.
The study, which defines food insecurity as the limited or uncertain availability of nutritionally adequate food, is the most comprehensive of its time, gathering data from over 43,000 students at 66 schools in 20 states and Washington, D.C.
At Georgetown, food insecurity is a gnawing problem for the student body. A 2016 survey conducted by the Georgetown University Student Association found 54 percent of the 351 students surveyed — two-thirds of whom received need-based financial aid — responded that they experienced food insecurity at Georgetown due to cost, often at least once a week.
The University View
According to university spokesperson Bethany Imondi, resources offered by the Georgetown Scholarship Program — a source of financial and academic support for first-generation and low-income students — serve students who are vulnerable to food insecurity. One such resource, the “GSP Break Grocery Stipend,” provided $50,000 of GSP funds in the last year to spend on food when campus dining options were closed.
Imondi also cited new food options and more flexible meal plans implemented on campus this year as helping better meet the needs of the community.
Currently, meal plans cost anywhere from $1,186 to $2,948.50 per semester for undergraduates. These plans can take the form of either 75, 155 or 150 prepaid meals in the block plan, 12, 14 or 18 meals per week in the weekly plan or unlimited meals in the all access plan.
“Georgetown meets the full-need of students who require financial assistance paying for college, which includes tuition, housing and meal expenses,” Imondi wrote in an email to The Hoya.
But for GSP student Elisabeth Kutek (MSB ’21), this assistance is still not enough to alleviate vulnerability to hunger. Kutek said time proves to be as much of a constraint as does money, as she struggles to find options available on her meal plan that fit into her busy schedule.
Kutek gets out of class at 3:15 p.m. most days, when the upstairs portion of O’Donovan Hall is closed and healthy on-campus dining options are scarce. She then often attends events or meetings that end after Leo’s closes at 8 p.m. She said that the late-night options of Royal Jacket and Bulldog Tavern do little to satisfy her hunger.
“It sucks to say that you have food insecurity and for people to say, ‘But you could eat this,’” Kutek said. “I might want a healthier option, but because I can’t afford a healthier option, I’m not allowed one? It’s interesting how food can turn into a privilege.”
Mariama Barry (NHS ’19) said her experiences with food insecurity arise from her dietary restrictions as a Muslim student, which preclude her from eating products that are not certified to be halal. She said she constantly worried about finding nutritional, reliable and affordable options at Leo’s before ultimately deciding this burden was not worth the price of her meal plan.
Each semester since her freshman year, Barry cut down her meal plan until she fully eliminated it this semester. She said that since she started cooking, her health has improved.
“Last semester I lost like 15 pounds, whereas this semester, I am staying at a constant weight level,” Barry said. “I’m not about to walk all the way down the hill to the other side of campus for food that I am not sure if I would want to eat.”
A Teacher’s Take
Psychology professor Paul Merritt, who himself had brushes with food insecurity during his time in college, said skipping meals could have deleterious effects on students’ learning and well-being.
“When you don’t have sufficient nutrition, you can’t function; you can’t sustain your attention. Your mind wanders; you get headaches,” Merritt said in an interview with The Hoya. “Worrying about where you’re going to find your next meal, whether or not you’re going to have enough money, that also has some pretty significant consequences for cognition and mood and health.”
Inspired by his college struggles with food insecurity and the findings of the Wisconsin HOPE Lab-Temple University study, Merritt sent out a survey to his two nearly 100-student psychology classes asking for their experiences April 5.
Merritt found the results shocking. Of the 168 respondents, 11 students said that in the last month they did not eat for three or more full days because they did not have enough money for food. Seventeen students skipped eating for a full day within the past month, and 2o students said they lost weight because they could not afford food.
“This whole thing just really upsets me,” Merritt said. “This place is stressful enough.”
Following the survey, Merritt asked students to submit comments and suggestions for how to improve food accessibility on campus. The result is a 55-page document of his students’ proposed solutions, such as developing a system to donate meal swipes to other students, lengthening on-campus dining hours and establishing a food pantry on campus.
“The students are clearly unhappy with the current state of meal plans and on-campus dining,” Merritt wrote in a report summarizing his findings.
Students Respond
The last solution — establishing a food pantry on campus — has been a focus of student activists’ efforts to alleviate food insecurity.
Madison Álvarez (SFS ’21), who now is a deputy chief of staff for the GUSA administration of Sahil Nair (SFS ’19) and Naba Rahman (SFS ’19) after having previously serving as a vice chair of GUSA’s socio-economic advocacy policy team, said the movement has a long legacy at Georgetown.
“About eight years ago, a bunch of admins got together and tried to create a food pantry, and there was no centralized space,” Álvarez said. “And without student support, things tend to fall apart. So we’re kind of picking up those pieces.”
The efforts to create a food pantry called “Hoya Hub” are being spearheaded by the GUSA socio-economic advocacy team and supported by a laundry list of campus organizations, from student groups like service fraternity Alpha Phi Omega and Students of Georgetown, Inc., to university partners like GSP, the LGBTQ Resource Center and Campus Ministry.
Off-campus partners, such as Safeway, Trader Joe’s and Hungry Harvest, a company that delivers misshapen produce, are also set to contribute food to stock the pantry.
Caroline Barnes (COL ’19), the previous GUSA administration’s socio-economic advocacy chair and Hoya Hub coordinator, said the initiative was modeled after existing food pantries at universities across the country, particularly the student-run food pantry at The George Washington University known as “The Store.”
The Store, which opened in 2016 and is managed by the GWU Center for Student Engagement and a student organization, allows students who wish to access the pantry anonymously after they complete a request form.
Though the Hoya Hub team is still seeking a permanent location for the pantry, the current plan envisions a five-year, three-phase model, including beginning by providing nonperishables as part of a pilot program to be improved upon based on need and feedback, and the eventual establishment of a permanent space.
“It’s a trust and honor system, where you’re still answering Google forms and filling out that you’re going and what you’re getting, but it’s pretty much an open space,” Barnes said.
Álvarez said that while her hope was to have a Hoya Hub prototype operational by the end of the semester, the administration has stalled progress in securing and even inspecting potential sites, lengthening the timeline.
In the meantime, to increase awareness of the problem among students and administrators alike, the Hoya Hub team plans to launch a media campaign and circulate a petition in support of the Hub.
Barnes and Álvarez also noted that they hope to someday expand the Hoya Hub beyond food options to include items like pots and pans, school supplies and clothing for students to borrow.
“We also want to be a source of advocacy in the long term, so once we are able to meet full need, to work to actively combat the stigma around food insecurity and look at the larger systemic issues that lead to this problem existing in the first place,” Álvarez said.
The team has also announced an end-of-year food collection initiative, partnering with the Yates Field House to collect nonperishables during study days and the exam period from April 30 to May 12.
“There’s excitement at the student level, it’s just, how do we translate that into something that the admin can see we’re behind on this?” Álvarez said. “Because it really is a national movement, too, and Georgetown is now officially late to the game.”
A Greater Significance
Fax Victor (COL ’19), the GSP outreach and strategic membership chair, is collaborating with the Hoya Hub initiative after conducting research about food pantries at peer institutions, such as Duke University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, over the summer.
But Victor stressed that once Hoya Hub is established, he would like to see changes implemented at the policy level.
“Our next task is figuring out how we can deal with food insecurity on a greater scale,” Victor said. “It’s about how we can create policies that are sustainable for the next class. A food pantry is great, but it’s like a band aid effort.”
Specifically, Victor hopes to challenge the default 14-meals-per-week option for students on financial aid, which he said leaves students short one meal per day. Weekly meal plans are also available in 18- or 12-meals-per-week options.
“So the fact that we have, as the default option, 14 meals weekly, that means that seven meals are gone,” Victor said in an interview with The Hoya. “How can we expect students in general, not just GSP students, to really produce and be their best self with only two-thirds of the nutrition?”
Kutek said that broadening the conversation on Georgetown’s campus about the roots of food insecurity is necessary to find sustainable solutions to combat student hunger.
“Besides offering food, are we doing anything to have conversation about the types of identities that suffer from food insecurity?” Kutek said. “Are we going to talk about — are we just going to institute this resource to solve the problem or are we going to talk about where the problem roots from and where it comes from?”
Rice agrees. He wants the university to be more transparent and informative about food options on and around campus during the New Student Orientation program so that students can make smart purchasing decisions and nutritional choices.
In the meantime, Rice said hunger may prevent some students from fulfilling their potential in learning.
“Maybe if they understood how many students do go some days without eating, maybe they would address it,” Rice said. “It’s a lot of students who don’t eat, two, three days sometimes.”

S. Singer says 
April 20, 2018 at 9:54 pm
As a parent I am heart-broken reading this.
My own daughter told me that the much publicized make-over at Leo’s has been at the expense of long lines at food stations that mean it’s hard to get food when you are running between classes.
It’s a dreadful indictment of our society that in this day and age, and at a well-intentioned institution like Georgetown, young people are facing food insecurity and going hungry.
I can’t express my support and admiration for initiatives like Hoya Hub and Prof Merritt’s initiatives strongly enough.
Ms Wright and the staff at The Hoya, please continue covering this important issue. Please keep food insecurity squarely on your radar and continue to connect the wider Hoya community to these efforts.
Let’s take a leaf from Jesuit values like “Men and Women for Others” and “Cura Personalis”.
Let’s make sure this is never again the experience of any Georgetown student.

Illuminated Alum says 
April 21, 2018 at 8:39 am
Take a banana, make a sandwich…use your mind and be creative with all the options the dining hall provides. Students who claim “food inaccessibility” is an issue at Georgetown are poorly prepared for the real world.

Deshaun Rice says 
April 26, 2018 at 11:00 am
Lol and this is the problem right here

Sara Goldrick-Rab says 
April 21, 2018 at 10:49 am
Thanks for covering my team’s study. If Georgetown students would like to share their stories in a national campaign to ensure students are heard, please visit RealCollege.org under #Voices4Change – and note that your university is invited to participate for free in our next survey!

Michele Blackwood says 
April 22, 2018 at 9:29 pm
As a parent and as an alum, I agree that this should NOT happen.  I never want a child or young person to go hungry.  I am sure that we could fund-raise to fix this…perhaps, debit cards to be used at other areas on campus, or load the GO card on a regular basis.
I do not think the food bank will work for those who cannot cook.
Perhaps Leo’s could stay open later?

Kate Urbank says 
September 4, 2018 at 8:39 am
Hey Michele, it’s Kate Urbank. So interesting this article — my food runner program — Food Rescue US — is in talks to help establish a food pantry at GU. There are some very motivated students who want to see this problem addressed. I’m excited to see what can happen and will keep you posted.
Great article. Helpful and informative.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 20, 2018 by Deepika Jonnalagadda Leave a Comment 
The cost of ride-sharing services like Uber and Lyft is expected to increase in 2019 when a tax that will help fund the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority takes effect.
Washington, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) signed the Dedicated Funding for the WMATA Emergency Act of 2018 on April 13. Authored by D.C. Councilmember and Chairman of the Metro Board Jack Evans (D-Ward 2) and passed unanimously by the Council, the bill authorizes the District to collect taxes to fund WMATA.
The legislation allocates $178.5 million per year in dedicated funding for WMATA through the 2059 fiscal year. These funds constitute the District’s share of an $500 million per year joint commitment with Virginia and Maryland to fund WMATA.
The Virginia General Assembly pledged $154 million per year to Metro funding March 7 on the condition that Maryland and D.C. also increase their contributions. Bowser pledged $178 million per year in her State of the District address March 15.
The decision was part of a negotiation between Virginia, Maryland and D.C., by which each party would provide the $500 million that Metro’s leadership argued is necessary to make Metrorail a world-class system.
The additional funding aims to fix issues with Metro’s infrastructure, Bowser said. Metro plans to use the money to buy new rail cars and buses, upgrade track and power systems, modernize stations and make other broad improvements, according to a March 22 article in The Washington Post.
“The region has been working for years to solve the dedicated funding question, and now we finally have a path forward,” Bowser said in an April 13 news release. “With this commitment, we will get Metro back to a state of good repair so that Washingtonians have access to a safe and reliable Metro system for years to come.”
Bowser’s budget and financial plan for fiscal year 2019, a $14.5 billion budget, proposes funding the commitment through several channels that will remain sustainable and competitive in the future.
About $80 million of the annual revenue will come from increased taxes, including the ride-share tax. The commercial property tax rate is set to increase by 2 cents, and the sales tax will rise to 6 percent from 5.75 percent.
The tax on “for-hire” vehicle services such as Uber and Lyft will rise to 4.75 percent from 1 percent and is projected to account for nearly 10 percent of the $178.5 million allocated to WMATA funding.
Any increase in the tax will ultimately be reflected in the cost paid by users of ride-sharing apps, according to Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi.
This increase would bring the cost of using ride-sharing services up to that of taxis, which are taxed at 50 cents per trip, according to a March 21 articlein The Washington Post.
The increased tax burden will likely fall on riders unable to access Metro transportation, Lyft Communication Manager Campbell Matthews wrote in an email to The Hoya.
“While we are supportive of efforts to improve transit options, it is also critical that rideshare remains affordable for the tens of thousands who rely on Lyft in DC – particularly those who live further from transit or need a ride when public transit doesn’t operate,” Matthews wrote.
The announcement of the tax follows an expanding partnership between the District and Uber, first announced at an April 11 panel discussion with Bowser and Khosrowshahi at Uber’s new Greenlight Hub, a location where drivers can receive in-person support.
Prior to the funding commitment, Metro was the only subway system in the United States that lacked consistent funding.
“Achieving a dedicated funding source for Metro is truly a historic occasion,” Evans said in the April 13 news release. “With these resources, soon, Metro will be able to adequately address deferred maintenance issues with the goal of making the system reliable and safe for riders.”
The tax on for-hire vehicle services follows the success of a similar policy passed last fall in Chicago to raise the tax to 52 cents from 37 to fund the Chicago Transit Authority.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 20, 2018 by Josh Metzger Leave a Comment 
Uber is seeking to expand beyond the ride-sharing industry in Washington, D.C., to provide a larger transportation network for District residents, Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi said in a panel discussion on the future of mobility with D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) on April 11.
Uber’s new Greenlight Hub, a driver resource center in Ward 7, hosted the event, led by Robert Puentes, the CEO of the Eno Center for Transportation, an independent think tank dedicated to improving transportation and its public and private leadership in order to increase the system’s mobility, safety and sustainability.
Bowser and Khosrowshahi emphasized the need to ensure that District residents all have equal access to the transportation services developed by Uber through increased safety measures, affordability and equity, while stressing the importance of resolving disparities in transportation access.
“Urban transportation has a major impact on the daily lives of all D.C. residents,” Bowser said at the event. “That is why we are committed to being the capital of mobility innovation and continue to invest in strategies that make our commutes safer, stronger, more reliable and more efficient for residents across all eight wards.”
Khosrowshahi challenged Bowser’s plan to raise taxes on ride-hailing companies like Uber to generate sufficient funding for the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority’s funding package announcedearlier this year. In the plan, which was approved Friday, taxes on Uber will increase to 4.5 percent from 1 percent to fund a revitalization plan for the Metro transit system, which has suffered from safety and reliability issues,as well as a declining ridership.
Bowser defended the plan and said that it was the best option for the District moving forward.
“That is the package that we think is the most fair — that hits property owners, it hits visitors, it hits residents and it hits the ride-sharing services — that we think is best for the city,” Bowser said.
But Khosrowshahi said the tax is a reallocation of similar resources and argued the plan was taxing one form of transportation for another, rather than a productive tax.
Uber’s D.C. Director of Public Relations Colin Tooze said the company does not see itself in competition with Metro or public transportation but rather sees itself as a part of a “complex ecosystem” of different transportation options.
Uber’s recent acquisitions and partnerships demonstrate the company’s interest in moving into the public space, however. One recent acquisition, Masabi, a London-based mobile ticketing service, will allow Uber to integrate into public transportation.
“You can use your Uber app to take a train, to take a subway, to take buses again on a global basis so that we are promoting mass-transit solutions as well,” Khosrowshahi said.
Uber’s recent acquisitions include bike-share startup JUMP and mobile ticketing service Masabi, both of which allow the company to move into new transportation areas.
Uber’s partnership with SharedStreets allows D.C. and the company to share transportation data. Aggregated traffic information will help cities solve congestion, Khosrowshahi said. Uber Movement uses this aggregated user data to work with cities to improve urban planning.
The panelists said they hope D.C. residents will be empowered by the wide range of transportation options planned to become available to them through the public-private partnerships, allowing them to have easier transportation throughout the city.
“Uber is transitioning from being a service that allows people to request cars at the tap of a button, to being a mobility platform that brings together all kinds of ways to get from A to B,” Tooze said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 20, 2018 by Meena Morar 3 Comments 
About 20 students presented University President John J. DeGioia a letter on April 13 advocating for the Georgetown University Police Department to equip its officers with firearms.
The group, GU Advocates for Responsible Defense, recommends that armed Metropolitan Police Department officers patrol campus temporarily while GUPD officers undergo firearms training, according to T.J. Collins (COL ’18), a leader for the group.
“We don’t want just another review that ends in no action,” Collins said in an interview with The Hoya. “We want immediate resolve from President DeGioia. As a first step, we would like DeGioia to work with Metro PD in order to place armed security on campus. Second, we want him to give Chief Gruber the authority to train and equip his officers with firearms. We need armed security today.”
The administration has received the letter and is reviewing it, according to Rachel Pugh, Georgetown’s senior director for strategic communications.
“Our top priority is the safety and security of our community and we are constantly working to prevent violence and ensure the security of our community,” Pugh wrote in an email to The Hoya.
In the letter sent to DeGioia and GUPD Chief Jay Gruber, Collins and Amelia Irvine (COL ’19) said the recent shootings in Parkland, Fla. and Great Mills, Md. inspired them to call for immediate action by the administration.
Fourteen students and three staff members were shot and killed at Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., by 19-year-old gunman Nikolas Cruz on Feb. 14. The shooting provoked a call for increased gun control and gun violence prevention, and precipitated the March for Our Lives, a student-led movement demanding gun reform. About 2 million people gathered at Pennsylvania Avenue and at over 800 other locations around the world on March 24 to protest gun violence and mass shootings as part of the March for Our Lives movement.
Approximately one month later, 17-year-old Austin Wyatt Rollins injured one student and killed student at Great Mills High School in southern Maryland. After the shooting began, an armed school resource officer, Blaine Gaskill, responded to the shooting but did not fire the shot that killed the shooter.
“The tragic shooting in Maryland proved the wisdom in having capable law enforcement protection in schools,” Collins and Irvine wrote in the letter. “The heroism of Officer Gaskill saved lives, as did the school’s policy to employ an armed school resource officer. Because of Officer Gaskill’s presence inside the school, he was able to respond to the shooter in less than a minute. At Georgetown, campus police have no means of stopping a similar shooting.”
The letter compared Georgetown’s policy with those of other surrounding universities and high schools with armed officers on their campuses. Howard University and the University of the District of Columbia already have armed police on campus, according to the letter.
GUPD currently employs the same policy as other local institutions in the region, including The George Washington University and American University, Pugh said.
GUPD officers currently carry pepper spray and batons,and GUPD regularly conducts drills with the MPD.
Collins declined to disclose the names of the members of GUARD, but said there are currently at least 20 members, representing all four schools and class years.
“It is a movement about an idea, not as much about individuals,” Collins said. “So, while I’m here speaking with you today, it’s really all about the idea. Students that we have in GUARD will be writing letters and doing other activities to promote the movement. It’s really not about individual names.”
GUARD is not advocating arming students, Collins said, a departure from Irvine’s previously public stance.
In a viewpointin The Hoya, Irvine advocated for arming both students and GUPD officers (“Expand Campus Gun Rights,” The Hoya, April 16, A3). Irvine said she has not changed her opinion, but the group’s advocacy focuses on the measures that are most feasible.
“My personal views haven’t changed, but when it comes down to what is actually viable, and what is the most important,” Irvine said. “[Arming GUPD] is what I view as the appropriate course of action. Getting a law changed would take years, this is just an administrative decision. It is well within our reach as students.”
GUARD’s movement to increase the presence of armed officers comes despite a series of incidents of armed police officers fatally shooting people of color as well as issues of police brutality at large.
On March 18, Stephon Clark was fatally shot by the Sacramento Police Department, who fired 20 rounds with eight shots hitting him while investigating a vandalism complaint. On April 16, video released by The New York Times showed police tackling and punching a naked and disoriented Harvard University student.
333 people have been shot and killed by police in 2018, according to The Washington Post.
Collins said concerns about the misuse of firearms by GUPD can be dispelled by instituting a proper training program for officers.
“I am confident that President DeGioia, as well as Chief Gruber, would go to great lengths to train their officers in applying the law equally. I know they would go through extensive training to ensure that those things don’t happen,” Collins said. “All students are vulnerable if a mass shooting were to occur … presenting this deterrent and response to an active shooter on campus protects all students.

T.J. Collins says 
April 20, 2018 at 7:50 am
Hoya Staff didn’t include the actual letter. Please follow the link to view it: https://docdro.id/BcQwl3c

Edward says 
April 20, 2018 at 4:25 pm
As a parent, I expect campus police to be well trained and properly armed. In today’s environment, to equip police with only pepper spray, batons, and flashlights is irresponsible. President DeGioia, please fix this immediately. Thank you.

2016 alum says 
June 14, 2018 at 1:17 am
As an alum of Georgetown, I’m writing to support T.J.’s efforts. GUPD should be armed.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 20, 2018 by Elizabeth Douglas 1 Comment 
The former Village C Terrace was dedicated this Monday to Fr. Martin J. O’Gara, S.J., a Georgetown faculty member who was killed while serving as a chaplain in the U.S. Air Force during World War II.
O’Gara’s name was previously given to O’Gara Hall, a dormitory, infirmary and office building that stood near the site of the Terrace. The building was torn down in 1984 to make room for Village C residence halls.
O’Gara served as part of the Air Transport Command, which oversaw and carried out transportation of supplies without engaging in conflict. He died in 1946 in a plane crash while flying from India to the United States to be discharged.
O’Gara’s plane caught fire south of the island of Capri, off the west coast of Italy. O’Gara gave up his parachute to a passenger and chose to stay on the plane to give his fellow servicemen time to escape. Eight passengers were saved before the plane crashed with O’Gara still on board, according to a Georgetown news release.
The memorial is particularly significant because there is currently only one veteran memorial on campus, Cristine Pedersen, president of the GU Veterans Association, said.
“There’s one memorial to post-9/11 veterans on campus, but now that the campus has grown, it’s in a really weird spot: a parking lot,” Pedersen said. “That’s why I thought it was really important.”
The push to rename the terrace was initiated roughly a year ago by Rep. Jeff Fortenberry (GRD ’86), a Republican from Nebraska, Pedersen said. Fortenberry serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Veteran Affairs.
Remarks were delivered at the dedication by Pedersen, Fortenberry, University President John J. DeGioia, University Vice President for Mission and Ministry Rev. Mark Bosco, S.J., and Rector of the Georgetown Jesuit Community Rev. Joseph Lingan, S.J.
In her speech, Pedersen said Georgetown students should reflect on more than just the political consequences of violent conflicts and appreciate the service of those like O’Gara and Capt. Andreas O’Keeffe (LAW ’06), who was killed on the border between Iraq and Syria on March 15.
“As we current Georgetown students rush from class to class, debating foreign policy and adequate responses to various conflicts around the world, we must continually and intentionally engage in discussions on the real human impact of these conflicts and honor the sacrifices of heroes such as Fr. O’Gara and Capt. O’Keeffe in not only formal events such as these but in our daily actions and work,” Pedersen said.
Fortenberry cautioned against progress without consideration of the past.
“Those of us in public office have a responsibility not to just look forward but to think about how we carry forward in time the great traditions and wisdom of the ages,” Fortenberry said. “And a lot of times we take for granted the formative institutions that give rise to right reason, to remembrance, to understanding, to concepts of nobility and sacrifice and dignity, because we’re caught in the tyranny of the urgency of the moment, always reflecting about what could be.”
Fortenberry also expressed hope that the terrace would be a more lasting memorial to O’Gara than O’Gara Hall was.
“I’m glad we have a terrace. That seems to be a little more permanent,” Fortenberry said. “It’s not going to get pushed down, perhaps, for progress. Because I think progress is truly found in the remembrance of those who sacrificed and gave their all.”

Anthony Davey says 
February 20, 2021 at 7:05 pm
As a grandson of Fr O’Garas first cousin (Anne O’Gara of Ballisodare, Co.Sligo,Ireland ), I am very pleased to discover that the supreme sacrifice made by my ancestor has been recognized and celebrated in this way. I am proud of his dedication to God and country and of his mission to helping the sick and poor. Ar dheis Dé go raibh a anam dhilís.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 20, 2018 by Sarah Mendelsohn Leave a Comment 
Georgetown Israel Alliance’s inaugural Israel Peace Week began on April 13, consisting of five events aimed at fostering meaningful conversations about a peaceful solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
The weeklong event began with a discussionwith former Israeli Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of Justice Tzipi Livinilast Friday.A vigil to commemorate Yom Hazikaron, a day of remembrance for fallen soldiers and victims of terrorism, was held on Wednesday.
GIA also hosted Uri Keidar, executive director of Israel Hofsheet, a grassroots movement that advocates for civil rights, Wednesday. The week culminated with a celebration of Israel’s 70th anniversary of independence, “Israel Day,” on Thursday, April 19.
The week was dedicated to understanding steps that Israel has taken to achieve peace with Palestine and to explore plans for reconciliation, according to GIA President Tanner Larkin (SFS ’20), who hopes to encourage meaningful conversations about potential solutions for peace (Full disclosure: Larkin is also a member of The Hoya’s Editorial Board).
“We launched Israel Peace Week because we want to change the conversation about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and get people talking about peaceful, win-win solutions to the conflict,” Larkin wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Too often, the conflict is approached in terms of a zero-sum game, and we’ve seen campaigns that are more about tearing down one side than building anything constructive.”
GIA cultural chair Andrew Boas (SFS ’20) said the student group has tried to provide an immersive opportunity for Georgetown students who have ties with Israeli culture throughout the week.
GIA invited Georgetown Students for Justice in Palestine to participate in the events of Israel Peace Week, according to Boas and Larkin.
SJP President Ahmad Al-Husseini (NHS ’20) said that SJP plans to protest the celebration of Israel Day, which is known to Palestinians as the Nakba, or “catastrophe,” in Arabic.
“SJP’s only involvement in this week’s events will be protesting their disgusting celebration of the 70th year anniversary of the Nakba, which forced out 700,000 Palestinian natives from their homeland as the human price for creating the state of Israel,” Al-Husseini wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Larkin said that Israel Peace Week neither presents a one-sided version of the conflict nor ignores the suffering of Palestinians, despite criticism of the event.
“I understand why someone might think that, but if they were to come to an IPW event, they would see that was not remotely the case,” Larkin wrote.
SJP treasurer Olivia Vita (COL ’19) expressed doubt about the effectiveness of pursuing dialogue about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, noting that tangible changes are likely the only way to forge peace .
“We don’t need words, we need systemic change,” Vita wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Israel Peace Week does not effectively address the problems faced by people of color in Israel, according to Vita, as she believes they are not culturally relevant.
“As a black Jewish young woman with family in Israel, when I think of peace and Israel I think of the ongoing African refugee crisis, recent state violence in Gaza and day-to-day lack of accessibility of resources to people of color in Israel, Jewish and non-Jewish,” Vita wrote. “The events are neither relevant to current events nor reflective of the ever-diversifying population of Israel and Palestine.”
Israel Peace Week aims to present the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as a multifaceted topic with speakers who advocated for a solution that would benefit both Palestinians and Israelis, according to Larkin.
“One consistent motif throughout IPW has been to showcase the complex, multi-dimensional character of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict,” Larkin wrote. “That’s why we hosted Tzipi Livni and co-hosted Nadav Tamir with J Street U Georgetown, both of them repeatedly stressed the need for reconciliation between Palestinians and Israelis and the need for a Palestinian state in order to fulfill Palestinian national aspirations in their own space.”
Larkin said that Israel Peace Week is a positive way for Jewish students to finish the school year, especially after the start of the school year, when swastikas were found painted inside an LXR hallway during Rosh Hashana, he said.
“In a school year that started off with swastikas, Israel Day will end things on a high note,” Larkin said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

