
February 22, 2018 by Elizabeth Ash, Jeff Cirillo and Yasmine Salam Leave a Comment 
Voting is officially open all day today, Thursday, in the 2018 Georgetown University Student Association executive election. Four tickets have hours left to make their final pitches to students as time runs out on the two-week campaign.
The four declared tickets are: Logan Arkema (COL ’20) and Jonathan Compo (COL ’20), Hunter Estes (SFS ’19) and Richard Howell (SFS ’19), Sahil Nair (SFS ’19) and Naba Rahman (SFS ’19), and Josh Sirois (SFS ’20) and Casey Doherty (COL ’20).
Per GUSA’s single transferable vote system,  if no ticket receives an outright majority in the first round of voting, a runoff is conducted between the top performing tickets. The ticket with the lowest vote total is eliminated and their votes are redistributed to the remaining candidates based on voters’ indicated second preferences until one ticket receives a majority.
Today’s ballot also includes a referendum electing GUSA senators by class year instead of by geographic districts and moving elections for nonfreshman senators to the spring instead of the fall. In addition, students living on East Campus, which includes the LXR and Nevils residential halls, can vote on candidates for an open GUSA senate seat.
Follow the links for full profiles of the executive candidates, including details of their policy platforms, personal backgrounds, experience and possible strengths and weaknesses.
By Jeff Cirillo
Arkema and Compo are not like the other candidates running for president and vice president of GUSA. They go by the names of fictional comic book figures Batman and Robin, wear the characters’ costumes and admit they are hoping they will not win.
With their campaign, Arkema and Compo, a former cartoonist for The Hoya, join a list of past joke candidates who have launched campaigns focused on satirizing rather than winning. In an interview with The Hoya, Arkema, wearing a full Batman suit and adopting a raspy voice, said the primary goal of his campaign is “comic relief.”
“A lot of students get annoyed with GUSA campaigns,” Arkema said. “It’s nice to provide something that’s a little bit different, that kind of pokes fun at the general campus culture.”
By Jeff Cirillo
In Estes and Howell’s campaign pitch for GUSA’s executive offices, the candidates promise they will be the student body’s “bulldog” against the rising costs of tuition and mandatory textbooks.
Estes and Howell are running for GUSA president and vice president, respectively, on promises to reduce Georgetown education costs, as well as efforts to instill a sense of community and a culture of service on campus.
In an interview with The Hoya, Estes and Howell emphasized their extensive student leadership experiences, but acknowledged their similar personal backgrounds and conservative views may alienate some voters. They insisted they would “fight for every student” if elected, and said they hope students will evaluate them on their policy platform.
By Yasmine Salam
When Nair and Rahman first met on the national debate circuit their senior year of high school, they never would have anticipated that four years later they would run in GUSA’s 2018 executive election.
The pair promises to amplify student voices, running on the campaign slogan “Because Every Voice Matters.” Nair and Rahman have defined the executive’s primary role as facilitating students’ efforts and ideas. With limited GUSA experience and a less detailed policy platform as compared to their opponents, they are seeking to sell voters on their outside leadership roles and relationship-building skills.
“We are not here to be the face of every diversity group. We are here though to help those voices finally get a platform,” Rahman said in an interview with The Hoya. “Our job is to get them a seat at the table.”
By Elizabeth Ash
Emphasizing their campaign motto “Moving Forward,” Sirois and Doherty are running for president and vice president, respectively, of GUSA to champion existing projects and advance new ideas.
Sirois and Doherty are running on a detailed policy platform and a combined four years of student government experience, while attempting to shake the stigma of an establishment “GUSA insider” ticket.
Throughout their policy proposals, Sirois and Doherty stressed student empowerment, which they connected to one of their self-identified strengths: building relationships.
“So many of these ideas and these plans didn’t just come from Casey and I’s minds. We have sat down with club leaders. I sat down with GERMS [Georgetown Emergency Response Medical Services], and the president said he doesn’t think in history, any other GUSA candidate has sat down and asked them what they think,” Sirois said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 22, 2018 by Noah Berman 1 Comment 
Washington, D.C.’s Department of Energy and Environment nominated Georgetown University for its District Sustainability People’s Choice Award for most popular green business or organization Feb. 14.
The university’s nomination follows a year filled with “green improvements” spearheaded by the Office of Sustainability.
Each year, the DOEE nominates businesses, individuals and organizations for their efforts in furthering sustainability in the District. The DOEE has been presenting sustainability awards annually since 2009, but the People’s Choice Award was only introduced in 2016. This year marks the first time that Georgetown has received a nomination for a sustainability award from the DOEE.
The award is presented to “outstanding businesses and organizations for their environmental stewardship, innovative best practices, pollution prevention and resource conservation,” according to the DOEE’s website.
The voting process for the award will take place on the DOEE’s website, concluding on March 16.
Audrey Stewart, director of the Office of Sustainability, said that the nomination reflects Georgetown’s efforts to go green.
“We are thrilled to be nominated for this award, which reflects Georgetown’s ongoing commitment to sustainability,” Stewart wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Georgetown plays a leading role in addressing critical sustainability challenges through its academic mission, physical footprint and financial operations.”
The nomination follows multiple green infrastructure projects on Georgetown’s campus. Two of Georgetown’s most recent construction projects, Pedro Arrupe, S.J. Hall and the John R. Thompson Jr. Intercollegiate Athletic Center, have been certified LEED gold, the highest-ranking for sustainability by the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design rating system. Under the system, projects earn points for environmentally friendly actions taken during the construction and use of a building.
The School of Continuing Studies building downtown, Regents Hall and the Healey Family Student Center are all also certified LEED gold. Ryan Hall, Isaac Hall, Nevils and the Rafik B. Hariri Building are certified LEED silver, the second-highest ranking for sustainability.
Moreover, since 2006, the university has seen a 24 percent reduction in greenhouse gases per square foot of building space and is on its way to achieving its goal of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50 percent by the year 2020, according to Stewart.
Georgetown began its most recent series of improvements with an April 2017 announcement of an on-site solar panel initiative and a Sept. 22, 2017 announcement of a partnership with Origis Energy USA for an off-site project that is expected to provide half of the university’s electricity by 2020.
The on-site solar panels, which are planned to be owned and operated by Community Renewable Energy, are set to contribute to a cleaner electric grid and serve lower-income residents in the city, according to Stewart.
Georgetown’s commitment to sustainability falls in line with its Jesuit values, Stewart said.
“The university takes an integrated and holistic approach to sustainability, placing value on a ‘quadruple’ bottom line: people, planet, prosperity and purpose, guided by our Catholic and Jesuit values and our commitment to the common good,” Stewart wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Besides physical green infrastructure projects, the university has offered events and lectures by experts in the field of environmental science to maintain its commitment to sustainability, Director of the Georgetown Center for the Environment Edward Barrows said.
The nomination for the DOEE People’s Choice Award demonstrates the effort put forth by the Office of Sustainability to make Georgetown more “green,” Barrows said.
Nevertheless, Barrows said he believes the university can still do more to cement its dedication to sustainability. According to Barrows, many of the troubles with being environmentally friendly come from people thinking in the short term rather than the long term.
“People at Georgetown should try to live more in harmony with Earth and think about their actions to be as green as possible,” Barrows said.

Dale Lockwood says 
February 22, 2018 at 4:00 pm
The article in incorrect in stating that LEED Gold is the highest rating. LEED Platinum is the highest rating. LEED Gold is second and LEED Silver is third.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 22, 2018 by Elizabeth Douglas 1 Comment 
A bill to grant statehood to Washington, D.C., reached a supermajority co-sponsorship by Democrats in the House of Representatives on Thursday with the signatures of four new representatives, meaning that over 75 percent, or 146 members, of the House Democratic Caucus supports the bill.
However, a Republican-controlled Congress poses a threat to the bill’s passage. Republican leaders in Congress have made it clear that they oppose giving more autonomy to D.C. In recent weeks, congressional leaders have taken steps to ramp up more oversight and control over the District, with plans to loosen the city’s gun laws and attack the city’s newly enacted assisted suicide law and use of local funding to provide abortion services for women.
Introduced by D.C.’s nonvoting representative in the House, Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.), the bill is the latest development in a decadeslong effort by D.C. officials and residents to achieve full statehood for the District. This development makes this bill the highest co-sponsor count of any D.C. statehood bill so far. With this landmark high, the bill has been lauded as a significant milestone by Holmes and D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D).
The bill would separate a federal district, which includes the Supreme Court, Congress and the White House from the city of Washington, according to the mayor’s Director of Federal Affairs Eugene Kinlow.
A bill for D.C. statehood has never attained the level of congressional support this bill has now. Reps. Joe Kennedy III (D-Mass.), Ann McLane Kuster (D-N.H.), Doris Matsui (D-Calif.) and Mike Thompson (D-Calif.) supported the bill.
D.C. would become a state with full congressional representation and the same degree of self-government afforded to the other 50 U.S. states. D.C. does not have any representatives in the Senate.
A long history of attempts to achieve statehood or voting congressional representation for D.C. precedes this bill. Historical figures from Frederick Douglass and Edward Kennedy to Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) have publicly lamented D.C.’s lack of representation.
Bowser’s office has made efforts to move the statehood issue forward in recent months, after beginning in earnest in November 2016, when 86 percent of D.C. residents voted in favor of statehood in a referendum that month.
According to Kinlow, that referendum “set the ball in motion,” prompting Bowser to send a letter to representatives on Capitol Hill urging them to sign on to Norton’s bill as co-sponsors. Kinlow credits this letter, in part, with the bill’s success so far.
For all the mayor’s efforts, the bill remains 72 votes away from passage in the House, let alone the Senate. However, Kinlow considers the high co-sponsor count a milestone for the movement.
“This is a high-water mark. [It means that] we have more co-sponsors for this piece of legislation than we’ve ever had. We’re excited,” Kinlow said in an interview with The Hoya.
Michael McGough, Washington-based senior editor of the Los Angeles Times and outspoken opponent of D.C. statehood, is more skeptical.
“I think it’s significant in that it shows that the movement for D.C. statehood is getting the support of the Democratic party, and I suspect that it will continue to gain support,” McGough said. “I would be very surprised if it gained enough support in both parties to move the ball forward to [the point] where you would actually have legislation to push statehood forward anytime soon.”
The bill is significantly more popular among Democrats than Republicans because of the assumption that new D.C. members of Congress would be Democrats, McGough said.
Norton said she sees this bill more as a method of building inertia for the movement, rather than as a real contender for immediate passage into law.
“I thank my colleagues for helping us build momentum, ensuring a lasting foundation even while Republicans control both houses of Congress and the White House,” Norton said in a Feb. 14 news release. “My colleagues are helping us to be ready for when we get a congressional majority that will demand equality of citizenship, particularly for D.C. residents, who rank number one in federal taxes per capita paid to support our government.”
Kinlow said the D.C. statehood is more relevant now than ever.
“This country has been involved in a number of tremendous conversations up on Capitol Hill that define our values over the last couple of months, whether it’s in respect to a budget, or a tax cut, or immigration,” said Kinlow. “It’s not a full conversation without the voice and the vote of the citizens of Washington, D.C.”

Gerry Wenham says 
February 28, 2018 at 9:16 pm
Look outside the box.
Population
Caifornia 40 million
Texas 25 million
Florida 18 million
.
.
.
DC 0.6 million
Vermont 0.5 million
Wyoming 0.5 million
Maximum disparity (advantage small states) currently  over 80:1 and growing.
The maximum disparity in 1790  ???
10:1  Delaware v. Virginia
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 22, 2018 by Elizabeth Ash Leave a Comment 
Three new members of the Georgetown University Student Association constitutional council took office Feb. 14 after the GUSA senate voted to approve their nominations.
Allie Phillips (COL ’20), William Morris (COL ’19) and Mariah Johnson (COL ’21) were confirmed as councilors, and Phillips was confirmed as chair of the council, ending nearly a month of uncertainty regarding whether the council would be filled during the GUSA election season.
The three-member council, charged with interpreting GUSA bylaws, often adjudicates election-related disputes that are left unresolved by the GUSA Election Commission.
The previous group of councilors — Russell Wirth (COL ’19), Mattie Haag (COL ’18) and Jonathan Lanz (COL ’19) — resigned simultaneously Jan. 19 amid tensions with the GUSA senate, including some senators’ efforts to impeach Wirth for trying to hold his seat while studying abroad and an increasingly hostile relationship following the council’s invalidation of a senate-approved referendum in January 2016.
“I do not expect that we will play a role in the upcoming election,” Phillips wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Unless a petition is filed that the Election Commission incorrectly applied the rules, or did so with bias, there is no capacity for the Council to act. If a petition is filed, then we will adjudicate the case at that time.”
Morris agreed, adding that the Election Commission “has done a stellar job managing this campaign season.”
“In my view, the best role for the Constitutional Council in an election is none at all,” Morris wrote in an email to The Hoya.
GUSA President Kamar Mack (COL ’19) and Vice President Jessica Andino (COL ’18) nominated Phillips, Morris and Johnson to serve on the Constitutional Council on Feb. 9.
The application process for candidates consisted of a written application and interviews conducted by the executive, according to Mack and Andino. Mack and Andino said the new councilors’ different class years are an asset.
“Allie, Mariah and William all stood out as thoughtful, dedicated applicants who would bring a diverse set of perspectives to the Council,” Mack and Andino wrote in an email to The Hoya. “It is a major benefit that the three of them come from different class years and will be able to build institutional memory.”
However, neither Phillips nor Morris expect to be involved in this year’s election or referendum.
Mack and Andino first nominated Johnson for chair and Phillips and Morris to be councilors. The senate considered these nominations Feb. 11 but ultimately voted against Johnson’s and Morris’s confirmation because of concerns about Johnson’s impartiality and experience, according to GUSA Senate Speaker Ben Baldwin (SFS ’19).
“During the course of the Feb. 11 meeting, it was discovered there was an issue involving [Johnson] and a potential campaign rules violation that raised concerns among senators,” Baldwin wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Baldwin added that many senators felt Morris should serve as chair rather than Johnson given his experience in the senate, which involved writing bylaws, and in previously arguing the referendum case before the Constitutional Council in January 2016.
GUSA Senator Sam Dubke (SFS ’21) also expressed concerns about Johnson’s involvement with Sahil Nair (SFS ’19) and Naba Rahman’s (SFS ’19) campaign for the GUSA executive. He cited an email Johnson sent to various cultural groups on campus Feb. 6, two days before the official campaign start date. Sending campaign emails before the official campaign period violates GUSA campaign rules.
Both Johnson and Morris said they had minimal interaction with GUSA executive campaigns when questioned by senators, according to Dubke.
“They said that they had never been in candidate meetings, had never strategized with any campaign, and had never sent out emails on behalf of any campaign. I then quoted an email in which [Johnson] reached out to various cultural groups on campus on behalf of the [Nair] and [Rahman] campaign,” Dubke wrote in an email to The Hoya. “This directly contradicted what [Johnson] had previously stated about her campaign involvement.”
GUSA Election Commissioner Grady Willard (SFS ’18) resolved Johnson’s campaign rules violation at the time without incident, Baldwin said.
At the Feb. 11 session, GUSA senator Nick Zeffiro (SFS ’18) also questioned whether Johnson had sufficient experience to chair the council.
“While she seemed quite capable of serving on the council in my opinion, I did not find her as a freshman, brand new to GUSA, and unaware of many GUSA bylaws and our history as qualified as William Morris, a junior, who served in the GUSA Senate with me last year and even argued a case before the past Constitutional Council,” Zeffiro wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Johnson declined to comment on the confirmation process, apart from saying it “followed guidelines set out by the GUSA constitution.”
After debate, 10 senators voted to confirm the nominees, 10 voted against and four abstained. Without the required simple majority, the proposal failed to pass.
GUSA senators rejected the original nomination with the intent of confirming a different chair, according to Zeffiro. The senators wanted Mack, who attended the meeting, to immediately re-nominate Morris as chair and Johnson as councilor. Mack declined because Andino was not present, Zeffiro said.
Only the executive can alter the candidates’ positions as chair or councilor; the senate does not have the authority to rearrange nominees’ roles, according to Baldwin.
“After much debate, both of the nominees were voted down,” Baldwin wrote. “The decision was made to rearrange the order of the nominees and reintroduce them during a special session of the Senate.”
On Feb. 14, the senate reconvened and confirmed Phillips as chair and Morris and Johnson as councilors. All 21 senators who were present voted in favor of the three councilors’ confirmation.
Dubke said he believes in Johnson’s impartiality, despite doubting that she had enough experience for the position of chair.
GUSA executive elections for president and vice president are set for Feb. 22. The vote also includes a referendum to change senate elections from geographic to class year-based representation and update protections in GUSA bylaws.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

