
March 23, 2018 by Ian Scoville Leave a Comment 
Amid Georgetown’s most active year of advocacy in recent memory, The Hoya sat down with University President John J. DeGioia to discuss Georgetown’s role in national issues, free speech and the conversation on gun control.

I wanted to start with the 272. It’s been about a year and a half since you first announced Georgetown’s efforts to reconcile with its past. How do you evaluate the school’s work so far?
It’s been a transformative opportunity for our university to be able to find new ways of being a university, and when we think about where we are since the launch and then the announcement of the working group, I think there’s been considerable progress to point to. The depth of the engagement that we’ve been able to achieve with our descendant community has been an extraordinary opportunity for our university. We’ve hosted, in here, families for reunions; our archives have had lots of guests and visitors coming in to take a look at the papers. I think I shared with you last spring, I had the opportunity to go visit with descendants in Spokane, Washington, in New Orleans, in Maringouin, in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
The most powerful moment for me was when you saw a hundred members of the descendant community marching in the procession into Gaston Hall last April for the liturgy. That’s pretty powerful. And when it emerged that they had an interest in connecting with us, that opened up new ways for us to engage as a university and it wasn’t something we anticipated and we were really pleased how that’s unfolded.
Just as a follow up on that, despite the efforts, some descendants still call for monetary reparations. Do you think Georgetown is doing enough to address those concerns from those groups?
Well, again, there have been some members of the descendant community who have made different kinds of requests. What I tried to do in January was articulate a set of principles for an enduring and ongoing framework for dialogue and conversation between the university, the Jesuits and the descendant community. And we’re working from that framework now with many members of the descendant community.
I’d like to move on to Georgetown’s broader advocacy work that’s been pretty active in this last semester or so — the repeal of [the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program], the Muslim ban, the initial draft of the tax bill. In your vision of Georgetown, what is the university’s role as an advocacy body and why is it Georgetown’s role to advocate like this?
There’s a convergence of a number of different things. Our location in Washington I think is relevant. The tradition on which we’ve been built also calls us to ask hard questions of ourselves.
I probably have had more activity in the last two years than at any time. And again, for me, what I always try to do is get a balance because I don’t want to be speaking in a way that would in any way inhibit anyone else here at the university. I wouldn’t want to create a context where my voice was making it harder for other voices to be able to offer their perspective.
The three examples that you just gave, in each case I try to evaluate. I try to discern in my mind what was it that the university community expected of me in my role and then what was appropriate for a university in this context.
So on DACA, this one for us goes back more than 15 years. We’ve been working on a pathway for our “Dreamers” since 2001 and I’ve been an active presence in that work for all these years. One of our alums, double alum, Sen. Richard Durbin (D-Ill.) (SFS ’66, LAW ’69) has been a leader on Capitol Hill in this regard and we’ve tried to work alongside him and other members of Congress in trying to ensure a pathway for our “Dreamers.”
I think our community would expect me to do everything I can to try to protect our own community. Because I’ve been so active for so long on the “Dreamers,” and now DACA, I think I’ve interpreted correctly what the expectation is of me. I don’t sense that there are those who feel I’m not engaging in the most appropriate way on that issue.
It’s always a judgement call. We try to use prudential judgment at every step. Is this an appropriate place for the president of Georgetown to be involved? Because there are many issues that I could be speaking on. But where does the community expect its president to be speaking?
You mentioned some of Georgetown’s work on things like DACA since 2001. Do you see this heightened level of advocacy, if you could describe it as such, as a one-time thing or is it because of who we have as president?
Again, for me, it’s the issue. If DACA were being sustained, we would probably have a different approach. But because DACA is not, we’re losing the framework for our “Dreamers.” How can we restore that framework?
I don’t think anyone, I mean we’ve polled the country, I don’t think anyone wants to send our “Dreamers” back to countries where they really are not identified with at this point in their lives. I don’t think anybody really wants to send them back, but we cannot manage the political process in a way to get a resolution to this matter, and so right now I feel the need for us to work alongside many, many others in trying to see if we can get a way through this.
To move on to affordability — again that was listed as one of the top issues for students in a recent poll — it’s been a pretty recurrent conversation for the last few years. Do you think Georgetown is doing enough to address student concerns and what more could it do?
I think we’re in alignment, the students and the administration. We’re in complete alignment on the importance of affordability.
The first priority we had in our last campaign was scholarships. We raised more money in the campaign than we did in the entire previous history of the university for scholarships. We raised about $430 million dollars for scholarships. Our commitment to need-blind, full-need financial aid is the vehicle by which we have been able to ensure affordability for undergraduate education here.
We are celebrating this year the 40th anniversary of those two policies, which we bring together here. There are only 25 of us in the United States who are committed to those two policies.
The real challenge has been managing growth in cost, and that is an obsession of our whole team. Again, it’s one of these balancing acts. There’s no day when a student or a faculty member or an alum or a parent doesn’t come in with a brilliant idea about how we could be that much better. But the time we get that much better it usually has associated with it increased cost. So how do we manage the strengthening of the place while ensuring we’re managing to keep the essentially, especially, tuition costs as low as we can.
Moving on to free speech, what is the role of the administration in seeing that need to ensure free speech, but also the safety of your students. Is there a situation you could imagine asking a student group, or yourself, disinviting a speaker?
We are guided by a policy on speech and expression that has been revised in recent years, but it has essentially guided our community since 1989. We do not limit speech, either in the content of the view or the person expressing the view, and any member of the community can invite anybody to come here and speak.
But the first question we ask for any event: Can we ensure the safety and security? Can we provide a context which will ensure the safety and security of our community — protect the speaker and protect our students who might try to come here that speaker? If we can’t answer that question as, “Yes, we can protect the safety and security,” then we don’t allow the speaker to come. Since 1989, that hasn’t happened.
But if we ever got to a point where it did, I would explain that to the university community: It was my best judgement, it was the best judgement. We have a standing body on the freedom of speech and expression — it is our judgement or, if it’s contested, in the end ultimately I believe it’s probably my responsibility to make that final call.
But if, in the end, we made that decision, I would make that clear to everyone why we made it, but we have not had to make that decision in 29 years.
One last question: Last week we had the rally for gun control. Do you see any opportunities for advocacy around gun control? Do you see university policy as sufficient enough in that space right now?
Here on campus, we’ve taken very strong steps to try to provide for the safety and security of our community. Last week I was invited to speak at the rally, on Wednesday, March 14th. I was honored to be asked, because I’m in alignment with those who are concerned with gun violence and safety in our schools.
I am in complete alignment with trying to ensure that no young person goes to a school afraid of gun violence. When invited to participate, I was moved that I had the opportunity to do that. We need to see, again, going back to your very first question, is there an appropriate place for Georgetown’s presence to be engaged as we move forward? And that will be something I’ll be trying to assess.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 23, 2018 by Emma Kotfica Leave a Comment 
Maryland lawmakers joined the governments of Washington, D.C., and Virginia yesterday in a final approval to jointly provide up to $500 million annually to fund the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority in a historic funding decision that could boost the floundering system’s recovery efforts.
The Virginia general assembly pledged $154 million per year to Metro funding on March 7 on the condition that Maryland and D.C. also increase their contributions. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) pledged $178 million per year in her State of the District address on March 15.
The decision was part of a negotiation between Virginia, Maryland and D.C.’s whereby each party would provide the $500 million that Metro’s leadership argued is necessary to make Metrorail a world-class system.
The funding will be used to combat longstanding failures within the Metro system by improving rail cars and buses, replacing older equipment and catching up on delayed repairs across the 50-year old system.
The joint provision marks the first time Metro has had a stable source of funding since it was established in 1967. In the absence of a dedicated funding source, Metro has relied on the D.C. local government and seven other local and state jurisdictions for funding. Each government calculates its funding contribution based on population density, average weekday ridership and the number of stations operating in each region.
Metro has resorted to fare increases and service cuts to make up for financial shortfalls due to insufficient funding and declining ridership.
Rip Sullivan Jr. (D-Fairfax), a member of the Virginia house of delegates and one of the six negotiators in the joint conference that produced the final bill in Virginia, emphasized the importance of the agreement.
“There are people who called it a historic piece of legislation and I think in some senses it is, because Metro’s been around,” Sullivan said in an interview with The Hoya. “It’s never had this kind of predictability with its funding, and that’s a game changer going forward.”
Maryland pledged $167 million to Metro funding Thursday, becoming the final member of the negotiation to pledge the full requested amount.
In addition to the $500 million pledged between D.C., Virginia and Maryland, the federal government’s omnibus federal spending bill includes a $150 million provision for capital spending, an amount the White House had suggested to reduce. The bill passed the House of Representatives on Thursday afternoon and the Senate early Friday morning.
Metro has long argued that it’s lack of a dedicated funding source has prevented it from proper repairs, renovations and maintenance, while critics of Metro’s performance have pinned blame on poor management and unethical behavior.
Sullivan said that there is no dispute among jurisdictions about the proportional amounts they are expected to contribute, which was decided by a formula that accounted for ridership, number of Metro stations and other factors.
Metro General Manager Paul Wiedefeld praised the decision, which he said will boost WMATA’s service.
“On behalf of all Metro customers and employees, as well as the communities whose economic well-being depends on a safe, reliable Metro system, we are truly grateful,” Wiedfeld wrote in a Washington Post article March 10.
Sullivan echoed Wiedefeld’s commitment to improving the safety and reliability of the Metro system.
“Reliability and safety — those are the two most important issues, obviously safety being first, reliability being second. Getting those two issues addressed will necessarily lead to increased ridership, more confidence from riders in the system, and stop the bleeding and get people back riding the Metro,” Sullivan said.
The Virginia bill passed with a substantial majority, earning it praise for its bipartisanship.
Sullivan said that he was pleased that both parties recognized the importance of Metro funding for Virginia and that he hopes annual funding for the Metro will result in meaningful change for the system.
Bowser echoed Sullivan’s sentiments in her March 15 State of the District address, saying that D.C. would provide the proportional funding in the effort to continue to modernize the city.
“We’re also focused on exploring the big ideas that will keep Washington, D.C., moving forward and at the forefront of innovation and change,” Bowser said in her address. “So along with the Mayor of Metro, Jack Evans, and all of you, we’re going all in and fully funding Metro for our future. At $178 million — the amount the District needs to contribute to finally solve the dedicated revenue problem that has held our system back for years and years.”
The bill was met with opposition from those who believe that the Metro funding will take away from funding for other local infrastructure projects in northern Virginia.
“There has been some concern expressed by people that it takes too much from existing funds that would otherwise go to the Northern Virginia Transportation Authority to do transit and other transportation-type projects around northern Virginia,” Sullivan said.
Republicans in Virginia have been skeptical about investing in public transit.
“I was concerned the General Assembly would rob Peter to pay Paul for Metro,” Loudoun Supervisor Matthew Letourneau (R-Dulles) said in the March 10 Washington Post article. “By raiding even more funding already earmarked for transportation projects in Northern Virginia, this bill doesn’t just rob Peter, it pillages him.”
Hoya Staff Writer Madeline Charbonneau contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 23, 2018 by Will Cassou Leave a Comment 
Sahil Nair (SFS’19) and Naba Rahman (SFS’19) were officially sworn in as president and vice president, respectively, of the Georgetown University Student Association on the front steps of Georgetown’s McCourt School of Public Policy Saturday, keeping with the tradition of year’s past.
The ceremony comes after the election results were confirmed by the GUSA Senate on Feb. 25. Nair and Rahman were elected to the GUSA Executive branch on Feb. 22, defeating Josh Sirois (SFS’20) and Casey Doherty (COL’20) by a narrow margin of 36 votes.
Nair and Rahman said they have been transitioning into their new roles while maintaining sight of their campaign promises since being confirmed to the executive, .
“Our focus for the year ahead remains the same as our focus during the campaign: bringing voices from all corners of campus together,” Nair and Rahman wrote in a statement to The Hoya. “As we are tackling the pressing issues related to inclusivity, accountability and affordability at Georgetown, we will continue to draw as much as we can from our fellow Hoyas and empower advocates from across campus to make much-needed changes to the student experience.”
The pair said they are already establishing the foundations to realize their goals for next year.
“We are quickly building relationships with valuable partners for the year ahead and gaining important insight into key issues that will help us set our agenda for the year ahead,” Nair and Rahman wrote.
Ben Baldwin (SFS ’19), speaker of the GUSA senate, said he and Sylvia Levy (SFS ’18), GUSA vice speaker have been working closely with Nair and Rahman to help fulfill their vision.
“Sylvia and I have spent a lot of our time with the new administration answering questions, setting timelines, and discussing our goals for the student association, so I am excited to see Sahil and Naba get to work on behalf of the student body,” Baldwin wrote in an email to The Hoya.
However, Baldwin said the newly inaugurated pair may face hurdles as prepare to take over from outgoing GUSA president and vice president, Kamar Mack (COL’19) and Jessica Andino (COL’18).
“The primary obstacle that incoming executive administrations face is the process of onboarding new individuals and establishing not only the internal hierarchy of GUSA but making those initial contacts with administrators as they begin their advocacy work,” Baldwin wrote.
The GUSA Senate must work closely with Nair and Rahman in this process, according to Baldwin.
“The GUSA Senate handles the confirmation process for a number of executive positions and board placements, so Senate leadership is intimately involved in the Cabinet selection process,” Baldwin wrote. “We generally see some senators depart to join the executive as the incoming administration draws on both experienced leaders from within and outside of GUSA to form its Cabinet.”
Though some senators regularly leave around this time to fill cabinet positions, upcoming elections in April ensure the positions are not left vacant for too long, Baldwin wrote.
Nair and Rahman said they were excited to begin assembling their cabinet, one of the major tasks they must accomplish at this point.
“We were fortunate enough to receive over 100 applications to join — some with years of student government experience and others engaging for the first time. We are incredibly humbled by the response from campus and are excited by the team we are putting together,” Nair and Rahman wrote.
The inauguration ceremony also took place the night after the first ever GUSA Gala, which raised money for the mental health stipend and celebrated the work of Mack and Andino.
Mack said he is confident in the Nair and Rahman’s ability and looks forward to what they will accomplish during their term.
“Sahil and Naba are two very capable and passionate individuals who I believe will bring forth meaningful change on campus,” Mack wrote in an email to The Hoya. “They have worked hard in the weeks following their election to meet with dozens of administrators in order to discuss their plans for creating a more supportive and vibrant campus.”
Nair and Rahman said they were grateful for the support they have received so far.
“We are thankful to Kamar, Jessica and the Senate for the warm welcome into the GUSA family. We’re looking forward to working with this group of Senators as they round out their term as well as the next class as we enter the upcoming school year,” the executives wrote.
Special to The Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 23, 2018 by Elizabeth Ash 1 Comment 
The Georgetown Venture Lab, a shared office space designed to attract alumni entrepreneurs in downtown Washington, D.C. is set to launch later this year after Ted Leonsis (CAS ’77), chair of the Georgetown Entrepreneurship Advisory Group, gave $1.5 million to the Georgetown Entrepreneurship Initiative of the McDonough School of Business in November to fund the project.
By creating a physical hub in D.C., Georgetown Venture Lab seeks to foster entrepreneurship and attract a critical mass of innovators. The lab plans to offer up to 90 desks for student and alumni entrepreneurs, common spaces for meetings, and programming to connect members with other alumni and current students.
The Georgetown Entrepreneurship Initiative, Provost Robert Groves and MSB Dean Paul Almeida presented plans for the lab to Leonsis in November 2017.
“The Georgetown Venture Lab will offer valuable support for aspiring entrepreneurs, while at the same time further strengthening Georgetown’s alumni network and Georgetown’s connections to the local business community,” Leonsis said in the MSB’s March 14 news dlease. “We would like to see these companies led by Georgetown alumni grow and become leading contributors to the local economy.”
Leonsis is also the founder and chief executive officer of Monumental Sports & Entertainment, which owns and operates the Washington Capitals, Washington Wizards and Washington Mystics, as well as the Capital One Arena, where the Georgetown men’s basketball team plays its home games.
Ben Zimmerman (GRD ’19) began on March 19 as community manager of the Venture Lab, where he will recruit, select and manage members of the lab. His responsibilities also include programming and facilitating cooperation between WeWork, a global network of workspaces where companies and individuals buy memberships to gain access to a subsided WeWork space and Georgetown University.
Zimmerman first became enthusiastic about the Venture Lab while working with the Entrepreneurship Initiative as a program manager for MSB.
“The opportunity arose around WeWork space, and the contract was approved,” Zimmerman said. “I said, ‘Hey, I’m looking for a new opportunity, something creative, a bit outside of the box.’”
The lab is now accepting membership applications from startups run by Georgetown alumni to use the space. Membership will also include access to benefits
Zimmerman said WeWork seek a diversity of venture — in terms of their revenue and mission — as well as diversity of members.
“We want to bring a diverse group of alumni into the space,” Zimmerman said. “We want to bring diversity both socioeconomically, the ventures themselves — the direction they’re headed in terms of income as well as the mission of being a social impact initiative or just being for-profit.”
Zimmerman also acknowledged that, although the Venture Lab plans to select alumni-led businesses, not every member will be an alum.
The lab will also offer internships to current students, according to Jeff Reid, Georgetown professor and founding director of the Georgetown Entrepreneurship Initiative.
“The companies in the lab will engage many students as interns helping to grow their businesses. We expect that over time there will be tons of internship opportunities, during the summer as well as during the school year,” Reid wrote in an email to The Hoya.
A select number of students will receive seats in the Venture Lab through a partnership with the Red House, the incubator space for a university initiative for innovation in higher education.
Furthermore, student-led startups in the StartupHoyas Summer Launch Program are set to work in the Venture Lab during their eight-week summer term. StartupHoyas is currently accepting applications for this program.
The lab will be located at the WeWork White House on 15th and G streets, one of ten D.C. locations of WeWork.
The initiative had contemplated creating a physical space for a few years, according to Reid.
“We have been exploring a number of ways to support student and alumni entrepreneurs with a space to call home — along with dedicated mentoring and other resources,” Reid wrote. “But space is expensive and can be difficult to operate, so it’s taken us a while to develop the right plan.”
Arthur Minson (GSB ’92), who serves as a member of the Georgetown Entrepreneurship Advisory Group and the president and chief financial officer of WeWork, jumpstarted the process in late 2016, according to Reid. After Minson gave Reid a tour of a New York location of WeWork, Reid began to formalize plans for using the WeWork White House as a location for Georgetown entrepreneurs to develop their startups.
The $1.5 million gift is not Leonsis’s first contribution to Georgetown entrepreneurship. In 2016, he launched the Leonsis Family Entrepreneurship Prize to “honor and financially assist students and recent alumni who kickstart social impact ventures and initiatives.” This year, Hatch — a company run by JP Coakley (GRD ’18) and Kelsey Lents (GRD ’18) that creates co-working spaces with built-in childcare — received the grand prize of $30,000. Zimmerman said the Venture Lab is an experiment in collaboration between non-profits like Georgetown and for-profits like WeWork. He said the two institutions hope to cooperate for a mutually beneficial relationship.
“We’re in a unique position, as an academic institution, working with a for-profit, growing, massively growing organization, WeWork,” Zimmerman said. “The goal is that we will go through this together with WeWork and work in tandem — so it’s like a hybrid of for-profit, non-profit model.”
Reid said he is excited about the Venture Lab and potential next steps to grow entrepreneurship at Georgetown and in the District.
“Entrepreneurship is perhaps the most powerful force for good in the world, and Georgetown students in all degree programs are demanding more and more ways to learn and engage with this phenomenon,” Reid wrote.
Correction: Due to an editing error, this article previously misidentified the Red House, an incubator space for Georgetown University’s Designing the Future(s) initiative, as an on-campus space for supporting entrepreneurial initiatives.

Dave Muchow says 
March 23, 2018 at 2:58 pm
The GU Venture Lab is a great step forward!  Congratulations to Jeff Reid, Ted Leonsis, and all the team for this innovative way to teach students about global entrepreneurship and support alums’ ventures. Entrepreneurship is one of the greatest forces to help solve the tough world problems of jobs, health, energy and environment. And GU should be and can be the best school in the world for Global Entrepreneurship!
Dave Muchow, Adj. Asst. Prof., Law, Bus,. and Entrepreneurship, Landegger Prog., SFS.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

