
February 6, 2018 by Will Cassou 6 Comments 
Pro-traditional marriage student group Love Saxa has taken legal action in response to a series of allegedly misappropriated external donations intended for the club that were deposited into the accounts of other student groups.
Love Saxa wrote in a Jan. 27 Facebook post that one of its donors had been informed that a recent $50 donation had mistakenly ended up in the account for the LGBTQ Resource Center. Love Saxa asked its donors to check on the status of their donations, and wrote that members of the group would investigate the nature of the mistake.
“We will ensure that Georgetown respects donor intent by following up on each donation,” Love Saxa wrote.
Since the post, Love Saxa has sought legal counsel from the Alliance Defending Freedom.
In a letter to University President John J. DeGioia on Feb. 2, Tyson Langhofer, director of ADF’s Center for Academic Freedom, wrote that a $100 donation for Love Saxa was also misplaced into the account of the Saxatones, and that a $250 donation deposited by Amelia Irvine (COL ’20), Love Saxa’s president, also failed to appear in Love Saxa’s account.
Langhofer also wrote that Irvine had been told by a student during a Georgetown student activities fundraising phonathon that Love Saxa was “making bank,” but has yet to receive any donations from the event.
Love Saxa and ADF contend that the misallocation of the donations aligns with a larger trend of abuse from the university, beginning with the Student Activities Commission hearing in November to determine whether the group should maintain its status as a recognized group on campus.
The university immediately began the process of correcting the misplacement of these donations, according to Rachel Pugh, Georgetown’s senior director for strategic communications.
The misplacement of the donations was a mistake on the university’s part because of the way donations are processed, Pugh said.
“When the university receives a gift designated by donor for a student group with access to benefits, the gifts are allocated with a designated work tag that ensures they reach the intended recipient.” Pugh wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Because a Fall 2017 gift was the first donation of its kind to Love Saxa, no established path existed.”
Love Saxa and its legal representatives from the ADF’s Center for Academic Freedom, however, accused the university of intentional mistreatment of Love Saxa’s funding, saying donations had been placed into the accounts of the LGBTQ Resource Center and the Saxatones, which has been associated with the Sexual Minority Youth Assistance League.
“Georgetown officials have funneled money intended for Love Saxa to its ideological opponents and those who partner with them,” Langhofer wrote. “Of course, this has happened immediately after the recognition controversy, suggesting that Georgetown officials have found a more secretive way of expressing their animosity towards Love Saxa and of punishing the group for its traditional views.”
Travis Barham, an ADF attorney representing Love Saxa, said these incidents are punishment directed at the student group.
“The university should not be punishing students for their religious or political views, whether that punishment takes the form of a weekslong investigation into trying to decide whether or not a student group can continue to exist, or whether that mistreatment takes the form of misdirecting donations and sending them to groups of ideological opponents,” Barhan said.
Multiple students filed a petition in October to have Love Saxa stripped of its university funding because of its anti-same sex marriage stance, which they claimed violated the Division of Student Affairs’ Student Organization Standards. In November, the Student Activities Committee voted 8-4 to allow Love Saxa to retain its funding.
Langhofer also pointed to an editorial from The Hoya’s editorial board as evidence of Love Saxa’s continued mistreatment at Georgetown.
Love Saxa and ADF demanded the university make recompense, requesting an official response by Feb. 9.
Although the university has not yet reached out to ADF, Pugh said Love Saxa has been contacted by the university, and the funds are currently being redeposited into the proper accounts.
While Barham acknowledges the return of the donations as a step in the right direction, he says the ADF and Love Saxa will not be satisfied until the university has done more.
“Frankly, Georgetown’s actions need to go further. They need to thoroughly investigate what led to this. They need to provide us documentation and accounting of what’s been donated to Love Saxa, and then we need to know that officials are being held responsible,” Barham said.
Special to The Hoya

SFS senior says 
February 6, 2018 at 1:53 am
I find it funny that this club is supposedly all about love and yet the only thing it has been is obnoxious, insufferable, and divisive. They call gay students- they’re fellow Hoyas— sinful and disordered, they get favorable coverage from Breitbart and Russia Today, and now they solicit outside help for an attack on the administration, which the university will have to defend at expense of funds that could better be used elsewhere.
This club is a nightmare. No wonder they’re so unwelcome on campus.

Jane Hoya says 
February 7, 2018 at 12:00 am
* their

Jane Hoya says 
February 7, 2018 at 12:01 am
*their

Jack the Bullfrog says 
February 6, 2018 at 2:36 pm
Snowflakes

DR says 
February 8, 2018 at 12:16 pm
How are they being obnoxious or divisive? Alumni made donations to the group and the administration diverted the money elsewhere. Love Saxa is justified in demanding accountability. The university needs to allow a full investigation to ensure that this type of fraud is not widespread, or very few donors will trust them with their money again.

MT says 
June 6, 2019 at 1:46 pm
So sad that Catholic views cannot be practiced at a Catholic University and that the existence of Love Saxa was even questioned as a group.  Other groups that hold beliefs that more conservative students or God forbid, practicing Catholic students don’t believe in are allowed to exist with loud voices on campus and express their views with no resistance. I am appalled that liberal students who are supposed to be all inclusive and so open minded and have so much presence on campus and such loud voices cannot tolerate any opposing views to their own. Communism is only accepting of one voice and one view and shuts down freedom of speech. Our country was founded on this freedom of ideas and speech and tolerance of differences. If you shut down opposing views to your own you risk the same happening to your views when the opposing group is in power.  There are good people on both sides that just have different ideas about how to live and how to treat life. You can agree to disagree respectfully and Georgetown university administrators and adults should promote and teach these young students the tenants of kindness, love and tolerance to all groups and all ideas.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 6, 2018 by Elizabeth Ash Leave a Comment 
All three seats of the Constitutional Council, the Georgetown University Student Association’s judicial body, remain vacant two days before the start of campaigning for the 2018 GUSA executive election, after the three council members resigned simultaneously Jan. 19 amid heightening tensions with the GUSA senate.
Student leaders hope to nominate and confirm replacements before Feb. 22, when the student body votes on a new GUSA president, vice president and a referendum proposing senate election reforms. Per GUSA bylaws, the council may not meet for official business unless all three seats are filled.
The council is charged with interpreting GUSA’s bylaws. The council also adjudicates disputes during elections and referenda, particularly disputes left unresolved by GUSA’s Election Commission. In January 2016, the council invalidated a referendum championed by senate leadership to replace the senate body with a smaller assembly focused primarily on club funding.
GUSA President Kamar Mack (COL ’19) and GUSA Vice President Jessica Andino (COL ’18) plan to review applications and nominate new councilors within the next two weeks, according to Aaron Bennett (COL ’19), GUSA executive press secretary. Per GUSA bylaws, Mack and Andino’s nominees must be confirmed by a majority of the senate.
It remains unclear how any disputes that may arise during the campaign would be addressed in the meantime if the GUSA senate does not confirm new council members before executive elections in two weeks, Mack said.
“An entirely vacant court going into election season is, to my knowledge, unprecedented in institutional memory,” Mack wrote in an email to The Hoya. “However we’re confident that the commissioners on the Election Commission will do a stellar job and remain fair and unbiased throughout this entire process — leaving no reason for the Constitution Council to get involved.”
Bennett said the executive received 12 applications and plans to start interviewing candidates to determine which three will be chosen.
“We hope this process will be concluded before the end of election season,” Bennett wrote in an email to The Hoya.
GUSA Senate Speaker Ben Baldwin (SFS ’19) expects the senate will confirm new councilors before the Feb. 22 executive election and referendum on senate reform.
“The selection of the Constitutional Council and their nomination should not impact the election/referendum as long as the whole process is completed before then,” Baldwin wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The race to fill the council followed the nearly simultaneous resignation of all three former councilors Jan. 19, as the senate prepared to consider impeachment proceedings against Russell Wirth (COL ’19), former constitutional councilor and the council’s chair, because he is studying abroad. Wirth resigned before the senate moved forward with formal proceedings.
Former Councilor Mattie Haag’s (COL ’18) letter of resignation referenced animosity between the two GUSA bodies as an impetus for her departure.
“It is with great sadness that I remove myself from this role; however, I no longer wish to serve in an environment that has become hostile and antagonistic towards myself and my fellow Councilors,” Haag wrote in her letter.
Jonathan Lanz (COL ’19), the third of the former councilors, referenced sparring between the council and the senate in his resignation letter. He also referenced past conflicts over the council’s written opinions, an apparent reference to last year’s voided senate referendum.
“My decision to resign stems not just from current tensions between the Council and the Senate, but also the conflicts during the past academic year which concerned our written opinions,” Lanz wrote in his letter of resignation Jan. 19. “At this point, I believe that I can no longer serve my peers effectively and without bias.”
Christopher Holshouser (MSB ’18), a GUSA senator and chair of the Financial Appropriations Committee, said some members of the senate did not believe Wirth could perform his duties adequately while studying abroad and thought that video conferencing would restrict the student body’s access to GUSA.
Holshouser had previously led a resolution in the senate in October to delay Haag’s nomination, citing unspecified concerns he said students had brought him.
“Given the fact that the then-Chair [Wirth] is five hours ahead of our current timezone and the level of detail and time that goes into both hearings and deliberations, the Senate felt his confidence in video presence being sufficient was misplaced,” Holshouser wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Holshouser said the senate received all letters of resignation, written using the same letterhead, within five minutes, which he interpreted as a coordinated decision and a symbolic act by the other two councilors.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 6, 2018 by Caroline Gardner Leave a Comment 
Data has the potential to significantly change society, Kennedy Institute of Ethics Director and Georgetown philosophy professor Maggie Little said during a panel discussion of the ethical use of information hosted in Healy Hall on Feb. 1.
The event, “A Conversation in Bioethics: Data Ethics,” was hosted by The Kennedy Institute of Ethics and featured four panelists.
Speakers included Rick Smolan, a New York Times best-selling author; Cathy O’Neil, author of The New York Times’ best seller “Weapons of Math Destruction: How Big Data Increases Inequality and Threatens Democracy”; Chuck Todd, NBC News political director and moderator of “Meet the Press”; and Mayra Buvinic, a member of the United Nations Foundation and senior fellow at Data2X, a collaborative technical and advocacy platform that specializes in gender data to make a practical difference in the lives of women and girls worldwide.
The discussion centered on the changing landscape of data collection and distribution, especially the ethics of sharing and receiving data.
The event aimed to spark conversation on the ethical use and distribution of data, according to the event’s website.
Little emphasized the changing landscape of data collection and the growing influence that data has on today’s world.
“From politics, to gender equality, to how data is helping and hurting our criminal justice system, you can do good policy based on your data,” Little said.
Smolan echoed Little’s sentiments regarding the growing influence of data, and said “big data” has the potential to affect people in both positive and negative ways.
“Every new technology can be used for good and evil,” Smolan said. “We can look at something now from a thousand different perspectives.”
O’Neil brought up the potential dangers that human-created algorithms can cause for consumers. An algorithm that uses past behaviors to predict future consumption depends on individuals and their biases, O’Neil said.
“An algorithm is the product of the human being that built it,” O’Neil said. “It is a lot about power, as well as math.”
O’Neil said she hopes to eliminate inherent biases from the programs and techniques used in the big data field.
“My goal in life is to get the intimidation factor out of this,” O’Neil said, referring to big data. “It’s an abuse of mathematical trust.”
Todd echoed the idea that algorithms have had an effect on past political events and campaigns.
“Campaigns use data — and almost data alone — to strategically decide not only what to talk about, but what to talk about and who to talk about and what to talk about with specific individuals,” Todd said.
Todd scrutinized the role of big data in politics today because of its profound effects on the way politicians have decided to run political campaigns.
“We’ve taken politics and created this precision mindset: You’re only looking for the vote of people you already think agree with you, and you only talk to the people who you think already agree with you,” Todd said. “In the era of big data, political campaigns have decided ‘I don’t need to persuade.’ Candidates think, ‘My votes are there, we just have to go find them. And I have all of this great big data to go find them.’”
Buvinic said her experience with inherent biases in data comes from working abroad in lower-income nations to monitor census data.
“Data portrays women as a lot more dependent and less productive than we really are,” Buvinic said. “When survey designers design questions based on traditional conceptions of what work men and women do, our data becomes biased.”
O’Neil said big data can have a positive impact on society, but it requires monitoring and scrutiny by both the consumers and the scientists.
“Big data can do great things,” O’Neil said. “I just don’t think we can assume it’s doing great things. We have to check.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

