
April 10, 2018 by Will Cassou 1 Comment 
Detailed plans are taking shape for the renovation of Kehoe Field, the athletics field located on the roof of the Yates Field House that was shuttered in 2016, with construction expected to begin later this year.
Last Friday, Yates hosted an event displaying current progress on renovations for Kehoe Field and inviting input from students and campus leaders on the type of turf and infill used for the field. The event marks the first time the Georgetown community has been invited to contribute to the ongoing design study, which was approved by the university’s board of directors last October.
The board identified funding for the renovations in the five-year budget plan approved in February, according to Vice President of Planning and Facilities Management Robin Morey.
The design study is expected to continue for the next six to nine months, with construction expected to begin in late 2018 and conclude before the start of the 2019-2020 school year, according to Morey.
The completed renovation would restore up to three acres of recreational space for the Georgetown community, particularly club and intramural sports teams, according to Meghan Dimsa, the director of Yates Field House.
The field’s structural problems began when it was rebuilt on the roof of Yates in 1979. The lightweight concrete roof of the gymnasium does not properly drain rainwater, leading the field and the roof itself to deteriorate from pooling water. The field has been repaired twice since 1979, first in 1987 for $1.8 million and again in 2002 for $7 million.
Kehoe was shuttered indefinitely in February 2016. The closure has left club and intramural sports teams without a dedicated practice field, since Kehoe had previously been the main field for club sports teams. These teams now have to share Cooper Field with varsity teams or use off-campus fields at Georgetown Visitation Preparatory School east of campus and the Duke Ellington School of the Arts north of campus.
Aidan Delaney, chair of the Advisory Board for Club Sports, said the loss of Kehoe has resulted in a shortage of field space.
“Varsity has been very generous in terms of letting us use [Cooper Field], but it’s tough to have three different organizations, whether its varsity athletics, intramural leagues and club teams rotating on one field,” Delaney said in an interview with The Hoya. “So, when we do go off campus, we have to rent space at Georgetown Visitation center or Duke Ellington.”
While Duke Ellington School of the Arts has been allowing club sports teams to use the fields for free so far, Delaney said he expects it might begin charging fees in the near future. Delaney also said the restorations would allow club sports teams to decrease team dues, making the teams more financially accessible, as well as opening more field space for the clubs.
“It would help us increase our access and really lower our external expenses. At this point we probably pay, by the end of the year it will probably hit $55,000 in external field rentals, whether it’s soccer, lacrosse, hockey, baseball, softball,” Delaney said.
Many students made major contributions to the approval of the Kehoe renovations, according to Ricardo Mondolfi (SFS ’19), a student representative to the board of directors, who gave particular credit to Daniel Fain (COL ’18), former chair of the Advisory Board for Club Sports, for his dedication to the project.
“ABCS was involved through their Chair at the time, Daniel B. Fain, who took the lead in the advocacy effort and helped Board representatives raise this issue over a two-year period. A lot of people worked on this, but Dan is definitely the individual with the most responsibility for getting this new field,” Mondolfi wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Fain said he was motivated to advocate for the restoration of Kehoe after it was closed, leaving the Club Frisbee Team, of which he was a member, and the larger community of club and intramural sports without the primary practice area.
“Advocacy took the form of petitions, letters to the Board of Directors, and physical protests to raise awareness of the issue. All the energy the community has poured into the projects helped to communicate the importance of the field to Georgetown and this importance undoubtedly played a huge role in the university’s decision to renovate the field,” Fain wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Fain said he is pleased to the see the project beginning to take form.
“What is exciting is that campus recreation and student leaders are beginning to delve into the details of the renovation, discussing the design, turf selection, lighting, etc. We are finally starting to see this project we have advocated for so long become a reality,” Fain wrote.
Correction: This article previously referred to Ricardo Mondolfi as GUSA liaison to the board of directors. His title is student representative to the board of directors.
Special to The Hoya

John M Kehoe says 
August 20, 2018 at 8:19 pm
The Rev John J Kehoe was my great uncle.  Though I never knew him,  family stories through the years led me to start researching his history and the history of Kehoe field.  I am thrilled to see the renovations to the field and hope to someday visit in person.  Thank you for keeping the legacy of Rev John J Kehoe alive.
Sincerely,
John M Kehoe
Vero Beach, Florida
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 10, 2018 by Noah Berman Leave a Comment 
Georgetown’s Institute of Politics and Public Service at the McCourt School of Public Policy plans to partner with the television network Telemundo to launch a stipend program to award six students $3,000 grants for unpaid summer internships in politics, media, government, public service or journalism.
José Díaz-Balart, a fall 2017 visiting fellow and host of Telemundo, donated his stipend from GU Politics to better facilitate opportunities in public service for a wider range of students, according to GU Politics Executive Director Mo Elleithee. The fund also benefits from a donation from Telemundo, the network for which Díaz-Balart is a newscaster.
GU Politics seeks to grant the award to students whose background or experience suggests that they contribute to the diversity of the Georgetown University community and could extend those contributions to a summer internship, according to a GU Politics news release about the internship fund.
The goal of the internship fund, which will be named for Díaz-Balart, will be to increase accessibility to careers in public service.
“I am grateful for the opportunity to support students in their academic development at Georgetown, a unique and extraordinary institution,” Díaz-Balart said in an April 4 news release. “I am honored by this partnership, which enables future leaders to pursue and secure competitive internship opportunities.”
Unpaid internships are not possible for many students due to socioeconomic constraints, Elleithee said. Through the José Díaz-Balart internship fund, GU Politics hopes to alleviate those constraints.
“We’re hoping that we can really help a handful of students who wouldn’t normally have the opportunity to take an unpaid internship or who might be struggling to take an unpaid internship,” Elleithee said in an interview with The Hoya. “To the extent that we can encourage more people to get into public service regardless of their socioeconomic backgrounds, we should be looking for opportunities to help those persons to do so.”
Each semester, GU Politics selects five individuals who are practitioners in public service to spend a semester as fellows at the Institute. Díaz-Balart was named the inaugural visiting fellow by GU Politics in fall 2017 for his work as an advocate for public service through journalism. Visiting fellows spend a shorter period of time on campus compared to resident fellows, who are on campus for a full semester, according to the GU Politics website.
“As soon as he and I had our very first conversation about him being a GU Politics fellow, we knew it would be a great fit,” Elleithee said.
Díaz-Balart has been a news anchor since 1996, and he was the first Cuban-American to host a newscast when he became the anchor for the CBS News program, “This Morning.” Prior to his current network news program position as anchor for Telemundo’s Spanish news program “Noticiero Telemundo” and public affairs program “Enfoque con José Díaz-Balart,” he worked as an anchor at CBS and MSNBC and served as the NBC News Senior White House correspondent.
Díaz-Balart came to campus four times throughout the fall semester and always brought a fresh perspective to the conversation, Elleithee said.
“Here’s a guy who’s the only person right now who is an anchor in both English language and Spanish language news,” Elleithee said. “He really treats it as a form of public service, and he brought with him a commitment to having discussions around diversity in public life.”
As with resident fellows, students interacted with Díaz-Balart in the fall through discussion groups, open office hours and student strategy teams.Díaz-Balart also brought in distinguished speakers several times over the course of the semester across several fields of public service.
One such discussion group featured a Skype conversation between Congressman Luis Gutierrez (D-Ill.) and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.).
“It was a really fascinating, engaging conversation about the need to increase diversity in politics,” Elleithee said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 10, 2018 by Will Cassou Leave a Comment 
H*yas for Choice, the unrecognized, pro-reproductive rights student group, held its annual Choice Week from Monday, March 19 to Friday, March 23 to encourage discussions on issues of reproductive health.
This year’s Choice Week consisted of five events focused on reproductive justice. The events included discussions on what it means to be both pro-abortion rights and Catholic on Monday, the racialization of maternal care in the United States Tuesday and the intersections between pro-abortion rights activism and transgender rights activism Wednesday.
The keynote event, which took place Thursday, featured a speech by Sarah Pappalardo, co-founder and editor of Reductress, a feminist satirical news website. Pappalardo spoke on the use of satire and media as tools for social justice.
The week culminated with an abortion “story share” Friday, when members of the Georgetown community who have had abortions had the opportunity to share their experiences. Over 120 people participated in the week, according to a statement from H*yas For Choice.
H*yas for Choice believes that Choice Week is crucial for the Georgetown community, especially given Georgetown’s identity as a Jesuit university, according to Lane Easterling (SFS ’19), director of media for H*yas for Choice.
“This week is especially important at a Catholic and Jesuit university where only a narrow concept of reproductive rights is provided time, space, and resources by the administration to advocate for anti-choice policies and beliefs,” Easterling wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We want to provide the Georgetown community with a platform for speakers, dialogue, and spaces to discuss reproductive issues that are not brought up, or are even barred from being mentioned, on campus and yet are important to all of us.”
Each event touched on the week’s reproductive justice theme, which emphasized pro-abortion rights advocacy through an intersectional lens, according to a H*yas for Choice press release.
Easterling said that the week’s theme “means destigmatizing all issues surrounding repro justice, including abortions, contraception, sex, pleasure, and health. It means highlighting the systemic reproductive injustices facing many oppressed groups. It means being proud of being pro-choice.”
Easterling added that this year’s Choice Week carries extra significance because of an increase in rhetorical attacks and legal limitations on reproductive rights since the election of President Donald Trump.
“Across the country, we have seen wholesale attacks on people’s health care, reproductive options, and bodily autonomy. Trans* folks and communities of color have borne the brunt of these attacks, which is why we have chosen to center these communities when creating our events and discussions,” Sterling wrote.
H*yas for Choice Co-President Annie Mason (COL ’18) said that she was pleased with the way Choice Week unfolded this year, pointing to broad demographics in attendance as a sign of success.
“Beyond our content with high turnout, students from many different communities on campus joined us and engaged with our speakers in meaningful and productive ways,” Mason said.
Mason also noted, however, the obstacles involved in planning an event like Choice Week as a student group that remains unrecognized by the university.
“As an unrecognized and unfunded group, planning Choice Week can be an extremely stressful experience because we never know if we’ll be able to reserve rooms — and often receive space confirmation last minute — and the process of obtaining funds to compensate speakers and get supplies for events ought to be a full-time job,” Mason wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Mason pointed to the group’s inability to guarantee the safety of staff members of partnered organizations without explicit support from the university.
“A community organization we wanted to partner with to host an event to destigmatize abortion could not come to campus because we were unrecognized and they feared the backlash and threat to safety their staff might experience if our organization did not have institutional support for the event,” Mason wrote.
However, H*yas for Choice is not discouraged by the difficulties presented by its status as an unrecognized student group, according to Mason.
“Ultimately, we’re used to having to overcome extra barriers to operate on Georgetown’s campus, “Mason wrote. “Our board and advocacy team worked hard to ensure Choice Week 2018 was still a success and we’re as excited as ever to continue offering inclusive, dynamic programming for our community in addition to our daily sexual health and contraception resource allocation.”
H*yas for Choice says that it hopes the end of Choice Week does not mean the end of the discussions that it promoted.
“It is our hope that those who attended these events continue these discussions with the broader Georgetown community and engage meaningfully with what it means to be pro-repro justice,” a H*yas for Choice statement read.
Special to The Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

