
April 5, 2018 by Cady Stanton Leave a Comment 
Graduate student workers in the Georgetown University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences are celebrating an agreement with the administration regarding a graduate student union election next semester.
The agreement comes after a two-yearlong effort by the Georgetown Alliance of Graduate Employees for university recognition of a graduate teaching assistant labor union. The election would ask graduate student workers whether they support the creation of a union.
Provost Robert Groves and Executive President for Health Sciences Edward Healton announced the new agreement between the university and GAGE in a campuswide email April 2.
GAGE, which is associated with the American Federation of Teachers, had been in negotiations with the administration about the prospect of an election throughout the semester.
In a meeting with GAGE on Feb. 1, Georgetown’s administration verbally expressed its desire to negotiate a private election agreement that would have a neutral third-party organization oversee the election, rather than the National Labor Relations Board, which typically handles these elections. The email announcement this week marks the formal commitment to this agreement.
Sarah Gilkes, a second-year student pursing a master’s degree in the Security Studies program, said the agreement marks a historic win for graduate student workers everywhere.
“As a graduate worker, I’m excited about continuing to build GAGE’s support among all segments of the Georgetown community and negotiating a meaningful contract ensuring just labor rights for myself and my peers,” Gilkes said.
The election, in which any graduate students of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences who also hold service titles can vote, will determine whether GAGE can act as a collective bargaining representative. If a majority of students vote in favor, GAGE will be able to negotiate on behalf of all those eligible to vote, regardless of how or whether they voted.
AFT President Randi Weingarten said that the AFT plans to continue to support GAGE throughout the election and bargaining process.
“This blueprint for voice is due to a relentless two-year organizing effort by the Georgetown graduate workers, who understood unions make possible what would be impossible for individuals acting alone. Their tenacity exemplifies what can be achieved when people unite for a say over the work they do,” Weingarten said in a statement released by AFT. “I am so proud of them, and it goes without saying we will support them in every way during the election, bargaining and beyond.”
While the NLRB typically oversees such proceedings, the election is instead being held and overseen by the American Arbitration Association, a neutral third party proposed by GAGE during negotiations and approved by the university.
An independent government agency, the NLRB has issued varied rulings over the past four decades on whether graduate students in certain teaching and research positions at private universities are eligible for unionization. The NLRB ruled in 2016 that graduate assistants are employees.
Chad Frazier, a sixth-year doctoral student and a member of the GAGE Election Negotiation Committee, said GAGE was largely motivated by the current political situation in the United States.
“We decided to propose a union election with the AAA rather than the National Labor Relations Board,” Frazier said. “We were worried that President [Donald] Trump’s appointees to the Board would overturn the August 2016 decision allowing graduate workers at private universities to unionize.”
Frazier also said that because the election process typically takes 30 to 40 days, it will not take place before the end of the spring semester.
“We indicated early in our negotiations with Georgetown that we wanted to hold a union election this semester,” Frazier said. “Unfortunately, because it took the administration longer than we would have liked to come to an agreement with GAGE, there just isn’t time for a union election before the end of this semester.”
Following the verbal agreement with the university in February, GAGE held multiple events aimed at drawing attention to the university’s lack of a written agreement. The group partnered with local artist and activist Adrian Parsons in a Red Square demonstration March 26, projecting phrases from Georgetown’s Just Employment Policy onto the walls of the Intercultural Center.
In December 2017, seven of the 11 committee members of Georgetown’s Advisory Committee on Business Practices resigned after unanimously passing a resolution urging the university to recognize the rights of graduate students to unionize, during a meeting with the Provost and other senior administrators. This came after the university announced it would not recognize a union of graduate students because it did not consider them employees.
Frazier said the agreement does not mark the end of GAGE’s work or activism.
“We want a big turnout for the election to place us in the possible position for bargaining,” Frazier said. “Our members have been consistently willing to show up and ensure that Georgetown lives up to its values as a Catholic and Jesuit university because we have taken the time to talk with them one-on-one about their experiences as graduate workers.”
The Georgetown Solidarity Committee, an undergraduate organization that advocates for the rights of workers at Georgetown, has also supported GAGE’s efforts.
“We fundamentally see the labor that graduate workers perform for the university as work, and not simply a part of their educational process,” the GSC said in a statement to The Hoya. “The administration’s initial refusal to recognize grad workers as workers and their stalling in negotiations fundamentally undermined the university’s Just Employee Policy, endangering the work of all student workers and campus workers alike.”
Deidre Nelms, a third-year doctoral student and a member of GAGE, said the agreement will have an impact even beyond Georgetown’s campus.
“This agreement shows that it’s possible for private universities all over the country to respect their teachers and researchers’ right to organize,” Nelms said. “We hope that it will inspire other universities to hold private elections as well.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2018 by Olivia Eggers Leave a Comment 
United Nations sanctions can be used to limit the weaponization of sexual violence in conflict situations, Sophie Huvé (LAW ’17), a Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security fellow, argued in a report published by GIWPS last week.
Huvé has been asked to present her findings to UNrepresentatives later this month.
The GIWPS report is the first of its kind to review the use of sanctions as a tool to combat conflict-related sexual violence. Huvé gathered research from UN documents, nongovernmental organization reports and interviews with diplomatic experts for her report. Later this month, the UN Security Council is set to hold debates about the use of sanctions, with Huvé briefing delegations on her report in preparation.
Conflict-related sexual violence, as defined in the report, is “rape, sexual slavery, forced prostitution, forced pregnancy, forced abortion, enforced sterilization, forced marriage, and any other form of sexual violence of comparable gravity perpetrated against women, men, girls, or boys that is directly or indirectly linked to a conflict.”
GIWPS Executive Director Melanne Verveer (SLL ’66, GRD ’69) said the report focuses specifically on gender-based violence and its impact on women as a tool of war.
“Sexual violence today has been weaponized,” Verveer said in an interview with The Hoya. “It is a tool of war. It is, in many of these conflicts, the preferred tool of armed combatants, and it’s highly effective.”
Huvé said sanctions can be used effectively against sexual violence, as it is used against traditional weapons of war, to increase the cost of committing violence in war.
“It doesn’t cost anything to use sexual violence as a weapon of war,” Huvé said in an interview with The Hoya. “It’s not a weapon you have to buy. How can we change what’s happening on the ground? Well, we can increase the cost of the weapon. What is one of the most effective ways to increase the cost of that weapon? It’s to target the key stakeholders with individual sanctions.”
The report challenges current UN precedent: While UN sanctions have been used in the past to combat broader humanitarian crises, they have never specifically targeted acts of sexual violence.
Huvé’s report presents several methods to increase the effectiveness of the proposed UN sanctions. According to Huvé, UN sanctions committees are often limited, sometimes by word count, in the amount of information they can include about human rights violations. In these situations, sexual violence is often overlooked.
Huvé’s report argues that the UN should clearly define what it means to perpetrate sexual violence, and make doing so a standalone justification for sanctions, to draw attention to sexual violence in particular and distinguish it from other crimes. Huvé also advocates more UN experts focused on the protection of women in conflict.
“Sexual violence for a long time has been considered a women’s rights issue, and not a peace and security issue,” Huvé said. “If most of the diplomats are men, well, women’s issues are not going to be the priority for them. The experts are the eyes and ears of the Security Council, so if you do not have a gender expert, how can you focus on sexual violence?”
Huvé also noted that the proposed solutions, which include the creation of definitions for sexual violence and a panel of experts as well as the use of sanctions, would come at a low cost — which may make them appealing in the eyes of the Security Council.
However, Verveer said that implementing sanctions against political actors presents a large challenge for those attempting to protect women from sexual violence.
“Political will is always the biggest challenge,” Verveer said. “There’s a political hesitancy to go after the governmental criminal actors.”
Some member states of the Security Council are reluctant to impose sanctions for sexual violence given their own past transgressions, according to Huvé.
“You have a lot of the Security Council members, including P-5, [whose forces have perpetrated] sexual violence,e” Huvé said. “They’re not using it as a weapon of war, necessarily, but so many of them have been accused of sexual violence as a practice.”
Discussions about conflict-based sexual violence therefore represent a threat to members of the UN, a roadblock to potential reform. The threat of sanctions incentivizes states such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo to change their behavior even if eliminating sexual violence is not their priority.
“They don’t care about sexual violence,” Huvé said. “But they do care about their self-interest.”
Verveer said this report has the potential to make substantial and impactful change.
“It’s breaking new ground,” Verveer said. “Too often, sexual violence in conflict is marginalized. It’s got to end, and we’ve got to figure out better ways to address it. Sanctions are one of those ways.”
Correction: An earlier version of this article stated that the GIWPS report was the first of its kind to propose sanctions for sexual violence. In fact, the report was the first to review the use of sanctions to combat sexual violence.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2018 by Jack Horrigan 1 Comment 
The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority removed 164 buses from service last week after unexplained engine shutdowns caused two people to suffer minor injuries.
In two separate instances, buses travelling at low speeds — both under 10 mph — suffered unusual engine failures. WMATA immediately removed all the 2015-16 New Flyer bus models from service and opened an investigation into the cause of the problem. The bus models affected by the WMATA’s decision make up 10 percent of Metro’s bus fleet.
While only two of the 164 vehicles in service showed signs of problems, Metro immediately pulled the entire fleet from service, citing “customer and employee safety as our highest priority,” Manager of Media Relations Sherri Ly said in an interview with The Hoya.
The affected buses are still under the manufacturer warranty, and representatives from the manufacturer, New Flyer, are joining WMATA in inspecting the vehicles.
Testing began late last week, though Ly said the cause of the malfunction has not yet been identified. Evaluations are continuing throughout the week and include test runs of buses without passengers to gather more information. Ly could not discuss any liability the manufacturer may face under the terms of its contract with WMATA.
If and when the buses will return to service is undetermined, as of Wednesday night.
“The timeline will be determined by the investigation, and there is no specific date as to when these buses may return to service,” Ly said.
New Flyer is a Canadian company based in Winnipeg that manufactures buses and other heavy-duty vehicles. It is one of the largest bus manufacturers in the world and built almost half of all heavy-duty transit buses made in North America in 2016.
WMATA operates many other buses of different models manufactured by New Flyer, but the company believes those models are unaffected by the issue and will keep them in normal service, according to Ly. WMATA has supplemented its remaining active buses with 80 “reserve” buses, fewer than half the number of buses forced off the roads as a result of the safety concerns.
“While we understand there may be some customer inconvenience as a result of this action, safety must trump service,” Chief Safety Officer Patrick Lavin said in a March 28 news release.
While some bus riders may notice slightly longer wait times, WMATA does not expect the inspection to have a large impact on overall service, the organization said in the March 28 news release.
“There are no significant customer impacts to report, as reserve buses have been placed into service and equipment has been redeployed to cover most scheduled trips,” Ly said.

Ben Schumin says 
September 18, 2018 at 2:07 am
The photo that accompanies this article shows the wrong kind of bus. The photo depicts an Orion VII Next Generation, but the buses discussed in the article are New Flyer XN40 – a completely different manufacturer.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

