
September 27, 2018 by Katrina Schmidt Leave a Comment 
Catholic Women at Georgetown and Georgetown’s chapter of Knights of Columbus hosted a joint prayer service for victims of clerical sexual abuse Sept. 21 in Dahlgren Chapel as allegations of sexual abuse by priests continue to surface across the country and world.
Large numbers of Catholic clerics have faced allegations of sexual abuse in recent years, particularly since the Boston Globe’s 2002 Spotlight investigation, and a Pennsylvania grand jury report released in August revealed that over 300 Catholic priests had sexually abused children over seven decades.
The Holy Hour consisted of Eucharistic adoration, a form of prayer in which participants pray in front of the Eucharist, and praying the Chaplet of Divine Mercy and benediction. It was a way for Georgetown Catholics to come together as a religious community and pray for survivors of abuse, according to organizer Madeleine Ostertag (COL ‘21).
“The Eucharist is the center of our faith. In the Eucharist we believe that God becomes present to us in the humble appearance of a host,” Ostertag wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Dedicating a time of prayer in His presence for the victims of this crisis allowed us to honor the dignity of the victims abused sexually.”
20 individuals attended the event and Fr. Jerry Hayes, S.J., presided over the service.
The Pennsylvania report shed new light on the ongoing scandal, and included allegations that Cardinal Donald Wuerl, an honorary degree holder from Georgetown University, covered up sexual misconduct. Furthermore, allegations of sexual misconduct also surfaced against Cardinal Theodore McCarrick, another honorary degree holder from Georgetown University, in June. At least 1410 individuals have signed a student-led petition, calling on Georgetown University to revoke Wuerl and McCarrick’s honorary degrees.
Ostertag said that amidst this crisis, it is important for Catholics to remember why they are Catholic and work towards healing the Church.
“While we as an organization condemn the heinous acts perpetrated by those implicated in this scandal and would like to see more concrete action taken by the university, what unites us as a community of faith demands something more: a call for each of us to participate in the renewal and healing within our Church,” Ostertag wrote. “Dedicating this Eucharistic Holy Hour to the victims of the sexual abuse crisis allowed us to respond to that call.”
Erica Lizza (SFS ’19), president of Catholic Women at Georgetown, also said that the allegations are challenging for those who are Catholic, and that this challenge was part of the decision to hold the Holy Hour as Catholics consider how to confront and respond to allegations.
“One of the things that I treasure about Catholicism is that we have a tradition which combines prayer and action,” Lizza wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The Holy Hour was a way for us to pray for all victim-survivors of clerical sexual abuse and to keep their suffering at the forefront of our minds as we struggle with how to move forward as a Church.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 27, 2018 by Noah Berman Leave a Comment 
Being progressive and being pro-Israel are not mutually exclusive, but compatible, Congressman Ted Deutch (D-Fla.) said at an event Tuesday.
Deutch, the ranking member of the House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, discussed the importance of the U.S.-Israel relationship and potential solutions for the conflict between Israel and Palestine. Deutch has frequently travelled to Israel and met with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and members of the Knesset, the Israeli parliament.
The event, cohosted by the Georgetown Israel Alliance, Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service and Georgetown University College Democrats, included a conversation with Deutch moderated by President of GIA Ben Goodman (SFS ’20), who is also a Hoya Staff Writer.
Deutch describes himself as a “passionate supporter of Israel,” according to his official website. In September, Deutch and Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.) introduced legislation that authorizes new collaboration between the U.S. and Israel on issues related to humanitarian projects, drones and outer space.
Israel is losing the support of Democratic American voters, according to a New York Times Magazine article published March 2015. Netanyahu has turned to Deutch to find support, according to the article.
His Democratic values and progressive outlook do not conflict with his support for Israel, Deutch said.
“I am a progressive and argue that my support for Israel is not something that I need to fit with my progressive views; rather it is entirely consistent with those views,” Deutch said.
Deutch’s belief in a two-state solution, which would mean the creation of two distinct nation-states between Israel and Palestine, reinforces his progressive politics, he said.
“In order for there to be peace, we try to ensure that the facts on the ground don’t preclude the possibility of getting to a two state solution,” Deutch said.
In a news release on his official website published Sept. 12, Deutch said that the United States must support Israel in its national security endeavors.
“Israel is under constant threat from every direction. A threat to Israel, our strategic ally in a turbulent region, is also a threat to our national security,” Deutch said in a press release about the bill. “Enhancing Israel’s security is a step toward strengthening our own national security,” he said.
Members of Congress sometimes use the U.S. policy toward Israel as a political bargaining chip because the topic has turned partisan, Deutch said.
“In my own party there are some democrats who have challenges with Trump, and so it gets to be challenging if people start to equate support for Israel as something President Trump has,” Deutch said. “It’s important to always remember the relationship has always been bipartisan and that’s why it has been so successful.”
Deutch said that both sides of the political spectrum support the U.S.-Israel relationship and engage with Israel.
“Giving my colleagues the chance to hear from different political officials in Israel helps people understand when we talk about shared values, its more than just belief in equality and human rights, but it actually focuses on the free exchange of ideas,” Deutch said.
According to Deutch, debates about U.S. policy toward Israel lead to broadened bipartisan discussions.
“It’s a chance to start with the discussion of the U.S.-Israel relationship and sometimes broaden to other discussions,” Deutch said.
Deutch first got involved with the Israeli community as an undergraduate and law student at the University of Michigan and has developed a fuller appreciation for the issues that Israel encounters since becoming a Congressman, he said.
“There’s still that same passion about the country and the change I’ve seen over the past number of decades, but a more sophisticated understanding of the challenges now,” Deutch said on Tuesday.
The event was successful because it brought in an audience with varying levels of knowledge and opinions, Goodman said in an interview with The Hoya.
“As the Georgetown Israel Alliance, we run the gambit from knowing and caring a lot about Israel to not knowing much at all,” Goodman said. “The event was a big success for us as an organization in that such a variety of people were able to come and make their voices heard and hear from Congressman Deutch.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

