
February 28, 2018 by The Hoya Staff Leave a Comment 
Sahil Nair (SFS ’19) and Naba Rahman (SFS ’19) were elected president and vice president of the Georgetown University Student Association by a razor-thin margin of 36 votes Feb. 22, ending the two-week executive election season. Here’s a look at The Hoya’s election coverage.
By Jeff Cirillo and Yasmine Salam
Feb. 2, 2018
Four potential tickets have emerged in the upcoming race for the Georgetown University Student Association executive election.
Election day is set for Feb. 22, with this year’s official campaign period beginning Feb. 8. Candidates are not permitted to campaign until this date. Tickets are required to attend one of two information sessions hosted by the GUSA Election Commission, held on Tuesday and Thursday this week, or to collect 100 student signatures by Feb. 10 to participate in the election.
By Jeff Cirillo and Hannah Urtz
Feb. 8, 2018
Four tickets launched their campaigns for the 2018 Georgetown University Student Association executive election early Thursday morning, previewing a season expected to focus on themes of affordability and inclusion.
The announced tickets are (clockwise from top right): Logan Arkema (COL ’20) and Jonathan Compo (COL ’20), Sahil Nair (SFS ’19) and Naba Rahman (SFS ’19), Hunter Estes (SFS ’19) and Richard Howell (SFS ’19), and Josh Sirois (SFS ’20) and Casey Doherty (COL ’20).
By Elizabeth Ash, Jeff Cirillo and Yasmine Salam
Feb. 16, 2018
By Sarah Mendelsohn
Feb. 15, 2018
Three Georgetown University Student Association vice presidential candidates discussed their plans to make GUSA more inclusive and increase affordability for students at a debate held Wednesday evening.
Richard Howell (SFS ’19), Naba Rahman (SFS ’19) and Casey Doherty (COL ’20) discussed policy issues including mental health, affordability and inclusivity. The debate was organized by the GUSA Election Commission in the Intercultural Center.
Vice-presidential candidate Jonathan Compo (COL ’20) did not participate in the debate.
As It Happened: 2018 GUSA Vice-Presidential Debate
By Jeff Cirillo and Yasmine Salam
Feb. 20, 2018
Four candidates for president of the Georgetown University Student Association pitched themselves to voters Monday night in this year’s GUSA presidential debate, which focused on the question of GUSA’s shortcomings and its role on campus.
Logan Arkema (COL ’20), Hunter Estes (SFS ’19), Sahil Nair (SFS ’19) and Josh Sirois (SFS ’20) discussed policy issues including sexual assault on campus, mental health initiatives, inclusivity and affordability. The election is set for Thursday, Feb. 22.
As It Happened: 2018 GUSA Presidential Debate
By Meena Morar
Feb. 20, 2018
In the shadow of almost every Georgetown University Student Association presidential candidate, there is a campaign manager striving to launch the ticket to victory on Feb. 22’s election day.
Tasked with communicating their candidates’ platform within the two-week period dictated by GUSA campaign rules, campaign managers devote countless hours to a role frequently overlooked by the student body.
This season, three of four official tickets – Logan Arkema (COL ’20) and Jonathan Compo (COL ’20) have decided to manage their own campaign – have designated a campaign manager to advocate for their vision for Georgetown’s student government. From selecting slogans to strategizing social media campaigns, these students are working behind-the-scenes to create — and, at times, dispel — popular images of their candidates.
By Jeff Cirillo
Feb. 21, 2018
Sahil Nair (SFS ’19) and Naba Rahman (SFS ’19) narrowly lead the race for Georgetown University Student Association president and vice president, according to a door-to-door poll of 601 students conducted by The Hoya on Tuesday evening.
Nair and his running mate Rahman received 34.5 percent support of 339 self-identified likely voters. The pair held a tight margin over presidential candidate Josh Sirois (SFS ’20) and his running mate Casey Doherty (COL ’20), who received 29.8 percent support.
2018 GUSA Poll Results
By Jeff Cirillo and Yasmine Salam
Feb. 23, 2018
Sahil Nair (SFS ’19) and Naba Rahman (SFS ’19) have been elected president and vice president of the Georgetown University Student Association by a razor-thin margin of 36 votes.
Nair and Rahman are set to be the third consecutive nonwhite GUSA executive pair when they take office March 9, replacing GUSA President Kamar Mack (COL ’19) and Vice President Jessica Andino (COL ’18).
Election Results: Video of Mack’s Call to Nair
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 28, 2018 by Emma Kotfica Leave a Comment 
DCist, the once-defunct local Washington, D.C. news website, is set to be revived following its acquisition by D.C. radio station WAMU.
WAMU announced Feb. 23 its plans to relaunch the website. The acquisition of DCist was part of a three-way deal with public media outlets WNYC in New York and KPCC in Southern California to acquire DCist and two of its affiliates, Gothamist and LAist. The revival of DCist accompanies WAMU’s hopes to increase its digital presence and regional coverage.
DCist was shuttered last November after a labor union dispute arose at Gothamist, DCist’s parent company. TD Ameritrade founder and former CEO Joe Ricketts purchased the site in April 2017, shortly before Gothamist writers voted overwhelmingly to unionize with the labor union Writers Guild of America, East. Ricketts initially refused to recognize the labor union, but the National Labor Relations Board voted in October 2017 to legally recognize the union, setting up a showdown between the website’s unionized members and Ricketts. Within a week, Gothamist was shut down.
Funds for the acquisition of DCist, Gothamist and LAist came “in large part through generous philanthropic donations from two anonymous donors, who are deeply committed to supporting local journalism initiatives and the partners,” according to a Feb. 23 news release produced by the acquiring radio stations.
WAMU paid an “initial partnership fee” to join the three-way deal, WAMU Chief Content Officer Andi McDaniel said in a Feb. 23 WAMU article. WAMU plans to cover DCist’s future operating expenses, such as freelance budgets and staff salaries, according to McDaniel.
Critics and local news editors viewed the shutdown of DCist as a sign of deterioration of local news. DCist had been called the “millennials’ local paper of record” by the editorial board of the local urbanism-focused blog Greater Greater Washington.
McDaniel said in a statement that the local aspect of DCist’s news coverage was a natural fit with the content that WAMU focuses on.
“This was an opportunity that when we learned about it, it seemed like such a natural fit,” McDaniel said. “The kind of community and neighborhood-level reporting that DCist does, and its beloved status locally, just aligned naturally with what our mission is.”
JJ Yore, general manager of WAMU, also cited the decline of regional journalism as an incentive for WAMU to revive DCist. He said he hoped the revival of DCist would help Washingtonians connect with the region.
“WAMU connects Washingtonians with each other and the world, and DCist will enhance our coverage of the region and expand our digital reach,” Yore said in the Feb. 23 WAMU article. “At a time when local journalism is declining everywhere, we are excited to revive this important news source for our region.”
Rick Edmonds, a media analyst for the Poynter Institute, said in the Feb. 23 WAMU article that he sees the revival of DCist as a step forward for public radio news coverage.
“People have been thinking for a long time that public radio could do more in local news,” Edmonds said. “I take this to be a step in that direction.”
McDaniel said she hopes the revival of DCist would both please old readers and appeal to a broader audience.
“We think it’s an opportunity to bring more to our listeners, and to people who maybe aren’t already listeners,” McDaniel said in the Feb. 23 WAMU article.
WAMU expects to launch the new DCist website in spring 2018, with hopes of doing a “slight refresh” of the site before publication, according to McDaniel.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

