
March 21, 2018 by Sarah Wright Leave a Comment 
Since the Parkland, Fla. shooting last month, Madeline Budman (COL ’18) has felt a heightened sense of apprehension in public places.
For Budman, the massacre at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School is personal. Alyssa Alhadeff, one of the campers at the Jewish Reform camp where Budman worked last year, was among the 17 people killed when a 19-year-old former student opened fire on students and teachers Feb. 14.
Now — on campus, at the movies or even just outside — Budman said she finds herself mentally preparing in case events take a tragic turn.
“It’s become just a fact of going to a school — existing in a public space, really, is just being aware of where are the exits and where would I have to hide if something happened,” Budman said in an interview The Hoya. “I’m like that on campus; I’m also like that if I go to a movie theater, and I just feel like that is the reality of our world right now.”
Budman is not alone. The Parkland shooting left many dismayed by the threat of gun violence on campuses, including hundreds of Georgetown University students, faculty members and community members who participated in a nationwide school walkout against gun violence last Wednesday.
This Saturday, thousands of protesters from across the country are expected to take to the streets of Washington, D.C.,  for the March For Our Lives, a protest against gun violence organized by survivors of the Parkland shooting.
Amid these movements, schools across the country are under scrutiny for their protocols to prevent and minimize the effects of mass casualty events.
While lawmakers on Capitol Hill deliberate how best to resolve the country’s gun violence crisis, the Georgetown University Police Department has established its own policies to follow in the event of an active-shooter situation on Georgetown’s main campus.
Safety First
According to Chief of Police and Assistant Vice President for Public Safety Jay Gruber, GUPD reviews its active-shooter protocols following any national incident, including after the Parkland shooting.
“We’re always looking at recent events involving all sorts of terrorist or shooting threats, and we look at each one through a new lens, but it’s not often we change our protocols based on new events,” Gruber said.
Under current policy, GUPD officers, who are unarmed, are responsible for alerting the Metropolitan Police Department to send responding officers to the scene of a shooting as quickly as possible. They then assume a supporting role to the MPD, assisting in establishing a perimeter, helping keep people away from the scene and performing other ancillary duties.
The student-run Georgetown Emergency Response Medical Service is also capable of supporting D.C. Fire and Emergency Medical Services in administering medical assistance to gunshot victims on the scene.
GERMS Captain Ali Baird (NHS ’19) wrote in an email to The Hoya that GERMS members are trained to provide medical assistance to gunshot victims but rely on GUPD and MPD to assess the safety of the scene before they step in.
“GERMS members are trained to assess patients with various traumatic injuries, including gunshot wounds. Our fast response time proves that we are ready to help during a wide range of medical emergencies,” Baird wrote. “However, as EMTs we are only able to treat patients once the scene has been deemed to be safe by other agencies, such as GUPD and MPD.”
Students and faculty would be notified of an active shooter on campus through HOYAlert, the university’s emergency alert system that notifies students and faculty of emergencies on their cell phones via text message, voicemail and email.
The university encourages students to take a “Run.Hide.Fight” approach during an active shooter situation, which is outlined on the university website and available to campus organizations in half-hour training sessions coordinated by the GUPD.
The procedure, which is recommended by the Department of Education, dictates evacuating the area during an active-shooter situation and, if this action proves impossible, hiding in an area out of the armed attacker’s view. As a final resort, people are instructed to fight to incapacitate the aggressor, possibly using nearby items such as fire extinguishers or chairs.
Andrew Bennett, a professor in the government department, said faculty are periodically reminded of the best practices for active-shooter situations. Nevertheless, Bennett advocated for better campus preparedness in the form of active shooter drills.
“I can understand why universities are cautious about running drills,” Bennett said. “As unpleasant as it is for all of us, it makes sense to get people prepared in the really unlikely, but not impossible, scenario where we have some kind of active shooter situation going on.”
Budman, too, expressed concern about campus preparedness, particularly regarding the university’s emergency notification system.
She said that her experiences with the HOYAlert system have left her feeling misinformed, referencing a false tornado warning that students received in January 2016 and an alert of an armed individual around campus during the armed robbery of the ExxonMobil station near campus in 2015 that failed to provide specific details about the incident.
“I just don’t trust the systems that are in place to be effective,” Budman said.
But on the topic of arming school faculty — a proposal President Donald Trump endorsed as a preventative measure to deter mass shootings in schools following the Parkland shooting — both Bennett and Budman are skeptical.
“The evidence doesn’t suggest that that is an effective approach,” Bennett said. “And I think common sense suggests that that is not an effective approach.”
Up in Arms
As of October 2017, the District, became a “shall issue” state, meaning that any applicant who meets D.C.’s gun licensing criteria will be issued a license authorizing “concealed carry” of a firearm without being required to demonstrate “good cause” for carrying a gun.
The D.C. Council permits concealed carry of registered guns only in authorized areas, excluding public spaces like the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority stations and public libraries, high-security areas like the perimeter of the U.S. Capitol and the White House, and all public and private schools and universities.
In the wake of the Parkland shooting, Trump suggested reducing “gun-free zones” and giving educators a financial bonus for undergoing gun training and carrying guns in schools.
Gruber, however, said that arming faculty and allowing concealed carry is not a viable solution for preventing mass shootings.
“Unless you’re somebody who is really trained in the use of firearms, you practice on a regular basis and you are attuned to a high-threat environment, you really shouldn’t have concealed carry in schools and in colleges,” Gruber said. “A professor’s job is to teach students, and them having a weapon is, I don’t think, something that any of us want, especially the professors.”
Citing a 2013 Department of Education school emergency preparedness report, Bennett said that in an overwhelming number of instances when a shooter was stopped before the police arrived, they were stopped by unarmed individuals who incapacitated the shooter.
But Bennett said the possibility of arming GUPD officers warrants further consideration. In Washington, only the University of the District of Columbia and Howard University have armed police officers on campus, according to the Washington Post.
“While I certainly think it’s an absurd idea to have faculty to be carrying guns, it doesn’t seem, on the face of it, absurd to have campus security either carrying them or having them at ready access in their central station,” Bennett said. “To the extent that they don’t have quick access to firearms should they need them, I think that’s something that bears looking at.”
While Bennett advocates for gun control measures such as background checks and assault weapon bans, at the national level, he said the gradual pace of this change still spells danger in a country with over 300 million guns in circulation.
In the interim, Bennett said localized preparedness is still the best way to combat gun violence.
“Addressing the bigger problems, even in the best of circumstances, takes time, and so in the meantime, we have to take sensible measures to be prepared, and I think that’s training and prevention,” Bennett said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 21, 2018 by Will Cassou Leave a Comment 
Waka Flocka Flame is set to headline the Georgetown Program Board’s annual spring concert April 6 in McDonough Arena. Basstracks and Phoebe Ryan will open, and Georgetown Cabaret, a student rock and pop cover band, is also set to perform at the concert.
Tickets are currently available from GPB, with the price set at $5.
A former protege of Gucci Mane, Atlanta rapper Waka Flocka Flame rose to prominence in 2009 with singles such as “O Let’s Do It” and “No Hands,” which peaked at No. 13 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 in 2010. Waka Flocka Flame, who is signed with Atlantic Records, has been nominated for four BET Awards, winning one.
Waka Flocka Flame is said to be working on a studio album titled “Flockaveli II,” the official follow-up to his 2010 album “Flockaveli,” and his first album since “Triple F Life: Friends, Fans & Family” in 2012.
Waka Flocka Flame also notably launched a short-lived, evidently lighthearted, presidential campaign in 2015. At 29 years old, he did not meet the constitutionally mandated age requirement for presidential candidates.
Ryan, aged 27, is a singer and songwriter signed with Columbia Records, who notably collaborated with The Chainsmokers in 2016 on the song “All We Know,” which peaked at No. 18 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100. She has released two EPS and has written songs for Britney Spears, Wyclef Jean, The Chainsmokers and All Time Low.
Brasstracks, consisting of  trumpeter Ivan Jackson and drummer Conor Rayne, have produced songs for 2 Chainz and Lil Wayne and have released their own singles, including “Say We Won’t.”
Past performers at the GPB Spring Concert have included rapper Wiz Khalifa, who performed in 2013 and 2016, Norwegian DJ Matoma and electronic musician Cheat Codes in 2017, DJ Viceroy in 2016, rapper Big Sean and DJ White Panda in 2014 and electronic musician Calvin Harris in 2013.
Special to The Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 21, 2018 by Olivia Eggers Leave a Comment 
Partisan gerrymandering poses a threat to voting rights in the United States and disproportionately disenfranchises Democratic voters, former Attorney General Eric Holder said at an event hosted by the Georgetown University Institute of Politics and Public Service on Monday.
The event, moderated by GU Politics Executive Director Mo Elleithee (SFS ’94) in the in the Intercultural Center Auditorium, sought to offer Holder’s perspective on the state of redistricting in the country. Holder currently serves as chairman of the National Democratic Redistricting Committee, a Democratic Party-affiliated organization for redistricting reform.
“Politicians are choosing their voters instead of citizens picking their representatives,” Holder said. “The system that we have in place is inconsistent with our founding documents, inconsistent with the Constitution, inconsistent with a variety of statutes: We are depriving people, in essence, of their right to vote.”
Since serving as attorney general under former President Barack Obama from 2009 to 2015, Holder has been committed to fighting partisan redistricting, commonly called gerrymandering, a practice in which politicians manipulate the boundaries of congressional districts to favor their own political party’s chance of winning.
Holder sees gerrymandering as an unconstitutional practice that is widespread across the country. Holder said he has a four-part plan to combat gerrymandering: litigation, reforming individual states’ redistricting processes, mobilization and electing pro-reform candidates.
The first step, litigation, requires taking instances of gerrymandering to the courts to put their constitutionality in direct question.
“Some places are so gerrymandered, you can only approach them through courts,” Holder said.
The second step of Holder’s efforts is reform of the redistricting process itself, which he believes can be created through new nonpartisan commissions — only currently allowed by 17 state constitutions, according to Holder — to monitor the redistricting processes. In other states, citizens should push for the creation of nonpartisan commissions, he said.
Holder’s third step refers to public campaigns in mobilizing opposition to gerrymandering and informing the public about the effects that gerrymandering can have on their lives. Holder has worked with groups like Organizing for Action, which morphed out of Obama’s 2012 re-election campaign, to spread awareness about the effects of partisan gerrymandering.
Holder said it is crucial to “raise the consciousness of the people about this whole question of gerrymandering, making people understand that this has an impact on their day-to-day lives.”
The fourth element of Holder’s plan is to elect pro-reform candidates who would have a direct impact on the redistricting policies, he said. His efforts support Democratic candidates because Republicans “aren’t simply going to give up power,” according to Holder. Although there are examples of districts gerrymandered by Democrats across the country, Holder said the Republican congressional majority generally benefits more from partisan redistricting.
Elleithee pushed back on Holder’s statement, voicing the concern of many conservatives that current redistricting efforts are giving Democrats an edge by primarily targeting GOP-drawn maps.
“I’m trying to make this a fair fight,” Holder responded. “You give me a fair fight; I’ll have a Democratic Congress.”
Holder said he would be willing to work for reforms in states with Democratic gerrymandering but pointed out discrepancies in partisan redistricting.
“We tend to think there is this equivalency,” Holder said. “If Republicans do something bad, let’s find where Democrats have done something bad. Oftentimes, there is not that type of equivalency, and this is a situation where I would push back on that.”
Looking forward, Holder is focusing his efforts on combating voter suppression laws and ensuring a fair, accurate census in 2020.
“At the end of the day, this is all about allowing the American people to have their voices heard, their votes count and to have their representatives reflect what their desires are, at the state level as well as the federal level,” Holder said.
Addressing the Georgetown crowd, Holder encouraged students to take ownership of politics to influence their country.
“You are leaders for this country in the 21st century; it is incumbent on you to think about the responsibility you have as leaders,” Holder said. “If you do not put yourselves out there, others who are less qualified — or less idealistic — will fill that vacuum.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

