
March 15, 2018 by Caroline Gardner Leave a Comment 
Hundreds of Georgetown University students, faculty and community members gathered in front of Healy Hall at 10 a.m. Wednesday morning, calling for gun violence prevention in the aftermath of last month’s shooting in Parkland, Fla.
Exactly one month after the mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, which left 17 people dead and 17 injured, Georgetown students marched out of their classes to advocate for legislation promoting school safety and gun violence prevention. Georgetown’s walkout was one of 3,136 student-organized marches across the country, according to EMPOWER, the group behind the national school walkout and the organizing group of the national Women’s March.
University President John J. DeGioia joined Georgetown community members at the protest, where he addressed the crowd outside Healy. DeGioia called for a collaborative effort from the crowd to inspire action against gun violence.
No student should live in fear of gun violence. Our first consideration must be to care for each other,” DeGioia said. “There is a conviction that we share as members of this community; a belief that there is a good we can achieve together. This is a moment that demands good in us.”
Madison Thomas (COL ’19), an organizer of the event, estimated about 500 people participated in the 17-minute walkout to show their support for not only survivors of the Parkland shooting, but for all victims of gun violence.
Zach Fagan (NHS ’21) also addressed the crowd, speaking about his cousin, Victoria Soto, who lost her life in the Sandy Hook shooting almost five years ago. The Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting occurred Dec. 14, 2012 in Newton, Conn., leaving 20 children and six staff members dead.
“Since December 14, my story has also become the story of thousands upon thousands of families in this county, whose lives have been torn apart by gun violence,” Fagan said.  “I’m speaking out along with all of you and students throughout the country today so that no family ever has to go through what my family and so many others have experienced.”
Like Fagan, walkout organizer Emma Vahey (COL ’20) also has a personal connection to gun violence prevention because of her high school’s proximity to Sandy Hook.
“I see the real policy action that can be taken, and I think that young people are particularly powerful because we can and will vote legislators out,” Vahey said to the crowds.
Mass shootings only constitute 2 percent of gun deaths, according to Vahey. She said the main goal of protests like these national walkouts should be focused on combatting general gun policy reform as opposed to just mass shootings.
The protesters observed three minutes of silence to honor victims and reflect the exact time the active shooter was in the halls and classrooms of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. At the end of the 17 minutes, many Georgetown protesters continued to march to the National Mall, joining legislators and members of the wider Washington, D.C. community.
Thomas read the names of young people who have been affected by gun violence in the District to demonstrate the local implications of shootings.
The crowd heard calls for gun control measures to prevent future tragedies and was encouraged to vote out legislators who refuse to pass gun control measures.
Gun control advocate Sarah Clements (COL ’18) said Georgetown’s show of solidarity was a small part of a nationwide groundswell for gun control reforms in the aftermath of the Parkland shooting.
“Thousands and thousands of schools are participating in this event around the country,” Clements said to the crowd. “We are demanding change from our leaders and politicians.”
Clements expressed her hopes for future advocacy efforts regarding gun control, in an interview with The Hoya after the event’s conclusion.
“It moved really quickly and it’s been a really great chance to get the community together and I’m glad a few hundred students came out today,” Clements said. “People have been reaching out and saying that they want to do more. Hopefully we’ll have a student organization soon of people who are working on this issue nonstop.”
Director for Hindu Life Bramachari Sharan was one of the many faculty members who participated in the walkout.
“The most sacred thing on this planet is human life, and it gets more troublesome when you think that younger and younger human life are falling victim to the carelessness and callousness of those who we put in charge,” Sharan said in an interview with The Hoya. “I’m here to show my solidarity with all the students and to remember all those who have passed because of this senselessness.”
Many student groups were present at the march, including both Georgetown University College Democrats and Georgetown University College Republicans, Hindu Students Association, Jewish Student Association and Students of Georgetown, Inc.
The Corp closed its on-campus shops and storefronts for 17 minutes to support the walkout.
“The Corp was founded to protect students’ rights, and every student has a right to an education free from fear and violence,” Corp CEO Alex Gong (SFS ’20) wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We closed for 17 minutes today to stand with our peers around the country working to ensure that we feel safe in our places of learning. All of us made our voices heard today.”
Jack Thorman (COL ’19), a walkout organizer, said he hopes the action does not stop here.
“I just hope that people take this as a starting point,” Thorman said in an interview with The Hoya. “This is not the end; it was beautiful to have everyone here, but we want people to show up at the march. We are restarting a club on campus to end gun violence and I hope people keep showing up.”
Correction: A previous version of this story incorrectly reported that organizer Claire Goldberg (COL ’19) read the names of District residents affected by gun violence. Madison Thomas (COL ’19) read the names.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2018 by Elizabeth Ash 1 Comment 
With only two months left in his undergraduate career, Will Haskell (COL ’18) has set his sights on an ambitious new job: Connecticut state senator.
Haskell declared his intent to run as a Democrat for the state Senate seat March 1. A member of the Georgetown Chimes a capella group and the director of personnel at Hoya Snaxa, the Students of Georgetown, Inc. convenience store, Haskell intends to defer his plans to attend law school at the Georgetown University Law Center to campaign before the election Nov. 6.
Haskell said he was galvanized to run for office by the election of President Donald Trump in 2016.
“This is a moment when our fundamental values — equality, justice, respect — they seemed suddenly, for the first time in my life, up for debate,” Haskell said.
Haskell and his campaign manager, Jack Lynch (COL’ 18), spent spring break campaigning in Connecticut. They plan to visit Connecticut multiple times this spring and intend to canvas the district this summer. (Lynch was formerly a member of The Hoya’s editorial board and a staff writer for The Hoya.)
“I have the time this summer to be a full-time candidate. I’ll be knocking at doors every single day. And I think that really poses an opportunity to make a difference,” Haskell said.
Lynch said his team has prepared a robust strategy for the work they will do while still students.
“In the meantime, we have plenty of work to do from here at Georgetown, including fine-tuning our budget, building our social media platforms, and all sorts of long-term strategy and planning,” Lynch wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Haskell is competing for a seat held by Republican State Senator Toni Boucher since 2008. In the 2016 election, Boucher defeated her Democratic challenger by 20 percentage points, according to Ballotpedia. However, Republicans do not dominate the state government; Connecticut is one of eight states where Democrats control both the legislature and the governorship.
Haskell’s previous political experience includes interning for former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign, interning in the Capitol Hill offices of Rep. Jim Himes (D-Conn.) and Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and researching voter protection laws for the Democratic National Committee.
Haskell acknowledged his age could be perceived as a weakness, especially when contrasted with Boucher’s experience, but said his youth can bring a new perspective.
“Representative democracy ought to be representative, and my generation doesn’t have a voice in the Connecticut State Senate,” Haskell said. “Look, we need new voices. There’s no minimum age for doing the right thing. There’s no minimum age for standing up to President Trump and his agenda. There’s no minimum age for trying to make your community a better place.”
Haskell is not the only young Hoya running in this year’s midterm elections. A recent Georgetown alumna, 26-year-old Democrat Shavonnia Corbin-Johnson (SFS ’14) is running for U.S. Congress in Pennsylvania, and recent graduate Kyle Rinaudo (SFS ’17) is running as a Democrat for the Georgia state House of Representatives.
Boucher announced an exploratory bid for governor in September, according to the Hartford Courant. She participated in a bipartisan gubernatorial debate March 11, but could not debate at the Republican gubernatorial debate Feb. 21 because she had not officially declared her candidacy.
However, Haskell said he expects to run against Boucher in the state Senate race.
“My opponent’s sort of perennially running for governor. She does this every four years. And I think based on previous experiences, she’ll spend some time criss-crossing the state, and then she’ll come back to our district eventually when that doesn’t work out,” Haskell said.
Boucher did not respond to requests for comments as of press time.
Haskell’s policy platform addresses three main areas: strengthening gun control regulations, improving infrastructure and building a more robust economy.
Haskell expressed support for banning bump stocks, cracking down on unregulated gun sales, investing in transportation initiatives like faster trains with Wi-Fi and diversifying Connecticut’s workforce by attracting college graduates with tax credits.
Haskell contrasted his platform with Boucher’s, which he characterized as increasingly right-wing.
“Everyone wants to fight against Donald Trump, right. I do too. He takes up so much political air, so much political space. But the fight against Trump starts at the state and local level,” Haskell said. “Senator Boucher is not in the Oval Office, but she is working to implement his agenda in Connecticut every single day.”
Lynch, who has been roommates with Haskell since freshman year, said he has full confidence in his candidate’s political motives and platform.
“I always knew he had the political talent to succeed in the race, and more importantly, I knew that he had the values that would make me proud to work with him,” Lynch wrote. “It would be easy for a lot of candidates to bow to political pressure, but Will is espousing the same views on the campaign trail that he did years before he was a state senate candidate.”
Initially concerned with raising enough funds for his campaign on time, Haskell said his campaign raised $15,000 three days after announcing his bid March 1.
As of March 13, Haskell’s campaign had raised about $25,000. More than 100 students have donated to his campaign, “which means a lot, because you know and I know students don’t have much money to spare,” Haskell said.
Although he is unsure of his long-term plans apart from eventually attending law school, Haskell confirmed his commitment to his home state.
“I never expected to be running for office right out of school,” Haskell said. “I can tell you this, though: I’m committed to Connecticut in the long term. I think that too many people in Hartford leave. We have too many people in Hartford who are making decisions that will affect Connecticut for decades to come but then won’t be around for that future. I’m a stakeholder in Connecticut’s future. I’ll be there for the good, the bad and the ugly.”

bob quinn, C'78 says 
March 15, 2018 at 4:04 am
Hoya Saxa and Godspeed Mr. Haskell!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2018 by Deepika Jonnalagadda Leave a Comment 
Thirty-five bright green bikes are available for pickup at 12 on-campus locations as part of a new collaboration launched Tuesday between Georgetown University and the LimeBike dockless bike-share program.
Under the partnership, students who sign up with a university email account can receive a rate of 50 cents per 30 minutes from LimeBike, a 50 percent discount from the regular $1 rate. The bikes are distributed for riders to pick up and are restocked nightly to ensure their availability.
More bikes are scheduled to be added to campus throughout the spring. The bikes are set to be available throughout the academic year and during the summer.
The university’s partnership with LimeBike was signed in January and marks the newest addition to on-campus sustainable transportation options, joining the existing Capital Bikeshare station outside the university main gates at 37th and O Streets. The LimeBikes were initially deployed over spring break.
LimeBike is one of a slew of bike-share companies that do away with bike docking stations. Instead, riders can use a mobile app to locate and unlock bikes with the tap of a button. Bikes are available across campus at Alumni Square, Lauinger Library, Red Square, the Leavey Center, O’Donovan Hall, the north and south sides of Kennedy Hall, the Rafik B. Hariri Building, the West Campus bus turnaround, Darnall Hall, Regents Hall and the Medical Center.
The university does not compensate LimeBike for the provided on-campus services.
Georgetown aims to further its support of bicycling on campus through this partnership, according to Sustainability Metrics and Project Manager Greg Miller. In 2013, Georgetown was designated a “Bicycle Friendly University” by the League of American Bicyclists, which recognizes institutions of higher learning for their promotion of bicycling as a preferred means of transportation.
“With this new partnership, Georgetown continues to demonstrate ongoing leadership on bicycle-friendly initiatives in D.C.,” Miller wrote in an email to The Hoya. “This new affordable option makes it easier for students, employees and visitors to choose healthy and sustainable mobility options.”
Miller said the number and locations of the bike parking sites are subject to change.
“The 12 initial pick-up locations were chosen to maximize coverage across high-traffic destinations across the main campus,” Miller wrote. “Pick-up locations and the number of bikes available may evolve as the University evaluates how the service is used.”
Day-to-day maintenance such as bicycle restocking will be managed by LimeBike, according to Miller.
Efforts to launch the bike-share program began last fall and were spearheaded by Georgetown’s Department of Planning and Facilities Management with input from the Georgetown University Student Association, Georgetown University Graduate Student Government, Georgetown Community Partnership and other stakeholders.
LimeBike was one of four companies to launch dockless bike-share programs in D.C. last September. The company announced Tuesday it would also provide riders with the option of electric scooters.
The university partnership was a natural next step in the company’s plans for expansion in the District, according to LimeBike D.C. General Manager Jason Starr.
“We have continuously sought natural partners to help expand ridership to communities where convenient, cost-effective and environmentally friendly transportation options can be an asset,” Starr wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Georgetown was a natural fit because of its location within D.C., its active and engaged student body and its reputation as a nationally leading academic institution.”
A potential expansion of the partnership would depend on the community’s response, according to Miller.
“Georgetown is committed to providing safe, affordable and carbon-free mobility options for the entire campus community,” Miller wrote. “Future expansion of the program will depend on the demand for the service and the feedback from the campus community.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2018 by Katrina Schmidt Leave a Comment 
Georgetown professor Victor Cha’s expected nomination as the U.S. ambassador to South Korea was abruptly scrapped after he privately shared criticism of President Donald Trump’s North Korea policy.
With no known candidates in consideration for the empty post, two current and former deans of Georgetown’s School of Foreign Service say Cha’s scuttled nomination has left U.S. diplomacy on the Korean peninsula in limbo.
Cha, senior adviser and Korea chair at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a think tank, and former director of the Asian studies program at Georgetown, opposed Trump’s interest in what is known as a “bloody nose” strike, a limited preventive attack, against North Korea. He expressed his concerns to National Security Council officials in late December, according to The Washington Post.
In an interview with The Hoya, SFS Dean Joel Hellman raised alarm at the administration’s decision to drop Cha at a tense moment for U.S. foreign policy with North Korea.
“I feel strongly that Victor Cha was indeed one of the best possible choices for ambassador to South Korea at this particular moment,” Hellman said. “I was deeply disappointed to see that he did not ultimately get the nomination.”
A preventive strike differs from a pre-emptive strike in that an enemy threat is not imminent. The Trump administration supports a potential preventive strike to send a message of military strength. Cha opposes this position and wrote a Washington Post op-ed that detailed his views following the news that the administration dropped him as a candidate.
“The president would be putting at risk an American population the size of a medium-size U.S. city — Pittsburgh, say, or Cincinnati — on the assumption that a crazy and undeterrable dictator will be rationally cowed by a demonstration of U.S. kinetic power,” Cha wrote.
Although Cha has earned a reputation for having hawkish views on North Korean policy, his concerns regarding a preventive strike are centered on the potential for the death of thousands of Americans in South and North Korea and escalation of conflict.
“That is not permitted under international law, it is not sanctioned by just war theory, and that Victor should take that position strikes me as not surprising,” said Robert Gallucci, former dean of School of Foreign Service, current chairman of the Johns Hopkins US-Korea Institute and former U.S. ambassador-at-large.
Gallucci said the vacancy is especially serious, given the administration’s demonstrated interest in a “bloody nose” strike.
“In a matter of hours, a lot of people can die,” Gallucci said. “This makes it different than the next appointment at the Social Security Administration.”
Cha, who served in former President George W. Bush’s administration, had not yet been formally nominated to the Senate for the ambassador position. However, the South Korean government had formally approved of Cha, completing the final steps of the prenomination procedure.
Had Cha been appointed, he would have succeeded Mark Lippert, an appointee of former President Barack Obama who left the post in January 2017. Since Lippert’s departure, Marc Knapper has led the embassy in Seoul as interim charge d’affaires.
South Korean officials hoped Cha would be officially appointed before last month’s Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, according to The Washington Post. Although the United States and South Korea agreed to pause joint military exercises during the Olympics and North Korean athletes joined the South Korean contingent, many worry tensions will rise yet again now that the games are over.
Now, over a year into Trump’s presidency, the appointment process is back to where it started.
“I imagine there are probably Korea experts around who would be able to say, ‘I have an open mind about a preventive strike,’” Gallucci said. “But it will be hard to match professor Victor Cha’s qualifications for that position right now.”
It is unclear who else the administration may consider as ambassador to Seoul now that Cha is off the list. As of March 8, the vacant position of ambassador to South Korea is one of 38 unfilled ambassadorships, according to the American Foreign Service Association.
The still-vacant position of ambassador to South Korea is a striking example of the State Department’s consistent failure to fill key senior and junior posts under recently fired Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. Many senior positions remain unfilled over a year into the new administration, and intake at the entry level has plummeted. Students at Georgetown, traditionally a major State Department feeder school, have also expressed concerns over dwindling foreign service opportunities under the current administration.
However, Hellman is optimistic that the recent appointment of CIA Director Mike Pompeo to Secretary of State, replacing Rex Tillerson, is a sign of shifting attitudes toward foreign service within the administration.
“There may be an effort to re-evaluate and recommit to the really critical importance” of the State Department, Hellman said.
Trump’s hardline approach to North Korea has been a key aspect of his foreign policy throughout his term.
“Past experience has taught us that complacency and concessions only invite aggression and provocation,” Trump said in his State of the Union address in January. “I will not repeat the mistakes of past administrations that got us into this dangerous position.”
Even as Trump has expressed willingness to meet face-to-face with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, the position of ambassador to South Korea remains empty. Hellman noted it will be difficult to match Cha’s expertise, particularly “in a situation as sensitive as South Korea at the moment,” he said.
“If you ask me what kind of ambassador they need, they need an ambassador like Victor Cha,” Hellman said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2018 by Sarah Mendelsohn Leave a Comment 
The United States and Western Europe should increase support for Georgian acceptance into the European Union and NATO, Giorgi Margvelashvili, the president of the Georgia, said in a talk hosted by the BMW Center for German and European Studies on Tuesday.
Jeffrey Anderson, director and Graf Goltz professor of the BMW Center, and Angela Stent, director for the Center for Eurasian, Russian and Eastern European Studies, moderated the event, titled “Georgia’s Path Westward.”
Margvelashvili said European and American support of Georgia through NATO and the EU could help protect Georgia from future Russian aggression and establish peace in Georgia, urging Europe and the United States to take a stronger stance in support of Georgia.
“When you are a superpower or when you are the winning side, by being passive, you don’t really want peace,” Margvelashvili said.
Georgia gained its independence from the Soviet Union in 1991, when the communist state collapsed. It stands out among former Soviet satellites as a country that has  experienced successful, democratic and peaceful transfers of power. However, the small republic has faced internal conflicts and Russian aggression since its inception. Separatist movements in two regions that border Russia, Abkhazia and South Ossetia, instigated fighting in 2008 between government forces and separatist groups.
Tensions between the nations increased when Russia provided support for the separatist movements and unilaterally recognized the independence of these two regions. In 2008, the tensions between Georgia, Russia and separatists culminated in a Russian invasion of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. Russia now occupies almost 20 percent of Georgian territory.
Georgia has worked to improve its relationship with the West since it gained its independence. It became a member state of the United Nations in July 1992 and deepened its economic, political and social ties to Europe through the EU-Georgia Association Council, the European Neighborhood Policy and increased trade with the EU. However, NATO deferred its decision on Georgia’s membership application in 2008, and the country has yet to become a candidate for EU membership.
Margvelashvili’s visits in Washington, D.C., this week and Brussels last week were part of an effort to increase western integration and secure European and American support for Georgia, the president said.
“What are we doing now here today in D.C., or what have we been doing a week ago in Brussels? We try to enhance this path,” Margvelashvili said. “We try to work together with our partners, work together with our friends, to convince them to be more active on the Georgian case.”
The United States’ powerful position in the current world order enables it to potentially help protect Georgia from Russian influence and invasion, Margvelashvili said.
“The U.S. basically led the support with nations like these and gave them the opportunity of free passage to much freer areas or unions like we are trying to get to the European Union,” Margvelashvili said.
Margvelashvili outlined Georgia’s importance to Europe, citing its strategic location at the crossroads between Russia and Asia and its direct ideological opposition to Russian President Vladimir Putin’s authoritarian tendencies.
“Georgia is a clear example choice of dedication to something different than totalitarianism of Soviet Union or basically totalitarian society,” Margvelashvili said. “This is a challenge for Russia, and this is a theological benefit for the Western world. If Georgia is a successful democracy, it is mentally, conceptually, in this confrontation, it is of epic value in the choice of freedom, of the individual, of the nation, of contributing to Western way of living.”
Margvelashvili said that while Georgia will never accept Russian occupation, he awaits a more cooperative Russia to push for a removal of Russian troops.
Margvelashvili acknowledged some of the economic struggles Georgia faces in its effort to become more modern. Georgia’s GDP plummeted after the Russian invasion and is slowly rebuilding, growing at a rate of 4 percent, though almost 10 percent of the population still lives below the poverty line.
Georgia is also grappling with uneven wealth distribution, the president recognized in his speech. However, Margvelashvili expressed his confidence in Georgia’s ability to diversify and strengthen its economy.
“We are on the right track, and we are developing,” Margvelashvili said. “We have our niche in economical geopolitics. We are a transit country; now, we have to add to this niche.”
Margvelashvili also identified possible judicial reforms and ways to enhance the party system to strengthen Georgia’s democratic institutions.
“Judicial exam, that is a challenge for Georgia, and that is a challenge that has been problematic for everybody,” Margvelashvili said. “We have to have more parties. At least two like you have in the U.S.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

