
April 25, 2018 by Meena Morar 3 Comments 
Hidden behind the Yates Field House lies a white, dome-topped building often forgotten by the Georgetown community: the Georgetown University Francis J. Heyden Observatory. Few students venture back there, and those who do rarely enter. Today, the observatory faces maintenance neglect and is in need of renovations, according to students and faculty who continue to use the building.
Yet despite its current rundown nature, the observatory has a rich history dating back to 1841. The Heyden Observatory continues this legacy of astronomical education to this day, in particular for the Georgetown University Astronomical Society.
In Need of Repair 
Among those passionate about the observatory, many see a strong need for repair and renovation. Ed Barrows, a biology professor and the Astronomical Society’s faculty adviser, acknowledged maintenance issues the observatory currently faces and the need for repairs.
“It does have a cracked foundation. It needs major care and infrastructure help,” Barrows said. “The dome keeps having problems and doesn’t open very well.”
Yet, as Barrows noted, the observatory is often neglected on campus.
“It has not been a priority; it’s not a high-use building,” Barrows said. “Donors don’t like to give money for repairing things. They like to give money for building new things with their names on them.”
Funding issues for the observatory have persisted for years. In 2013, the observatory competed for a $100,000 grant from Partners in Preservation, a partnership between the National Trust for Historic Preservation and American Express. With that money, the university hoped to restore parts of the building, remove the lead paint covering the base of the building, paint the exterior and examine and stabilize the structure’s roof.
Though the university failed to win the grant, the observatory did receive $10,000 for participating in the competition. Additionally, later that year, the dome of the observatory underwent repairs to ensure the building’s full functionality. Lead paint on the building’s base was also removed at that time.
Five years later, however, there are no renovation plans for the observatory.  Last year, the university commissioned a study to examine the condition of Heyden Observatory’s structures and facilities, according to Vice President of Planning and Facilities Management Robin Morey. The results of this study will be used to “inform potential future projects” around Heyden Observatory, according to Morey.
The university’s 20-year campus master plan, which outlines Georgetown’s long-term intentions for the campus, makes no mention of the observatory, saying only that the plan will continue to integrate “conservation-minded initiatives” into campus development to respect Georgetown’s historic setting. The campus plan does not include investment for facilities maintenance, according to Morey, and thus the university will continue to invest in the maintenance of Heyden Observatory as needed.
Creating a Space for Astronomy
The now-neglected Heyden Observatory was not always so run down; the building’s 177-year history has seen a number of astronomical accomplishments and a legacy that continues even today.
Upon its 1841 conception, the Heyden Observatory was not unanimously welcomed; the 1839 construction of the Naval Observatory just a mile away on Embassy Row brought concerns of redundancy.
“Everyone thought it was totally stupid to put another observatory right next to the U.S. Naval Observatory, especially with so few already being in the country,” Astronomical Society President Laura Caron (SFS ’20) said. “But, Fr. [James] Curley, [S.J.], really wanted to make sure there was a place for education and wanted to make sure students always had access to it.”
Curley, an astronomer and Georgetown professor of natural philosophy, established the observatory to bolster astronomy education and research at Georgetown. One of Curley’s most significant accomplishments at the observatory was the 1846 determination of the longitude and latitude of Washington, D.C.
“The building was built exactly so each side was exactly north or south, so Fr. Curley’s telescopes pointed just in the right direction,” Caron said. “He calculated star positions, and from there he could calculate the longitude and latitude.”
An Astronomical Vision
Subsequent observatory directors, including Fr. John Hagen, S.J., Fr. Paul McNally, S.J. and Fr. Francis Heyden, S.J., maintained Curley’s dedication to advancing astronomical education, and each individual provided vital contributions to building the observatory’s legacy.
In 1888, Hagen installed the 12-inch equatorial telescope — which is still used to this day at the observatory — to ensure the observatory was outfitted for astronomical research. McNally, who took over as director in 1928, expanded the observatory’s work on solar eclipses.
Heyden, who served as the director of the observatory from 1945 until the closing of the astronomy department in 1972, deepened the research into solar spectroscopy and emphasized comprehensive student accessibility. Heyden also originated both graduate and undergraduate astronomy coursework at Georgetown.
“He opened and finished, both the graduate and undergraduate departments,” Caron said. “He had over 90 grad students, and he was always passionate about [how] it was always accessible and that anyone who was interested in studying it could. Some of the first female, black [and] gay astronomers were under him at Georgetown.”
Curley’s hope that the observatory would spur Georgetown students’ education and research held true; many groundbreaking discoveries were made within the walls of the hidden Heyden observatory.
Among these trailblazing astronomers was Vera Rubin (GRD ’54), whose work predicted the existence of dark matter.
Barrows acknowledged how underrecognized Rubin’s work was in the field of astronomy.
“She should’ve gotten the Nobel Prize, but she didn’t, probably for political reasons,” Barrows said. “She was one of the only early woman astronomers; one of the Jesuit directors gave her a chance to become an astronomer, because women were not allowed to be in her day.”
Keeping the Legacy Alive  
Despite the discoveries and progress made within the observatory, the community’s interest waned. The university shut down the astronomy department in 1972 as light pollution from the growing city made research more difficult, and gave away many of its resources to other institutions in the area.
“In 1972, the university realized that we were running out of money, and they wanted to close the astronomy department,” Caron said. “At the time, the Smithsonian and University of Maryland were both invited to take whatever they want, and so the Smithsonian wanted the map off the globe, so they took the map and left the globe. That might be a metaphor for our story here.”
After its closure, Georgetown offered the entire building to the biology department. However, seeking to preserve the observatory’s history, a group of physics students created the Astronomical Society in 1972. In 1973, the observatory was recognized as a U.S. national landmark in the National Register of Historic Places.
Patrick Seitzer (COL ’74), co-founder of the Astronomical Society, said the observatory served as a hub for graduate students and research at Georgetown before its closure.
“Before its closing in 1971, The Observatory was the Department of Astronomy of Georgetown University,” Seitzer wrote in an email to The Hoya. “My professional career started in that building. I had lots of hand-on experience which served me very well in working at other observatories, and I’m delighted to see it in such good hands today.”
Decades after its closure, the observatory is not only home to the university’s Astronomical Society, but also plays host to other natural science departments, including the biology department, which accesses the lower level and attached classrooms, while the Astronomical Society mainly works with the telescopes in the upper level.
Despite its rich history and continued use today, the observatory is often not well-known among the student body.
“A lot of people don’t know that the [observatory] exists,” Caron said. “We have a dual purpose: to both preserve and talk about the history of the observatory and also to educate people about astronomy and the science more broadly. Our goal in the short term is to get as many people as possible to see the building, because it is a great place, and we want to share that with as much of the community as possible.”

Edward M. Barrows says 
April 27, 2018 at 11:34 am
Meena Morar’s insightful article is important for educating the Georgetown Community about the famous Heyden Observatory.   It would be wonderful if GU would fully repair the dome and upgrade the Observatory for students.  I am fortunate to be the faculty sponsor of the GUAS, a highly energetic and cordial student organization.

Lawrence Eastwood says 
July 5, 2019 at 3:47 pm
I was president of what was then called the “Georgetown Astronomy Club” from 1988 through 1990. Thanks to the trust and generosity of Biology Professor Donald Spoon, who occupied the lower part of the building, we had access to the dome and the 12-inch refractor whenever we liked. We held many tours and open houses there, but were limited to quick peeks at the Moon and bright planets due to limitations in the antique equipment. At the time, the worm gear on the mount was partially stripped, which made it incapable of tracking celestial objects or being used for any kind of imaging. I expect that’s still the case. Like all acromatic refractors from that era, the Heyden refractor suffers from chromatic aberration and other optical limitations that make it no match for newer, medium quality telescopes of similar or even slightly smaller aperture.  
I see only one viable solution: make sufficient repairs on the old dome to make it weatherproof and treat the dome, mount, and refractor as a museum, and as a setting for select university events and historical tours.  Then build a smaller, lower, standalone 15-foot steel or aluminum climate controlled dome to house a couple of modern telescopes and CCD or CMOS cameras on a modern tracking mount.  This could be done for about $250K, all in (I’m confident of this because I’ve built just such an observatory for my own personal use).  It would allow GU students to image and perform spectral analyses of a wide array of celestial objects, calculate asteroid orbits, and explore the night sky, even in heavily light polluted DC.  Most major universities and many smaller ones have similar modern observatories for student use.  Georgetown currently has nothing useful, really, and that’s a shame.

Angie Geilfuss says 
September 27, 2020 at 9:58 pm
Is there any information about the little houses near the observatory?
When my father taught English at Georgetown University in 1949- 1951, he lived in one of the little red-roofed homes nearby the obseratory with his wife and infant son.
Briefly after I was born, in April of 1951, my father moved on. I was just curious as to the origins of the buildings.  Were they built in conjunction with the observatory to serve in some way or did they possibly pre-exist the observatory?  I would greatly appreciate any knowledge you may have of my first home.
Thank you.
Sincerely,
Angie Stevenson Geilfuss ( Father Edward William Stevenson)
[email protected]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 25, 2018 by Cosima Schelfhout 2 Comments 
“What we’ve seen at Georgetown-Qatar is the norm erosion of our ethical standards.”
So wrote Ian Almond — a world literature professor at Georgetown University’s campus in Doha, Qatar, who is currently on leave — in a November 2017 letter sent to Provost Robert Groves concerning the treatment of migrant workers at the Qatari campus. Almond published the letter on his Facebook page in February after receiving no reply.
In his letter, Almond was incensed by what he viewed as the lamentable conditions for migrant workers at the Qatari campus. The 122 migrant workers who staff Georgetown’s Qatari campus work in a number of areas ranging from office management to facilities to dining. Yet according to Almond, these workers face deplorable conditions.
A few days after publicly posting his letter, Almond received a response from Groves, according to Almond’s Facebook page. Groves’ reply included a link to a February letter to the editor published in the Georgetown Voice discussing steps the university has taken to protect workers at its Qatari campus.
Almond, in his letter, claimed workers were paid between 1000 and 1700 riyals per month — the equivalent of $250 to $400 — and forced to sleep in cramped accommodations “with four or sometimes eight to a room.” The average wages of migrant construction workers in Qatar can be as low as $160 per month, according to Vox.
Almond said he found these conditions antithetical to the university’s values.
“This situation is intolerable,” Almond wrote in the letter. “It mocks and undermines everything we do and claim to be at Georgetown.”
Georgetown, which opened its Qatari campus in 2005, is one of six U.S. universities that have branches in a 14-square-kilometer community development in Doha known as “Education City.” The Education City initiative is supported by the Qatar Foundation, an organization for Qatari development founded and governed by the Qatari royal family.
Qatar has long been dogged by accusations of mistreatment and exploitation of its migrant workers, who are predominantly from Asian countries such as India, Nepal and the Philippines and make up 90 percent of the Qatari population, according to The New York Times. Such migrant workers are particularly vital as the country prepares to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup by building stadiums and developing infrastructure.
Workers involved in the World Cup construction reported having to pay recruitment fees, working excessive hours, having their passports confiscated and fearing reprisal for filing health and safety concerns, according to a 2017 report by Amnesty International.
Unlike workers at Georgetown’s Washington, D.C. locations, the university’s Qatari employees are not covered by the university’s Just Employment Policy, which requires the university to provide fair and competitive compensation packages to full-time employees and assures their right to a safe, harassment-free work environment.
Introduced in 2005 after student protests, including a nine-day hunger strike, the Just Employment Policy currently provides a minimum total compensation of $16.77 per hour.
Instead, migrant workers are held to the standards established by the Qatar Foundation in 2013, which stipulate all migrant workers employed by the foundation, its contractors and subcontracted firms must receive training on their rights under Qatari law in their own languages.
Workers are also legally protected from being charged recruitment fees to obtain work and from having their passports confiscated by employers, under these standards.
For migrant workers at its Qatari campus, Georgetown adheres to these mandatory standards of the Qatar Foundation and holds its contractors to these standards as well.
However, the Qatar Foundation’s mandatory standards are not always upheld for migrant workers in the country, according to Gulf researcher Kristina Bogos (GRD ’17).
“On paper, guidelines may look good,” Bogos said in an interview with The Hoya. “But in practice, it’s an entirely different story.”
Bogos attributes the lack of enforcement to the asymmetric power balance created by a sponsorship system known as kafala, which tethers the visas and residency permits of all guest workers in Qatar to their employers.
Under this system, sponsors maintain the power to “confiscate passports, withhold or delay the payment of … wages, among other forms of ill treatment, with virtual ease,” Bogos added.
Concerns about the treatment of migrant workers at Georgetown’s Qatari campus were raised in a January editorial in The Hoya, “Extend Rights to Qatar.” Since the article’s publication, the university has announced its commitment to the 122 migrant workers contracted at the Qatari campus and publicly disclosed the creation of a Qatar Foundation-Georgetown University Joint Task Force on Worker Welfare, formed in January 2017.
Since its inception last year, the task force has worked to develop recommendations, including a greater emphasis on migrant worker welfare plans, steps to combat unethical recruitment practices such as recruitment fees and easier mechanisms for filing grievances, according to a university spokesperson.
In a February letter to the editor in The Hoya responding to the editorial, Groves cited the creation of the task force as an example of strides the university is making toward improving conditions for migrant workers. He also highlighted the presence of two Georgetown employees in Qatar charged with vetting contractors’ worker welfare plans at the Qatari campus and overseeing their compliance with the mandatory standards.
“We understand Georgetown’s responsibility to promote migrant welfare in Qatar,” Groves wrote. “We care deeply about this work, recognize the challenges ahead and are committed to continuing to improve the conditions for migrant workers on our own campus and throughout the region.”
The university has also established a process to hear and address the grievances of employees at the Qatari campus. In the last year, 23 of the 26 complaints formally filed with the university were resolved in a timely fashion to the satisfaction of the employee, according to a university spokesperson.
The university administration in Qatar also commissioned a survey to collect information about workers’ conditions, employing professors, staff and students to help interview employees over a series of weeks. However, nearly two years after the project’s start, the results remain unpublished externally.
In one of several of his policy demands, Almond implored the provost to publish the “squashed” data from this survey, or at least make it available to “concerned faculty.”
Georgetown was “unable to release the results without compromising the confidentiality of the respondents,” according to a university spokesperson. However, the results were an important force behind the university’s establishment of the task force, according to a university spokesperson.
Alisha Kamran (SFS-Q ’18), a student at Georgetown’s Qatari campus who helped conduct the interviews, attributes delayed publication to standard research practice. Because the interviews were discussion-based, she said, it would take considerable time to break that qualitative research down into quantitative statistics.
Kamran is the program director of the Hoya Empowerment and Learning Program, a student-run literacy program at the Qatari campus that tutors migrant workers in topics like English and financial literacy. In her role at HELP, Kamran has established close relationships with several of the service providers.
While she takes issue with their long hours and confined living conditions, she said she is impressed by Georgetown’s dedication to its contracted employees.
Kamran said that through HELP’s biweekly classes, university-led food drives and a dinner held at the start of each year for students and service providers, workers are made to feel part of the Georgetown community.
“The providers aren’t segregated from students; they are made to feel part of the community,” Kamran said. “After speaking to a lot of them, they actually really like working here, because they are treated very well within the building. I’m sure that’s not the case for other workers in other areas in the country.”
However, Almond, who frequently participated in HELP’s programming, argued the projects are not enough.
“With the greatest respect, I’m not talking about free glasses/free t-shirts/literacy classes/Christmas raffles/free food,” Almond wrote. “I participate in and contribute to all of these things, the people who run them are wonderful – but they are not permanent responses to the situation.”
Almond called for more substantive reforms, starting with a “one-off cash payment” of $1,000 to each service worker and potentially culminating in a “complete restructuring” of the university’s service worker agreement.
Bogos, too, called for systematic changes, claiming Georgetown should at minimum implement long-term solutions to ensure the rights of the workers are not violated.
“Georgetown should think about its role more broadly in Qatar as an institution of higher education that supposedly espouses the ideals of social justice … and ensure that the standards it sets for its workers at the D.C. campus match those at the Qatar campus,” Bogos said. “From what I know after being on the ground in 2016 and meeting with many workers at GU-Q, the institution is falling quite short.”
Such restructuring would entail negotiations with the Qatar Foundation and, as the organization sponsors a number of U.S. universities in the region, could trigger new agreements at other institutions.
Kamran said she appreciates Almond’s outspokenness and compassion for service workers at Georgetown, though she wonders how feasible the implementation of a restructuring plan would be.
“It’s just so complex. I’m not sure to what extent Georgetown has bargaining power with the foundation,” Kamran said. “It’s one of the most powerful bodies in Qatar.”
Still, Kamran said the university’s academic focus on human rights is a step in the right direction.
“We have a lot of students who do a lot of work on migrant workers,” Kamran said. “You’ll always see, whether it’s freshmen students or seniors, every batch, there’s always some sort of effort being put into studying the issue.”
But Kamran concedes there is work that remains to be done.
“Georgetown is great with vocalizing opinions,” Kamran said. “But I think there needs to be more effort put into actually materializing ideas.”

Doug Schoppert says 
April 28, 2018 at 4:35 pm
Why does Georgetown have a campus in an authoritarian country that systematically exploits migrant workers and severely restricts religious freedom? Follow the bucks! The Hoya needs to report on how much of a cash cow Georgetown-Qatar is and why none of this I’ll gotten lucre is used to reduce the obscenely excessive tuition charged by the university.

Hisham Hassan says 
May 7, 2018 at 2:08 pm
“Why does Georgetown have a campus in an authoritarian country that systematically exploits migrant workers?”
Are you referring to Georgetown’s campus in Doha or D.C.?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 25, 2018 by Elizabeth Ash 1 Comment 
U.S. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) expressed the importance of a unified Democratic Party moving forward at a student town hall hosted by the Georgetown University Institute of Politics and Public Service and the McCourt School of Public Policy on Tuesday morning in Gaston Hall.
Pelosi currently serves as the minority leader of the House of Representatives, and under former President Barack Obama from 2007 to 2011 she served as speaker of the House, the first woman to serve in that role. She is also slated to run for re-election this fall in the 2018 midterm elections.
Pelosi answered questions from a panel of students who sat on stage with her, from posts generated by social media and from the audience. The questions touched on gun control legislation, proper size of government, net neutrality, disability advocacy and the future of the Democratic Party. GU Politics Executive Director Mo Elleithee moderated the discussion.
Pelosi emphasized the importance of voting in the midterm elections in November, saying that voting can help shape the nation’s politics.
“You are helping to shape this future. Weigh in. Do not miss this opportunity because right now is probably a bigger opportunity than ever,” Pelosi said. “If you don’t vote, you don’t count.”
Outlining a path to retake the House, Pelosi encouraged Democratic candidates to create a purpose distinct from the Republican Party as a whole in the congressional election.
“Our message to our candidates and members seeking election is show our purpose,” Pelosi said. “Know your purpose. Know your subject. Have a plan, and connect to the people. This is about connecting to the aspirations and the apprehensions of the American people.”
Pelosi emphasized the importance of using shared values to unify the Democratic Party. Yet she does not believe that the Democratic Party should only support representatives who have the same opinions on controversial issues, citing her support of anti-abortion Rep. Dan Lipinski (D-Ill.) as an example of the importance of diversity of stances within the Democratic Party.
“I always tell our candidates, ‘Your job description and your job title are one and the same: representative,’” Pelosi said. “When the day comes when we can say, ‘We don’t want any of our voters to be anti-choice,’ then we have a right to say we don’t want any of our candidates to be anti-choice.”
Pelosi denounced the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which lowers taxes on businesses and individuals, and eliminating personal deductions on taxes, among other things, as unfair and unrealistic, revealing her emphasis on justice for constituents.
“Did you know that 83 percent of the benefits of the tax bill go to the top 1 percent? In the light of the bill, 86 million middle-class families will pay more taxes,” Pelosi said. “A budget should be a statement of our values. What’s important to us as a nation should be reflected in how we allocate our resources.”
Pelosi expressed her support for recipients of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program and other immigrants and denounced Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) for blocking a vote on a bipartisan procedural measure that would allow votes on four immigration bills.
“I say to my colleagues, you pray in church on Sunday and then you prey on people the rest of the week. What is this?” Pelosi said.
In April 2016, GU Politics and McCourt hosted a similar town hall with Ryan, also moderated by Elleithee, who emphasized the importance of dialogue between politicians and young people.
“Too often in politics we talk about young people, when we should actually be talking with young people,” Elleithee said in an April 12 GU Politics news release.  “We’re excited to facilitate this conversation between students and Leader Pelosi to discuss the issues most important to young people.”
Although Pelosi criticized Republican leadership and asserted that Democrats offer a better deal for the United States, Pelosi also said that common values like justice can inspire bipartisan action to ultimately benefit as many U.S. citizens as possible.
“Issues tend to divide, but then values tend to unite,” Pelosi said. “We are bipartisan. We really are. We will proceed in a way that is bipartisan and transparent, so that people can see what the decisions are.”

Amelia Wang says 
April 25, 2018 at 9:16 pm
Its a shame really that Ms. Pelosi, in her disingenuous attempt to be “talking WITH young people,” could not coherently respond to a reasonable question asked by Sam (SFS’21) about tax reform. Or as she so eloquently calls it, “crumbs.” President Bush, or whoever she thinks is still president in her current state of mind, would be proud. Disgrace.
#BlueWave2018
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 25, 2018 by Deepika Jonnalagadda Leave a Comment 
The United States is at the brink of a widespread environmental revolution, former Vice President and environmental advocate Al Gore said at an event Monday afternoon in Gaston Hall.
The event featured an introduction by Georgetown University President John J. DeGioia, who discussed the university’s efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and educate students on complex global challenges. DeGioia cited educational programs, such as the Core Pathways project, an interdisciplinary collection of courses offered to students, as examples of ongoing initiatives at Georgetown to address climate change. Core Pathways and the Designing the Future(s) of the University Initiative co-hosted the event.
Expansive developments in renewable energy sources and storage are akin to an environmental transformation, Gore said.
“We are now in the beginning stages of a global sustainability revolution,” Gore said. “It has the magnitude of the industrial revolution but the speed of the digital revolution.”
Gore attributed the prospect of a high-speed environmental revolution to increased technological capabilities.
“It’s powered by new digital tools like the Internet of Things and machine learning and artificial intelligence that are giving CEOs and executive teams the ability to manage electrons and atoms and molecules with the same precision the IT companies have used in managing bits of information,” Gore said.
Since his eight-year term as vice president, Gore has founded and chaired The Climate Reality Project, a nonprofit dedicated to combatting climate change. He wrote The New York Times best-selling book and Academy Award-winning film both titled “An Inconvenient Truth” in 2006 and was awarded the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize for his advocacy on the dangers of global warming.
Gore’s optimism for combatting environmental change stems from the fact that investments in renewable sources of energy are outperforming those in fossil fuels, he said.
“The bankers and investors are now saying grid parity is here. Grid parity is the line below which unsubsidized renewable electricity, particularly solar, is cheaper than electricity made from burning fossil fuels,” Gore said. “Since 2010, global investments in renewable energy have exceeded investments in fossil.”
The trend has shifted away from nonrenewable resources, according to Gore, who specifically noted that coal use is declining.
“Coal is on the way out in the U.S.,” Gore said. “The famous coal museum in Kentucky just decided to put solar panels on its roof. A sign of the times, I think.”
Despite concerns that President Donald Trump’s administration will dismantle environmental programs, Gore assured that the environmental actions spearheaded by local governments and businesses will allow for sustained environmental change.
“We are going to meet and exceed the commitments the U.S. made under the Paris Agreement because innovation and global markets are driving this progress regardless of who occupies the White House,” Gore said.
While Gore expressed optimism for the reversal of climate change in the future, he stressed the importance of remaining active — and not complacent — on the issue, calling the risks that climate change poses as the most pressing challenge of this generation. Gore underlined the growing issues associated with rising temperatures and extreme weather changes, particularly the fires, which serve as evidence of climate change.
“The fire season in the American West has started much earlier,” Gore said. “The season is now 105 days-per-year longer than it used to be just 30 to 40 years ago.”
Gore addressed the underlying impact of climate change on civil unrest around the world, citing current instability in Syria as an example of environmental concerns exacerbating political problems.
“The worst drought in the 900 years of record-keeping destroyed 60 percent of the farms in Syria and killed 80 percent of their livestock well before the civil war opened the gates of hell in Syria,” Gore said. “The connection between the climate crisis and political stability and the viability of self-governance is again an under-recognized risk associated with the climate crisis.”
At the conclusion of his speech, Gore emphasized the role that individual actions can have on creating environmental change.
“If you are concerned about the climate crisis and you want to play a part in solving it, the single most meaningful thing you can do is to vote, participate, advocate for candidates whose positions reflect your values,” Gore said. “It’s important to change the light bulbs, the windows and the technology, and it’s important to change the laws and the policies.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 25, 2018 by Katrina Schmidt Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association’s executive leadership filled 35 senior leadership, operations and cabinet seats to form a team that will work with the administration to develop policy initiatives and support the administration’s goals.
In March, GUSA opened its executive positions to the entire student body, soliciting applications for open roles. GUSA President Sahil Nair (SFS ’19) and Vice President Naba Rahman (SFS ’19) ran on the campaign slogan “Because Every Voice Matters” and attempted to diversify the GUSA executive, according to Chief of Staff Aaron Bennett (COL ’19).
“We were fortunate enough to receive over 100 applications from all class years, schools, and gender identities, and we found a spot for almost everyone within our administration,” Bennett wrote in an email to The Hoya. “As of now, we have filled our cabinet, our communications and operations staff, GUSA Fund, the Board of Directors representatives, and the alumni liaisons.”
While two cabinet seats are still empty, the 35 administration positions are held by some students with prior GUSA involvement and some who are entirely new to the organization. The entrepreneurship and gender equity cabinet positions remain unfilled.
Alejandro Garcia Escobar Plascencia (SFS ’21), co-deputy for equity and inclusivity, applied to his position after working on Nair and Rahman’s campaign. He had not previously been involved with GUSA, but his experience working on the campaign encouraged him to apply.
“The whole idea of having leadership that reflects the diversity of campus — that’s something that really stood out to me,” Plascencia said.
The GUSA executive is structured into executive leadership, which is the president, vice president and chief of staff; senior leadership, which is deputy chiefs of staff and key advising positions; operations; and the cabinet, which is a group of policy team leaders.
The seven deputy chiefs of staff oversee a cluster of policy teams that assist with the managerial and bureaucratic needs of the administration. The policy teams work on a variety of areas, including accessibility, racial and cultural affairs, free speech and more.
GUSA Accessibility Policy Coalition Chair Anna Landre (SFS ’21) was involved in the accessibility policy team last semester and decided to apply to chair this semester because she was excited that Nair and Rahman wanted to reach people not typically involved with GUSA.
Landre hopes to work on accessibility initiatives that both promote investment in accessible infrastructure and increased social awareness and acceptance of those with disabilities. Landre also worked on Nair and Rahman’s campaign, which was a contributing factor in her decision to apply to be chair.
“I helped on their campaign because I liked where they were going with things,” Landre said. “I’m pretty excited to be able to work with the administration and make this more of a priority than I think it has been in the past.”
Uju Nwaigwe (COL ’20), the new chair of the racial and cultural inclusivity policy coalition, applied for the position without having any prior involvement with GUSA or in Nair and Rahman’s campaign. She saw a disconnect between “clubs of color” and GUSA and saw an opportunity to improve the relationship between these groups.
Although Nwaigwe wanted to become involved in GUSA regardless, she hoped that Nair and Rahman’s administration would be receptive to the concerns of Georgetown students of color.
“I felt they would be more inclusive to changes people probably want to see on campus,” Nwaigwe said.
The GUSA executive’s current model is relatively new, having first been implemented by Enushe Khan (MSB ’17) and Chris Fisk (COL ’17) in 2016. Prior to Khan and Fisk’s administration, the GUSA cabinet was a small group hand-selected by executive leadership.
Now, the GUSA executive is much larger and open to the entire student body. While this model is not new under Nair and Rahman’s administration, they aimed to use the open application process to reach a broader range of students by promoting it on social media and over email, according to Bennett.
While executive positions have been chosen, there will be an opportunity in the fall semester for interested students to become involved with the 23 policy teams.
“In the fall, we’ll continue building out the Executive to include members of policy teams and liaisons to various boards and councils within the university,” Bennett wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 25, 2018 by Joe Egler Leave a Comment 
“Law, Business and Entrepreneurship,” a multi-disciplinary course in the Landegger Program in International Business Diplomacy, hosted a pitch competition, in which participating students demonstrated a range of entrepreneurial skills.
Taught by School of Foreign Service professor David Muchow, the class experiments with methods of entrepreneurship that cross the disciplines of business, finance, marketing and law. Nadia Ilunga (GRD ’18) won first place in the competition for her pitch, Cine’ Mobile, a program to provide pop-up movie theaters in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Professor David Wallis, chair of global business and finance in SFS graduate programs; Rosie O’Neil, coordinator for the Landegger Program; and Laura Clark, an entrepreneur-in-residence, judged the competition together.
Natalie Kaliss (SFS ’18) participated in the competition, emphasizing the learning opportunities presented by having an opportunity to participate in the pitch competition in class.
“It was a very good workshop in what you go through in a normal pitch competition, but in a smaller setting,” Kaliss said. “I thought the panel of judges asked really specific and poignant questions which I was impressed by.”
Competition participants pitched a wide variety of products and services, Kaliss said.
“I was surprised by how varied the ideas were, because you had mobile applications for clothing  and returns delivery service, and then you have pop-up movie theaters,” Kaliss said.
Professor Dale Murphy, an adviser to the course, said that the intersection of social needs and students’ talents provides an opportunity for entrepreneurship.
“In all of our entrepreneurship courses in the SFS, we get students to try and identify a real societal need, and then to identify their own passions,” Murphy said. “The pitches are a way of getting the students to understand their alternative career paths besides those large corporations who recruit on campus.”
Murphy said he is always impressed with what Georgetown students manage to come up with, and that some students have ambitious entrepreneurial goals.
“I’m particularly interested in those students who were able to identify major societal needs, millennium development goals, and figure out business models that address those,” Murphy said. “That’s where the real markets are, whether it’s environmental, or labor, or social or wealth inequalities,” he said.
Muchow has a background in corporate law and previous experience with a range of industries. He hopes this class provides students with a chance to understand all aspects of the entrepreneurship process, especially relating to how entrepreneurship relates to law.
“What I find with helping clients who are starting up is that even if they have taken business classes or typical entrepreneurial classes, there are still a lot of gaps in what they need to know the minute they leave the classroom and hit reality in the real world,” Muchow said.
Muchow noted that recent graduates and up-and-coming Georgetown entrepreneurs often overlook aspects of the law when creating projects. Addressing potential obstacles, Muchow said, requires more than just business savvy. The “Law, Business and Entrepreneurship” class strives to prevent these obstacles by teaching students how to understand all aspects of entrepreneurship, from coming up with an idea to watching it come to fruition.
“Law schools teach more law than business, although Dean Trayner has been doing more to bring business into the law school. The business schools don’t teach much law,” Muchow said. However, “the world is a seamless web of law, business, finance, perseverance, and [students need] all this in order to create a successful company.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

