
October 15, 2018 by Alexandra Bowman 3 Comments 
President Donald Trump’s election in 2016 inspired a growth of anti-Semitism, said American Defamation League National Director Emeritus and Holocaust survivor Abraham Foxman at an event Oct. 10 in the Mortara Center for International Studies.
Foxman heads the Center for the Study of Anti-Semitism at the Museum of Jewish Heritage in New York City. He was joined by Rabbi David Saperstein, who served as the director and chief legal counsel at the Union for Reform Judaism’s Religious Action Center for nearly four decades. Saperstein also worked at the Department of State as the U.S. ambassador-at-large for international religious freedom until January 2017.
The event, hosted by the Center for Jewish Civilization, sought to explore the status of anti-Semitism today.
The number of anti-Semitic incidents in the United States rose by 57 percent in 2017, the largest single-year increase on record since 1979, according to the ADL. Incidents of anti-Semitism on college campuses and in schools nearly doubled in 2017, for the second year in a row.
Foxman blamed Trump’s influence in part for the rise of anti-Semitic behavior in the United States in the past few years; he cited the “Unite the Right” rally in 2017 in Charlottesville, Va., as evidence of a rise in anti-Semitism in recent years.
“Trump is not an anti-Semite. He did not create Charlottesville, nor did he create the 200 anti-Semites in the angry, disgusting march,” Foxman said. “But he has legitimized uncivil behavior and disrespect. He does this every day. He empowers and gives chutzpah to the Charlottesville 200, who believe that it’s OK to act out their hate.”
Norms against anti-Semitism in the United States have protected Jews since the end of World War II, according to Foxman, but recently, anti-Semitic rhetoric has been on the rise, he said.
“[Anti-Semitism] has been in the sewers, with the covers on. Now, there is nothing you cannot say. There is no one you cannot criticize or attack or denigrate, etc.,” Foxman said. “This has now become part of our environment — an environment where lies are tolerated.”
The Internet has provided a new platform for anti-Semitic thought by allowing individuals to conceal themselves, according to Foxman.
“The Internet puts the mask back on the bigot. It provides the bigot the anonymity of expressing, promoting and advocating their bigotry under the guise of a mask,” Foxman said. “And here are serious issues. How do you balance freedom of speech and security? It’s a constant balance. But the Internet gives them a lot of cover.”
The anti-Semitic trends in the United States reflect a global rise of anti-Semitism and xenophobia.
“We’ve seen the removal of established taboos in the political and civil establishment and legitimizing the singling out and denigrating [of] ethnic, religious, color, gender minorities,” Foxman said.
Media outlets have historically offered a method to combat anti-Semitism, according to Foxman.
“The media has been a very important vehicle and instrument in fighting lies. Anti-Semitic beliefs are lies. They are conspiracy theories,” Foxman said. “To a large extent, in civil society, in democratic society, in the last 50 to 70 years, one of the areas where we could expose, where we can challenge, where we can educate, was the media.”
Yet Trump’s consistent critique of the media — such as calling media outlets “fake news” — weakened the media’s ability to combat anti-Semitic ideas, Foxman said.
“The media is under attack. It’s under attack here and around the world,” Foxman said. “Here it’s fake news, here it’s the enemy of the people, etc., and [this] has a very specific impact on Jews and anti-Semitism.”
The recent rise in anti-Semitism threatens Jews around the world, even in places traditionally welcoming to Jews, like the United States, according to Foxman.
“I worry about democracy. Democracy is fragile,” Foxman said. “I worry today more for the safety of my children and grandchildren as Jews even in this country.”

hoyalum says 
October 17, 2018 at 11:06 am
Opposition to Park51
Several critics have spoken against Foxman’s opposition to the Park51 From wikipedia:  “Islamic community center near the World Trade Center site, citing hypocrisy, since ADL’s mission statement says it seeks “to put an end forever to unjust and unfair discrimination against and ridicule of any sect or body of citizens”. Fareed Zakaria, a recipient of ADL’s Hubert H. Humphrey First Amendment Freedoms Prize, has returned the prize and its $10,000 honorarium, saying that he “cannot in good conscience hold onto the award or the honorarium that came with it”. Zakaria has “urged the ADL to reverse its decision”.

Eric Neshanian says 
October 31, 2018 at 12:40 am
Abe Forman is a racist. Completely anti-Armenian hypocrite. The ADL should not be trusted. Why is no one talking about anti-BDS legislation that is completely contrary to constitutional protections.

Eric Neshanian says 
January 12, 2019 at 2:42 am
Mr. Greenblatt, is it possible the rise in anti-semitism could partially be attributable to the anti-American activities of U.S. citizens who are members of the Israel lobby?
https://www.haaretz.com/us-news/revealed-secret-adl-memo-slammed-anti-bds-laws-as-harmful-to-jews-1.6745516
Deflect much?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 15, 2018 by Max Levine 1 Comment 
Indonesia has the potential to become a leader in the global Islamic community, University professor of Indonesian society and culture Bernard Adeney-Risakotta said at an event Oct. 2 in the Intercultural Center.
The discussion, hosted by the Prince Alwaleed bin Talal Center for Muslim-Christian Understanding, centered on religion and democracy in Indonesia. Adeney-Risakotta spoke about his new book, “Living in a Sacred Cosmos: Indonesia and the Future of Islam,” which was published in August and addresses the future of Islam in Indonesia. John Esposito, School of Foreign Service professor and founding director of the center, moderated the event.
Indonesia will likely influence Islamic discourse in the future because of the country’s emphasis on preserving Islamic tradition, Adeney-Risakotta said.
“As time goes by, Indonesia is going to have a greater and greater influence on Islam and on the rest of the world, because Indonesians — many Indonesians — are not ashamed of Indonesian Islam. If anything, they think it’s superior to Middle Eastern Islam,” Adeney-Risakotta said. “They do not think that Islam needs to be cleansed from all traditions and cultural expressions. They think that it needs to be preserved and strengthened.”
A rising tide of radicalism is reshaping Indonesian Islam, according to Adeney-Risakotta.
“There’s a lot of people who are very concerned about what is happening,” Adeney-Risakotta said. “There has been a rise, an increase in radicalism, increase in polarization, increase in certain kinds of oppression.”
Western intellectuals’ focus on the radical elements of Indonesian Islam obscure the more secular parts of Indonesian society, according to Adeney-Risakotta.
“I think most Western scholars and most Indonesianists, even Indonesian Indonesianists, very often focus on the rise of radicalism, the rise of intolerance, the rise of conservative Islam in Indonesia and the eclipse of what used to be called the Abangan, or the […] less observant Muslims in Indonesia,” Adeney-Risakotta said. “And I think the focus on that may be really hiding some things that are extremely important for us to pay attention to.”
Indonesia has historically welcomed and tolerated religious diversity because of its multireligious and multiethnic population, Adeney-Riskotta said.
“It was a crossroads for people from all over, and while Europeans powers fought with each other constantly, Indonesia depended on trade — being 17,000 islands, it depended on trade — and so it developed a long tradition of tolerance,” Adeney-Riskotta said.
Still, Indonesia remains culturally separate from what Adeney-Risakotta labels the world’s four “Axial civilizations” — China, India, the Middle East and the West — despite these civilizations’ influences on Indonesia’s history, according to Adeney-Risakotta.
“The four Axial civilizations that laid the foundation for the modern world are all deeply a part of Indonesia, but Indonesia has not become one with any of them,” Adeney-Risakotta said. “It’s not part of China, it’s not part of the Sinosphere, it’s not part of India, even though it was called the Dutch East Indies, it’s not part of Europe and it’s not part of the Middle East. It’s its own creation, which has, I think, something to offer to the rest of the world.”
Indonesians may struggle with their identity as the world and the country continue to develop, rapidly increasing average life expectancy and literacy rates, Adeney-Risakotta said, but he expressed optimism for the future of the country.
“I have a lot of hope for the future of Indonesia,” Adeney-Risakotta said. “There’s a lot of hope for the influence of Indonesia on the rest of the world.”

Filozofia Tematy says 
February 18, 2021 at 10:19 pm
I completely adore reading your blog posts, the selection of articles are smashing.This blog was academic, Ive needed to bookmark your site and subscribe to your feed in ifeed. Your theme appears lovely.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 15, 2018 by Maxwell Sheremeta Leave a Comment 
The National Law Enforcement Museum in Judiciary Square opened to the public Saturday, featuring interactive exhibits on the history of law enforcement and current police initiatives.
Opening 18 years after its authorization by Congress, the museum has received criticism for its focus on police heroics, especially against the backdrop of lingering tensions between minority communities and law enforcement across the country.
The museum will serve as a space for education and discourse on police-community interactions, Metropolitan Police Department Deputy Communications Director Kristen Metzger wrote in an email to The Hoya.
“The National Law Enforcement Museum will expose visitors to the history of law enforcement including an opportunity to experience many of our triumphs and struggles,” Metzger wrote. “The museum will provide a better understanding of police officers’ roles in society and our ability to impact communities.”
A ceremony for the museum’s opening Thursday saw fanfare from politicians, including Mayor Muriel Bowser (D); celebrities, including Clint Eastwood; and members of law enforcement, such as former MPD Chief of Police Charles Ramsey, many of whom lauded the museum as a celebration of the sacrifices and heroics in the field.
“Their stories will be told: Stories about courage, stories about honor, stories about sacrifice. True stories that remind us never to take public safety for granted,” U.S. Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein said in a speech at the ceremony, according to The Washington Post.
The museum includes exhibits detailing well-known figures and events in law enforcement history, including J. Edgar Hoover, the first director of the FBI, and the police shooting of unarmed black teenager Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo.
April Goggans, core organizer of Black Lives Matter D.C., who opposes the museum, said in an interview with DCist that the museum presents a skewed narrative of U.S. law enforcement issues.
“This is about propaganda,” Goggans said. “This is about providing a narrative and a picture of law enforcement that counters what we see in the news.”
The BLM movement is noticeably absent from the museum; rather, the exhibition on the Ferguson shooting focuses on the aftermath of the grand jury decision and increased implementation of body cameras, according to DCist.
Curators emphasized interactive experiences, allowing visitors to engage in school shooting simulations through the presence of interactive video segments, mock detective work and autopsy examinations. Other exhibits immerse visitors in the more daily work of police officers, prison guards and marine officers.
Located opposite the pre-existing National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial at 444 E Street NW, the museum includes a Hall of Remembrance to pay tribute to fallen law enforcement officers. Photos of officers killed in the line of duty are also on display.
“The museum honors this profession and the over 21,000 lives taken in the line of duty, which has been long overdue,” Metzger wrote.
With no exhibits dedicated to the experience of minority officers, the museum neglects the history of minority service in law enforcement, Ron Hampton, the former president of the National Black Police Association, said in an interview with DCist.
“People of color, African-American people, Hispanic people, women, was not a part of policing in the very beginning. They were left out. It was a white male-dominated institution,” Hampton said. “If you’re going to tell the story, you need to tell the whole story.”
The national museum has also faced criticism for inadequately covering the District’s local police history. Aside from exhibits featuring rescue efforts from a 1989 place crash into the Potomac and a 2002 sniper attack that killed 10 D.C. city law enforcement officers, D.C. not prominently featured, according to DCist.
The museum does feature a “Five Communities” exhibit, which displays police departments’ efforts to improve community relations in Cleveland; Dallas; Chicago; Somerville, Mass.; and Charleston, S.C. The exhibit also includes an opportunity for visitors to submit ideas on how police can strengthen their community ties.
The museum plans to host programming related to addressing current law enforcement issues, NLEM Executive Director David Brant said in an interview with The Washington Post.
“Whether it’s Hoover’s history, or the impact of Ferguson, if there is a relevant discussion we wanted to host, of course we would,” Brant said.
Metzger hopes the museum will encourage more young people to work in law enforcement.
“Hopefully, the most powerful and exciting component of the museum is that it will be a place that will inspire future generations of all races and backgrounds to serve in this noble profession,” Metzger wrote. “A profession rooted in service, in sacrifice and done with compassion.”
The standard adult fare is $21.95, but the museum offers discounted tickets priced at $19.95 for college students and senior citizens. Discounts are also available for children, law enforcement and military officers.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

