
February 20, 2018 by Jeff Cirillo and Yasmine Salam Leave a Comment 
Four candidates for president of the Georgetown University Student Association pitched themselves to voters Monday night in this year’s GUSA presidential debate, which focused on the question of GUSA’s shortcomings and its role on campus.
Logan Arkema (COL ’20), Hunter Estes (SFS ’19), Sahil Nair (SFS ’19) and Josh Sirois (SFS ’20) discussed policy issues including sexual assault on campus, mental health initiatives, inclusivity and affordability. The election is set for Thursday, Feb. 22.
The GUSA Election Commission organized the debate, which was hosted in the Healey Family Student Center. Representatives of campus media, including The Hoya, the Georgetown Voice and the Georgetown Heckler asked questions, along with Christopher Holshouser (MSB ’18), chair of the GUSA senate’s Financial and Appropriations Committee, and members of the audience.
 
 
Arkema, a satirical candidate who has campaigned as Batman and wore a Batman costume at the debate, began his opening speech with more comedy than policy. However, he later discussed his work as a member of the GUSA senate and his hopes for a GUSA that is less inwardly focused.
“As a GUSA senator, I have been fighting for this campus and for students, and I am proud of that track record,” Arkema said. “Anyone can succeed on campus, and real campus change can come when we focus on the issues and make them a little bit less about ourselves.”
Arkema’s running mate, Jonathan Compo (COL ’20) is a former cartoonist for The Hoya.
Throughout the debate, Estes, a former GUSA senator and head of Georgetown’s chapter of the Knights of Columbus, a Catholic fraternal organization, promoted his campaign’s ambitious tuition and cost-cutting platform, which he said covers issues that unite all Georgetown students irrespective of their ideological differences.
“It’s too often that GUSA can be in this position where people decide to run for president to build up their resume, build up their egos,” Estes said. “We’re running because we legitimately love this community. I love Georgetown; I love being here.”
Nair, a director of outreach at Innovo Consulting who has not previously worked in GUSA, cast himself throughout the night as a “GUSA outsider” who could bring a new perspective to student government. He also emphasized a campaign theme he and his running mate Naba Rahman (SFS ’19) have pushed: a commitment to listen to a diverse array of student voices.
“My running mate and I are running together because we believe so deeply in this school, we are so grateful to be here,” Nair said. “But we also believe that this school can serve our students better if our student government goes and engages and connects with the student groups on campus, with communities that are not generally included or represented in student government.”
Between Arkema, Nair and Estes, the debate focused heavily on GUSA’s perceived shortcomings. Nair characterized GUSA as insular and unrepresentative of the student body, while Estes said GUSA leaders promise too much and are too self-serving.
Sirois, a two-term GUSA senator who served on FinApp, embraced his label as a “GUSA insider.” He said GUSA does good work and noted that his experience within student government has given him the tools to effect positive change, while acknowledging the association’s flaws.
“If you look at our platform, you’ll see a team of people who have done their homework and a team of people who care,” Sirois said. “I get a lot of flack for being a GUSA insider, but I am proud to be a GUSA insider. I recognize GUSA’s flaws but want to go forward and make positive change.”
Sirois opened his remarks by apologizing to “anyone who has been affected” by “any negative discourse that may have gone on over the course of this campaign.” The apology was the product of a pre-debate conversation with Nair, in which Nair raised objections to comments Sirois had made earlier in the campaign that Nair and Rahman viewed as insensitive.
Responding to a question about the most significant shortcoming of the current GUSA administration, Estes said past administrations have failed to advocate fiercely on lowering tuition.
“We have to be able to have this difficult conversation with the administration about tuition,” Estes said. “Year after year the administration will continue to take advantage of us if we do not have a student government that is willing to fight back and push back on these issues that the students care about.”
Student engagement is a continuous problem that every GUSA administration has yet to resolve adequately, according to Nair.
“Year in year out each GUSA administration comes in with the incredible challenge of engaging our campus around an institution that, frankly, the vast majority of Hoyas will not engage with during their time here,” Nair said. “That’s, I think, a challenge that Naba and I are really passionate about tackling.”
Sirois said that communication between GUSA and the student body was a weakness under the current administration of GUSA President Kamar Mack (COL ’19) and Vice President Jessica Andino (COL ’18).
“I would argue that it is valid that there could have been more community and collective student engagement from the GUSA executive administration,” Sirois said. “However, I think if you don’t have a very consistent and operating body as GUSA, we won’t have methods to reach out to other student organizations.” 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 20, 2018 by Paula Hong Leave a Comment 
To counter the threat of digital encroachment on politics, government officials must be forward-thinking to anticipate challenges, said Matt Rhoades, the founder of Definers Public Affairs and the former campaign manager for Governor Mitt Romney’s 2012 presidential campaign, at an event Friday afternoon.
Titled “Defending Digital Democracy: A Conversation on Protecting Campaigns with Robby Mook and Matt Rhoades,” the event featured a conversation between Rhoades and Senior Fellow at Harvard University’s Kennedy School and CNN Contributor Robby Mook, who managed former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign. Mo Elleithee, the executive director of the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service, moderated the event.
The conversation served as a platform for Rhoades and Mook to discuss their recently published “Cybersecurity Campaign Playbook,” a handbook that provides simple and achievable steps to keep a campaign secure, according to the introduction published on the Harvard Belfer Center’s website.
The discussion also focused on digital democracy as a bipartisan issue, a theme demonstrated by the inclusion of political operatives from different parties.
The event opened with a discussion of Russia’s role in the 2016 presidential campaign. Mook emphasized that, to prevent future interference, government officials need to anticipate areas that are susceptible to cyberattack.
“Russians were acting and seeking to either influence or disrupt the election,” Mook said. “The most important thing [is] to be forward-looking — what are we doing to prevent this from happening?”
Rhoades echoed Mook’s sentiment regarding the need to be forward-thinking, adding that he believes it is important to look beyond Russian interference when examining digital encroachment.
“It was all about being forward-looking; however, we need to focus on not just the Russians,” Rhoades said. “In the fall of 2011, I found out that one day our system had been breached by an outside entity in China. There are other states out there, and we are lucky to work at Harvard and the Belfer Center where people are really focused on today’s biggest cybersecurity threats, like Iran.”
The two experts also discussed their motives for publishing the “Cybersecurity Campaign Playbook,” which was published last fall. Rhoades said he was motivated by a need to disseminate practical, easy-to-understand information to communicate how to keep political campaigns free from interference.
“We wanted to do practical things, so first we put together a playbook for people who are working on campaigns all over the country,” Rhoades said. “The first thing about the playbook is that it needed to be practical, digestible and with a lot of free options. That was the theory and concept of why we put it together.”
Defending digital information is crucial, especially given the growing threat of people wanting to exploit digital information, Rhoades said.
“You wouldn’t believe how many leaders are out there who want their own personal accounts,” Rhoades said.
Mook advocated for government action to ensure cybersecurity, encouraging officials to look past just election interference.
“Sometimes our focus was too much on elections and administrators and not enough on legislators and Congress,” Mook said. “The system is set up that it’s not conducive to secure it, but that’s up to the legislators to put pressure on the legislators to get more security measures, to get Congress to put money and resources into the system.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 20, 2018 by Katrina Schmidt 1 Comment 
President Donald Trump’s 2019 budget proposal includes the elimination of the D.C. Tuition Assistance Grant program, which provides grants for Washington, D.C. residents attending college across the country.
DCTAG receives $40 million in annual funding from the federal government that would be eliminated under Trump’s plan. The program currently provides financial assistance to D.C. residents attending public institutions nationwide, as well as private, nonprofit and historically black colleges and universities in the D.C. metro area.The proposed elimination stated that the D.C. government is in a more stable financial position now than it was in 1999, when the program was passed, and that D.C. can find local funds to provide for its residents.
“There are many Federal programs available to all Americans that help ensure continued college access,” the budget proposal read.
The program helps compensate for the lack of in-state university system in the District. While students from nearby Virginia and Maryland can save tens of thousands of dollars on in-state tuition at several public institutions, D.C. has only three public colleges and universities: the National Intelligence University, the University of the District of Columbia and University of the District of Columbia David A. Clarke School of Law.
D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) said this funding is especially important given the current cost of higher education.
“In 2018, when the cost of college is at an all-time high, it is unfathomable that any leader would propose eliminating a program like DCTAG rather than expanding it,” Bowser said in a Feb. 15 emailed statement.
Under the program’s current guidelines, students can receive up to $2,500 for private institutions and HBCUs in the D.C. area, and up to $10,000 for public institutions across the country. Georgetown University is a DCTAG-eligible school, as a nonprofit private university in D.C.
Over 26,000 students have received $350 million in funding through the program since its beginning in 2000, according to District officials. Currently, students at over 300 colleges and universities across the country are beneficiaries of DCTAG.
Advocates of the program say it has helped low- and middle-income D.C. students attend college. Most DCTAG recipients come from families with incomes below $30,000, according to Bowser.
“To reduce inequality and create more pathways to the middle class for our young people and their families, we must continue to open doors of opportunity,” Bowser said in the Feb. 15 statement.
However, critics have cited graduation rates of DCTAG students that are lower than the national average as evidence that the program is unsuccessful.
In November 2017, the Senate Appropriations Committee proposed a bill that would cut spending on DCTAG to $30 million — a 25 percent reduction, but a drastically smaller cut than Trump’s proposal. The appropriations document said only about 51 percent of program participants graduated within six years, compared to the nationwide 60 percent six-year graduation rate, according to the most recent data available.
However, Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.) is a strong proponent of the program, and has announced her commitment to maintaining its funding. She assured students and their families she does not expect DCTAG students to lose their grants.
Norton said DCTAG is generally a bipartisan program, as it has received funding through both the Bush and Obama administrations.
“DCTAG has been funded every year by Republican and Democratic Congresses alike and, unlike Trump this year, Republican presidents as well, since its creation,” Norton said in a Feb. 12 news release. “This draconian and backwards budget shows how out of touch this administration is with reality.”

Martin Block says 
March 3, 2018 at 11:42 pm
I’m sure that the non white population in DC qualifies us as another “sh****le” country in the eyes of this president. And we crow how he feels about those people.  A man who has never had to work a day in his life, who has left a string of failed companies and bankruptcies that harm average businesses, the concept of tuition assistance is as foreign as, well, being faithful to his wives…and he is too stupid to understand that the money goes back to fund state schools. So state residents pay federal tax that in turn funds state schools but this president thinks that’s a bad deal. I bet if the money went to Trump University it would be a fine plan!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 20, 2018 by Meena Morar Leave a Comment 
In the shadow of almost every Georgetown University Student Association presidential candidate, there is a campaign manager striving to launch the ticket to victory on Feb. 22’s election day.
Tasked with communicating their candidates’ platform within the two-week period dictated by GUSA campaign rules, campaign managers devote countless hours to a role frequently overlooked by the student body.
This season, three of four official tickets – Logan Arkema (COL ’20) and Jonathan Compo (COL ’20) have decided to manage their own campaign – have designated a campaign manager to advocate for their vision for Georgetown’s student government. From selecting slogans to strategizing social media campaigns, these students are working behind-the-scenes to create — and, at times, dispel — popular images of their candidates.
Insiders vs. Outsiders
Starting over winter break, Andrew Straky (COL ’20) spent hours planning a platform with his best friend Josh Sirois (SFS ’20), who is running for the GUSA presidency with Casey Doherty (COL ’20) as his running mate.
Drawing from his experience as high school student body president, Straky said he strived to create a sense of authenticity in the candidates’ message of “moving forward.”
“We sat down with the candidates, asked ‘What do you want to do, what are you going to change and how are you going to do it?’” Straky said in an interview with The Hoya. “We wrote everything down, we recorded it and we took quotes exactly from what they said and built the message from that. We really want to make sure that this isn’t a manufactured message or a fake message. We want it to be authentic and actually come from the candidates themselves, not the team of people.”
Straky said the biggest challenge confronting the Sirois-Doherty ticket is combatting the perception that the candidates are insiders who belong to the GUSA establishment.
Sirois is a GUSA senator who has served on the Finance and Appropriations Committee, the senate body that appropriates the Student Activities Fee to student groups, while Doherty has served on GUSA’s Federal and D.C. Relations committee.
 “We have to be conscious of the fact that the other tickets are going to try to frame Josh and Casey as the established, as people who are in GUSA and are part of the problem,” Straky said. “We don’t view that as a bad thing. We don’t think you should have no GUSA involvement before running for the leadership. If you really want to change it, you have to know how it works, what works and what doesn’t.”
Aaron Bennett, campaign manager for Sahil Nair (SFS ’19) and Naba Rahman’s (SFS ’19) presidential bid, has taken the opposite tactic: His campaign capitalizes on the candidate’ status as GUSA outsiders.
Bennett was drawn to the campaign by Rahman, his friend of four years, after the pair jointly organized the National Collegiate Security Conference, a meeting of collegiate Model United Nations teams, last year.
Bennett, who also served as GUSA press secretary under current executives, President Kamar Mack (COL ’19) and Vice President Jessica Andino (COL ’18), was intrigued by Nair and Rahman’s message of expanding GUSA to reach the broader student body.
 “For years we seem to have a student government that is very insular, that is run by a select group of people and finds trouble breaking out of its bubbles,” Bennett said in an interview with The Hoya. “I think the perspective that Naba and Sahil bring, and that I bring as well, that message of breaking GUSA out of its shell and getting more people involved in the process, was really appealing to me.”
For weeks, the campaign struggled to encapsulate the entire Nair-Rahman platform into a single tagline, scrapping so many ideas along the way, including “Let’s write this together,” that they nearly ordered their banner too late to hang in Red Square for the campaign’s launch Feb. 8.
Ultimately, the team settled on “Because every voice matters,” a tagline Bennett said captures the candidates’ view that for too long student government has been by GUSA, for GUSA.
“As the campaign manager, you have to ask those tough questions of, ‘Is this something you want to move forward with?’” Bennett said. “The tagline is one of the most critical parts of your brand. At the end of the day, the message needs to resonate with voters, the people.”
Strength Through Service
Similarly, Charles Edward Johnson III (COL ’19), deputy campaign manager for the presidential bid of Hunter Estes (SFS ’19) and Richard Howell (SFS ’19), said the campaign’s focus on inclusivity was the impetus behind the “It’s About You” slogan, which aims to express a platform that is built around on students’ needs.
“Although this sounds platitudinous, it’s not about filling resumes or trying to further our own objectives,” Johnson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Student government should be for the students first, and I hope that people recognize this in the coming weeks.”
Nevertheless, Johnson said one of the main challenges on the campaign was dispelling preconceived notions about his candidate’s commitment to inclusivity, given their previous involvement in Georgetown University College Republicans.
“While it may be easy to put labels on candidates due to prior knowledge, as both candidates have served on the board of College Republicans, we want to prove that we are accepting of all students here,” Johnson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We on this campaign respect the dignity and identity of all students, faculty, and staff, and hope to foster a campus of unity.”
Johnson, who works under campaign manager Claire Smith (COL ’19), said the Estes-Howell campaign also navigated other obstacles, including the removal of  its banner from Red Square and a shorter timespan to plan the campaign’s strategy relative to that of other candidates.
Claire Smith (COL ’19), campaign manager for the Estes-Howell campaign, could not be reached for comment.
“We have been planning the campaign for a shorter time than others, but we can mobilize and reach out to wonderful communities across campus. By working together, we will have a big impact on this campus,” Johnson wrote. “Unfortunately, we saw the banner come down in Red Square, but this does not let the campaign down or set a bad omen. Resilience is a necessary quality to have in politics, and that this campaign’s resilience, optimism, and tenacity must not be overlooked.”
Nevertheless, Johnson said the central plank of the Estes-Howell ticket, service, shines through in the campaign. This theme, along with his friendship with the candidates, was what drew him to join the campaign in the first place.
“I think that is definitely our core tenet,” Johnson said. “We have had a card-making event in Sellinger where we made cards for hospitalized children around D.C., as well as handed out messages of kindness during midterms. Georgetown can be an incredibly stressful place, as we all seek to be perfect and successful, but we also want to be a community that supports each other, regardless of competition.”
Seriously Kidding
Unlike the three other tickets, Logan Arkema (COL ’20) and Jonathan Compo (COL ’20) have eschewed the role of a campaign manager in favor of a nonhierarchical campaign structure modeled after Arkema’s experiences with the Georgetown Solidarity Committee, a worker’s advocacy group.
This structure is just another flourish on an already unconventional campaign, which features Arkema and Compo adopting the personas of fictional comic book characters Batman and Robin.
Although Arkema hopes his satirical candidacy provides “comic relief” in the presidential race, he says his campaign is belied by a sincere message: GUSA is a body that takes itself too seriously.
“There are a lot of well-meaning people in it, but there are also a lot of people in it who seem to only want a job for their resume and portray themselves in a more serious [way] than is becoming of a student government that has no binding authority on pretty much anything,” Arkema said.
In the run-up to the election this week, Arkema stressed the factors that set his campaign apart: a little bit of disruption and a lot of fun. Still, he acknowledged that his intention was never to win the election, and that remaining in character can sometimes induce strain, particularly on his voice.
“I felt like the campus could use something a little bit different,” Arkema said. “I’m not here to win. I’m here to have a fun time. This has been my creative fun project for me.”
But the Arkema-Compo campaign shared at least one characteristic with the three other tickets: its emphasis on opening up GUSA to outsiders.
“People who don’t share the identities that we do need to be the ones who are making the decisions and having greater influence in GUSA,” Arkema said. “People appreciate realism and frankness, and breaking the Georgetown bubble that we are tempted to create for ourselves.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

