
April 12, 2018 by Elizabeth Douglas Leave a Comment 
Students at Howard University in northwest Washington, D.C., occupied an on-campus administrative building for nine days in protest of the current president and vice president of the university, as well as university policies regarding student housing, financial aid and the arming of campus police, among other issues.
The protests occurred after a since-deleted article published by the blogging platform Medium anonymously alleged large-scale misappropriation of financial aid funds in Howard’s Office of Financial Aid. In response, Howard released a report Monday admitting to an ongoing investigation into the misappropriation of funds, which led to the termination of six financial aid office student-employees. Howard has declined to name any of the six employees.
Howard announced Monday that, in total, $369,000 in financial aid money had been misappropriated, according to an April 9 article from The Washington Post.
The students occupied the Mordecai Wyatt Johnson administration building from March 29 through April 6. About 600 to 700 were in the building at any given time during the occupation, according to Howard University Student Association President Jade Agudosi.
Protesters’ list of demands included the resignation of the university president and vice president, extension of the campus housing deadline, the disarming of campus police, transport to D.C. hospitals for victims of sexual assault, improved campus mental health services, a food pantry and a dedication to opposition to gentrification.
The protests were the culmination of long-simmering frustration among students at Howard, said Agudosi.
“Every year there are seasons of Howard scandal that arise,” Agudosi said in an interview with The Hoya. “Not oftentimes are there huge financial aid scandals like this, but there are issues like Homeless at Howard, with students who aren’t guaranteed their housing assignments, although they should have been.”
The frustration is frequently directed at Howard University President Wayne Frederick, whose resignation was a demand of the protesters. Agudosi cited Frederick’s response to students’ housing concerns, which has become infamous on campus, as an example of poor leadership that has contributed to long-term student anger.
“The university president responded to students who had reached out to him over email about their housing situation with ‘Watch your tone and tenor,’ as opposed to giving them an adequate response or at least having some form of compassion or care for the concerns that those students had outlined in that email,” Agudosi said.
Amos Jackson III, the president of the Howard College of Arts and Sciences and HUSA President-Elect, noted that HU Resist, the student group that organized the protest, released its list of demands before the publication of the Medium article; the article expanded the movement that was already brewing.
“HU Resist has been organizing, has been protesting, has been demonstrating for a year and a half now,” Jackson said in an interview with The Hoya. “Those demands are based on all the research they had conducted. They seized this opportunity to gain more support.”
Jackson said most of the demands of the protest have been met, except for the resignation of university president.
“We didn’t get the resignation of the board and the president, but we knew from the beginning that was going to be a hard feat,” Jackson said. “I think what we got will serve the university well and bring about a lot of change to the university.”
Agudosi said that the main goals of the protest have been achieved and that moving forward there will be more outlets for grievances to be heard in the campus community.
“Our main goal was for there to be transparency, accountability, accessibility to the administrators of the university, the president of the university and the board of trustees. I think that was established,” Agudosi said. “There’s going to be a grievance committee comprised of students, faculty and some of the administrative staff as well. It’s about having that pipeline, where you have that connection to the students, so we don’t have to occupy a building for our voices to be heard.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 12, 2018 by Emma Kotfica Leave a Comment 
A petition to reduce aircraft noise in the Georgetown neighborhood resulting from recently altered flight paths at Ronald Reagan National Airport was dismissed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit on March 27.
Proposed by the D.C. Fair Skies Coalition, a group of neighborhood activists from around Washington, D.C., the petition came in response to the Federal Aviation Administration’s revision of flight patterns around D.C. airports and across the country.
The flight paths have been revised based on the NextGen plan, which utilizes satellite-based navigation to increase fuel efficiency, save time and increase airplane capacity at airports, according to a March 28 WTOP article. The increased efficiency causes planes to take off more often and at lower altitudes, leading to an increase in the volume and frequency of airplane noise all over the country.
The D.C. Fair Skies Coalition, with the help of Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.), filed the initial petition to the FAA in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in 2015. The appeals court ruled the petition to be untimely, saying its “final order” had come in 2013. The petition had come after the 60-day statutory time limit, and there were “no reasonable grounds for delay,” according to the court.
“Federal law requires that petitions seeking review of FAA actions be filed within sixty days of the agency’s final order,” the court said. “We dismiss the petition as untimely.”
The D.C. Fair Skies Coalition said that it does not believe the FAA provided adequate notice to District residents that the organization would be revising flight plans, and that it is considering requesting a rehearing from the court and directly petitioning the FAA, according to an April 2 news release.
Georgetown University students and faculty have noticed the increased air traffic. Charlotte Lindsay (COL ’20) said excessive airplane noise has bothered her during her time at Georgetown, which lies on flight paths to and from Ronald Reagan National Airport.
“I think it’s definitely excessive in our area, and especially in class sometimes it’s hard to hear what your teacher is saying because of all the noise, or trying to go to sleep at night can be difficult,” Lindsay said.
In September 2017, Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan (R) directed Maryland Attorney General Brian Frosh to sue the FAA over the flight patterns to and from BWI Thurgood Marshall Airport. The order was made “on behalf of all Marylanders suffering from the adverse effects of the implementation of the Next Generation Air Transportation System,” according to a September 2017 article from The Baltimore Sun.
“This program has made many Maryland families miserable in their own homes with louder and more frequent flights which now rattle windows and doors,” Hogan wrote in his letter to Frosh. “As elected leaders of this state, we cannot allow this situation to stand.”
In a response letter to Hogan, the FAA said “reverting to the flight paths and procedures that existed prior to the implementation of the DC Metroplex project is not possible,” according to the Baltimore Sun article. The D.C. Metroplex consists of BWI, Reagan and Dulles International Airport.
While frustrated with the level of airplane noise, Lindsay also said she understood why the NextGen plan is more favorable to travellers and why the FAA may be reluctant to change flight paths.
“As somebody who would be on a plane, I would be annoyed if I had to take a longer flight path just because of a few people complaining about noise,” Lindsay said. “I feel like a big part of it is the nature of living in a city. It’s the sacrifice we have to make.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

