
February 9, 2018 by Sarah Wright 2 Comments 
A racist incident at nearby The George Washington University has spurred conversations on Georgetown University’s campus about how clubs should be accountable for their members’ behavior.
Unlike universities such as GWU, where organizations can face repercussions for the misconduct of individual members, Georgetown’s policies under the Student Activities Commission generally preclude sanctioning clubs based on actions of individual members.
The GWU Student Association senate voted unanimously on Monday to bar the university’s chapter of the Alpha Phi sorority from campus after a member disseminated a racist image on social media.
The photograph shared through social media platform Snapchat featured two white Alpha Phi sorority members holding a banana with the caption, “I’m 1/16 black.” Alpha Phi has suspended three members involved in the photograph.
This incident comes less than a year after a widely publicized racist episode at American University last May, when bananas hanging from nooses were found in three separate locations at the university’s Washington, D.C. campus.
The displays were inscribed with the words “AKA,” believed to be in reference to then-newly elected AU Student Government President Taylor Dumpson, the first black woman to hold the position and a member of Alpha Kappa Alpha, a predominately black sorority. American University campus police investigated the incident as a hate crime, though no suspect was ever apprehended.
Georgetown has not been immune to racist incidents on campus either. Last September, four swastikas were painted in LXR Hall, the two most recent of which were found during the Jewish holiday of Rosh Hashanah. During the 2016-17 academic year, students were informed of at least eight other bias-related incidents, including campus assaults on students wearing hijabs.
The leaders of Georgetown’s NAACP chapter expressed their solidarity with GWU students and recognized the prevalence of racial misconduct at schools in Washington, D.C.
“These occurrences at other universities so close to our own campus demonstrate that attending college even in our nation’s capital means nothing in regard to experiencing these reprehensible actions,” the group wrote in a statement to The Hoya. “When tackling racism both on our campus and in the public sphere, it is imperative to examine how white supremacy lurks in the spaces that we think are safe.”
Roopa Mulpuri (SFS ’18), president of Georgetown’s chapter of professional foreign service sorority Delta Phi Epsilon, said the culture of Greek life organizations is one in which racism persists.
“I think what some people might fail to realize is that the racial inequality and discrimination that exists in our country is more deeply entrenched in Greek life than might be obvious to outsiders who don’t participate in it and who don’t have any experience with it,” Mulpuri said. “As the president of a non-traditional sorority, I think I can more clearly see that.”
While Georgetown does not recognize fraternities or sororities as formal clubs eligible for benefits under the Center for Student Engagement, their presence still contributes to campus culture. About 10 percent of Georgetown students belong to a Greek organization on campus, according to the Georgetown University Student Association.
By comparison, roughly 26 percent of GWU undergraduate students are members of fraternities or sororities, which are formally recognized under the university’s Division of Student Affairs.
Before the Student Association senate voted to remove Alpha Phi’s chapter from GWU’s campus, the university’s NAACP chapter released a statement condemning the sorority’s acts and calling on administrators to hold the entire sorority chapter accountable.
“Due to the insensitivities shown by Alpha Phi, we demand the university immediately reprimand the sorority. This is not just a failure of policy by the sorority, but a perpetuation of a culture of hatred and endemic in the Panhellenic & Inter-Fraternal Greek communities,” read the statement.
The possible removal of the Alpha Phi chapter sharply contrasts with the existing policies at Georgetown, which do not hold clubs themselves accountable for the actions of their members, according to Student Activities Commission Chair Kylie Navarro (COL ’20).
“In the spirit of allowing our organizations to operate as autonomously as possible, SAC has no jurisdiction over the individual members of any organization,” Navarro wrote in an email to The Hoya. “As such, it would be extremely difficult for the actions of an individual to threaten their entire club’s standing with SAC, unless that individual was acting on behalf of the organization as a whole.”
Nevertheless, provisions dictated by the Center for Student Engagement exist to ensure clubs foster an atmosphere consistent with the university’s standards. New clubs seeking recognition and eligibility for university resources must go through New Club Development, a SAC-run process in which club leaders must submit a club constitution, complete training and comply with the “Student Organization Standards” posted on the Division of Student Affairs website.
“All of the organizations that SAC currently recognizes and funds have passed through our New Club Development (NCD) process, which means at one point the commission found them to be in compliance with our standards,” Navarro wrote.
These standards overseen by SAC include a section titled “Compliance with University Policy,” which states groups are ineligible for access to benefits if their purpose or activities, among other criteria, “foster hatred or intolerance of others because of their race, nationality, gender, religion or sexual preference, or are inconsistent with acceptable conduct at an American university committed to the Roman Catholic moral tradition.”
SAC can only intervene to remove a club’s recognition if its mission or actions as a whole fail to comply with this university policy. But resources are available to clubs to ensure they are staying on track and in compliance with university policy, according to Assistant Dean of Student Engagement Erika Cohen Derr.
Furthermore, two officers from each student organization are required to undergo Blueprint Training, which assesses how closely organizations are complying with the missions stated in their constitutions.
“At that meeting they’ll cover things like, ‘have you looked at your constitution lately? How are you doing? Are you adhering to it? Is there anything in there, do you need to update it or review it for any reason?’” Cohen Derr said.
In its statement, the Georgetown NAACP stressed that university administrators should take initiative in reprimanding students who are involved in racist acts.
“Universities need to devise more immediate and standardized recourse for such inexcusable actions in order to deter others from indulging in ignorance,” the statement reads. “There needs to be a greater push from administration to prove that there are indeed consequences for malicious acts of overt and covert anti-black racism,” they wrote.
Mulpuri explained the importance of internal club accountability and of maintaining diverse and inclusive communities within organizations. DPE has an internal committee that handles infractions of any kind and sanctions members who behave in an intentionally discriminatory manner.
“As a woman of color, I have been forced to grapple with how mainstream Greek life has played a role in perpetuating gendered and racialized power dynamics that continue to marginalize minorities,” Mulpuri said. “I think it is impossible to foster a community of respect and empowerment — which are the bedrock of DPE — with that kind of behavior and prejudice.”
Navarro strongly condemned the racist actions on GWU’s and AU’s campuses, but said ultimately, it is not within SAC’s role to punish clubs for the actions of individuals who do not represent the group as a whole.
“SAC cannot sanction individuals within an organization, nor should we sanction an entire organization based on the actions of an individual in general,” Navarro said. “It is our hope that the leadership boards within our organizations would take the appropriate steps to deal with the actions of individual members, should this problem ever come up.”
In reflecting on what she would hope the Georgetown administration would do in an incident similar to the one at GWU, Mulpuri grappled with how best to move forward.
“The harder question to ask is, is the best thing to remove them and jump to punitive action? Or should we look at these instances of racism as an opportunity to educate, to expose people to a new perspective and understand why this is happening?” Mulpuri said. “This is the larger question that we are facing as a society right now.”

Louisa says 
February 9, 2018 at 5:51 pm
To be fair, GW’s SA doesn’t actually have the power to remove Alpha Phi from campus. They may have voted to do so, but the vote will have next to no impact on what happens next. It will be up to Alpha Phi National and the GW administration if they stay on campus. And I would be shocked if they were kicked off.

Selina Rodrigues says 
February 9, 2018 at 5:54 pm
An even bigger question prompted by the GW incident: who is responsible when a member of the African American community captions and posts a picture of two of her white sorority sisters with a banana peel – initiating the outcry? This detail has been intentionally concealed by administrators and press (to protect? The student) but seriously calls into question the mob rally to eliminate an organization that actually included members of underrepresented student populations only to have it come back in an incredibly damaging way. Sad to see these two women and an entire sorority branded “racists” for a “joke” posted by a member of the group most negatively affected by the comments. Let’s go back to education and reason and stop this pitchfork and torch response to incidents. There is constructive learning to come from these incidents but only when the facts of the incident are not omitted. When the fact comes to light that this was all sparked by a member of the African American community, it will have a chilling effect on legitimate conversations about racism on GWs campus and leave the administrators with egg on their face.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 9, 2018 by Will Cassou Leave a Comment 
Giving a face to immigrants without documentation is essential to advocating for their rights, Cardinal Joseph Tobin said during a visit to Georgetown University on Monday.
Tobin, the archbishop of Newark, N.J., John Carr, director of the Initiative on Catholic Social Thought and Public Life at Georgetown, Mizraim Belman Guerrero (SFS ’20) and Habon Ali (SFS ’18) discussed the role of the church in advocating for refugees and immigrants without documentation in a Dahlgren Chapel panel discussion.
Before the panel, Tobin and Carr held a press briefing in Maguire Hall on the same topic.
The Dahlgren Dialogues, a series of discussions on social justice, are organized by Georgetown University’s Initiative on Catholic Social Thought and Public Life.
Tobin said religious leaders must voice their support for immigrants to affirm their humanity to the public.
“If we recognize the humanity of a person, we find it much more difficult to treat them inhumanely. And so why I think it’s important religious leaders stand with immigrants is to put a face on them, so people who want to do inhumane things know what they’re doing,” Tobin said at the press briefing.
Tobin said the issue of supporting students without documentation is moral, but also inherently political — which is not a problem, in his view.
“I don’t think the [Catholic] Church is barred from commenting on political issues,” Tobin said during the press briefing. “There is a distinction between the political sphere and the religious. But that distinction begins to diminish when you begin to look at what both are purportedly about, and that’s the common good. It’s about human flourishing. It’s about men and women at their best, so we have an interest in the polis, which is the common good.”
Tobin advocated a legislative replacement for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, an executive program established in 2012 by the Obama administration that provide work authorization and legal protection to about 800,000 immigrants without documentation who came to the United States as children.
However, Tobin warned that a legislative compromise could lead to a bill with provisions with negative outcomes for immigrants.
“I personally feel we should hold out for a clean DACA because I’m very concerned. And I think I’m not simply being hysterical, if you examine the budget proposals, the administration is preparing for a mass deportation,” Cardinal Tobin said at a press briefing. “If we accept a deal uncritically thinking that’s all we can get, well, then we may be establishing a foundation that will result in a greater harm.”
Following a 2015 terrorist attack in Paris for which the Islamic terror group ISIS claimed responsibility, 31 state governors, including then-governor of Indiana and current Vice President Mike Pence, attempted to bar Syrian refugees from entering their states.
Tobin, who was at the time the archbishop of Indianapolis, requested to meet with Pence in order to introduce him to an Iraqi immigrant and naturalized citizen. Tobin said he wanted to show Pence the types of people his actions would affect.
“My intention was to say, ‘This is what a refugee looks like,’” Tobin said during the Dahlgren Dialogue. “He was very happy to explain to the governor all he was doing and how much he loves his job as a coffee manager.”
Belman Guerrero echoed Tobin’s sentiment.
“What I tried to emphasize in my remarks was the need to continue to humanize the conversation,” Belman Guerrero wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Another point that I highlighted is the need to stop looking for the ‘perfect immigrant’ and to focus on the humanity of each individual migrant.”
“If you’re talking about human beings, statistics are going to rob them of their face,” Tobin said during the press briefing.
Tobin illustrated his point with a quote attributed to Mark Twain: “There are three types of lies: Lies, damned lies, and statistics.”
Since leaving Indiana to come to the East Coast, Tobin said he has continued to focus on ways he can use his role to help immigrants without documentation.
“I asked every parish in the archdiocese to have a workshop that informs undocumented [immigrants] what their rights really are,” Tobin said during the press briefing. “Secondly, it’s working with coalitions of very generous attorneys to give, to the best of our ability, guaranteed representation.”
Tobin traces back his motivation to help undocumented immigrants to his Catholic faith and to his upbringing.
“People of goodwill wonder why the most helpless and vulnerable people of society are subjected to the most inhumane treatment,” Tobin said during the press briefing. “We felt it was part of our mission as the Catholic community to find a home [for those] who were fleeing from violence.”
During the Dahlgren Dialogue, Tobin recounted growing up in a diverse Detroit neighborhood and his attraction to the church for its willingness to stand with people of all origins.
Tobin also acknowledged the deep-rooted compassion for immigrants that exists within the Catholic faith, referencing a verse in the Book of Exodus – you shall not wrong an alien, “for you once were aliens,” Tobin said.
Special to The Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 9, 2018 by Meena Morar Leave a Comment 
Voting rights activists Valencia Richardson (LAW ’20) and Maydee Martinez (COL ’18) accepted appointments Jan. 23 to join the inaugural Puffin Fellows program, a fellowship from the Andrew Goodman Foundation that focuses on expanding voting access.
The foundation was founded in 1966 by the parents of civil rights and voting rights activist Andrew Goodman, who was murdered by members of the Ku Klux Klan in 1964. The foundation emphasizes voter mobilization through initiatives such as its Vote Everywhere program and its newly announced fellowship program.
The Puffin Fellows program is a multiyear fellowship targeted at graduate students, fostering activism and increased civic engagement. The five fellows hail from across the country, all with their own individualized focus.
Each fellow has had previous experience with the Andrew Goodman Foundation before being appointed to the cohort of fellows. Although each fellow has his or her own project, the fellows are intended to work collaboratively.
“We get to check in on each other, we have biweekly calls, so we really play a role in each other’s projects as far as keeping each other accountable and giving advice,” Richardson said in an interview with The Hoya.
Valencia Richardson
Richardson’s project focuses on increasing voting access for students through reform of voter ID laws. She previously interned with the Andrew Goodman Foundation during her entire undergraduate career at Louisiana State University.
“My passion is accessibility,” Richardson said. “Specifically, how do we make it easier for students to vote, and what things are blocking and making it harder for people to vote?”
Throughout her time with the foundation, Richardson has helped lobby for legislation in Louisiana that requires four-year colleges and universities to conform their student IDs to state regulations that would allow students to use their university-issued IDs as valid voter identification.
House Bill 940, the bill Richardson promoted, now mandates public universities to design student IDs suitable to be used as voter IDs, according to the Andrew Goodman Foundation. Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards (D) signed the bill into law in June 2016, and it is set to take full effect in January 2019.
Richardson said she is excited to expand her work to other states.
“The expansion of the work is so incredibly exciting,” Richardson said. “Using our experience and our resources to really just make huge changes to our communities. There are other states who are stricter than others regarding their ID policy for college students.”
Voting rights reforms are necessary to remedy the lower voter participation rates among college students, according to Richardson.
In the 2016 election, turnout among eligible voters between the ages of 18 and 35 was 49.4 percent, compared to 61.4 percent turnout for all voting-age adults.
“People in general not only underestimate our students, but they also don’t understand that students are interested in the issues that are facing them today,” Richardson said. “People largely underestimate the barriers by which they are blocked from being able to participate in our democracy. Instead of asking, ‘Why don’t students vote?’ We should all be reframing the question to: ‘Why can’t students vote?’ ”
Maydee Martinez
A transfer student from Miami Dade College, Martinez is majoring in sociology with a minor in government. Martinez said she is committed to helping increase voter mobilization by working on projects she started as a leader in the Vote Everywhere intiative.
“By being part of the Puffin Fellows, I am continuing Andy’s legacy,” Martinez wrote in an email to The Hoya. “A lot of the work I did in my community prior coming to Georgetown was non-partisan work focused on getting my generation to take ownership of the world around them and make impactful change, starting at the local level.”
Martinez’s work emphasizes voter education and civic literacy. The program hopes to make voter education “accessible, fun and engaging,” according to Martinez.
“Voter education is the foundation of our democracy,” Martinez wrote. “How can we expect everyone to be registered and turnout for elections when the average person doesn’t fully understand how our government works, or the roles and responsibilities of our elected officials, especially on the local level?”
Martinez added she is “excited” about working with “such an incredible group of individuals that have already done amazing work in their communities.”
“I already consider them a family given the work and support we gave each other as ambassadors,” Martinez wrote.
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 9, 2018 by Emma Kotfica Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Law Center’s Institute for Constitutional Advocacy and Prevention is seeking a court order to prevent militia-style displays of force at a second “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville, Va., after a recent study from the organization found all 50 states have constitutional provisions that could be used to prohibit the activity of paramilitary and private militia.
The action was discussed during a Feb. 8 conference call. Members of the Georgetown community were invited to join the call, during which ICAP attorneys discussed their research into legal provisions that officials can use to prevent armed groups from “sowing fear and violence at demonstrations.”
The August 2017 “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville descended into violent confrontations between white nationalist demonstrators and counterprotestors that left one person dead and more than 30 people injured. Subsequent “White Lives Matter” rallies have been planned in other places throughout the United States such as Bedford and Rutherford Counties, Tenn., according to ICAP.
ICAP is now seeking a court order that would prevent defendants from returning to Virginia and before the Aug. 12 anniversary of the “Unite the Right” rally, on which date organizers have pledged to return.
“In this country, we respect and protect the rights of all to demonstrate for what they believe in,” McCord said. “But the Constitution does not give private armed groups the right to engage in paramilitary activity or usurp the role of authorized law enforcement.”
ICAP attorneys also visited Shelbyville and Murfreesboro, Tenn., to coordinate with local officials to incorporate provisions into event permits that would further restrict the use of weapons and impose time and geographic restrictions on demonstrations.
Adam Tucker, assistant city attorney for Murfreesboro, said he felt it prudent to work with ICAP lawyers to draw up conditions and restrictions for the rallies that ensure the preservation of First Amendment rights while also protecting public safety.
“We were very concerned that the ‘White Lives Matter’ rallies would escalate into the kind of violence that took place during the ‘Unite the Right’ rally last August,” Tucker said in a Feb. 8 news release.
The provisions put in place by local authorities with the help of ICAP worked to reduce violence and chaos on the days of the planned rallies at Murfreesboro and Shelbyville, according to Tucker.
“In the events at Shelbyville and Murfreesboro together, there were no reported injuries, there was no reported damage, and there was only one demeanor arrest made in Shelbyville,” Tucker said on the conference call.
Tucker said planning by law enforcement, a unified command structure and proactive communication from the event organizers to attendees about rules were important factors in minimizing potential problems.
The language of demonstration permits designed by ICAP prevents demonstrators from intimidating counterprotestors — as occurred in Charlottesville — which Tucker said may have contributed to the relative clam of the Murfreesboro and Shelbyville rallies.
“Perhaps the league’s leaders recognized that they might not be able to control the behavior of everyone attending this event, and that their inability to do so might find them facing a lawsuit similar to the one filed against them in Virginia,” Tucker said.
ICAP’s research found that all 50 states have at least one of four types of statutes that outline a government monopoly on force to protect public safety.
The Virginia state constitution includes three of the four types of statues: the first, third, and fourth categories of provisions.
The first category, found in 48 states, states the military must be subordinate to civil authorities. The second, found in 28 states, prohibits groups from organizing as private military units without government authorization. The third, found in 25 states, criminalizes certain paramilitary actions, including assembly to practice training with firearms. The fourth, found in 12 states, bans the false assumption of the duties of a peace officer or the donning of military uniforms or close imitations.
Mary McCord, senior litigator from practice at ICAP, said the violence during the rally in Charlottesville was in fact planned beforehand by the offending groups.
“We saw violence almost from the very start, well before again the protest was even scheduled to begin,” McCord said. “And we know from reviewing the planning documents and the planning of organizational meetings that took place before the event, there just was the intent of the alt-right white national group that was to provoke counterprotestors to engage in initial acts of violence so that they could fight back with severe violence and claim self-defense.”
Clarification: The headline and first paragraph have been updated to reflect that ICAP is seeking to block militia-style displays of force at planned future rallies, not to prevent white nationalists from assembling.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

