
February 25, 2018 by Christian Paz 2 Comments 
High school students who participate in peaceful protests, such as demonstrations concerning gun reform, will not face negative admissions repercussions when applying to Georgetown University, the Office of Undergraduate Admissions announced yesterday, joining peer institutions in showing support for student activists.
“We provide applicants an opportunity to elaborate on any disciplinary infraction and carefully consider all context they provide,” the Twitter announcement read. “Participation in peaceful protest will not negatively impact admission to Georgetown.”
The admissions office’s announcement yesterday evening comes as various high school officials across the country, including the superintendent of the Needville Independent School District near Houston, threaten disciplinary action such as suspensions for students who participate in school walkouts over gun violence in the wake of the massacre of 17 people at a high school in Florida.
Students have reported concerns over disciplinary measures from high school officials and college admissions offices as a consequence of participating in protests or walking out of classes.
We provide all applicants an opportunity to elaborate on any disciplinary infraction and carefully consider all context they provide. Participation in a peaceful protest will not negatively impact admission to Georgetown.
— Georgetown Admissions (@gogeorgetown) February 26, 2018

Schools like Yale University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, The George Washington University and Dartmouth all expressed support for students participating in peaceful walkouts for gun control over the past four days.
Here at @Yale, we are proud to support all students for participating in peaceful walkouts for gun control or other causes, and we will not rescind admissions decisions for students who do so regardless of any school’s disciplinary policy. Read more here:https://t.co/dX863n8v1K pic.twitter.com/Zixpoj3L1P
— Yale Admissions (@YaleUGA) February 24, 2018

High school students across the United States are leading protests in support of gun reform and gun violence prevention legislation following a school shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., on Feb. 14, when a former student opened fire, killing 14 students and three staff members, and injuring 14 others.
The shooting was one of the 10 deadliest school shootings in U.S. history and sparked a wave of student-led protests around the country in places like Parkland, Tallahassee, Fla., and Washington, D.C., in addition to renewed calls for increased gun control measures.
Students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas have rallied with gun control group Everytown for Gun Safety to organize a March 24, 2018 protest in the District dubbed the March for Our Lives, and have garnered national attention.
Prominent celebrities including Oprah Winfrey and Amal and George Clooney, as well as clothing brand Gucci, have announced they would each donate $500,000 to the demonstration.
The activist group Women’s March has also organized a national school walkout, #Enough, for March 14 to protest federal government inaction on gun violence prevention. A group of 10 Georgetown students is organizing a walkout on that day as part of the national protest.

Karl says 
February 28, 2018 at 2:20 pm
where was this when GSC protested against Nike?? Those students got put on disciplinary probation 1

Ari Shapiro says 
March 2, 2018 at 10:54 am
If only Georgetown was consistent in its treatment of active students protesting… 
https://www.thehoya.com/gsc-sanctioned-for-sit-in-violations/
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

