
January 29, 2018 by Emma Kotfica Leave a Comment 
Global political and economic conflicts pose a threat to democracy, according to Annie Wilcox Boyajian, the lead advocacy manager at Freedom House, an independent organization that ranks countries based on their freedoms. Boyajian spoke at a panel event called “Leading From Below: Democracy Support in a New Era,” hosted by the Georgetown University Master’s Program in Democracy and Governance on Friday afternoon.
Kenneth Wollack, president of the National Democratic Institute and co-editor of the informational newsletter Middle East Policy Survey, was the event’s keynote speaker. In addition to Boyajian, the panel featured Georges Fauriol, vice president of programs at the National Endowment for Democracy and Thomas Melia, fellow at the George W. Bush Institute and chair of the board of directors of the Project on Middle East Democracy.
The event marked the 10th anniversary of Georgetown’s Master’s Program in Democracy and Governance, which was established in 2008 to help students better understand the democratic processes of government and how officials implement policies to achieve their goals.
The experts on democratic freedoms discussed the current state of freedom in the world, specifically noting the impact of President Donald Trump’s election on democracies around the world.
Conflict is not constrained to one area, Wollack said. He referenced the 2018 Democracy Index released Jan. 18 by Freedom House, which showed that the United States’ freedom ranking dropped from previous years.
Freedom House rates countries based on their perceived freedoms on a scale from zero to 100, with 100 being the freest and zero being the least. The United States’ rating fell to 86 in 2018 from 89 in 2017.
“We now know from issues like terrorism, migration flows and disease, that unlike that famous tagline in advertising marketing, what happens in places like [El] Salvador or Syria doesn’t stay there,” Wollack said. “Now there is widespread concern in our community about the Trump administration seeming to retreat from America’s traditional role in advancing global democracy.”
Wollack also expressed fear of the effect Trump’s “America First” foreign policy plan will have on democracy around the world.
“The Freedom House report points to the administration’s skepticism toward international alliances with other democracies, the absence of democracy rhetoric in the president’s public speeches and his stated admiration for some of the world’s strongmen,” Wollack said.
Boyajian agreed that the “America First” foreign policy strategy may create concern about America’s leadership ability, but she was optimistic about the United States’ potential to influence the global community.
“We’re still a huge economic power; we still have enormous soft power,” Boyajian said. “People will still listen to the United States, so I think we have an obligation as a democracy, a co-democracy community, to push the U.S. to do more and to use that strategy and the rhetoric in the strategy to hold the administration accountable.”
Fauriol discussed the importance of “leading from below,” noting that low-power actors play a role in influencing the leadership of an organization. In the context of a democratic society, Fauriol said, “leading from below” is an integral part in promoting democracy.
“For me, the ‘leading from below’ concept is not a new adaptation to the preceding natures to the U.S. democracy assistance policy,” Fauriol said. “Probably one of its continuing elements is that it actually is working from below, that’s its energy — it represents the reality, if you will, of the potential of a democratic society.”
Melia said he was optimistic about the future of global democracy, though he cautioned against a competitive mindset when considering the pursuit of democracy and prosperity.
“If you think that our prosperity in the world is a zero-sum game, it’s dog-eat-dog,” Melia said. “If you think that our prosperity can be shared and our security can be widened if other people have more of that too, then you have a whole different personality.”
Wollack also said he classified himself as a political optimist despite the current negative trends in worldwide democracy that are causing others in his field to worry.
“I confess to being an incurable optimist who for 32 years has worked in the optimism business,” Wollack said. “Given the negative trends over the past decade, a period of time that coincidentally spanned the existence of this program, I, like my chairman Madeleine Albright, remain an optimist but I can see optimists who are now worried a lot.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 29, 2018 by Joe Egler 3 Comments 
Memes are the future of the music promotion business because they help connect artists with their fans, American professional music critic Anthony Fantano said at an event hosted by the Georgetown University Lecture Fund on Jan. 25.
Fantano, who calls himself “the internet’s busiest music nerd,” launched his music vlog “The Needle Drop” in 2007. The vlog features music reviews and weekly music roundups and has over 1.2 million YouTube subscribers.
At last week’s event in Pedro Arrupe, S.J. Hall, Fantano spoke about emerging trends in music promotion and music engagement in the internet age, especially the role of internet memes, in helping musicians promote their work.
Fantano said memes and popular music both make use of memorable catchphrases and notable imagery that resonate with fans and followers.
“Music and memes share a very common virality,” Fantano said. “In the same way that a meme is shared again and again because you love it and you think it’s hilarious, that’s how people share music, if you really love a song. Music, unlike a movie, or sculpture, or painting, is so easily shareable, just like a meme.”
In recent years, Fantano said, the industry has seen an increase in the feedback loop between songs and internet culture: more memes come from songs, and more songs come from memes.
Some artists, most notably the rapper Drake, reference popular internet memes in songs and music videos, while others write lyrics aimed at making a splash online. Fantano allued to rapper Bobby Shmurda’s fame owing in part to a dance move he makes in a 2014 music video. Fantano also noted artists such as Justin Bieber, Lil Pump and XXXTentacion.
“Music has always had this portability to it that I think memes also share. So it’s pretty easy to share it with your friends, show it to your friends and, if you’ve got a sound system, show it to a large number of people,” Fantano said. “A lot of the things that end up being memes or end up becoming memetic in a way are catchy one-liners, lyrical phrases.”
Fantano said the music business’s adoption of memes can form closer relationships to fans. He pointed to the band Death Grips’ interaction with fans on social media as an example of an increased connection between the music industry and its fans.
“When artists embrace the meme, it creates these opportunities for interactions with their fans,” Fantano said.
The increased use of memes in the music industry, though nontraditional as a way to connect with fans, should be embraced and supported, according to Fantano.
“If you have people memeing, I would say embrace that fully,” Fantano said. “Share it, interact with it, spread it yourself. Take part in it, because what that is a signal of is that there’s a community out there having fun with what you do.”
Ultimately, Fantano said, the rise of memes in the music industry reflects consumers’ desires to have a greater engagement with the music they are enjoying.
“People want to have fun; people want to have a good time; people want to instantaneously create a viral thing and have an experience outside of the thing that they’re enjoying,” Fantano said. “When you’re sharing something like this and you’re contributing art and commentary and satire and jokes to a community of people enjoying a thing, in a way, it’s like taking what you’re enjoying outside the isolation chamber.”

The Xube says 
January 29, 2018 at 11:42 am
Interesting take on the similarity between memes and music. It’s been such a harmonious relationship, it’s difficult to remember when memes were not a part of music culture.
Definitely something artists can use to help with raising awareness of their music but it’s one of those things that will always work better when fan-generated.

Stefan says 
February 10, 2018 at 1:22 pm
melon

Ness says 
March 7, 2018 at 1:07 am
Admittedly, I’m not too familiar with other genres but I see a prevalence of music/meme relationship in hip hop. Hard to see any other music genre that rivals hip hop’s  seamless viralbility (not a word, I know. But in the spirit of hip hop just roll with it ma nizzle). Hip hop and meme fits so perfectly for the fact that the two mainly operate as satire.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

