
January 22, 2018 by Meena Morar Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service’s fifth class of fellows brings a diverse range of political perspectives from both major political parties and a variety of fields, including communications, political fundraising and journalism.
The resident fellows for spring 2018 are Katie Walsh Shields, the former White House deputy chief of staff for operations under President Donald Trump; Dorothy McAuliffe, the former first lady of Virginia; Eugene Scott, political reporter for The Washington Post; Nadeam Elshami, former chief of staff for Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.); and Steven Law, president and CEO of the Republican fundraising committee Senate Leadership Fund and political consulting firm American Crossroads.
In an interview with The Hoya, the fellows discussed their goals for democracy and civic engagement among Georgetown students and millennial Americans.

What do you hope to achieve this semester, and what do you hope your students learn from your discussion groups?
Elshami: To learn from the students here and to kind of get re-energized about the future, I am going to offer a clear assessment of how Congress works — all the bad, all the ugly, and get from the students how it could be improved. That’s what I hope, to engage them in that sense.
Law: We tend to take the existence of democracy for granted. We think it’s the way things have always been, and in reality, our country is a rare experiment in all of human history. I think people have a sense that democracy is not doing well. My hope is to explore that with students — why there is a sense of unease, and why democratic institutions are not functioning as well as they could.
McAuliffe: I want to look at the ways we can revitalize democracy. I want to look at opportunities for public service, thinking together about what may not be the traditional ideas of public service, but then also those traditional ways to serve, thinking about the next generation and how we can encourage public service as a noble calling again.
Shields: I’m focusing really on presidential elections and national elections and what those look like in a changing environment. In terms of how technology interfaces in campaigns and how people are connecting with voters, I hope to really look at how we can see what’s different from previous elections, but then also look at what 2020 might look like, or what 2024 might look like.
Scott: I would like to just hear how millennials feel that their world is being misrepresented in the media and what people don’t understand outside their bubble. I don’t think people realize that millennials include freshmen in college right now and people who have been married for a decade and have four kids, in Missouri or New York. I think we really have to do a better job of diversifying our understanding of groups and communities and different political tribes.
In each of your fields, with focuses ranging from civil action to political discourse, how do you encourage young people to stay motivated and active in the role of citizenship?
McAuliffe: One of the things I want to talk about is encouraging and starting conversations about civic engagement at a much younger age. A lot of times it doesn’t happen until you’re eligible to vote at age 18. Many high schools don’t require a government class or a U.S. history class. I want every young person in this country to feel like getting that voter ID card is as exciting as getting your driver’s license.
Law: What I think has happened in politics is what happened in professional sports. You spend all your time yelling at the TV and let other people do all the work for you. The truth of the matter is politics and democracy require some work; it requires some buy-in. If you do nothing else, you read your newspaper, you try to educate yourself, you try to talk to people who aren’t like you and get their perspective.
Scott: In the last year or so, we’ve seen millennials start hashtags that force candidates to address issues that need to be talked about. They can write op-eds — activism we’ve just seen across the board. I think that is really important, because we are seeing a lot of 20-year-olds say, “My voice doesn’t matter — they’re going to do what they want to do anyway.”
What does it mean to be a citizen for you? How do you use your citizenship?
Shields: There can be a stigma in fighting for what you believe in, but I think fighting for what you believe in is part of democracy. I use my citizenship as a way to say, “I’m going to go vote and this is what I care about.” I think you have a lot more credibility in that realm when you’re an active participant.
McAuliffe: Even in my generation, in my personal life, it is easy within a social group with friends to bring something up from today’s news and say, “I don’t want to talk about that, it’s exhausting.” We have to force those conversations in our daily lives even with those who don’t want to have them. In public education, that’s why I think it’s so important to have civics, to have history, so we have those debates and have discourse in a way that’s respectful and civil.
Scott: I am obviously a huge supporter of the free press. I realize just how important it is and how rare it is. One of the ways I try to model my citizenship is just magnifying issues in media that just don’t get covered very often, especially by the mainstream media. I started in alternative media, and I’m a huge supporter of student media and faith-based media and identity-based media and partisan media, because I think we see issues from all of these outlets that aren’t happening in mainstream newspapers and leading cable networks.
In all of your fields, you each have become experts in communication. How have you learned to master the art of language, and how do you think language’s role has shifted throughout the years in the political atmosphere?
McAuliffe: The coarseness of language, the difference of acceptable terms and just the generational shift in language and appropriate language sets the tone on if we’re really going to have a meeting of the minds, because you’re halted by some of the language. We’re seeing that play out on the national stage in politics. There’s just been a denigration of respect with some of the language that’s tossed out, and with social media and the internet, you have such amplification.
On the positive side, the move in language has been around storytelling — just understanding the real-life story of who our politics and policies are working toward or trying to impact. We can tell these stories and find everyday Americans and really just amplify what they’re going through.
Shields: People’s attention span is about 30 seconds. If you can’t get to someone in 30 seconds, you’ve lost them. What I found so much when I interacted with voters, [when I encouraged them] to learn more about the issue, I deem that a success. I think so many people in this country have such a top-level understanding of issues, and if they spent more time looking at why we’ve arrived at where we are, then I normally find the better educated you are, the more reasonable you are about a situation.
What brought you to Georgetown and to the GU Politics Fellows program?
Shields: I worked at the [Republican National Committee] when Mo [Elleithee, executive director of GU Politics,] was at the [Democratic National Committee], and so we had an opportunity to work together on some projects. There are a lot of things the RNC and DNC work together on that people don’t realize, like conventions and debates, et cetera. Mo approached me, and I just think the world of him, and the program he built here at Georgetown is unbelievable.
Elshami: Mo and I crossed paths in Democratic politics. I was working for speaker and leader Pelosi, I was working at the DNC. We’ve known each other for a while, so after I retired from Congress — and I admit, I didn’t know much about [GU Politics] — but the McCourt School is something I became very interested in and learned quite a bit about and brought me back into politics just really two weeks after I left.
Scott: I was a guest at a discussion group for another GU Politics fellow, and remember thinking, “This is awesome.” I am enough of a nerd where I want to be on campus and talking to people, and I think all of us do work that impacts young people and includes young people, but we’re not as knowledgeable about 20-year-old life as we think we are, and it would be really good just to talk to students to figure out how they’re processing politics and policy.
McAuliffe: I go back with Mo on my husband’s campaign in ’09, and then through other campaigns. And I love the model of this program: I love working with young people, I love talking about politics. Politics is policy, and that’s something I’m passionate about. And I just think it’s a wonderful personal opportunity for me to engage with young people and to think together how to move the country forward, working together across party lines to find a common ground.
Law: For me, I didn’t know Mo before this, but I did know previous fellow Mike Dubke, who called me and asked me if I’d be interested. I’ve been involved in politics and public life for about three decades, and I thought, “What a great time to process what’s going on and what perceptions of students are and have a conversation about it with some of the smartest students in the whole country.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 22, 2018 by Matthew Larson Leave a Comment 
Three areas in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area were selected as finalists for Amazon’s second headquarters, the company announced Jan. 18. The facility is currently set to open in 2019 and is expected to generate up to 50,000 new jobs in the city in which it is located, making it a desirable business venture for most U.S. cities.
Washington, D.C., Northern Virginia and Montgomery County, Md., were all included on the list of 20 possible locations for Amazon’s “HQ2.” The other finalists, mostly cities on the East Coast and in the Midwest, include New York City, Philadelphia, Miami, Atlanta and Chicago. Other cities that made bids in the D.C. area, including Baltimore and Richmond, did not make the short list of potential locations.
Amazon announced last year that its second headquarters would be equal in size to its current headquarters in Seattle, where it is the largest employer in the city with over 40,000 current employees. Amazon’s Head of Worldwide Economic Development Holly Sullivan noted Amazon plans to invest $5 billion in its HQ2 over a period of 10 to 15 years in a Jan. 18 news release. The company will consider the 20 finalists for the next few months before coming to a final decision.
“Getting from 238 to 20 was very tough — all the proposals showed tremendous enthusiasm and creativity,” Sullivan said in the news release. “Through this process we learned about many new communities across North America that we will consider as locations for future infrastructure investment and job creation.”
As part of its pitch to Amazon last October, the District presented four locations where the company could build its second headquarters, including sites around the Anacostia Riverfront, Union Station, Capitol Hill East near Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium, and Howard University. Northern Virginia pitched sites including a location near Dulles International Airport and a location in the Crystal City area near Arlington, while a potential site in Montgomery County was a section of north Bethesda.
Jeff Bezos, the founder and CEO of Amazon, has ties to the D.C. region. He owns The Washington Post and bought a $23 million house last year in the Kalorama neighborhood of Washington.
When D.C. made its pitch to Amazon last October, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) highlighted the District’s recent accolades, including being named the “Coolest City” and the best “City for Women in Tech” by Forbes in 2014 and 2017, respectively.
“Here in D.C. we encourage and nurture innovation and creativity,” Bowser said in an Oct.19 video message to Amazon. “We believe in long-term growth that fosters strength and resilience, and we believe in making investments that inspire our leading doers, thinkers and change-makers.”
Bowser’s video marked the beginning of the District’s social media campaign, #obviouslyDC, which employed the concept of an Amazon Alexa device declaring that “obviously D.C.” was the prime choice for the next Amazon location.
Bowser praised Amazon’s decision to include D.C. in the top 20 finalists in a Jan. 18 news release, noting how the numerous jobs the company would create would benefit the city and its population.
“Making this list reaffirms what we already knew going into the bid process,” Bowser said. “Washington, D.C., is no longer a one-company government town; we are a leader in innovation and tech, brimming with top talent and endless opportunity.”
Cities have gone out of their way to offer major incentives for Amazon to build at their proposed sites. While Virginia and D.C. have not disclosed what tax incentives they offered the company, Maryland Governor Larry Hogan (R) noted that his state offered Amazon $5 billion in tax incentives, the largest incentive package offered in Maryland’s history. Other finalists that offered incentives to Amazon included Newark, which proposed $7 billion worth of incentives, and Chicago, which proposed more than $2 billion.
“Maryland put forward an extremely strong group of sites that were all supported by the state with incentive packages totaling more than $5 billion, including road and transit improvements,” Hogan said in a Jan. 18 news release. “Going forward, we will continue working with our partners in Montgomery County.”
Jason Miller, chief executive of the Greater Washington Partnership, a group that brings together civic-minded business leaders to improve the Capitol region, noted Jan. 20 to The Washington Post that the region’s three finalists had strong bids. Still, problems regarding Metro funding resulting from a lack of unity among Maryland, D.C. and Virginia could give Amazon pause when considering the region’s proposals, according to Miller.
“There’s no question Amazon needs a well-functioning transit system, making the imperative for all three jurisdictions to act together on Metro to provide dedicated funding and real governance reform even more urgent,” Miller said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 22, 2018 by Emma Kotfica Leave a Comment 
Hoya House Hunters, a website that lists information on neighborhood housing rentals, launched Jan. 15 to help undergraduate students find off-campus housing.
The initiative is a joint effort between the Georgetown University Student Association and the Georgetown Student Tenant Association. It compiles information about neighborhood housing options from past tenants to help students find off-campus housing for their senior year.
The data listed on the Hoya House Hunters website includes price, occupancy, number of rooms, number of bathrooms, backyard space, parking availability and location, as well as contact information for the landlord and comments from residents. The information is offered in a spreadsheet and map format.
The website currently has 94 entries — some of which are incomplete — in the West Georgetown, Cloisters and Burleith neighborhoods. The website also acknowledges it “can’t promise” all of the information, which is sourced from past residents, is “100% accurate.”
GUSA Historian Ari Goldstein (COL ’18) said Hoya House Hunters fills the gap for accessible information about off-campus housing options for students. The process of finding off-campus housing can be challenging for students who do not have connections with older students, according to Goldstein.
“Generally speaking, the way that people will find off-campus housing is that an older friend will sort of pass down the house to them, but what that really means is that they will give the landlord’s phone number and email to the younger friend and say, ‘Reach out to the landlord and make that connection,’” Goldstein said.
As a result, Goldstein said, houses can be “handed down” within members of a fraternity, sorority or sports team.
“It’s not a very democratic process because it means that houses are not available to anyone looking,” Goldstein said.
Mohammad Khanzada (SFS ’20), president of GSTA, said he collaborated with Goldstein to establish Hoya House Hunters. GSTA aims to be the first space for students to voice their off-campus housing concerns, Khanzada said.
“Ari really was the driving force behind this operation, and his passion is really what drew me to starting this up with him in order to better the options available to students. In the end, we want this to be students helping other students,” Khanzada wrote in an email to The Hoya.
GUSA developed Hoya House Hunters to respond to the need for information on neighborhood housing available to all students, according to GUSA President Kamar Mack (COL ’19).
Mack said the relationships GUSA shares with both GSTA and the neighborhood community have helped in the formation of the program.
“It’s difficult to have one central place to go and find off-campus housing choices,” Mack said.
In 2014, GUSA, GSTA and the Students of Georgetown, Inc., developed Roomr, a platform similar to Hoya House Hunters, where students could rate their homes and landlords. The site shut down last semester in anticipation of the launch of Hoya House Hunters.
Roomr’s purpose was to help students learn about landlords in the Georgetown neighborhood before signing leases with them, according to Goldstein.
“The idea behind Roomr was that there are a lot of awful landlords in the Georgetown neighborhood, so students would not really know what they were getting themselves into,” Goldstein said. “They would sign a lease with the landlord and then the landlord would be stealing their security deposits and refusing to fix things in the house and just causing a lot of problems. And so the goal was for students to be able to share that information with each other in advance of anyone signing leases.”
However, Roomr’s popularity declined among students over the last several years, according to Goldstein, while the issues it intended to solve persisted.
“[Roomr] sort of fell into oblivion because the generation of people who founded it and started using it graduated, and people didn’t follow in their path,” Goldstein said. “But the problem still exists: There’s a lot of landlords that are bad landlords in the neighborhood. It’s also a problem that most underclassmen students are not particularly aware of because they’re not looking for off-campus housing or aren’t in off-campus housing.”
Mack said he hopes upperclassmen will review their houses to improve the Hoya House Hunters website.
“The site can always be getting better, and we’re going to be really pushing for current seniors, or if any juniors are living off campus, it’d be awesome if we could get people to review their houses once they move out,” Mack said. “We really want to drive usage for current juniors and sophomores who want to live off campus.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

