
March 22, 2018 by Joe Egler 2 Comments 
Jason Kander (LAW ’05), former Missouri secretary of state and current president of Let America Vote, received the Alumnus of the Year award from the Georgetown University College Democrats on Monday evening for his advocacy work on voting rights.
After earning his J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center in 2005, Kander served in the Army National Guard and volunteered to serve a tour in Afghanistan. He has also served in the Missouri House of Representatives from 2009 to 2013 and as Missouri secretary of state from 2013 to 2017. After an unsuccessful senate campaign against incumbent Sen. Roy Blunt (R-Mo.) in 2016, Kander founded Let America Vote, a political organization working to protect voting rights around the country.
Kander founded Let America Vote in an effort to protect voting rights and ensure that all eligible voters have equal opportunities to vote, he said at Monday evening’s event.
Contemporary infringements on voting freedoms are attacks on civil rights, according to Kander, who characterized his advocacy efforts as an extension of the civil rights movement.
“We are fighting the same fights. People were marching across the bridge in Selma in order to be able to register to vote,” Kander said.
Let America Vote is a unique political organization, according to Kander, because it is a nationwide lobbying machine for voters, as Big Tobacco is for tobacco firms or Big Pharma is for pharmaceutical companies.
“Until we created Let America Vote, there was nothing you could characterize as Big Voter. So that’s why we created it.”
Kander also emphasized the importance of authenticity in politics. He said Democrats, and particularly students in Washington, D.C., too often take stances they personally oppose, believing there is a perfect “formula” to attract voters, rather than presenting their own views.
“One of the big things that gets emphasized — particularly if you’re a political science major — is what I refer to as trying to ‘crack the code,’” Kander said. “How is it that you’re going to talk about these things or do these things to where it’s going to open up this big can of voters all over the country? What’s the secret formula? There isn’t one.”
Being authentic in politics means remaining committed to the issues that matter to constituents because voters can tell when a politician is not authentic, Kander said.
“They’re winning over a bunch of people who a poll tells them believe in something. What they don’t realize is, those people see bad acting and it makes them uncomfortable, and they know it when they see it, and they’re not buying it,” Kander said. “Authenticity in politics is just knowing what you believe and then going out and actually, honestly making your argument, because the thing is, voters can tell the difference.”
As a politician, it is less about cracking the code to gain voters and more about trying to effect real change for constituents, according to Kander.
“When you get into this line of work, and you’re a candidate, or advising candidates or helping candidates, one way or another, in making a political argument, it has to be based in what you actually believe,” Kander said. “It can’t be based in trying to crack the code.”
Kander also spoke about the future of the Democratic Party, noting that the party aims to provide tangible opportunities for voters.
“Every policy that we stand for is, at its core, is about trying to make it so that you can find success in the community that raised you, without moving away if you don’t want to,” Kander said. “The party is about using government to make it just a little bit easier for you to be able to find success in the community that raised you if that’s what you want.”
With Democrats hoping to make big gains in the 2018 midterm elections — and with a crowded potential field in 2020 lacking a clear standout — the future of the party remains an open and important question.
Kander argued that the goal of providing the next generation with a better quality of life than their parents should be a top priority for the Democratic party.
“What we’re all really looking for is for our kids’ lives to be an upgrade over our own, and then for our kids maybe to be able to afford that life near us,” Kander said.

Md Mamun Rana says 
March 22, 2018 at 3:35 pm
jonson kander is political parson of amrica voting for 2016 but he is not sacsesful.he studys at politics.it’s very good ida.I love that very much.

Md Mamun Rana says 
March 22, 2018 at 3:48 pm
jonson kander is a political parson.He organize vot in america and unsacselful there,politics very good ida.I love that very much.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 22, 2018 by Josh Metzger Leave a Comment 
Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) promoted advances in higher education in Washington, D.C., and defended her administration’s record in light of recent scandals at her fourth State of the District address March 15.
Bowser, a D.C. native currently running for a second mayoral term, touched on themes featured in last year’s address, including increased access to affordable housing, improving job security and, most prominently, ensuring the right to high-quality education for all children. The address was delivered at the University of the District of Columbia.
The speech comes shortly after two recent education-related scandals in her administration. The first concerns a federal investigation into inflated graduation rates, in which students at prominent D.C. high schools received diplomas despite frequent absences that violated D.C. policy.
The more recent scandal involved the forced resignation of former D.C. Public Schools Chancellor Antwan Wilson, who allegedly used his position to enroll his daughter at a top-rated D.C. high school with more than 600 other students on the waitlist.
“We know there have been bumps in the roads — frankly, there have been some pretty significant bumps in the road,” Bowser said. “But now the Band-Aid has been ripped off, and we understand — better than ever — the challenges we face.”
Striking a more optimistic note, Bowser drew attention to the leadership under newly appointed interim DCPS Chancellor Amanda Alexander, promising that “we will finish this year strong and be ready to start the next one.”
The mayor emphasized the considerable progress that has been made in the District on education. While “students in D.C. struggled to keep up with their peers in other big cities” roughly 10 years ago, she said the system is now much better equipped to handle curricular challenges.
Bowser pointed to several specific programs aimed at improving D.C. public education. Thrive by Five DC, according to Bowser, will ensure the implementation of courses in algebra and robust programming in local middle schools. In addition, Bowser will oversee the UDC Equity Imperative, which will invest an extra $9.5 million in the University of the District of Columbia.
The mayor also focused on the distinct challenges that the District faces in national political developments, which often find D.C.’s local government at odds with the prevailing views of a Republican-controlled Congress and White House.
“Sometimes our challenges are unique because we get over-the-top requests, like the unnecessary military parade that some people want to have in our city,” Bowser said, referring to a proposal floated by President Donald Trump in February to hold a grand display of U.S. military forces in the streets of the District.
Referencing the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., that left 17 dead, Bowser advocated the implementation of effective gun control measures and criticized Senator Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) for “continuing to push legislation in Congress that would gut our local laws by legalizing assault weapons and high-capacity magazines and even allowing these guns in our schools.”
Rubio reintroduced a bill as recently as last January that would have gutted the city’s gun control measures.
“How — how can you be for legalizing assault weapons and lowering the age to buy guns in D.C. and be for school safety in Florida?” Bowser said. “With our partner on a Safer, Stronger D.C., Councilmember Charles Allen [D-Ward 6] and I say to Senator Rubio: Leave us alone and keep your hands off of D.C.”
Bowser later touched on other issues that the city continues to work on, such as maximizing employment and increasing access to affordable housing.
Addressing job creation, Bowser highlighted an initiative launched in the past week called the D.C. Infrastructure Academy. The academy aims to prepare D.C. residents for dependable jobs in infrastructure.
“The Infrastructure Academy is a pathway to the middle class — an opportunity not to just get a job, but to build a career. Because that’s what we want for Washingtonians — not odd jobs, not sometimes jobs, but sustainable careers,” Bowser said.
To improve D.C. living standards, the mayor pointed to the demolition of D.C. General Family Shelter, a homeless shelter that has been an “embarrassment” to the city, choosing to instead encourage permanent supportive housing programs.
“And at the end of the day, we know that the best way to end homelessness is by building and preserving affordable housing,” Bowser said. “This year alone, we allocated $1 billion — and I repeat, $1 billion — to programs and efforts that will make living in the District more affordable for everyone.”
Bowser also touted her Roots to Roofs initiative, an effort to connect black D.C. residents to available housing programs.
During the address, the mayor also remarked about the success of increased neighborhood safety by expanding the size of the Metropolitan Police Department cadet program from 70 to 100 cadets, improved access to quality and affordable medical care through the creation of a new hospital on the St. Elizabeth’s Hospital campus and the allocation of $178 million to improve the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority.
Bowser, at the speech’s conclusion, optimistically spoke about the city’s future.
“There is no doubt about it: D.C. is doing well. But, together, we are capable of so much more,” Bowser said. “So, let’s stay focused; let’s keep moving forward, because if we all stick together, the best is yet to come.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

