
October 2, 2018 by Walker Miller 3 Comments 
Fourteen senators were elected to the Georgetown University Student Association senate Sept. 30 in the first GUSA elections held since the mid-September resignations of GUSA’s executive leadership.
The elections filled seven freshmen seats and four at-large seats that were regularly scheduled for the fall cycle, as well as three vacant junior seats.
The new freshman senators include Karan Chauhan (SFS ’22), Tommy Teravainen (COL ’22), Jamyson Smith (COL ’22), Julio Salmeron-Perla (SFS ’22), Aidan Burke (MSB ’22), Connor Brennan (SFS ’22) and Leo John Arnett (SFS ’22).
Hayley Grande (COL ’21), Winston Ardoin (SFS ’21), Dante Esqueda (COL ’21) and Zaki Thabet (SFS ’21) won the four at-large seats up for election. The junior class vacancies left by Chad Gasman’s (COL ’20) resignation, Juan Martinez’s (COL ’20) ascension to the GUSA presidency and Josh Sirois (COL ’20) studying abroad will be filled by Alec Camhi (COL ’20), Matt Buckwald (COL ’20) and Logan Arkema (COL ’20).
Overall voter turnout was 21 percent, according to the GUSA Election Commission’s Twitter. The freshmen election saw the highest turnout at 40 percent, while the junior and at-large elections had respective turnouts of 17 percent and 14 percent.
The relatively low turnout marks a downturn since the April senate elections, when turnout reached 23 percent, and continues a downward trend since senate election turnout peaked at 30 percent in September 2017.
September 2017 was the last time the student body elected senators based on residential districts; a February 2018 referendum implemented the current policy of electing senators by grade level. The overall turnout also decreased from the more high-profile February presidential election, in which 39 percent of the student body voted.
The senate elections were also the first since the Sept. 11 resignation of former GUSA President Sahil Nair (SFS ’19) and the subsequent Sept. 14 departures of GUSA Vice President Naba Rahman (SFS ’19) and Chief of Staff Aaron Bennett (COL ’19). The exit of these senior executives occurred just weeks before senate elections, and many voters and candidates who spoke with The Hoya attributed the decline in turnout to fallout from the resignations.
“People are exhausted by GUSA right now,” Arkema said, who previously served as a Senator and ran for GUSA president last year. “This past month has been a toxic dumpster fire for GUSA, and people just want to get away from it.”
Many of the candidates for the freshman senate seats took particular motivation from the resignations, emphasizing in their campaign platforms the importance of strengthening protections for survivors of sexual misconduct and increasing the transparency of GUSA.
“The majority of the campaigns focused on a lot of similar things, especially in light of everything that happened with the GUSA executive,” Arnett, who was elected to represent the freshman class, said. “The one common theme through all the freshman campaigns was a new face for GUSA, with an emphasis on transparency.”
In his campaign, Burke advocated for mandatory monthly town halls for all GUSA senators and improvements to LiveSafe, a mobile safety communication app, to allow reporting of sexual assaults in real time, both of which he believes will help mitigate GUSA’s current credibility problems.
“GUSA did lose the trust of the student body,” Burke said. “Everyone knows that was the hot-button issue in this election.”
While the newly elected senators were critical of the GUSA executive’s handling of Nair’s resignation, many also expressed confidence in Juan Martinez (SFS ‘20). Martinez, the former senate transition chair, became president on Sept. 16 following Nair and Rahman’s resignations and will serve for the remainder of Nair’s term.
“I worked with Juan last year,” Grande said, who previously dealt with student activity funding allocations while serving on the GUSA Finance and Appropriations Committee last year. “As bad as this situation is, this is the best possible outcome. Juan at the helm is the best way to fix it.”
Of the 14 newly elected senators, Grande, who earned the most votes of all the candidates running for the at-large senate seat, is the only woman. For the class of 2022, all seven newly elected freshman senators are male.
“I know that I ran the best campaign that I could. I would have liked to see more women elected, but I can only speak for myself,” Grande said. “I just know that it makes me want to work harder in the senate.”
Grande’s focus on her upcoming work in the senate was echoed by the other new members of the senate. Though many readily acknowledged the issues caused by the resignation crisis, they were also confident in their abilities to rehabilitate the institution.
Buckwald, who was elected to represent the junior class, expressed confidence in GUSA’s ability to support the student body.
“There’s a sense of doubt with GUSA’s credibility right now,” Buckwald said. “But I have always believed in GUSA’s potential to create positive change.”

Beau says 
October 2, 2018 at 2:26 am
What lovely writing. I want to see more from this author.

Jack says 
October 3, 2018 at 5:45 pm
Nothing but respect for my president, Walker Miller

Jillian Fan says 
October 3, 2018 at 5:47 pm
What a brilliant piece! Informative and enjoyable to read. Go Walker!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 2, 2018 by Emily Leng Leave a Comment 
Democratic countries around the world must collaborate to contribute to protecting a liberal world order, Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Kono (SFS ’86) said at an event Sept. 28 in Gaston Hall.
Before becoming foreign minister, Kono served in the Japanese House of Representatives, where he was a member of five standing committees, including those on economy, health, labor and welfare, trade and industry, the environment, and finance. He also held several leadership positions in the House, serving as Parliamentary Secretary for Public Management, Director of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Assistant Secretary General of the Liberal Democratic Party and Deputy Secretary General of the LDP.
In 2015, he joined Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s cabinet as the Chairman of the National Public Safety Commission. Abe appointed Kono to his current position as foreign minister in August 2017.
The event was the second in the Lloyd George Centennial Lectures program, which began last February to celebrate the upcoming centennial anniversary of the School of Foreign Service in 2019. After delivering his lecture, Kono discussed international affairs in the Indo-Pacific region with Michael Green, Director of the Georgetown University Asian Studies Program, and students in the Master of Arts in Asian Studies program.
Japan, in cooperation with the United States, needs to step up to defend a liberal international system that prioritizes democratic values, such as human rights and representative government, Kono said.
“The United States has shouldered the burden of this liberal international order in quite a big way. I think it’s time for us to adjust the burden sharing,” Kono said. “And that’s what President Trump is asking, and I think we are ready to do that.”
Kono also called on other democratic countries in Europe, as well as Australia and New Zealand, to assume responsibility for advocating for global democracy.
“Since the end of the World War II, we’ve benefited from this liberal international order,” Kono said. “I think Japan, Europe, Australia, New Zealand and other countries need to shoulder a little bit more so that the U.S. burden will be less.”
The international political order based on democratic values now faces challenges that threaten global prosperity, Kono said, referring to unilateral attempts around the world that pose a risk to the current political atmosphere.
“What has underpinned the stability and the prosperity of the world is the international order based on fundamental values such as democracy, freedom, human rights, rule of law,” Kono said. “That international order is now being challenged by unilateral attempts to change the status quo through coercion, military or economically.”
Japan will cooperate with China as long as the latter commits to maintaining democratic standards of government, such as being transparent in government actions, he said.
“There is a great potential for collaboration in infrastructure development in line with international standards, such as transparency, openness, the financial soundness of receiving nations,” Kono said.
Japanese foreign policy towards Russia should also focus on cooperation in order to establish better security in the region, he said.
“We should not forget that Russia is an indispensable stakeholder to address a number of global challenges, whether you like it or not,” Kono said. “I strongly believe the improvement of the relationship with Russia could change the course of the current stalemate in various areas in diplomacy.”
Kono said that his experience as an undergraduate at Georgetown prepared him to become foreign minister. He recounted stories of his seminar with then-Secretary of State Madeleine Albright and advised Georgetown students to work towards becoming global leaders.
“This is a great place for you to prepare for your future. I encourage you to combine thought and action to develop yourself as a global leader,” Kono said. “Every experience I had here made me who I am today as a Foreign Minister.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 2, 2018 by Elizabeth Douglas 1 Comment 
Following a dramatic uptick in reported overdoses of K2, a strain of synthetic marijuana, since mid-July, Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) introduced emergency legislation to widen the scope of what constitutes a banned synthetic drug in the District.
Washington, D.C. Fire and Emergency Medical Services treated or transported 1,663 patients for symptoms related to synthetic drug overdoses between July 14 and Sept. 23, according to a Sept. 24 news release.
D.C. FEMS saw 244 overdose cases during the week of Sept. 10 alone, and at least five deaths are being investigated in connection with the drug, D.C. FEMS Chief Communications Officer Doug Buchanan told WTOP in September 2018.
The September spike may be due to a particularly “bad batch” of K2, which Bowser’s office described in an emergency alert on Twitter as “potentially fatal.”
Attempts to ban some of the chemicals used in K2 have been largely unsuccessful because of the difficulty of enforcing such efforts and the legal loopholes K2 distributors can use to market their products, according to a July 19 Federal Drug Administration news release.
“Certain entities continue to bypass state and federal drug laws by making and distributing these products – often marked or labeled as ‘not for human consumption’ – and changing the structure of the synthetic chemicals to try to skirt legal requirements,” according to the FDA statement.
The high number of the overdoses is straining D.C. emergency medicine and law enforcement resources, Metropolitan Police Department Police Chief Peter Newsham told WTOP.
“Folks who are using the most recent batch of K2 are exhibiting symptoms of being in a comatose state and passing out,” Newsham said. “It’s creating a drain on Fire and EMS resources and police resources.”
The new policy, the Revised Synthetics Abatement and Full Enforcement Drug Control Emergency Act of 2018, will change the existing drug classification system to prohibit entire categories of chemical compounds found in synthetic drugs rather than the individual compounds, according to a Sept. 24 news release.
This broader strategy will address the current problem, wherein distributors who make minor changes to the chemical structure of their supply can circumvent the more focused bans that are currently on the books, D.C. Deputy Mayor for Public Safety and Justice Kevin Donahue told DCist.
“Now the chemists can really change and tweak the compounds every few weeks or months,” Donahue said. “So what the legislation will do – it’ll allow us to take criminal action when something that we seize has the base compound of K2 or another synthetic drug.”
The emergency legislation supplements a 2015 policy, which became permanent in 2017, and allows Bowser to suspend or remove the license of any businesses engaged in the production or supply of synthetic drugs, according to the news release. Under the legislation, MPD can shut down these businesses for up to 96 hours.
Symptoms of a K2 overdose include rapid heart rate, vomiting, violent behavior, suicidal thoughts and seizures, according to the FDA.
K2 is being sold in convenience stores and gas stations, often in colorful packages decorated with cartoon characters or marketed as potpourri, according to DCist. The synthetic drug usually consists of dried plants coated in an array of synthetic substances. The drug is especially dangerous because the specifics of its contents are often unknown.
Synthetic marijuana is often made up of chemicals that are not themselves considered dangerous, and are therefore legal. When mixed together, though, the otherwise harmless drugs can prove fatal, according to NPR.
K2 does not respond to Narcan, the drug used by EMS to reverse opioid overdoses in many jurisdictions throughout the country.

tina pihota says 
October 2, 2018 at 9:37 am
It is out time, it was very disappointing to think that the makers of these chemicals were smarter than our government…this will help when raise the amount of raids and searches of this drug because now law enforcement will know that there will be arrests and there will be people going to jail unlike before it was a crap shoot if all their hard work would even result in an arrest..This is a good thing. This drug has been killing for almost 10 years now. My son died in 2015 from his use of it…also the picture you choose to use is of real marijuana synthetic marijuana looks nothing like that and may be confusing to people who are not aware, K2, Kush Spice looks more like oregano or parsley as it is just dried organic matter  crushed up and then sprayed with the chemicals Thank you for the report
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

