
September 6, 2018 by Will Cassou Leave a Comment 
Fr. Francis Schemel, S.J., Georgetown University’s chaplain to staff and beloved chocolatier, died Aug. 4 at 93 years old.
A memorial service was held at Dahlgren Chapel on Aug. 9. Schemel was buried following the service in the Georgetown Cemetery.
Born in Archbald, Pennsylvania in 1925, Schemel first came to Washington, D.C., in 1975 to serve as the minister of the Leonard Neal House, then the minister and treasurer of the Carroll House, both Jesuit communities in the District.
Schemel joined the Georgetown community in 1984 after working as assistant treasurer for Georgetown Preparatory School for one year. At Georgetown, he served as a campus minister and lived in Village C West residence hall for over 20 years as the Chaplain-in-Residence. Schemel went on to serve as the chaplain to the staff when the role was created in 1994, according to Georgetown Magazine.
Schemel said, in his position, that he simply wanted those around him to feel heard.
“I’m like a sounding board or a good will ambassador,” Schemel told Georgetown Magazine in 1996. “As I tell the new employees, I have big ears and I’m a good listener. If you’re having troubles and you want me to do something, I can. If you just want to talk about your family or your job, I’m here.”
Schemel had a motto for his time at Georgetown on how he saw his role in the community.
“Everyone grows physically, and that’s something we can’t control. We grow intellectually through life experience and our jobs. I am here to help people grow spiritually,” Rev. Ron Anton, S.J., wrote in an email to The Hoya, quoting Schemel.
In addition to his official role on campus, Schemel also impacted the community with his work as a confectioner and his regular invitations to home cooked meals.
Schemel told the Washington Postin 1993 that he realized how he could integrate his love for cooking into his ministry in 1975, when he helped the Democratic Women’s Club host a reception for the then President-elect Jimmy Carter.
When the Kennedy Center became unavailable due to a strike, Schemel helped cater the event at the club for over 500 guests, which included President Carter and his family, John Wayne, Bette Davis and at least 15 other movie stars, Schemel told The Washington Post.
When he came to Georgetown in 1984, Schemel began offering home-cooked meals to students multiple times a week in his apartment in order to make students feel more comfortable coming to him with their problems.
“It breaks down barriers,” Schemel said of incorporating food into his interactions with his students.
Schemel said that the dinners helped create stronger relationships between him and the students that came to him, saying that they’ll reach out to him even when they do not have specific problems they want to talk about.
“They call me on the phone and hint around that they’d like to be invited to dinner,” he told the Washington Post in 1993.
Schemel said he discovered his love for cooking after taking a chocolate-making class shortly after moving to the district.
After deciding that the Leonard Neal House was “crying out for special Christmas decorations,” Schemel learned how to mold chocolate Santas, reindeers and Nativity scenes. Schemel even sold 93 pounds of chocolate sculptures in 1989 to help raise funds during the university’s bicentennial anniversary of its founding.
Despite all the use Schemel got out of his confectionary skills, Schemel said he continued because he simply loved doing it.
“I make candies because people like them,” Schemel said. “I get a kick out of it. I don’t consider it work at all. If I’m bored or something is bother me, I get out some pots and pans and start cooking or baking and I soon forget about my troubles.”
Schemel regularly sent out chocolate, get well “cards,” graduation cakes for seniors and used his sweets to brighten others’ days.
Anton said his absence will surely be felt by the community.
“He will be dearly missed by many of us here at the university and throughout the Jesuit community,” Anton wrote.
Special to The Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 6, 2018 by Maya Gandhi Leave a Comment 
Pedro Arrupe, S.J. Hall, the newest dormitory built on Georgetown University’s campus, is not compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act, members of a Georgetown University Student Association Accessibility Policy team recently revealed.
Interior doors throughout Arrupe — including those to common rooms, study rooms, kitchens and the laundry room — take more than five pounds of force to open and lack automatic “Push to Open” buttons, per the team’s findings. In their current state, these doors violate a provisionof the ADA that holds that interior doors without automatic buttons cannot surpass the five pounds of force threshold.
Senior architect Amy Sanderson in the Office of Design and Construction confirmed that the doors in Arrupe are not ADA compliant.
“It is true that there are a bunch of them that are not compliant,” Sanderson said in an interview with The Hoya. “Some are off a little bit, and some are wildly off.”
The ADA, which was signed into law in 1990, prohibits discrimination against individuals with disabilities in public life. The law requires public and private universities to provide reasonable accommodations to students with disabilities or risk facing fines and legal action.
Arrupe was designed to meet all ADA standards when it opened in fall 2016. The noncompliance issue likely developed over time as a result of maintenance to the mechanisms that allow the doors to close. All of Arrupe’s exterior doors, which feature “Push to Open” buttons, are ADA compliant.
“Georgetown is committed to ensuring that our campus is accessible and inclusive,” university spokesman Matt Hill wrote in an email to The Hoya. “When ADA compliance issues are identified we take prompt action to address them and make appropriate accommodations for individuals with disabilities.”
The failure of Arrupe to comply with ADA standards raises questions about similar flaws arising other dormitories, especially because the hall is Georgetown’s newest dormitory.
“Arrupe is our newest building. So, I know that we have issues there, and I am sure that we have issues in older buildings,” Sanderson said. “We are focusing now on the residential halls because we think that’s the most important place to focus right now.”
Evan Farrara (COL ’19) has been on the accessibility policy team since his freshman year and first spotted the compliance issue in Arrupe. Over the summer, Farrara noticed the doors in Arrupe were unusually heavy and, recalling the ADA stipulation, wondered if they might take over five pounds of force.
“I used to go study in the little study rooms, the meditation rooms, a lot, and so I remember that those doors were always so heavy, I remember one day my shirt got caught in the door and it actually ripped my shirt off because it was so heavy,” Farrara said. “And so, I was like, I bet that’s over five pounds.”
Farrara bought a door pressure gauge, a device that measures the amount of force needed for a person to open a door, and walked through Arrupe testing doors; his results showed doors varied significantly, with many of them requiring between 10 and 20 pounds of force to open.
Farrara reached out to the rest of the accessibility policy team, and they contacted the administration in June, kick-starting the process to put Arrupe in compliance.
The issue landed on the desk of Sanderson, who also tested doors throughout the building and came to the same conclusion: Doors throughout Arrupe were in violation of the ADA.
Right now, the university is in the process of having a hardware consultant who specializes in doors assess the compliance issues; the firm is set to begin that analysis in the coming weeks. Farrara said checking other dorms for this issue could be among future efforts for the accessibility policy team.
In some cases, the noncompliance stems from automatic closing mechanisms that have been installed too tightly, which can be fixed through adjustments by facilities, according to Sanderson.
“I don’t think it’s a problem with the building per se; I think it’s a problem of how we’re using the building right now,” Sanderson said. But “that is not true across the board.”
Other doors, including those in the kitchens and laundry room, will require a more extensive solution and could delay the effort to bring the building fully into compliance. Sanderson is hopeful the process will be complete in the next few months.
The issues in Arrupe also raise questions of convenience versus compliance. For example, some wheelchair users are not able to open doors, even if they take fewer than five pounds of force.
Anna Landre (SFS ’21), who uses a motorized wheelchair and is living in Arrupe this year, has encountered this problem in her own residence hall.
“Look, I don’t care if it’s five pounds of pressure or not, I personally can’t open doors. Like I just can’t,” Landre said in an interview with The Hoya.
For students like Landre, compliance with the letter of the law is not enough to provide an equal experience at Georgetown.
“We shouldn’t be striving for that bare minimum,” Landre said. “We should be striving to make this a welcoming environment for all, which means making it not only compliant, making it convenient.”
For her, that means “Push to Open” buttons, which the university has agreed to install on the entrances to common spaces on her floor, as well as the building’s laundry room, which have not yet been installed.
The university strives to ensure that all students have a “good and equal” experience, but those effortspresent difficulties, particularly in making all residence halls fully accessible for students of all abilities, Sanderson said.
“Generally, our standards on campus go above and beyond what the ADA compliance laws are,” Sanderson said. “We’re trying to make the experience good for everybody.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 6, 2018 by Deepika Jonnalagadda Leave a Comment 
The first mutually agreed upon labor contract between the Metropolitan Police Department and Washington, D.C. police union Fraternal Order of Police in almost two decades was reached Aug. 30, Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) announced last week.
Following more than a year of negotiations, the new contract offers union members increased wages and matches medical insurance benefits with existing District government packages.
Over 3,500 members of law enforcement in the city are set to receive a 3 percent retroactive raise in fiscal year 2018, a 2 percent increase in FY19 and a 3.5 percent raise in FY20 under the latest collective bargaining agreement, according to an Aug. 30 news release. The last agreement reached in 2014 through an arbitrator followed six years without a raise for MPD officers, according to DCist.
In addition, previously independent insurance coverage provided to the union members will be replaced by coverage under the Bowser administration’s dental and vision insurance plans.
Bowser emphasized the critical role the law enforcement officers play in maintaining the safety of the District in her introduction of the updated labor contract Aug. 30.
“Members of the Metropolitan Police Department put their lives on the line every day to protect our city,” Bowser wrote in an Aug. 30 news release. “This new collective bargaining agreement shows our commitment to the courageous men and women who are helping us build a safer, stronger Washington, DC.”
The first to come to fruition without an impasse or arbitration since 2001, the updated contract advances crucial investments highlighted in Bowser’s FY19 budget, such as new uniforms for all MPD officers and augmented funds for officer retention programs.
The agreement also supports the Bowser administration’s previously announced initiatives to expand the MPD civilian cadet program from 70 to 100 incoming high school graduates seeking to begin a career in law enforcement, according to an April 13 news release.
The larger cadet program increases the pool of talent that would eventually stay on to become sworn officers, MPD Chief Peter Newsham told The Washington Post.
For the past few years, MPD has struggled to replace a growing number of retiring officers following a hiring push in the late 1980s when almost 1,500 new officers joined the department, according to DCist.
An ongoing imbalance between the rate of retiring officers and hiring new recruits led District leaders to implement several incentives to increase the size of the police force in 2017, such as growing the hiring pool among D.C. residents and rehiring retired officers for up to five years, according to The Washington Post.
The more expansive benefits offered by the latest agreement are anticipated to further bolster MPD’s recruitment, Newsham said in an Aug. 30 news release.
“This increase will help attract new officers to the Metropolitan Police Department as we continue to navigate the current retirement bubble,” Newsham said.
The labor contract must first be ratified by members of the Fraternal Order of Police and voted on favorably by the D.C. Council prior to coming into effect, according to MPD Office of Communications Director Dustin Sternbeck.
“The Union has 30 days for its membership to ratify the contract,” Sternbeck said. “Upon ratification, the compensation portions will be submitted to the Council, and will go into effect upon the Council’s approval. Ratification and approval are for the contract as is; there is no ability to change the tentative agreement. If the membership does not ratify, or the Council does not approve, the parties return to the table to resume negotiations.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

