
January 24, 2018 by Will Cassou 4 Comments 
A group of descendants of Isaac Hawkins, one of the 272 slaves whose sale in 1838 benefitted Georgetown University, voiced its frustration with the university’s efforts to redress the historical injustice and called on the university to provide financial restitution to descendants.
Representatives of the GU272 Isaac Hawkins Legacy group, which represents 200 descendants, reignited debate about the university’s efforts in a news conference Jan. 16. The group is seeking financial reparations from the university, saying the university’s efforts at restitution thus far have been well-intentioned but insufficient.
The group contends that the university’s actions in recent years — including the renaming of two campus buildings, a policy providing preferential admissions treatment to descendant applicants  and plans to establish an institute for the study of slavery — are “symbolic gestures” and are not “commensurate with the epic atrocity committed and its subsequent impact on generations of descendants,” according to a news release provided to The Hoya.
Descendants of Hawkins who attended the conference included Dee Taylor, a 70-year-old woman from Baton Rouge, La., and Vincent Williams.
Georgia Goslee, lead counsel for the group — one of several associations of descendants — said prior negotiations with the university, though cordial and respectful, had not led to any substantive progress. Georgetown has yet to respond to a proposal for rectification that the descendants submitted June 19, according to Goslee.
Goslee declined to disclose details of the proposal, which contains a request for monetary reparations. She said the exact figure was not of primary importance; rather, the critical aspect was Georgetown making amends for the profit it made from the sale of the slaves.
“Let me be very clear: Georgetown University owes its very existence to the ancestors of Dee Taylor and Vincent Williams, yet the restitution has been conspicuously absent from the actions taken by the school so far to reconcile with the descendant community,” Goslee said. “We call on Georgetown to initiate a sustained and progressive discussion and respond to the proposal.”
Thomas Craemer, an associate professor of public policy at the University of Connecticut, helped the group calculate the amount requested for restitution in the proposal. Craemer studied the impact that unpaid and forced labor would have had on the descendants’ ancestors ability to work and their subsequent incomes, as well as the inheritance that descendants could have received.
The descendants’ news conference came five days after Joseph Ferrara, chief of staff to Georgetown University President John J. DeGioia, sent descendants a letter Jan. 12 reaffirming the university’s commitment to working with the descendants.
In the letter, Ferrara detailed Georgetown’s past efforts of reconciliation and forming a relationship with the descendant community and proposed a set of draft principles for continued dialogue, which include a commitment to establishing new projects over time and to be “ambitious” in developing “shared goals.
“We believe seeking engagement and consensus around a set of principles can help us move forward in developing a partnership and determining the most meaningful and significant ideas for our communities to pursue together. We look forward to your feedback and your ideas,” Ferrara wrote.
In April 2017, DeGioia offered a public apology for Georgetown’s involvement in the sale of the 272 slaves after establishing a working group in 2015 to explore options for apology and restitution. Following the working group’s recommendations, the university has engaged in multiple discussions and dialogues with the descendants about recompense.
As part of Georgetown’s efforts for reconciliation with the descendant community, in April 2017 the university renamed two buildings, one in honor of Anne Marie Becraft, who founded one of the first schools for black girls in Georgetown in the 19th century, and the other for Isaac Hawkins, whose name was first on the bill of sale in 1838. The university has also granted preferential consideration in admission to descendants applying to Georgetown and announced its intent to establish an institute for the study of slavery.
A university spokesperson affirmed Georgetown’s intentions to cooperate with the descendants in an email to The Hoya, noting DeGioia travelled to Louisiana in summer 2016 to meet with members of the descendant community. A meeting with one descendant that June was the first recorded meeting between a U.S. university president and the descendants of slaves connected to the university.
“Georgetown and the Jesuits are committed to working with Descendants in a process that recognizes the terrible legacy of slavery and promotes racial justice in southern Louisiana, southern Maryland and throughout the nation,” the spokesperson wrote.
Representatives of the descendant community, however, said they were tired of dialogue without establishing any steps forward.
“Our message today to Georgetown, to the Jesuits: Stop. Stop devaluing the descendants. Stop abusing their patience,” Goslee said. “For elder descendants, time is precious, and they have earned the right to demand meaningful action, not just words from Georgetown leaders, and for the younger descendants whose wealth building opportunities have been crippled by the legacy of Catholic slavery, restitution is a vital lifeline to a better future.”
Goslee said the university had failed to take into account the opinions of the descendants in their actions thus far.
“Nothing, nothing at all about scholarships specifically earmarked for GU272 descendants, no compensatory fund, nothing, nothing that actually reflected how descendants wanted Georgetown to make amends with them, and nothing at all that make them feel tangibly better off,” Goslee said. “It seems like the optics of reconciliation matter more to them than the genuine atonement based on tangible equity.”
Taylor, a descendant of Isaac Hawkins, said she is grateful for what the university has done so far, but she does not believe Georgetown has adequately atoned for its past.
“I appreciate their apology and the other symbolic gestures that the school has taken since last April, but in my heart, deep down, I don’t feel whole. I believe the descendants deserve more, and Georgetown has the means to do more,” Taylor said.
In addition to the press conference, the GU272 Isaac Hawkins Legacy group has taken other public actions to express their frustrations with the university and continue advocacy on behalf of the descendants.
A mass of remembrance for the 272 slaves and their descendants is scheduled to take place Wednesday, Jan. 25, at St. Augustine’s Church. In a video released Jan. 15, actor Danny Glover called on Georgetown to do more for the descendants.
“What does Georgetown and the Jesuits owe the descendants of the GU272 for the suffering and unpaid labor of their ancestors, like Dee Taylor and Earl Williams? I say much, much more than what they’ve offered thus far,” Glover said. “180 years is long enough to get justice.”
Special to The Hoya

DarwinScott says 
January 24, 2018 at 10:17 am
A guy from my year RJ Cellini who wanted to stir up trouble did this to mess with Georgetown.  
These people are doing a money grab.  Deserve nothing.

concerned alumnus says 
January 24, 2018 at 10:48 pm
Let me be clear, the United States owes it’s very existence to the United Kingdon.  The US should pay restitution to the UK.
Utterly ridiculous logic.  Give them something, and they contineu to ask for more.  Absolutely contemptible greed.  G’town never should given anything to those descendants.  No one is guilty for the sins of their fathers.  Should Italy pay money to France for Ceasar invading Gaul?  Should Mongolia pay much of Asia for Genghis Khan?  There is a point at which one has to say enough is enough.  When all involved persons are dead, their children are dead, their grandchildren are dead, their great granchildren are dead, it’s pretty safe to say that it’s time to move on.  You have to take responsibility for your life at some point–seize the day and make it today.

Wake up to some logic says 
February 3, 2018 at 1:13 pm
Reparations are an absurd concept. This is merely a shameless attempt for by greedy individuals on a tempting target. Utterly absurd arguments for these reparations by feeble-minded persons.

William Amado says 
June 12, 2018 at 6:20 pm
As a member of the classes of C69, G73, and M77….I was pretty sure that much of my estate would go to Georgetown.  I’ve changed my mind.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 24, 2018 by Caroline Gardner Leave a Comment 
Women’s civil society groups are crucial to promoting peace in Ukraine and Myanmar, said Melanne Verveer, the first U.S. ambassador-at-large for global women’s issues under the administration of former President Barack Obama, at an event co-hosted by the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security and the Embassy of Sweden on Jan. 17.
“In both Ukraine and Myanmar, we see how women’s civil society groups are trying to build peace,” Veneer said. “This is a work in progress; this is not looking back at what took place. It is what is happening in real time.”
Verveer, who is also the executive director of GIWPS, was joined by Swedish Ambassador Karin Olofsdotter; William Taylor, the former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine; and former U.S. Ambassador to Myanmar Derek Mitchell, to present new peace-building strategies to deal with the ongoing conflicts in Ukraine and Myanmar.
Olofsdotter echoed the importance of women’s engagement in civil conflict, adding that for there to be actual peace, citizens must actively try to further peace missions in conflict areas and that “women and men also need to get involved to counter hate speech, prevent intercommunal violence and end the discrimination practices that fuel violence.”
“Women’s representation is essential in governance, in peace-building and as actors in economic spheres for the country to reach its full potential,” Olofsdotter said.
In addition to remarks by the ambassadors, three GIWPS fellows presented their research on the impacts of bringing women into the peace-building process in Ukraine and Myanmar to the panel of about 50 students, professors and professionals from around Washington, D.C., in Riggs Library.
The three fellows, Anna Applebaum, Holly Furman and Briana Mawby, conducted their research through the Hillary Rodham Clinton Research Fellowship program, created by GIWPS in 2013.
The fellows based their research around U.N. Security Council Resolution 1325, passed in 2000, which stressed the importance of women in peace-building efforts. The fellows explored how nations with conflict are adopting this legislation.
Mawby, one of the research fellows, said that GIWPS supports research that explores the often-overlooked role that underrepresented groups play in civil conflict.
“So you hear about the big people at the table but not [about] all the people on the ground who are doing local peace-building and making a difference at the grassroots level,” Mawby said. “And so, for me, highlighting that work and showing that it is effective and that it can make change at the broader level is really important.”
Taylor said it was “very appropriate” that the study focused on conflict in Ukraine in particular.
“Let’s be clear: The Russians have invaded their neighbor,” Taylor said.
Mitchell emphasized the importance of considering the particular effects that conflicts have on women in academic study.
“Whether it disproportionately affects women or not, [conflict] affects women differently. So the different ways that conflict has affected women, whether it is through sexual violence or whether it is through displacement, those elements of the problem need to be discussed,” Mitchell said.
Noah Ahmed (SFS ’21), who attended the conference, said he appreciated the discussion of the role of women in civil conflict.
“I don’t see a lot of opportunities on campus for lectures that pertain to women and woman leadership roles in solving conflicts around the world,” Ahmed said. “So I thought this was a unique opportunity for me to delve into this less-spoken-about topic.”
Mawby encouraged students to stay conscious of conflicts happening around the world and be aware that “what is in the headlines isn’t all of what’s happening.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 24, 2018 by Megan Carey Leave a Comment 
Georgetown FinTech, a new student organization that promotes opportunities for students at the intersection of finance and technology, launches this semester with its first information session tonight at 8 p.m.
With graduate and undergraduate branches, Georgetown FinTech aims to expand opportunities for the community to work with FinTech, or financial technology, beyond the business courses newly offered at the university.
Tonight’s launch is intended to introduce the club and articulate its goals for the semester. This semester, Georgetown Fintech plans to recruit new members and offer on-campus and external events. The club also plans to partner with alumni and entrepreneurs to offer a professional perspective about this new field. Other initiatives include a biweekly newsletter and networking events through FinTech workshops available to its members.
Axel Khayat (SFS ’19) and William Ogden Moore (MSB ’19) were selected last year to co-found and lead the undergraduate branch of the club, which was originally created by a group of Georgetown Master of Business Administration graduate students.
FinTech has already started to expand into business programs at the undergraduate and graduate levels, and Georgetown has taken the lead in embracing this change, with course offerings that expose students to the growing sector.
The McDonough School of Business recently joined Stanford University as one of the first schools in the country to offer a FinTech and blockchain course as part of its undergraduate program.
The increased accessibility to the financial industry that this sector promotes was one motivation behind integrating FinTech into the MSB’s course offerings, according to Patricia Grant, senior associate dean of the MSB, at a December showcase previewing the club’s launch.
“I really believe in using tools that are at our disposal to do things smarter, and in ways that provide more access. FinTech to me provides more access to more people to be a part of the financial industry,” Grant said.
Students with a diverse set of interests can collaborate through FinTech, Khayat said.
“I cannot think of a better environment than Georgetown to approach these inquiries: an ecosystem where students, whose interests range from finance and business to policy, or technology, can all meet, exchange ideas and attempt to answer some of these questions,” Khayat said.
Because FinTech is an emerging industry, people involved can shape its impact on their surrounding community, according to Moore.
“FinTech is a growing field and a really interesting area to be in, and I think that it’s going to have a big impact on society going forward. I think the opportunity for us is to shape exactly what that impact is,” Moore said.
Jamie Russo (MBA ’19), one of the founding members of the graduate branch of Georgetown FinTech, studied finance as an undergraduate before starting work at a Virginia-based investment firm.
At the showcase, Russo said he has witnessed firsthand the growing effect technology has on the financial sector.
“Technology today is transforming financial services in a lot of different ways. It’s making the financial services industry easier to access for a lot of people,” Russo said. “It’s making information more transferable, faster. It’s providing access to people in under-resourced communities to access financial services in ways they might not have been able to in the past.”
FinTech is disrupting methods used by traditional financial sectors according to Gilles Hilary, a professor in the MSB’s executive program.
The FinTech sector has a wide-reaching scope, according to Hilary.
“FinTech is broader than what you have in your phone. FinTech is broader than the technical space. It has multiple applications,” Hilary said.
Because of FinTech, there is room for people of all professional and academic backgrounds to engage in its opportunities, Hilary said.
“This FinTech thing is not just for techies. I think that relates to the different functions that are impacted by FinTech,” Hilary said. “If you think of HR, for example, now you’ve got programs that will try to identify the skills that people have, what they should get and how we match the position with individuals, how we design training programs. That’s FinTech as well, but that might not be the part of FinTech you had in mind when you came to this session tonight.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

