
April 27, 2018 by Christian Paz 2 Comments 
When representatives from the International Relations Club faced the Student Activities Commission on Monday, March 19, to explain why IRC members had travelled to Panama City earlier that month without required SAC approval, the club had already argued its case a week earlier to the commission, which included four current IRC members.
At the time of the March 19 SAC meeting, two commissioners — both current IRC members — had already pushed for a lesser sanction on the club’s international travel during a March 12 meeting, while two other IRC members had actively participated in SAC’s discussion over possible sanctions on the club. The SAC deliberations appeared routine, even as four IRC members discussed and voted on sanctions for an organization to which they belong. Two also held ranking positions in the Georgetown International Relations Association, a nonprofit that provides IRC with significant external funding.
Indeed, a review of meeting minutes from the 2017-18 academic year and interviews with current and former SAC commissioners point to apparent conflicts of interest between IRC and SAC, and a larger problem for a student commission charged with keeping clubs and other students accountable. Current and former commissioners, both IRC members and not, have expressed confusion over when they should participate in discussions and when club affiliations might present a conflict of interests.
Watching the Watchdog
Composed of 13 undergraduate students chosen through an application and interview process, SAC monitors and regulates over 110 student organizations at Georgetown University.
SAC — the advisory board that oversees funding allocation, approval of events and new club development — requires all student groups, from large groups like the IRC and Georgetown University College Democrats to smaller clubs like Mock Trial and Guerilla Improv, to submit event authorization forms, which include details like the number of participants, estimated costs and risks such as travel, overnight stay, presence of alcohol or presence of minors, before hosting programming of any kind.
From political clubs and cultural organizations, to comedy troupes and debating societies, SAC oversees them all, allocating about $350,000 in funding assigned to it from the student-run Georgetown University Student Association’s Finance and Appropriations Committee.
SAC’s 13 commissioners are each assigned to a handful of student organizations and act as informational liaisons between club leadership and the commission.
SAC Chair Kylie Navarro (COL ’20) said commissioners are selected to be accountable to and representative of the student body.
“One of the big questions that has been coming up with SAC commissioners — but also advisory boards in general — is how you remain accountable to the student organizations, to the student body in general,” Navarro said in an interview with The Hoya.
Navarro said commissioners serve a dual purpose: to inform student clubs of SAC guidelines and procedures and advocate for those clubs in committee meetings.
“One person does not have any sort of power over the funding that a certain group receives,” Navarro said.
This SAC structure is in place to minimize the potential influence of one person over the commission’s work, though Navarro acknowledged the ethical dilemma that can arise when commissioners hold external memberships to other student groups.
“We are very conscious of — in meetings — if a person is on a leadership board for a club, how they can remain unbiased when we’re talking about funding for a group and they’re voting,” Navarro said. “SAC asks commissioners who have a conflict of interest to recuse themselves from the vote, for whatever we’re going to be discussing.”
Though Navarro said board members of SAC groups must recuse themselves, the SAC bylaws require commissioners who serve on leadership boards of a club to recuse themselves from discussing or deliberating on matters that pertain to that club; “regardless of board affiliation, no Commissioner shall vote on any motions that involve organizations that they are members of,” Article 1 of the SAC bylaws reads.
Moreover, Article 1 of the SAC bylaws states conflicts of interest are impeachable offenses and defines a conflict of interest “as any arrangement whereby a member of SAC could, based on their affiliation with SAC, provide an unfair advantage to the commission itself, or any other organization or individual.”
Navarro said SAC leadership asks commissioners who have a conflict of interest to recuse themselves from voting and discussing club matters.
But former SAC Chair Ricardo Mondolfi (SFS ’19) said despite these explicit rules, some former and current SAC commissioners have flouted these guidelines, pointing to the text of SAC bylaws that had not been previously enforced with consistency.
“SAC currently has provisions that prevent biased decision-making. That being said, I do not believe these measures provide sufficient protection, and even existing measures have not been fully implemented in past years,” Mondolfi said in an interview with The Hoya.
Navarro said she has made accountability and ethical procedures priorities under her term.
Ali Stowe, the assistant director of student engagement, reaffirmed this expectation of ethical procedures.
“Commissioners with ties to an organization are asked to abstain from debate, since once the deliberation period has started, organizations are not allowed to comment, so a Commissioner cannot provide any supplemental info,” Stowe wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Additionally, Commissioners abstain from voting during event approval and allocation votes for organizations in which they serve in a leadership capacity.”
Mondolfi said he made efforts to address bias in his term.
“We recognized this kind of behavior as improper, and while it was always discouraged, we took measures to stop this kind of behavior when we modified our Constitution and bylaws in the fall of 2017,” Mondolfi said.
Minute by Minute
Despite these tenuous institutional safeguards, some members of SAC have routinely skirted these guidelines.
For example, some SAC commissioners who are members of IRC, a student organization of over 500 members with a complex leadership structure, also serve in leadership positions for the Georgetown International Relations Association, an educational nonprofit that organizes Model United Nations conferences for high school and college students. These commissioners frequently comment on IRC matters.
Though IRC and GIRA share a large number of members, the two are distinct entities, according to IRC Chair Jaylan Smith (SFS ’20).
“Many GIRC members participate in conferences that GIRA hosts and GIRA does provide a semester-by-semester bulk allocation to support International Relations education with our events,” Smith wrote in an email to The Hoya. “It’s not rare for a board member of one to be a part of the membership of the other.”
However, the IRC website and its HoyaLink website refer to GIRA as its “sister organization,” and its members and leaders often overlap. GIRA also provides significant annual funding to the IRC.
This overlapping IRC and GIRA membership includes at least seven current and former SAC commissioners from the past two semesters, including current commissioners Chase Wagers (COL ’20), Elodie Currier (SFS ’19), Maddie Mousseau (COL’21) and Patrick Walsh (SFS ’21); current non-voting commissioner Abhinav Saravanan (SFS ’21) and former commissioners Carley Mambuca (SFS ’19) and Aaron Baum (SFS ’20).
Wagers currently serves as the secretary-general of the GIRA-organized North American International Model United Nations conference and was previously head of NAIMUN in China. He is also a dues-paying member of the IRC.
Currier serves as GIRA’s chief global strategist and will serve as GIRA CEO next year. She is a travel-team member of IRC.
Saravanan has served as a GIRA conference staffer and is a member of IRC; Mousseau has served as a GIRA conference staffer and is a member of IRC; Walsh has served as a GIRA conference staffer and is a member of IRC; Mambuca served as executive director of NAIMUN last year and is an IRC member; Baum currently serves as IRC’s communications director and is a GIRA member.
According to publicly available meeting minutes, these commissioners have weighed in on at least 19 separate cases relevant to the IRC and have selectively chosen to recuse themselves from votes and discussion on IRC matters.
When SAC discussed disciplinary action following the IRC’s Panama trip, Mousseau, Wagers and Walsh all participated in the March 12 conversation. They all voted to bring IRC back the following week and re-evaluate a potential ban on IRC travel. On March 19, the three commissioners also participated actively and debated on how IRC would be sanctioned.
Despite at least two previous cases in February and March 2017 in which IRC similarly failed to submit EAFs for Model United Nations trips to West Point and the University of California at Berkeley — for which Baum and Mambuca led discussion and voted — SAC ultimately voted in March 2018 not to impose a travel ban on IRC, opting instead for a financial penalty. Mousseau, Wagers and Walsh all participated and voted in this discussion. Currier abstained.
This financial penalty, a limit on the level of funding IRC can receive from SAC for its travel events, will be in place for fall 2018 and spring 2019, Navarro said.
In September 2017, IRC sought funding and approval for the Columbia University Model United Nations, Boston University MUN, University of Pennsylvania MUN and Yale University MUN conferences. Mambuca and Baum moved for approval and allocation of funds on all of these trips, amounting to a total $7,402 in funding.
Baum said this behavior was assumed to be standard.
“The Standard Operating Procedure during my time on SAC was simply that Board members abstained from voting on important matters related to the organizations that they lead; that is what the then-SAC Chair Ricardo Mondolfi told the Commissioners to do,” Baum wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Commissioners frequently voted on and discussed motions on the clubs in which they were active, and indeed the commission often thought it helpful to turn to Board members of the clubs they were discussing to better understand a request.”
Renewed Transparency
The seven current and former IRC commissioners maintain they behaved ethically and professionally in all their SAC dealings and said they did not believe they violated bylaws.
Mambuca said that, in practice, members of clubs are allowed to participate in discussions for groups they belong to.
“I was always careful to abstain from voting when discussing matters of the IRC,” Mambuca wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Currier said she was sure to always abstain on votes that pertained to IRC, though she contests that the bylaws require general members of clubs to recuse themselves from participating in discussion.
“Referencing the specific bylaws which refers to conflict of interest, which requires that only commissioners who are members of the BOARD of the group they are part of remain silent or leave the room on discussions on their groups,” Currier wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I acknowledge that the bylaw is confusingly worded, but I was at the drafting and interpreted as I felt that the original writers had, which was that IRC board members had to be silent during discussions, and excuse themselves from votes.”
Current commissioner Connor Sakati (COL ’18) said IRC’s case is particularly complicated because of the relationship between GIRA and IRC.
“The problem with IRC is that it’s a multi-tiered system, and there’s so much to it,” Sakati said in an interview with The Hoya. “Most members of SAC, and even most members of IRC I think, don’t necessarily understand what [GIRA] really entails or how much money they get from it.”
While current commissioners claim they do not hold board positions in IRC, they can simultaneously be IRC members and leaders in GIRA.
But Mondolfi said regardless of whether commissioners are board members, their participation can appear to provide unfair advantages to overrepresented groups.
“They are often active participants in discussions about requests from their groups. This gives them the opportunity to add details, explanations and excuses to the discussion as well as communicate with the people making the request, which is safe to call an unfair advantage,” Mondolfi said. “Groups get one commissioner to represent them before SAC, but sometimes it feels like certain groups have three or four.”
Navarro said leadership is aware of potential bias and is working to prevent these instances from occurring.
“We also screen against bias in our recruitment of new commissioners, as we consistently ask applicants how will they work to remain unbiased on the commission,” Navarro said.
Mondolfi contends that SAC is not meant to be a representative body and that unbiased decisions should be the priority of commissioners and the recruitment process.
“During my tenure as chair, we often discussed how we could ensure that the system was as fair as possible in order to better serve all students,” Mondolfi said. “Perhaps the most important area of improvement is hiring: If more students were willing to serve on SAC, we certainly would not have this issue. Students, especially first-years and sophomores, should strongly consider applying.”
Hoya Staff Writers Jeff Cirillo and Katrina Schmidt contributed reporting.

Jack the Bullfrog says 
May 3, 2018 at 10:41 am
Maybe I’m overly optimistic, but I feel like commissioners should refrain from speaking on organizations with whom they participate on ethical principal. Following the by-laws is a below-the-floor minimum for being a responsible commissioner. 
I checked the budget summit document to see what the overlap is between purportedly GIRA events and IRC funding requests. Interestingly, SAC has not given the IRC a budget tier.

Disappointed says 
May 3, 2018 at 11:52 am
“Reporters” (lol) should really do a better job of masquerading hit pieces like this. Sad to see!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 27, 2018 by Sarah Mendelsohn Leave a Comment 
Increasing diversity in news media can transform publications to be more representative of the experiences of all readers, a panel of professional journalists said at an event Tuesday evening co-hosted by The Hoya, the Georgetown Voice and the Lecture Fund.
The event aimed to address the transforming media climate and the state of diversity in newsrooms today. The event featured six panelists: Julia Craven, race and black culture reporter at HuffPost; Carmel Delshad, a reporter and editor at D.C. radio station WAMU; Bhumi Tharoor, a CNN recruiter;Miriam Zoila Pérez, a freelance journalist; and Ron Nixon, a national security reporter at The New York Times. A veteran journalist at The Washington Post and a Georgetown journalism professor Athelia Knight moderated the event.
Journalists from diverse backgrounds can offer a unique perspective on reporting, Delshad said.
“It’s important when you’re talking about recruiting people that come from diverse backgrounds to realize that they can cover things with a nuance, that maybe somebody else who doesn’t have that background might not pick up on those tiny details,” Carmel said.
Nixon, co-founder of the Ida B. Wells Society, an organization that supports journalists of color, said the media industry has become more diverse in recent years. He urged media organizations to continue to include people of color in coverage that is not only on race issues.
“There has been progress, but there has also been regression in terms of getting people into the newsroom,” Nixon said. “But the bigger thing for me is you’re in there, but what are you doing once you’re in there? And not just on the reporting side, but are you in recruitment? Are you an editor? Are you in decision-making positions?”
Diverse journalists’ backgrounds and perspectives can also influence how they investigate stories, Pérez said, echoing Delshad’s sentiment.
“The idea that anybody who’s asking questions in a reporting context doesn’t have a perspective that’s influencing what questions they ask, who they ask them of and how they frame it is totally a myth,” Pérez said. “There’s no such thing, in my opinion, of objectivity in that sense that we understand it.”
Socio-economic status can also shape how journalists report on stories, especially those regarding race, Craven said.
“The biggest problems that I’ve seen is the socio-economic aspect of it. Because if you are just, for example, a black person who came from a wealthy background, you may not have a certain understanding of things that go on in the hood,” Craven said. “If you’re covering the hood, you may not understand a lot of the stuff that’s happening there, because that’s not your experience.”
Pérez said the lack of diversity in the media industry is reflected in which stories get covered and how they are received by the audience.
“If you’re writing about rich white men, then that’s the news. Any other issue, that’s a marginalized thing,” Perez said.
Journalism enables reporters to educate the public about the lives of marginalized people, Delshad said.
“I do want to shine a light on stories that I think show inequalities,” Delshad said. “I could go outside and hold a poster being like, ‘Let refugees in’ or whatever, but instead I do work that shows what happens when they get here, how little money they have to get by, what’s their house like.”
Craven said that even though she believes activism and journalism can operate independent of each other, she identifies with the motivations and goals that drive activists to work for change through her journalism.
“I am a reporter, but also that fire that activists have, that passion, that anger, to say that that isn’t what drives me to do my work fairly — I’d be lying to you,” Craven said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 27, 2018 by Olivia Eggers Leave a Comment 
Throughout April, Sexual Assault Peer Educators, the Women’s Center and Health Education Services hosted events in observance of Sexual Assault Awareness month, the first time in university history that programming events lasted for the entire month, centered around the theme “Take It All Back.”
The events were organized by a committee of eleven students, from both SAPE and the general student body, to respond to information brought to light by Georgetown’s Sexual Assault and Misconduct Climate Survey conducted in January 2016 by the university administration. The results of the survey revealed that one in three women, one in three transgender, genderqueer and non-conforming students and one in nine men reported experiencing non-consensual sexual contact as a result of physical force or incapacitation.
Morgan Robinson (NHS ’20), a member of SAPE and of this year’s SAA month planning committee, said this year’s theme of Georgetown’s SAA month, “Take It All Back,” was created in an effort to dispel common notions of sexual assault, specifically in showing that sexual assault does not only take place at night. Robinson cited Take Back the Night, an international event aimed at ending sexual, relationship and domestic violence, as an activism event that implies that violence occurs only at nighttime, she said.
“We wanted to challenge the stigma that Take Back the Night might hold when it comes to talking about issues of sexual assault, whether it be that sexual assault only happens in a dark alley or by a stranger or someone you don’t know,” Robinson said.
Throughout the month, the planning committee focused on reaching out to marginalized groups on campus by organizing events about the sexualization of students of color, discussions about sex and power in the workplace and an event titled “Men for Others,” which discussed the role of men as both victims and perpetrators of sexual violence.
“It was a lot of trying to reach out to the communities, or pockets of communities, that might not normally attend these events or be inclined to show up on their own,” said Julia Hyacinthe (NHS ’19), member of the planning committee for SAA month.
In addition to participating in programming for SAA month, SAPE created a social media campaign that shared anonymous stories of sexual assault survivors at Georgetown. Excerpts of the stories were printed and placed around campus through a series of photographs and personal narratives.
“It was a way to engage with so many folks who maybe don’t feel comfortable coming to these events for whatever reason,” Rizk said. “There are so many other survivors there, and I think when they see those stories being told, that really is important to them, and when they see people sharing and liking these stories, it’s important for people to see that this isn’t something to be ashamed of, or keep hidden.”
Rizk recognized the value in the community’s response to SAA month and the steps the university took in response to the 2016 Climate Survey, but she says there is still room for improvement.
“The people at Health Education Services are working so hard to meet the need, and it is not enough,” Rizk said. “The demand is huge, and the resources are not enough.”
In response to the results of the survey, university administrators made bystander intervention training a mandatory part of New Student Orientation programming for incoming students this fall. The program seeks to raise awareness of sexual assault on campus and to inform students of steps they can take to prevent sexual assault.
Claire Bernstein was hired in February as a new staff clinician and sexual assault specialist in Health Education Services, a position created in response to the results of the Climate Survey. The steps the university has taken to tackle sexual assault constitute a positive change, Bernstein said, but she will continue to support programs that reach out to marginalized groups on campus.
“Our office is making an effort to do more outreach, but it would be helpful for the university to continue to support those efforts,” Bernstein said.
In the wake of movements like #MeToo, a hashtag campaign that began in 2017 to share the prevalence of sexual assault and harassment in the workplace, there has been a heightened level of attention to national conversations about sexual assault. As the conversation has entered the national dialogue, leaders of SAPE said it is important to recognize that the issues existed long before the attention.
“Sexual assault has always been happening in these numbers and in this amount, but it’s just recently been coming forward into a national dialogue,” said Rizk.
The SAPE committee plans to host a sexual assault awareness summit in November, which will bring together students from universities across D.C. to talk about steps to eliminate sexual assault on college campuses, Rizk said.
“Having all of these conversations about [why sexual assault exists is] all really important,” Rizk said. “What also is important is having these moments to be in community with each other, and heal together.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 27, 2018 by Cady Stanton 1 Comment 
The District of Columbia Circulator system will deploy 14 battery-electric, zero-emission buses in Washington, D.C., starting May 1, Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) said at the Downtown Business Improvement District’s annual State of Downtown Forum on April 20.
The new Proterra E2 Catalyst electric buses are expected to reduce diesel consumption by more than 88,900 gallons per year and eliminate more than 243,980 pounds of carbon dioxide emissions annually, according to an April 20 news release. Over their 12-year lifespans, the 14 Proterra buses will reduce fuel and maintenance costs for the city by more than $6 million.
Manufactured in the United States, the buses will run on electricity will and feature free public Wi-Fi, digital display screens for commuter information and USB ports for charging personal devices.
This fleet of electric buses is the first of its size in the region, Terry Owens, director of communications for the District Department of Transportation, wrote in an email to The Hoya.
“We are excited that we have, as of now, the largest fleet in the east coast of this type of vehicles,” Owens wrote. “The electric bus rollout makes strides toward the Mayor’s vision of sustainability and transit enhancements, as well as supports the city’s goals in the Sustainable D.C. plan.”
The circulator buses will offer residents another sustainable transportation option, joining existing dockless bike-share and electric scooter systems, Bowser said.
“A growing city needs growing transportation options. These new electric buses will provide
residents and visitors with one more sustainable, reliable, and affordable way to get around the District,” Bowser said in the April 20 news release. “With this greener, more modern fleet of buses on the road, we are building a safer, stronger, and more sustainable D.C.”
The announcement follows the addition of 26 New Flyer Xcelsior model buses to the D.C. Circulator fleet last August as part of DDOT’s Sustainability Plan. The plan seeks to increase public transit use to 50 percent of all commuter trips, reduce commuter trips made by car or taxi to 25 percent and reduce the number of “unhealthy” air quality index days, including “unhealthy for sensitive groups” days, to zero.
DDOT partnered with Proterra, a California-based automotive and energy storage company that designs and manufactures electric buses and electric charging systems. The company designed the Catalyst E2 buses that DDOT is deploying, which hold the world record for the furthest distance an electric vehicle can travel on a single charge at 1,101.2 miles.
Proterra is a leader in the production of electric buses, one reason why DDOT chose to partner with the company, Owens said.
“Proterra is recognized nationwide as one of the pioneers for this type of vehicle and continues to innovate with this technology,” Owens wrote. “We are happy they were able to meet the vehicle requirements proposed by the District, and we have the vehicles we have today.”
Proterra CEO Ryan Popple said a partnership with D.C. presented an opportunity to improve transit in a major city, in the April 20 news release.
“As one of the most vibrant and visited cities in the nation, Washington, D.C., is the perfect place to introduce technology that not only dramatically reduces emissions, but also fundamentally improves the rider experience,” Popple said.
DDOT has been planning to replace the oldest vehicles in the fleet of Circulator buses for the past five years, according to Owens. All D.C. Circulator vehicles were purchased with local funds, and the DDOT did not request any federal contribution or subsidization for the project.
The added buses will not replace those already on the road. Instead, they will complement existing operational demands for the service while the performance of the new vehicles is evaluated, although Owens expects a positive report.
“The District will be evaluating how the vehicles perform in the urban environment, how they perform in various weather conditions and what the maintenance demands are during the first year of operations,” Owens wrote. “Jurisdictions that have implemented electric vehicles, have been very happy with the results.”
Owens hopes the pilot program in D.C. is successful and the company will be able to expand its electric bus service to other East Coast cities.
“At this time we are focused on ensuring a successful pilot and review of the technology before we consider future purchases,” Owens said. “We hope that we will be able to showcase this technology and serve as a hub for other transit on the East Coast to possibly follow suit.”

Public Transport User says 
April 27, 2018 at 9:58 am
FYI, the picture is of a WMATA bus….
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

