
September 20, 2018 by Will Cassou 6 Comments 
Pro-abortion rights student group H*yas for Choice began offering free emergency contraception to students Monday, the first time such contraceptives will be widely available on Georgetown University grounds.
Georgetown does not provide any form of contraceptives on campus, except Student Health Services, which will provide hormonal contraceptives, such as birth control, when students can demonstrate medical need for reasons other than contraception, according to the Student Health Services website.
As an emergency contraceptive, Plan B works to prevent pregnancies if taken within 72 hours after unprotected sex or a malfunction of birth control.
Neither Students of Georgetown, Inc., more commonly known as The Corp, nor Wisemiller’s Grocery and Deli, both of which operate storefronts on university grounds, can sell contraceptives, The Hoya reported in 2015.
H*yas for Choice announced through its Facebook page Monday that it would begin offering free Plan B.
“H*yas for Choice has worked for years to improve access to and quality of services available to our community,” the announcement read. “We could not be more excited to make this progress today.”
Elianna Schiffrik (COL ’21), one of HFC’s communications directors, said that Plan B’s absence on campus and the associated difficulties faced by students motivated the group to begin looking into ways that they could provide Plan B for Georgetown students over the summer.
“We recognized there was a need. [Plan B] was very inaccessible on campus because well first, CVS, from certain dorms, is almost a mile to get there and Georgetown students being notoriously busy don’t always have the time to get off campus,” Schiffrik said. “But even more than that, it was inaccessible financially, because it’s between 30 and 60 dollars, and it’s also time sensitive so maybe you don’t have that type of money on hand immediately, so we wanted to be able to meet that need to be able to get [Plan B] free, quickly, and conveniently on campus.”
In order to distribute the contraceptives, HFC is employing a method it says it feels protects students’ privacy. An email account, [email protected] is monitored by a select few board members multiple times a day, and once a request comes in, the HFC board member will arrange a time to meet on campus and distribute the contraceptive.
“We were trying to make it confidential, discrete and quick. Those are our mains goals for how we’re going to provide it,” Schiffrik said.
Although HFC is fully funding the initiative, it also relies partly on donations in order to make the initiative sustainable, Schiffrik said.
“We are funding it ourselves. Even though it’s free, we do ask that if you are able to or just generally support the service and what we do on campus, we’d love a donation,” she said. “We’ve also been really grateful to see in the past 24 hours even since the announcement, we’ve had an influx in donations.”
Schiffrik said that as an unrecognized group by the university, HFC receives no financial support from the university, but that there were benefits to the group’s unrecognized status.
“We don’t have any sort of oversight from faculty or staff, which is great because it gives us more ability to do things like this, but it also is harder because we really are just a group of undergraduates doing what we can to help other undergraduates,” Schiffrik said. “There’s pros and cons to being unrecognized.”
The Monday announcement was met without much controversy, Schiffrik said.
“The reaction has been overwhelmingly positive so far,” she said. “We haven’t seen too much aggressive backlash yet. We do anticipate it.”
The university and Georgetown Right to Life declined to take a standpoint on HFC’s decision to provide Plan B to students in interviews with The Hoya.
“H*yas for Choice is not a student organization with access to university benefits and does not receive funding from the University. Individual students are permitted to express their opinions and ideas freely,” a spokesperson from the university wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Georgetown Right to Life issued a statement to The Hoya that declined to take a stance because of Plan B’s classification as contraception.
“As a club, Georgetown Right to Life does not have a stance on contraception. To our knowledge, Plan-B works to impede fertilization, the goal of contraception. For that reason, we also do not have a stance on the distribution of Plan-B,” the statement read. “We advocate for the dignity of all human life, beginning with conception and ending with natural death. We will continue to fight for the rights of the pre-born and to support pregnant women on our campus and in our community.”
Despite the current stances of the two groups, HFC remains prepared for any potential backlash, according to Schiffrik.
“Georgetown has never supported what we do or what we represent so we wouldn’t be surprised if they in some way reacted or if the anti-choice groups reacted in some sort of counter-measure to oppose what we do, but it’s not going stop us. We’re here to stay. We’ve been around for decades, and we plan on continuing to provide services to the community,” Schiffrik said.
Caroline Sarda (COL ’20), who works as an undergraduate assistant at the Georgetown University Women’s Center, wrote in an email to The Hoya, speaking for herself only, that she is disappointed that it falls to HFC to provide contraception to students but nonetheless considers it an important development for student life at Georgetown.
“I think it’s a shame that so much of the responsibility for our sexual health is placed on us at this stage, especially given students’ wildly varying levels of knowledge about their own sexual and reproductive health,” Sarda wrote. “But I think H*yas For Choice is taking an amazing and very necessary step with providing emergency contraception, which I am very grateful for. To me, the work they’re doing is what student advocacy and care for one another really looks like.”
Correction: This article previously stated H*yas for Choice would offer the emergency contraceptive Plan B One-Step; H*yas for Choice did not specify the brand of emergency contraception it would offer. 
This post has been updated. 
Special to The Hoya

HoyAlum says 
September 20, 2018 at 9:27 am
can you provide a link to send in donations?

Elianna Schiffrik says 
September 21, 2018 at 12:46 am
Hello! HFC welcomes any donations you can contribute. Our Venmo is @hyasforchoice. Thank you so much for your support!

SFS 16 says 
September 20, 2018 at 4:11 pm
The persecution complex Hoyas for Choice has always been funny to me. 90% of students on campus support them, they get plenty of outside funding, and the university has never actually prevented them from doing anything other than get student funding (which they don’t need and actually do get anyway through workarounds from GUSA), stopped them from openly harassing speakers they don’t like outside of Red Square, and prevent them from openly securing ICC classrooms for their meetings/therapy sessions, which has never stopped any organization on campus, let alone them. Also Vita Saxa has literally never done any sort of “counter-measure,” which the same cannot be said of Hoyas for Choice. 
But none of this is good enough for an organization with secure enough funding they can hand out drugs that cost $60 at CVS en masse.

Elianna Schiffrik says 
September 21, 2018 at 11:45 am
Hello! H*yas for Choice is so grateful for the current support of the student body at Georgetown. However, if you would like to know more about the history of H*yas for Choice and the opposition we have faced in the past, which includes a coalition of alumni, students, and Catholics bringing a canon lawsuit against the university in response to the funding of our organization, here is a great article: https://georgetownvoice.com/2016/11/18/hya-saxa-twenty-five-years-of-choice/
Further, our dismay at the university is less about our unrecognized status, and more directed at the fact that the responsibility of providing comprehensive sexual education and access to contraception at Georgetown falls on a group of undergraduates, rather than trained professionals and university employees. Though we embrace our invaluable role on campus, we also recognize that frankly, this shouldn’t be our job. It should be Georgetown’s.

Elianna Schiffrik says 
September 21, 2018 at 12:46 am
Hello! HFC welcomes any donations you can contribute. Our Venmo is @hyasforchoice. Thank you so much for your support!

Bender says 
September 25, 2018 at 4:05 pm
Hey Georgetown Right to Life — Plan B and like products also work by impeding implantation in the womb AFTER fertilization (conception) has occurred.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 20, 2018 by Emma Kotfica 1 Comment 
To address China’s growing soft power influence on student groups at colleges around the country, universities must understand the context of the situation fully before taking action, said Robert Sutter, the director of the B.A. in International Affairs at The George Washington University, at an event Tuesday hosted by the Alexander Hamilton Society.
In addition to Sutter, the event featured Toshi Yashihara, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments and former teacher of strategy at the Naval War College, and Dan Blumenthal, the director of Asian Studies at the American Enterprise Institute and former senior director for China, Taiwan and Mongolia at the Department of Defense.
The event took place less than a year after reports surfaced in February that the Georgetown University Chinese Students and Scholars Association received funds from the Chinese government. Nearly half of the Georgetown CSSA budget came from the Chinese government.
The increasing influence of Chinese soft power on student groups is emerging now, and there is still insufficient evidence to determine the best response to China’s influence on students, Sutter said. He recommended Americans wait for the problem to become more understandable before deciding on a course of action.
“In this kind of an issue, we don’t have enough evidence, we don’t have enough data to make a guess it seems to me … And so it’s a relevant issue — it’s just a new issue this year in Washington, and I think we have to get more data,” Sutter said. “And maybe after that we can come up with some reasonable judgment. If we rush to judgment and say it’s this and that … I think is excessive.”
The ambiguity of Chinese influence operations makes it difficult to discern which pose a legitimate threat, according to Yoshihara.
“One of the subtleties of influence operations is that it operates in that twilight zone where it’s very difficult to figure out,” Yoshihara said.
Many of the Chinese influence operations subtly encourage limitations on free speech, Yoshihara added.
“Influence operations operate in that blurry twilight zone and I think one of the things I worry about most is its ability to very subtly shape the bait,” Yoshihara said. “Whether it’s the Confucius Institutes or the student associations on campuses, it’s that it creates an atmosphere that for example very subtly enforces self-censorship.”
Yoshihara — referencing the Chinese United Front, a coalition of political parties in China led by the Communist Party — said the coalition’s ideological roots cultivate a worldview based on fear of and animosity toward the West.
“This is deeply ideological. I would describe the worldview as one categorized by fear, loathing and paranoia … It’s not just what the West does, it’s actually who the West is, what the West is, what it represents,” Yoshihara said. “And so the United Front sees the West as seeking to export ideas, cultures … and this is seen as an existential threat to the regime.”
The Chinese United Front works to spread propaganda that prevents the Chinese population from defecting to support Western culture, according to Yoshihara.
“They tend to sort of overestimate in some ways the power or the influence of the West. Since China engaged in reform and opening in the late 1970s, obviously, a flood of Western values and influence flooded in,” Yoshihara said. “And so the writings are taken … to inoculate the population from these ideological pollutants or contaminants.”
Blumenthal highlighted that the definition of soft power in China has evolved through the years.
“Soft power, which when it was first written … it said something very specific … it was a cultural and intellectual input, traction, in a country,” Blumenthal said. “Now I guess it’s taken on a meaning in China.”
Sutter, a former professor in the School of Foreign Service, President Donald Trump’s policies on China mark a significant shift away from traditional strategies.
“The United States is in the middle of the most important re-evaluation of China policy in my fifty years here in Washington. I haven’t seen anything like this, what we’re doing here … on a whole range of issues: security,” Sutter said.

Art Vandelay says 
September 28, 2021 at 11:02 pm
Insightful piece. Curious how the soft power dynamic has developed through the end of the Trump administration and over the duration of the coronavirus pandemic.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 20, 2018 by Karena Landler Leave a Comment 
Institutionalized economic inequality remains prevalent in society despite increased funding for social improvement, author Anand Giridharadas said at an event in Copley Formal Lounge on Wednesday hosted by the Beeck Center for Social Impact and Innovation.
Giridharadas spoke about his third and latest book, “Winners Take All: The Elite Charade of Changing the World.” The event was co-sponsored by the Beeck Center, the Georgetown University Lecture Fund and Georgetown Net Impact.
Giridharadas was formerly a columnist for The New York Times and currently works as a political analyst for NBC. Sonal Shah, the executive director of the Beeck Center, introduced Giridharadas and led the conversation in view of the Beeck Center’s mission to support students in their pursuit of social change.
“Winners Take All” focuses on how the elite often do not affect as much change as they claim to. His talk focused on the institutionalization of economic inequality that remains high despite growing amounts of money directed at social improvement.
“All of the gains of our economy are going to the top 10 percent of Americans, and most of them to the top slice of that,” Giridharadas said. “That is predation. That didn’t happen the way weather happens. That is organized and designed and fought for and lobbied for.”
Giridharadas explored the relationships between “elite helpfulness and elite hoarding,” especially as both continue to increase. He concluded that the elite proclivity for helpfulness is part of the system that allows for the normalization of elite hoarding.
“The more sinister possibility that I began to consider is that this helpfulness in some ways is part of the system that allows the hoarding,” Giridharadas said.
According to Giridharadas, the presence of the rich and powerful in social movements necessarily reshapes the spaces that they enter.
“Because of who they are, because of their resources and power, they can’t help but have a big impact on the space just by showing up,” Giridharadas said. “They often end up redefining change … they’re changing it by joining it.”
In the process of redefining social movements, the elite change those movements to benefit themselves, Giridharadas said. He billed these types of changes as simple and surface-level solutions to complex social problems that require more holistic solutions.
“They defang change. They push for the kind of change that doesn’t change their normal,” Giridharadas said. “They push for the kind of change that protects their opportunity to stand at the top of the system.”
Giridharadas highlighted Goldman Sachs as a firm that engages superficially with a social movement, pointing to its efforts to impose a carbon tax while also profiting from investments in fuels. Giridharadas said in this way elites often end up “fighting on both sides of many wars.”
Giridharadas criticized the lecture circuit influence of organizations like TED for fueling this idealism and elevating those who uphold their way of life at the expense of others. Programs like TED suggest that a business model of solving problems is the most effective for social issues, according to Giridharadas.
The solutions to complex social issues will require challenging solutions that demand that the elite relinquish some of their power, Giridharadas claims.
“I’ve never encountered a poor person who’s said, ‘stay away from complex solutions,’” Giridharadas said. “It’s often a very privileged person who says ‘let’s just do something simple.’ Because I think they understand that the kinds of solutions that would bring justice to many communities are the kind of solutions that would take their power and that’s hard.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

