
December 7, 2018 by Meena Morar Leave a Comment 
The smooth operations of Georgetown University’s maintenance rely on employees of the Office of Planning and Facilities Management to respond to work requests. Yet several of these workers feel overworked, underpaid and unprotected against mistreatment by their management team.
Under a new trade-based work delegation, facilities workers have faced a large number of work requests and insufficient institutional support for addressing work-related grievances, as two anonymous employees, referred to by the pseudonyms Leo and Sam, said in interviews with The Hoya.
A Shift in Strategy
From 2014 to 2017, facilities shifted delegation of work requests from a zone-based to a trade-based structure, according to former interim Vice President of Planning and Facilities Management Greg Simmons.
Under the zone-based system, workers were responsible for maintenance tasks in specific buildings, while the trade-based structure allocates duties based on workers’ skill specialization.
During this transition, Robin Morey served as the vice president of planning and facilities management. Morey left in July 2018, and Simmons filled the role until Benjamin Kuo took office Dec. 1.
As facilities transitioned to trade-based delegation, however, workers felt a significant shift in their roles without preparation or support.
For example, the trade-based structure placed Sam — a general building maintenance worker before the switch — in the plumbing skill shop, without the training or wage increase associated with skill specialization. A skill shop is a department within facilities that includes workers to reflect their area of expertise.
“As a building maintenance worker, you’re not allowed to be in a skilled shop,” Sam said. “You need a certain certificate in order to do it. Before they changed it around, if I would’ve wanted to go to that skill shop, I would have to go to school and get trained. They just moved us and put us in the skilled shop with no training, no nothing. It’s a safety issue.”
Yet the building workers forced into skill shops have not received the pay of certified technicians, according to Leo.
“I feel sorry for the guys,” Leo said. “I’m in the [air conditioning] classification, I get paid as an AC technician. But, the guys in the lower level are doing the AC job, but they are not getting paid for it as AC workers.”
Georgetown, however, says it “remains committed to ensuring staff are equipped with the resources, training and tools needed to support their respective teams,” Simmons wrote.
Overwhelming Orders
In the previous, zone-based system, building maintenance workers were responsible for maintaining either an academic or residential building. Now, workers have to cross campus to fulfill tasks in multiple buildings, according to Sam.
“When they put us in skilled shops and took us out of zones, now every worker has to go work academic and residential,” Sam said.
Georgetown’s new system, combined with understaffing, has exacerbated the burden on workers to complete work orders in a timely manner, according to Leo.
“They overload us with more work,” Leo said. “That affects us, because when they centralize everything, now we have to run from building to building.”
The office currently employs 21 workers, and the administration is actively trying to fill three vacancies within the shop, according to a university representative.
Leo, however, claims there were 30 AC technicians before Morey took over facilities in 2012. Currently, 12 or 13 workers are classified in the AC realm, according to Leo.
“A couple of them are very old guys, so we don’t count on them — they barely move around,” he said. “People have died, people have retired — and they have never hired people again.”
The trade-based system and understaffing not only affect the workers but also hamper maintenance work vital to campus equipment, students and building infrastructure.
“With the small amount of personnel, the AC equipment at Georgetown is not well-maintained,” Leo said. “A few months ago, I got sick, and I was out for two weeks. Nobody did my tickets. There was a student in Village B without cooling for almost three months — nobody came over.”
An Outlet for Help?
Leo and Sam both suggested the university’s institutional support systems were apathetic to their work-related grievances about hostile management.
“I want students to know about the discrimination, the retaliation and the bullying from that management team,” Sam said. “That’s a constant thing. If you talk to a lot of workers now, there are a lot of workers who have been here and have enjoyed their job and loved coming to work — don’t want to come to work anymore.”
Workers are able to file an official complaint or seek help through institutional resources such as human resources, the Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity and Affirmative Action, or the 1199SEIU labor union.
Within HR, workers must fill out a grievance form and work with Roberta Kelley Paul, university director for employee relations and engagement, for next steps.
Paul, however, does not adequately follow through on workers’ grievances, according to Sam.
“She is supposed to contact the union office, about any changes to union workers and any issues,” Sam said. “She has not complied at all. She is the one who created the hostile environment, because we reported these issues and our concerns — and they were very serious issues, when it came to being bullied and intimidated [by managers]. She has done nothing.”
For example, there have been over 30 grievances filed against Robert Davis, the associate director of facilities operations, yet there has been no official action taken, according to Sam.
Racial discrimination, unprofessionalism and public harassment were among the complaints workers, including Sam and Leo, filed — to no avail.
Georgetown did not comment on Paul and Davis’ specific case. Instead, university spokesperson Matt Hill affirmed the role of the IDEAA office as a resource for workers.
“While we cannot comment on private personnel matters, we follow the grievance process outlined in the collective bargaining agreement between the university and the union,” Hill wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The university thoroughly and promptly investigates and addresses all complaints through Human Resources, Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity and Affirmative Action, and other offices as appropriate.”
The workers’ distrust of institutional support is also rooted in perceived disloyalty from their union.
The 1199SEIU labor union strives to represent workers through the collective bargaining agreement set with Georgetown to negotiate for workers’ rights, according to Yahnae Barner, senior labor union organizer at 1199SEIU.
“1199SEIU is a leader on social justice issues in Maryland and the District of Columbia,” Barner wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We are devoted to advancing the economic interests of our members and all working people.”
1199SEIU delegates are employees elected by their peers to represent and mobilize their fellow workers. However, Leo believes that these representatives lack the strength to criticize the university because of their employment status.
“They don’t get paid from the union; they are employees like us,” Leo said. “They are not strong enough to fight the case. Sometimes they give up; most of the time they don’t get backup from the main union organizers.”
Barner, however, claims the union cares most about its members — the workers.
“The only ties [we] have with University is our members, their employees,” Barner wrote. “We hope to have a healthy relationship with the University, but our focus is to ensure members rights are upheld and the contract is followed.”
Yet Leo feels institutional advocates are not doing enough for workers. “Most of the time the union and human resources are in favor of the management.” Leo said. “We basically have no way for justice.”
Outside of institutional resources, workers can turn to student advocacy groups for help. The Georgetown Solidarity Committee attempts to mobilize student-worker power by creating dialogue between the university and workers, according to GSC member Obed Ventura (SFS ’19).
“We try to organize direct actions in order to pressure the university to even speak to workers,” Ventura said. “It’s important for students to get involved with workers because they’re people, too. Everyone who contributes to making the Hilltop the community that it is deserve respect and dignity.”
In the past, GSC has helped advocate for the unionization of Georgetown graduate students with the Georgetown Alliance of Graduate Employees and fought for proper job relocation with Bulldog Tavern earlier this year.
Students are instrumental to improving the worker experience at Georgetown, according to Sam.
“Working with the students, that saved my day,” Sam said. “They have been a great help — big fighters for us union workers and facilities workers. Whenever we needed them, they were always there.”
New Leadership
The workers feel optimistic that Kuo, the new facilities VP, will respond to their complaints about the trade-based maintenance structure.
“I bet if you talk to workers now, they’ll say they’re happy, because change is coming,” Sam said. “I had confidence that change would come, because I was fighting. We see the change coming, but what we went through — we went through a lot.”
“I look forward to working with the Planning and Facilities Management team to develop specific goals and a strategic plan to best meet all of our needs,” Kuo wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I hope to foster a tight-knit team, continue the department’s sense of dedication and service towards the campus community, and strive for continued improvements.”
Yet the university maintains that the trade-based structure is here to stay: Facilities is continuing its current trade-based reporting structure, according to a university spokesperson.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 7, 2018 by Sana Rahman Leave a Comment 
Students criticized Georgetown University’s current response to sexual assault and the upcoming changes to Title IX regulations that could lessen the university’s legal obligation to combat assault during campus feedback sessions Monday and Thursday.
The U.S. Department of Education is holding a 60-day public comment period after its Nov. 16 release of a series of recommendations that would bolster protections for students accused of sexual assault in a number of ways, including by raising the standard of certainty needed to sanction accused students.
Georgetown chose to host a series of feedback sessions to gather student input on how they hope the university will respond to the proposed regulations, according to Vice President for Institutional Diversity and Equity Rosemary Kilkenny (LAW ’87), a coordinator for the events.
The Education Department’s proposed allowance for cross-examination of the survivor by the accused student’s adviser was a major concern of students present at the first session, according to data collected from the event’s RSVP form.
Students questioned whether Georgetown would provide legal counsel to all parties involved, as those of lower socioeconomic backgrounds could be unfairly affected.
If the university does not provide counsel for all students, students who cannot hire a lawyer will have their capacities to advocate for themselves limited, according to Georgetown University Student Association senator Dylan Hughes (COL ’19).
“You will see that classist implication of some students hiring lawyers under the name of advisers, and others not being able to,” Hughes said said at the Monday feedback session. 
In the second session, students focused on the provision that provides a formal definition of sexual harassment. The definition requires that unwelcome conduct be “severe, pervasive and objectively offensive” to be perceived as sexual harassment.
The additional requirement of all three qualifications for behavior to be considered sexual harassment makes it harder for survivors to provide proof, according to Students Taking Action Against Interpersonal Violence member Kory Stuer (COL ’19).
“The change to the ‘and’ is a very significant change,” Stuer said at the Thursday feedback session. “Particularly in the last few years where we have seen movements like #MeToo and the emergence of ‘Times Up,’ I personally feel that it is incredibly important that we are not going backwards in the context of these movements.”
Catherine Guttman-McCabe, a partner at Potomac Law Group who was involved in formulating Georgetown’s current policies on sexual misconduct, facilitated the feedback session, which also included Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson.
The student feedback will help the university formulate its draft comments on the proposals, according to Olson. The coordinators, who include Olson, Kilkenny and Guttman-McCabe, will make the comments public to the student body in January before making their official submission.
Georgetown administrators have sought to use these sessions to listen to the student body’s concerns before taking action, according to Olson.
“We know it is our responsibility to get to a point where the university has a clear position on these issues,” Olson said. “We believed it was not appropriate to start with that, but rather we believed it was appropriate to start with listening.”
Students present at the first session were disappointed with the level of the university’s engagement in the dialogue, according to STAIV member Maya Moretta (COL ’21). (Full disclosure: Moretta previously served as an opinion assistant for The Hoya.)
“I think the majority of people kind of felt like the university was hiding behind a lawyer not connected to the university in order to protect themselves,” Moretta said in an interview with The Hoya. “I felt like it was very unprofessional for the administration to not speak out about any of the issues pertaining to Georgetown.”
The event did not increase the transparency of the university’s intended response, according to Courtney Smith (COL ’21), who was present at the first session.
“Students were clearly disappointed in the university officials’ lack of involvement because many students attended the session hoping to gain more insight into how the university is planning to respond,” Smith wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Students also expressed concerns that the proposed Title IX regulations could lessen protections available for survivors of assaults that occur off campus.
Tehya Corona (COL ’20) said she disapproved of the changes to the regulations because they would allow the university to neglect a number of potential sexual assault survivors at Georgetown.
“Everyone can understand that in a college town, places that are not technically on campus impact our community,” Corona said during the Monday feedback session.
Though Georgetown may not be able to address off-campus incidents through Title IX under the new proposed regulations, the university could still take disciplinary action through other means, according to Guttman-McCabe.
“Georgetown currently regulates conduct that happens off campus in other ways, and so I think the university would be looking for a way to continue to be able to address this type of behavior,” Guttman-McCabe said.
The Education Department’s proposal also calls for an increased focus on the use of supportive measures like formal counseling and no-contact orders. Investigations of every formal complaint will also be held to a higher legal standard of proof, which would make it harder for universities to take disciplinary action against accused students.
Still, survivors should be allowed to decide whether supportive measures are sufficient or if university investigation should be undertaken, according to Moretta.
“It should definitely be the survivor’s choice about how they want to go through with this,” Moretta said. “There should be supportive measures for all survivors, but that should definitely be a supplemental thing to people who want to file a report.”
Supportive measures alone have often been ineffective in helping survivors of sexual assault, according to Smith.
“Unfortunately, many of Georgetown’s current supportive measures are inadequate and have not been effective in the past,” Smith wrote. “Georgetown prides itself on supporting survivors, yet its supportive measures continue to fail survivors again and again.”
The feedback sessions are occurring during a monthslong search for a new Title IX coordinator.  Samantha Berner is currently serving as both the Title IX investigator and interim Title IX coordinator after the previous coordinator Laura Cutway departed in June, a situation for which the university has received criticism. 
The next feedback session is set to take place Dec. 10 in the Healey Family Student Center Social Room. Students unable to attend can also submit comments using an anonymous online form.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 7, 2018 by Madeline Charbonneau Leave a Comment 
Transparency, student health and advocacy are key focuses of the Georgetown University Student Association executive, according to President Juan Martinez (SFS ’20) and Vice President Kenna Chick (SFS ’20).
Martinez and Chick took office this fall after the resignations of former President Sahil Nair (SFS ’19), Vice President Naba Rahman (SFS ’19), Chief of Staff Aaron Bennett (COL ’19) and nine other members of the GUSA executive. Nair resigned Sept. 11 amid sexual misconduct allegations.
No complaints had been filed against Nair through the Title IX office or the Office of Student Conduct, he wrote in a May 28 email to The Hoya. A university spokesperson confirmed that, as of May 2019, Nair was not the subject of any complaints through either office nor had he been found responsible for any violations of the Student Code of Conduct.
Martinez, who was transition chair of the GUSA senate at the time of the resignations, became president Sept. 16 in accordance with GUSA bylaws. Martinez nominated Chick to be vice president Oct. 1, and she took office Oct. 2.
The pair is emphasizing transparency among GUSA, the university and the student body, according to Martinez.
Martinez and Chick, along with GUSA’s department of student engagement, are holding weekly office hours in an effort to build this transparency. The pair also plans to hold monthly state of the campus addresses, in addition to the annual February address, the two said. Martinez and Chick have also begun working with efforts with university Chief Operating Officer Geoffrey Chatas (CAS ’85) to improve communication between the university and students, according to Chick.
“For transparency, specifically, we just honestly wanted to rebuild GUSA from the ground up,” Chick said. “A lot of the different changes we made within our cabinet was reflective of that, but we also wanted to reach out to different groups. We wanted to make sure that GUSA itself was being transparent and also reflective of the student body.”
GUSA also plans to build a new website in January to improve student access to information about the organization, according to Martinez.
“In the past, we’ve had a website that’s just extremely inaccessible,” Martinez said. “It’s very ugly — that’s something we want to work on: a new website in January, to make sure that people know that there are status updates on different projects.”
The organization’s current website was hacked on Sept. 7, four days before the resignations. The landing page title was changed to a gray screen reading, “Has the President resigned?” referencing Nair. Though the page was changed shortly after to read “Georgetown University Student Association,” the photos previously on the page were not returned. 
Martinez and Chick did not regain access to the website until Nov. 16, according to Martinez. The hacker had set up a two-factor authentication system that required a code sent to the hacker’s phone, preventing others from accessing the website’s editing platform, Martinez said.
Martinez and Chick are committed to not only transparency but also improving support systems available to students, including resources available to survivors of sexual assault from on-campus student groups.
Martinez and Chick are also working to rewrite language on handling survivor support and sexual misconduct reporting in blueprint training, a program for student club leaders, according to Chick.
“We expect people to intuitively be able to handle these issues and say the right things, but unfortunately that’s not the case most of the times,” Chick said. “A lot of students may find it very difficult to be on the receiving end of the information and not be able to provide the correct resources to the survivors.”
The executive’s push comes amid widespread student criticism over the university’s lack of a permanent Title IX coordinator and as the university is holding listening sessions to hear student input on the U.S. Department of Education’s proposed Title IX regulation changes, which could limit supportive measures available to survivors through the university. 
The GUSA executive members plan to encourage the university to hire a student well-being coordinator, who would analyze the causes of stress culture and work to implement solutions to mitigate the issue, according to Chick.
The executive members also hope to represent the full student body and recognize student advocacy outside of GUSA, according to Martinez.
“GUSA is not very representative of a lot of intersectional identities usually, and so I want to make sure that they’re being recognized but also that they have some sort of access to institutional support on behalf of GUSA,” Martinez said. “I think that’s our biggest purpose here.”
This article was updated July 2 to indicate the absence of Title IX or Office of Student Conduct complaints against Nair and to include comment from Nair.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 7, 2018 by Meena Morar Leave a Comment 
For Al Castillo (SFS ’22), Georgetown felt like a chance to finally represent himself in his honest form.
“When I was in high school, I presented myself as a girl — that was who I was,” said Castillo, who uses he/him pronouns. “Now, I was able to present myself as I truly was, rather than some facade I was putting on for several years of my life. It was really interesting being able to begin anew here at Georgetown.”
For many transgender and nonbinary students, this story sounds unfamiliar.
In hopes of fostering education and support for queer and trans students, the university provides institutionalized spaces, like the LGBTQ Resource Center, founded in 2008, and student groups like GU Pride and Queer People of Color. Yet queer and trans students cite challenges from tokenization and institutional shortcomings as they attempt to forge their own support networks on campus.
Beyond a Label
Despite the well-intentioned support from student groups and institutionalized spaces, transgender or nonbinary students can feel burdened by defending their identity on campus.
GLAAD, a media-monitoring organization founded by LGBTQ members of the media, defines transgender as “an umbrella term for people whose gender identity and/or gender expression differs from what is typically associated with the sex they were assigned at birth.” The group refers to nonbinary and genderqueer as “terms used by some people who experience their gender identity and/or gender expression as falling outside the categories of man and woman.”
Chad Gasman (COL ’20), who uses they/them pronouns, feels tokenized when they try to speak up for their community at Georgetown.
“When someone who is marginalized speaks up on behalf of their community and other communities, they are automatically labelled as angry at everything,” Gasman said. “That may be true, but the anger is used as a reason to not believe the person, or not respect what they have to say. People don’t take my anger as a trans person seriously, or, when they do take it seriously, they think it’s too much and want you to tone it down.”
The pressure to perform — even within spaces dedicated to the LGBTQ community, like the resource center — can be difficult, according to Mackenzie Foy (COL ’19), who uses she/her and they/them pronouns.
“If I went to the LGBTQ center, there wouldn’t be beef, but I’d be tokenized,” Foy said. “When I go there, I feel like I am performing, because I have to. There is a misconception that we always want to be social justice warriors. We’re forced into that. I feel like I often have to defend myself in a way that is personal, instead of intellectual. Not only do I have to refute one’s argument, but I have to defend my whole existence.”
Tyler McConville (COL ’22), who uses they/them pronouns, has experienced surface-level conversations about personal pronouns that have not resulted in proper usage.
“I feel like spaces aren’t as good as they could be,” McConville said. “Something a lot of spaces do is ask pronouns, but I feel like there’s not a push to make sure people are using the right pronouns or even talking about what pronouns are.”
McConville attributes this surface-level support to the lack of transgender faculty or staff in the LGBTQ Resource Center and the Georgetown community at large.
“I haven’t seen or heard about any trans faculty, or anyone that works on campus that’s actually trans,” McConville said. “I feel like it would be helpful to have a support system that’s run by trans people. When I need support, I don’t want to be educating someone. I want someone to know what I’m going through and help me and meet me where I’m at.” 
Lacking Personal Spaces
While the LGBTQ Resource Center attempts to “provide education, programming, support services, and voice to Georgetown students, faculty, staff, and alumni of all sexual orientations and gender identities,” according to its mission statement, some students feel a lack of resources for health care, housing and organizing spaces on a more institutional level.
For example, despite the university’s effort to provide gender-neutral bathrooms on campus, logistical hurdles limit access for trans and nonbinary students, according to McConville.
“[Gender neutral bathrooms] are often locked or out of order, which is really frustrating,” McConville said. “I would just hope that they would be made readily available, because I’ll go to the gender bathroom and be excited, but it’ll be locked and I’ll have to use the women’s bathroom.”
In many buildings, Gasman is unable to use any bathroom at all.
“There are buildings on this campus where I can’t pee,” Gasman said. “I will go to the gendered restrooms if I have a friend with me, but I’d still prefer not to. If I didn’t have my own private restroom in McCarthy, I would have to leave the building to go to the bathroom.”
The Office of Planning and Facilities Management is already working to fix gender-inclusive bathroom signage across campus by January, according to the LGBTQ Resource Center Director Sivagami Subbaraman.
“Gender inclusive bathroom signs will go up soon in all public buildings — not residential ones,” Subbaraman wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We are aiming to have one on each floor of each classroom and public building — and they need to also meet Disability access code.”
Housing requests for private bathrooms or single rooms face scrutiny and require a medical note, according to Gasman.
“I know other students who want a single, want to change the gender of whom they’re living with, or need a private restroom for safety issues, and have a really hard time getting that,” Gasman said. “A lot of the times, you need a medical note. The problem with that is that many trans people don’t have the resources, or even desire, to seek a medical route for their identity — especially in college. It’s unlikely that the university would take simply being trans as a medical reason for a single.”
Georgetown’s Office of Residential Living launched the Crossroads Living Learning Community this year after a student-driven push to create a living space dedicated to gender and sexuality.
Crossroads LLC faculty adviser April Sizemore-Barber describes the LLC as a way to acknowledge the prevalence of LGBTQ students in every part of the university.
“By situating this space in the purview [of] ResEd, the university acknowledges that the issues impacting LGBTQ+ people don’t end when classes are over or the day is done,” Sizemore-Barber wrote in an email to the Hoya. “LGBTQ+ people are revealed to be present in all aspects of campus life.”
Housed in Village C East, the LLC is open to students from all class years and allows all gender identities to feel respected and supported with proper living accomodations, according to Sizemore-Barber.
“Trans/NonBinary students living in Crossroads do not have to negotiate the nightmare of communal or two-gendered bathrooms — incredibly stressful for those who do not visibly conform to gender norms,” Sizemore-Barber wrote. “Each dorm room has its own bathroom and students are assigned rooms on the basis of their gender identity (rather than the gender they were assigned at birth).”
Forming Communities
Just as students worked to create a formalized gender and sexuality LLC, queer students must make their own communal spaces. Foy observed an apparent lack of support networks for queer students of color.
“As a queer black person on campus, there is no institutional space for us,” Foy said. “We make those and we always make those for ourselves.”
Derrick Little (COL ’18), Sonia Adjroud (SFS ’20) and Julia Hycinthe (NHS ’18) founded Art Beyond the Margins, a club that aims to provide a platform for art with a specific focus on artists from marginalized backgrounds, in 2017. The club is a response to the isolation queer students of color feel in art clubs on campus, according to Little.
“I tried to venture out to a couple of notable on-campus arts clubs, but I often found myself as the only person of color or queer person — sometimes both — in a significant amount of on-campus clubs. Consequently, I often felt isolated in these groups,” Little said in an interview with The Hoya.
Yet designing one’s own support networks can take a toll on students such as McConville, especially for those grappling with mental health issues.
“One of the issues that’s been difficult for me at Georgetown is that although being nonbinary is such a big part of my identity and experience, I’m also a student, an artist, an activist,” McConville said. “Just as a freshman, especially as someone who’s mentally ill, it’s been really difficult to work up the emotional energy to try and create resources for myself that aren’t there.”
Gasman sees a gap between the university’s professed support for the LGBTQ community and actual resources available to students.
“I think Georgetown loves to posture itself as an LGBTQ-friendly campus,” Gasman said. “We have a center and Crossroads, which are huge, but these are just little things, and outside of those spaces, there isn’t the same level of support that there would be. There is no baseline level of support for trans students, or most queer students.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 7, 2018 by Riley Rogerson Leave a Comment 
Oppressive policies toward women in the Middle East must be combatted, scholars, leaders and activists said at a panel on women’s rights in Iran on Dec. 5.
Iran currently ranks in the bottom third among 153 countries in a women’s well-being and empowerment index created by the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security, which hosted the event. Iran’s low ranking in the index, which evaluates countries based on peace, security, women’s inclusion and justice, stems from legal discrimination against women in divorce and workplace laws.
The panelists were women’s rights activist Masih Alinejad, actress and human rights activist Nazanin Boniadi, Johns Hopkins Foreign Policy Institute senior fellow Afshin Molavi, author and Georgetown School of Foreign Service centennial fellow Azar Nafisi, and Carnegie Endowment for International Peace senior fellow Karim Sadjadpour.
The event, which was co-moderated by Ambassador Melanne Verveer, the first U.S. ambassador for global women’s issues, and Margaret Brennan, CBS News’ senior foreign affairs correspondent, was hosted in Gaston Hall.
After the formation of the current Islamic Republic of Iran, the government mandated that women cover their hair. The hijab requirement has contributed to a general decline in women’s rights in the country, according to Boniadi. 
“At the inception of the Islamic Republic 39 years ago, tens of thousands of Iranian women demonstrated in opposition to the new government’s compulsory hijab ruling,” Boniadi said. “Their cries were met with batons, lashes, acid thrown in their faces and imprisonment.” 
Nafisi wrote “Reading Lolita in Tehran: A Memoir in Books,” an account of her experiences after returning to Iran during the revolution. Laws that require women in Iran to wear hijabs in public spaces are not merely religious requirements, but a way for the Iranian government to repress and control women, according to Nafisi.
“The hijab in Iran is not about religion. It is about an ideology in order to preserve power. It is uniformity. It is like Mao jackets that people wore in the Republic of China,” Nafisi said. “[The Iranian government] brought this uniformity and they made women into semiotic signs, into political entities, you know. The first thing they did in culture was to delete women.”
Without the mandatory hijab law, some women would choose to expose their heads, according to Nafisi.
“If this was Iranian women’s tradition and we believed in it, why do you have to use guns and jail and punishment and impose a law for them to wear it?” Nafisi said. 
Alinejad, founder of the My Stealthy Freedom campaign against the compulsory hijab, was exiled from Iran after posting an Instagram picture of herself in the country without a hijab. 
Social media gives a voice to women in the Iranian women’s rights movement, according to Alinejad. 
“In Iran, for 40 years, we never had the chance to be seen, to be visible,” Alinejad said. “Through social media we gained our voice back. That is why I always say that every individual woman in Iran can become their own leader and we get successful if every one of us became a headache for the government of Iran.” 
Nafisi has been labelled as Western by Westerners who critique her position as an Iranian woman opposed to compulsory hijab laws and the Iranian government, she said.
“They would look at you and say, ‘But it’s your culture,’ or they would call me ‘Western,’ you know, and ‘an agent of Western imperialism.’” Nafisi said. “As if only Western women want the right to life, liberty and pursuit of happiness.”
Alinejad called for Western women to support Iranian women’s rights despite the common argument that gender inequality is part of Middle Eastern culture and said supporting women’s rights does not make Westerners Islamophobic.
“By calling this our culture, you are insulting us, and culture is not written to stone, it is flexible. It changes generation to generation. Join us and be loud enough,” Alinejad said. “Supporting the women’s rights movement in the Middle East, in Saudi Arabia, in Iran, doesn’t make you Islamophobic.”
Limiting women’s rights can negatively affect the success of a nation’s economy, according to Molavi.
“Show me a country that provides its women with equal rights, both legislatively and culturally, and I’ll show you a successful economy,” Molavi said. 
In addition to oppressing women, the Iranian government also hinders the success of the Iranian economy through its guiding ideologies, according to Sadjadpour.
“It’s a government who their organizing principle isn’t life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, economic prosperity of the people,” Sadjadpour said. “It is death to America, death to Israel, mandatory hijab — and as long as that is your organizing principle, you are always going to fall way below potential.”
Sadjadpour said he believed that some of these ideologies could change, stating that he was optimistic about the values of the younger generation of Iranian men.
“Men essentially sat on the sidelines as women were being beaten up,” Sadjadpour said. “It’s a real source of shame, but I feel optimistic that the younger generation of Iranian men have a much different vision.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 7, 2018 by Riley Rogerson 1 Comment 
HoyaTHON, Georgetown’s chapter of the Miracle Network Dance Marathon that fundraises for Children’s National Health System, a hospital in Washington, D.C., became the largest first-year dance marathon in D.C. and set the record for day-of fundraising for all first-year programs at Children’s National.
Student participants at HoyaTHON stood or danced for 12 hours on Saturday. Several student groups performed throughout the day, and 151 Georgetown students attended, according to co-directors Hanna Dohmen (SFS ’20) and Callia Karas (COL ’20). 
The group raised $41,024 overall, and participants raised $11,965 in online donations during the event in the Healey Family Student Center Great Room. The group collected donations through sponsorships of individual dancers and smaller fundraising initiatives in collaboration with student organizations in the Center for Social Justice, the Student Activities Commission, and local businesses like Chipotle and South Block.
Whitney Maddox (GRD ’11), the Center for Social Justice staff adviser to HoyaTHON, attributed the event’s fundraising success to these collaborations.
“They had a combination of reaching out to student organizations on campus, some of which were through the Center for Social Justice and some of which were through SAC, but also through businesses,” Maddox said. “Once we started talking about it and getting it out there, we saw student organizations giving literally up until the last second of the night.”
The last dance marathon hosted at Georgetown was in 2010 and raised about $8,500 for Children’s National. Holding a dance marathon had been a longtime goal for Karas, which is why she and Dohmen decided to start a new group in place of the former Hoyathon to bring back the event, according to Karas.
“I just thought that I would do it when I went to college because it was for such a good cause,” Karas said. “It really just brings the entire university together on so many college campuses in a way that I’ve never seen anywhere else.”
The funds raised at HoyaTHON will have a significant effect on patients at the hospital, according to Children’s National President and CEO Dr. Kurt Newman. 
“The incredible passion and commitment of the HoyaTHON team and Georgetown University students this past weekend helps make a major impact for the 230,000 kids treated each year at Children’s National,” Newman wrote in a statement to The Hoya.
The funds from HoyaTHON will go toward medical professionals and medical equipment tailored for children, Newman said.
“Thanks to partners like Dance Marathon, we are able to give children a supportive environment with kid-sized MRI machines, child life specialists who teach little ones about their procedures, and doctors, nurses, and researchers on the cutting-edge of the future of medicine,” Newman wrote. “I’m inspired by this generation of students supporting the health and well-being of future generations.”
HoyaTHON did not have official club status at the time of the event, which became a significant obstacle in planning, Dohmen said.
“We didn’t have a club in the CSJ, and so everything was on a very week-by-week basis, and it was hard to see even three weeks ahead,” Dohmen said. 
However, the CSJ Advisory Board for Student Organizations officially approved HoyaTHON’s club status Wednesday, according to Dohmen.
HoyaTHON more than doubled its directors’ fundraising expectations, HoyaTHON’s Director of External Peter Hunziker (MSB ’20) said.
“We initially set out to have like 100 people signed up and we had over 240,” Hunziker said. “We set our initial fundraising goal at $20,000. and we raised over $41,000.”
HoyaTHON managed to maintain a positive and upbeat atmosphere for participants even as the hours wore on, attendee Juliet FitzPatrick (SFS ’21) said.
“Everyone seemed to feel really happy to be there, like they were doing something for the kids,” FitzPatrick said. “It was a really great environment. Everyone seemed really jazzed.”
The casual atmosphere made performances enjoyable for Georgetown University Dance Company performers, GUDC dancer Olivia Kleier (SFS ’22) said.
“Everyone in the group came and watched us dance. It was a lot more relaxed than the other performances that we’ve been doing because it was more human interaction with the audience because we were right next to them,” Kleier said. “It was just a fun environment — we were all laughing and having fun.”
Karas said she hopes that following the success of HoyaTHON’s first event, the group will attract more members and donations in the coming years.
“We’re hoping to grow and we’re hoping that next year is a lot easier considering that now people actually know who we are on campus,” Karas said. “Getting people to sign up for something and pay 15 dollars for something that they don’t even know what it is was obviously really hard this this year. But people had a lot of fun, and I actually think they will come back next year.”

Bill Licamele says 
December 10, 2018 at 6:09 pm
Hoyas for  others congrats!  Bill Licamele
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 7, 2018 by Katrina Schmidt Leave a Comment 
Members of the Georgetown Solidarity Committee, a student group dedicated to promoting workers’ rights, called for a plan to protect university workers assigned to clean mold in a letter delivered to to the office of University President John J. DeGioia on Thursday afternoon. 
After entering Healy Hall with chants of “What do we want? Safe conditions,” and “When do we want it? Now,” 14 students and four employees of the Office of Planning and Facilities Management delivered the letter directly to University Vice President and Chief of Staff Joseph Ferrara. The letter requests a detailed plan explaining how the university will protect workers cleaning mold by Friday at noon.
“Our collective mission as an institution is to support and to promote justice. We must also support one another, including the members of our community who keep our spaces clean,” GSC wrote in the letter. “To honor both of these commitments, we must ensure that working conditions are always safe at this university.”
Ferrara promised to forward the letter to the appropriate administrative bodies. 
“What I usually do with something like this is that I will make sure that the relevant administrators here at the university are aware of the situation, so that we can engage and try to move forward in a positive direction,” Ferrara said at the letter delivery. 
As reports of mold in student housing increased this semester, in part due to unusually high amounts of rain, facilities received more assignments to clean this mold. Student work requests related to mold from August to October this year more than doubled since last year, rising to 361 requests from 147 in 2017.
Workers have treated the mold with harsh chemical cleaners like bleach without proper training, according to GSC.
“I am someone who is allergic to mold, and they would send us to rooms to clean the mold with a product called Tilex,” a facilities employee, who asked not to be identified by name because of concerns over workplace consequences, said in an interview with The Hoya. (The employee’s comments were given in Spanish and have been translated here.)
Tilex is a mold and mildew cleaner for tile. However, using chemical products like Tilex in an enclosed space like dormitory bathrooms can cause irritation. 
Some students asked the worker not to use the product because of its harsh smell, which becomes trapped in poorly ventilated student bathrooms, according to the facilities employee.
“In the shower, there is no escape,” she said.
Some facilities workers have also complained of illness due to mold exposure, according to the letter. Similarly, some students say they have fallen ill from mold, like Oona Nash (COL ’22), whose doctor told her black mold was causing her bronchitis. 
“I had a deep chest cough and my bronchial tubes were congested, and my sinuses were clogged. I was constantly exhausted, and I got hives occasionally,” Nash told The Hoya for a Nov. 30 article. “I went to the emergency room twice. The doctors told me that my illness was being caused by black mold spores.”
University employees have raised concerns about mold before. In a lawsuit filed in May 2015, Aleta Mack, a former executive assistant to Georgetown University Police Department Chief Jay Gruber, said Georgetown failed to accommodate her respiratory issues related to mold exposure. 
Mack, who worked in Village C West, began experiencing difficulty breathing and filed an external complaint requesting a health hazard evaluation. She was terminated from university employment and subsequently filed the suit.  
Mold cleanup of an area greater than 10 square feet must be left to a professional licensed by the Department of Energy and Environment under Washington, D.C. law. Facilities employees cleaning mold may be exposed to areas greater than 10 square feet or otherwise not comply with local regulations mandating proper protection, GSC wrote in the letter. 
“I just hope the student body cares about this issue, because facilities workers work so hard to make sure that we live in a safe and comfortable space,” GSC member Jordan Brown (COL ’21) said in an interview with The Hoya. “We should make sure they get to work in a safe and comfortable space as well.” 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 7, 2018 by Alexandra Bowman Leave a Comment 
Catholics must find strength from unity in their religious community amid political polarization and the clerical abuse scandal, panelists said at event in the Intercultural Center Auditorium on Dec. 4. 
Catholics need to organize around their common faith identity and not fracture based on political discord, Faith in Public Life Catholic Program Director John Gehring said.
“One of the dangers we face right now in terms of the infighting is that the credibility of the church in the public sphere is at its worst point,” Gehring said. “If you think the church has something important to say, now is not the time to hunker down on the left or right. We need to find to find a way to bond over differences.” 
The panel, hosted by the Initiative on Catholic Social Thought and Public Life, also featured Elise Italiano, founding executive director of The GIVEN Institute, an organization that aims to promote the advancement of women within the church and worldwide. Hosffman Ospino, associate professor of Hispanic ministry and religious education at Boston College, and Gloria Purvis, editor of the “African American Catholic Youth Bible,” made up the remaining panel members. 
The speakers were selected based on their varying perspectives within the church to discuss ways Catholics, in the wake of moral failings of the church, can come together and protect society’s marginalized members.
Former Archbishop Emeritus of Washington, D.C., and Cardinal Theodore McCarrick resigned in July following multiple accusations of sexual abuse, which an Archdiocese of New York investigation found credible. 
Less than a month after McCarrick’s resignation, a Pennsylvania grand jury report released in August detailed seven decades’ worth of sexual misconduct in Pennsylvania churches. The report implicated Former Archbishop of Washington, D.C. Cardinal Donald Wuerl in an effort to cover up the potential scandals. Pope Francis accepted Wuerl’s resignation as archbishop Oct. 12 after mounting pressure.
The political climate in recent years and the clerical abuse scandals have damaged and discouraged participation in public life, Italiano said.
“Civic engagement by my peers is down,” Italiano said. “We seem to be really apathetic and want to retreat to the indoors. People feel disaffiliated, and then turn towards ecclesiastical infighting. Young leaders don’t know who to turn to, and it hasn’t gotten much better. We need to find a common union.” 
To restore the church, Catholics should identify what binds them together, Gehring said.
“In crisis there is opportunity, and now is the time to reclaim the best of Catholic social teaching,” Gehring said. “Things are pretty dire. We need to think about what brings us together.”
The Catholic Church in the United States needs to recognize and support the diversity of its members, Ospino said.
“Forty to 43 percent of Catholics in this country are Latino/Hispanic,” Ospino said. “We need to embrace that diversity is not an illness to be healed. It is a gift to the church in the United States. It will enrich our society and enrich the Catholic Church.” 
The Catholic Church has not done enough to combat racism that many of its members face, Purvis said.
“Some Catholics make a mockery out of racism, saying it isn’t really real. People are making fun of oppression, but these are real experiences,” Purvis said. “Shame on us as Catholics.” 
The Catholic Church in the United States have long acknowledged the existence of racism and its pernicious effects, but in August 2017, the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops took the formal step of establishing the Ad Hoc Committee Against Racism. The USCCB issued a sweeping condemnation of racism and called U.S. Catholics to oppose racism in its 1979 letter “Brothers and Sisters to Us”; however, a 2004 report found that only 18 percent of U.S. bishops had issued statements against racism, only 36 percent of Catholics had heard a sermon on racism, and that racial divisions within the church had increased in the past few decades. 
The committee has hosted regional listening sessions since its creation in order to promote conversations around race and recently released a Nov. 14 letter sharply denouncing racism.
The church must confront the racism that permeates Catholic communities, especially given recent political attempts to stoke tensions and fears along racial and ethnic lines, Ospino said.
“Think about how the ‘caravan’ has been politicized. It’s been used to score political points in a war that seeks to villainize a particular group,” Ospino said. “There is an anti-Latino and anti-Hispanic dynamic in churches. We need to respond institutionally but also at the level of family lives.” 
Although President Donald Trump has allied himself with the religious community on certain hot button issues, his divisive rhetoric is not compatible with core Catholic beliefs, Purvis said.
“We’ll give President Trump credit where it’s due. He has helped advance the Right to Life movement. But his constant attacks have not helped promote the dignity of the human person,” Purvis said. 
Trump prohibited foreign aid to organizations that promote abortion, which has won him praise from religious organizations, according to Politico. However, the USCCB criticized Trump last June for his family separation policy, which saw migrant children detained separately from their parents upon crossing the border without documentation. 
Though the obstacles facing the Catholic Church are great, Gehring said he believes the church has the resources to overcome them.
“We follow a social tradition that empowers us. Not many communities have those tools,” Gehring said. “There is now a new generation of Catholics who want to put some of the bitter past of Catholics behind.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 7, 2018 by Meredith Miller Leave a Comment 
Shavini Fernando (GRD ’18) won $35,000 at the second annual Bark Tank, an event that awards funding to Georgetown students who pitch new business ventures, for her potentially lifesaving invention, O2Wear.
The Leonsis Family Entrepreneurship Prize granted a total of $100,000 at the McDonough School of Business to current and former Georgetown students with ideas and ventures that align with the Jesuit ideal of people for others. The Leonsis family donated $1 million to the MSB in 2016 for the purpose of encouraging entrepreneurship.
In addition to receiving $30,000 and the first place prize, which was awarded by a panel judges that included alumni and business experts, Fernando’s O2Wear also landed the People’s Choice Award of the night — an additional $5,000 that was awarded based on live-audience polling.
O2Wear, intended for those suffering from heart defects, attaches to a wearer’s ear like an earring and continuously monitors their oxygen level. If the level drops below a safe threshold, the device beeps and sends an alert to an app on the patient’s phone instructing them and a chosen emergency contact to call 911. In Fernando’s prototype, a patient can immediately dial emergency services without their phone by using a button on the device.
Fernando said she was inspired to develop O2Wear out of her personal experience with Eisenmenger’s Syndrome, a congenital heart defect that caused a hole to develop in Fernando’s heart. Fernando’s condition increased in severity throughout the course of her life, which has caused irreversible damage to her heart and lungs, meaning she will eventually need transplants.
Fernando said the dire outlook that came with her diagnosis at 33 motivated her to work harder on the project.
“All they said was, ‘You have two years to live,’” Fernando said. “I’m like a rebel. I like challenges; it was more like a challenge for me. I have so much on my bucket list.”
Three years later, Fernando says she is determined to prove her doctors wrong. Fernando’s near death experiences helped her develop her pitch, she said.
“Last year, when I was working at Georgetown, suddenly my friends started screaming that my face was turning blue,” Fernando said to the panel of judges. “It didn’t even take one minute: I couldn’t breathe, and my heart stopped and, clinically, I was dead for two minutes. Luckily, I was able to revive myself on my own, and because of that, today I am here.”
The panel of judges included the event’s founders, Ted Leonsis (CAS ’77), the former president and vice chairman of America Online, and his son, Zach Leonsis (MSB ’15), founder of Monumental Sports Network. 
Each year, $100,000 of their donation is allocated for current Georgetown students and recent graduates through the Bark Tank prize.
“It is really great to see these entrepreneurs understand how they have a higher calling of developing mission-based companies that have a business model around service,” Leonsis said in a Nov. 29 news release. “We want students to go out and change the world using the power of entrepreneurship.”
Fernando, who is set to graduate this month from the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences with a master’s degree in visual computing, plans to use the money to develop her technology. Her goal is to shrink the size of the device, bringing it one step closer to the earring that she first envisioned. Fernando said the prize money will enable faster development of the product. 
Fernando has been developing the technology while pursuing her degree, with occasional help from her doctors at Johns Hopkins University.
“People would laugh. At home, I have a soldering machine. I have literally all the electronic equipment I need to make the device,” Fernando said. “My dining table is my workplace.”
The second-place prize of $20,000 went to Bluefoot, a company co-founded by Ramya Possett (GRD ’18) that aims to help companies to engage in better strategic decision making with the use of technology according to the Startup Hoyas website. 
Third place of $15,000 went to Elenas, a digital direct-selling platform for Latin American women to sell beauty products and earn money founded by Zach Oschin (SFS ’20), the only undergraduate student to receive recognition from the judges. 
In fourth place, receiving $10,000, was M’Panadas, an empanada company started by Margarita Womack (GRD ’19) that meshes food science and street food to create easy, portable meals.
The four other participants presented a range of business ventures, from an app that provides information on food trucks to a dynamic pricing algorithm that helps sellers to price their products. All received $5,000 for their participation in the event.
While ES is rare, similar heart defects affect an estimated 200,000 people in the United States per year, according to the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. When including patients with cystic fibrosis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,or those in recovery from a severe cardiac event, Fernando estimates that her device will help 50 million people in the U.S. 
Fernando said she thinks she could help save the lives of people like her, who frequently die because they are unable to receive medical attention in time.
“One parent emailed me saying she lost two of her three sons due to this, and she lost her second son last year while he was sleeping,” Fernando said. “I just want to help everyone, so that no kid would die.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 7, 2018 by Dustin Hartuv Leave a Comment 
Washington, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) selected Lewis Ferebee as the new chancellor for D.C. Public Schools at a press conference Dec. 3 amid a series of scandals that have dogged the school system in recent years and community concerns over Bowser’s decision-making process. 
Ferebee, who previously served as the superintendent of Indianapolis Public Schools, is set to replace former Chancellor Antwan Wilson, who resigned in February 2018 after circumventing the D.C. Public Schools lottery system to enroll his daughter at Woodrow Wilson Public High School. 
Ferebee will inherit numerous other scandals that the DCPS administration has faced over the last two years, including hundreds of thousands of dollars lost in miscollected tuition and accusations of falsified student attendance records. 
Bowser said she chose Ferebee because of his past experience leading a public education system and his commitment to serving community members.
“When I looked at Dr. Ferebee’s background and experience, I believe strongly that he matches what our community wants and needs most and is able to come and do great things with us and for students, families and educators,” Bowser said at the press conference. 
Since December 2013, Ferebee has served as the superintendent of IPS. At IPS, Ferebee helped create programs to increase opportunities for students to succeed in college and the workforce, including negotiating raises for teachers, according to a Dec. 3 DCPS news release.
The six-month search for the new chancellor was aided by the Our Schools Leadership Committee, which conducted a community engagement process to advise Bowser. The panel consisted of students, parents, teachers and community stakeholders and was responsible for providing community input on the search, according to the OSLC website. 
The majority of OSLC members, which also included members of the Washington Teachers Union, did not recommend Ferebee, instead supporting interim DCPS Chancellor Amanda Alexander, according to The Washington Times.
In August, a group of residents attempted to obtain a restraining order against Bowser because they worried she had not nominated enough members to the advisory committee and did not plan to listen to their recommendations. In September, Bowser added two students, two teachers and a parent to the panel but failed to provide their resumes to the panel, The Washington Times reported. 
Following Wilson’s dismissal, Alexander, former chief of elementary schools, served as the interim chancellor for DCPS, beginning in February, according to DCist. Alexander was the other front-runner for the position of chancellor, according to The Washington Post.
“It has been an honor and a privilege to serve as DCPS interim chancellor for the last 10 months. During this time, Mayor Bowser and DCPS have released new Pre-K to Graduation policies that are supportive, inclusive and equitable,” Alexander wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I am confident that incoming Chancellor Ferebee will continue to build on the progress we have made, and I know that DCPS will continue to do great things for students and families.”
Ferebee is set to begin his role on Jan. 31, 2019, pending confirmation of his nomination by the D.C. Council early next year.
The Council Committee on Education plans to schedule public engagement sessions on Ferebee’s nomination in January because the upcoming end of the council period prevents the inclusion of additional meetings this month.
Since Ferebee comes from outside of the District, Chair of the Committee on Education David Grosso (I-At Large) encouraged public feedback in advance of the council’s vote. 
“In Mr. Ferebee, the mayor has chosen to nominate an individual from outside the District of Columbia. The vetting of such a candidate should not be taken lightly or hastily,” Grosso said in a press release Dec. 3. “As always, I encourage and welcome public feedback, comments, questions and concerns about the nomination as we prepare for a hearing on the nominee.” 
Wilson’s resignation was not the first scandal to have reached DCPS this year. Last month, the D.C. Office of Government Ethics found that a DCPS employee used his position to gain business for his own event planning company. In September, DCPS unintentionally posted the personal information of 2,000 homeless students on its website, where it kept the information up for seven months. In April, DCPS lost over $500,000 in tuition by failing to verify the residency of enrolled students. 
The scandals were not limited to this year, as in December 2017, one high school in DCPS graduated dozens of students who should not have been able to graduate after failing to meet certain attendance requirements.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 7, 2018 by Julie Guan Leave a Comment 
Corporations that currently hold or seek to hold government contracts worth at least $250,000 will no longer be permitted to make political campaign donations under new Washington, D.C. Council legislation passed Tuesday.
The bill, titled the Campaign Finance Reform Amendment Act of 2017, also creates a board that will oversee the Office of Campaign Finance, requires campaign committees to make their top five donors public and prohibits bundled campaign contributions, a practice which bypasses caps on individual contribution sizes by dividing contributions between many different donors.
Authored by Councilmember Charles Allen (D-Ward 6), the bill is an extension of the Fair Elections Act of 2017, which established a program for publicly funded campaigns and was passed by the D.C. Council in February. The Dec. 4 bill establishes regulations to address the issue of businesses donating money to public officials in return for expected favors, according to Allen’s Nov. 20 news release.
Aquene Freechild, director of Public Citizen’s “Democracy Is for People” campaign, an advocacy project seeking to reduce the influence of large corporations on government, views the bill as a symbol for promising campaign finance reform in D.C., which she said is behind other cities and states in terms of regulating campaign finance.
“It’s fantastic and much needed in every form,” Freechild said in an interview with The Hoya. “If you have business with somebody who is a public official who’s supposed to serve the public and you can give them thousands of dollars, there becomes an incentive for you to do that and gain access to that person’s fundraisers and other types of events.”
In the first round of voting Nov. 20, the campaign finance reform bill passed in the D.C. Council, with 11 of 13 council members voting in its favor.
Councilmember Brandon T. Todd (D-Ward 4) was one of two council members who disagreed with the bill and abstained from voting. Todd’s communications director, Joshua Fleitman, said Todd felt the new bill would disproportionately affect certain voters.
“The reason he abstained from the first vote was because he felt that it selectively disenfranchised certain parts of the population,” Fleitman said in an interview with The Hoya.
Councilmember Kenyan McDuffie (D-Ward 5) also abstained from voting, though for a different reason. McDuffie argued the bill was unnecessary because voters are able to see through the actions of lobbyists to influence local politics, according to AP News.
Councilmembers who voted in favor of the bill held similar concerns. Council Chairman Phil Mendelson (D) voted in favor of the bill despite reservations regarding its effectiveness. He believes that it is impossible to remove the presence of public influence in the government, according to The Washington Post.
In the second round of voting Dec. 4, the bill passed unanimously after Allen introduced amendments to address some of the lawmakers concerns. One of Allen’s amendments allowed contractors to contribute to their own campaigns if they chose to run.
The legislation is still pending approval by D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D), who holds the power to veto the bill. Bowser has yet to indicate her position on the bill.
Allen’s introduction of the bill followed a series of recent political corruption cases in the District.
In 2014, former District Medicaid contractor Jeffrey Thompson pled guilty to felony charges for illegal contributions to political campaigns, including that of former D.C. Mayor Vincent Gray, who served from 2011 to 2015. In 2013, former D.C. Councilmember Michael Brown admitted to accepting $55,000 in bribes from undercover FBI agents.
Bowser herself has fallen under scrutiny after her allied political action committee, FreshPAC, capitalized on a campaign finance law loophole to receive donations of unrestricted sizes from donors after they were nominated by Bowser to city positions and contracts, according to The Washington Post. In response, the D.C. Council signed legislation to restrict political action committee spending in Oct. 2015.
More recently, Public Citizen, a political advocacy organization, filed a complaint Oct. 23 alleging Bowser violated minimum spending restrictions in her endorsement for at-large Council candidate Dionne Reeder. The Office of Campaign Finance has since dismissed the accusations.
While the Council has previously taken measures to curb private influence, including the creation of an independent ethics board and eliminating loopholes in campaign finance laws, the new bill is the first initiative with the potential to catalyze the District’s campaign finance reform, according to Freechild.
“The past campaign reforms have obviously helped, but this would bring D.C. up to speed with other jurisdictions that are serious about combating corruption and empowering everyday voters,” Freechild said. “It’s not just about combating corruptions. It’s all about putting voters at the center of the process. It’s their government, and they should be put at the heart of it.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 7, 2018 by Nestor Labastida Leave a Comment 
The founder and CEO of Mary’s Center, a prenatal care clinic for immigrant women in Washington, D.C., Maria Gomez (NUR ’77), celebrated the foundation’s 30th anniversary at a reception in Riggs Library on Nov. 28.
An immigrant herself, Gomez left Colombia at age 13 and attended public school in the District. She founded the center in 1988 while she was working as a nurse at the D.C. Department of Health. Gomez said that many women whom she treated had suffered traumas in their home countries and often found prenatal care inaccessible.
The School of Nursing and Health Studies co-hosted the event with the Georgetown’s Office of Government Relations and Community Engagement. Chair of Mary’s Center’s board of directors Stuart Butler, Dean of the NHS Patricia Cloonan, GRACE Vice President Christopher Murphy and D.C. Councilmember Brianne Nadeau (D-Ward 1) gave remarks.
Gomez founded the center, along with other activists, with funding from the D.C. Mayor’s Office on Latino Affairs and the Health Department to provide bilingual services to pregnant women and their children after noticing an increase in immigrants from Latin America.
The center has expanded to eight locations, with the growth of the clinic allowing for the creation of a comprehensive treatment plan for each patient, Gomez said.
“We have grown from one little basement in Adams Morgan to eight locations now, and we are seeing up towards 50,000 individuals with over six hundred people working for us,” Gomez said. “For that, we have a unique social change model which integrates health care, social services and education.”
The center’s model of health care integrates these three goals, pointing patients to resources like after-school programs, work skills development and other social services in collaboration with their community partners. The center provides care to patients independent of their ability to pay, according to the center’s website.
The Jesuit values she learned from professors and Jesuits at the university were foundational to her creation of the center, according to Gomez. The center’s values of participant-centeredness, accountability, respect and teamwork were inspired by the university’s Jesuit values, Gomez said.
Gomez also attributed the Community Scholars Program, the university’s five-week summer program intended to help low-income and first-generation students transition to college, for her ability to get ahead at Georgetown.
“Georgetown gave me that initial professional head start, truly professional head start, to be able to give back rather than turn my back,” Gomez said.
Gomez is set to return to the NHS at the beginning of the spring semester as a visiting distinguished professor, according to Cloonan.
After Gomez’s remarks, Nadeau recognized Gomez’s and the Mary’s Center’s dedication to immigrant communities in the area on behalf of the D.C. Council. The ceremonial resolution, introduced by Nadeau, is titled “Maria S. Gomez and Mary’s Center Recognition Resolution of 2018,” according to a Nov. 29 news release.
“The Council of the District of Columbia recognizes Mary’s Center for its accomplishments over 30 years of transformative work, and honors Maria S. Gomez for her important leadership in advancing the health and well-being of mothers and the District’s immigrant community,” Nadeau read from the resolution.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 7, 2018 by Connor Thomas Leave a Comment 
Campus Recreation at Yates Field House collected student input at a Nov. 29 event as it continues to finalize details for the upcoming renovations of Yates Field House. The renovations are set to begin February 2019 and finish in August, according to Yates Field House Director Meghan Dimsa (COL ’14).
CRYFH hosted a public commentary session last Thursday, inviting students to discuss the Kehoe Field renovation project and allow members of the Georgetown community to share their thoughts on the ongoing project and the new facilities.
“During the first open house, we invited students to view and provide feedback on turf samples, infill materials and field design,” Dimsa wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The most recent open house was held to display that progress and collect student input on track color selection.”
This event marks the second time students have been invited to offer input on the developing plans for the renovations, after they were able to voice their opinions on turf selections at an event held in April. Dimsa said her department has been working with students to renovate and reopen Kehoe Field.
“We are making significant progress and are excited to bring the students’ ideas and input to fruition,” Dimsa wrote. “We are also thrilled that club and intramural sports will be able to return to practicing and playing right here on campus.”
The field’s problems began in 1979 after it was rebuilt on top of the Yates Field House roof. Because of structural issues, the roof suffered from drainage problems, leading to water collecting on the field, and to the field’s deterioration. The university repaired some damage in 1987 for $1.8 million and again in 2002 for $7 million.
The Kehoe Field closure has forced club and intramural sports to find alternative on-campus practice spaces, such as Cooper Field, according to women’s club ultimate frisbee President Megan Logan (MSB ’19).
“The inability to use Kehoe as another on-campus practice space has been difficult for the team,” Logan wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Cooper is not enough for athletics, club sports and intramurals to share.”
Off-campus fields do not have lights, which restricts practices to the daytime.
“There have been weeks where our team has not been able to practice at all,” Logan wrote.
The lack of practice space and time has impaired the team’s competitiveness, especially in club ultimate frisbee, where many of the new members are still learning the sport, according to Logan.
“The frequent occurrence of off-campus practices has made it challenging to retain players and build our team, because inconsistent practice times and finding off-campus fields can discourage new members,” Logan said.
The Yates Field House renovations come as part of a larger plan to reshape and rebuild elements of Georgetown’s campus. Georgetown already has other construction projects underway across campus, including at Cooper Field and the future MedStar Georgetown University Hospital’s Medical/Surgical Pavilion, according to Georgetown’s Master Planning website.
The Cooper Field project will replace the field’s bleachers with a permanent structure to include additional seating, game-day locker rooms, concessions, restrooms and a press box, as well as landscape improvements, according to the website.
Logan wrote she was pleased to hear the university’s renovation timeline, which will have Kehoe Field ready for the next academic year.
“The turnaround time has been relatively quick, especially because when Kehoe was first closed it was unclear how long it would take to be fixed,” Logan wrote. “We hope that the field is actually finished by the projected date so that we will be able to use it for the full year.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

