
November 15, 2018 by Sarah Mendelsohn and Will Cassou Leave a Comment 
Partisan divides have weakened U.S. democracy, Rep. Joe Kennedy III (D-Mass.) said at an event in Copley Formal Lounge on Tuesday.
Kennedy is a third-term congressman representing the 4th District of Massachusetts who delivered the Democratic Party’s response to the State of the Union this year. Prior to being elected in 2012, Kennedy served as an assistant district attorney in Massachusetts. He is now a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee.
Though optimistic about the prospect of collaborating in the future with Republican lawmakers, Kennedy said that U.S. democracy currently needs repairing.
“No, our democracy isn’t healthy,” Kennedy said. “It’s functioning. Is it functioning as well as it should, as well as it could? No.”
Kennedy attributed this damage to politicians’ divisive tactics that focus on contentious issues to maintain political relevance, rather than creating productive dialogue.
“You have individuals that will debase that conversation and try to leverage those divisions and those fissures, and we have certainly seen throughout our history and throughout our current politics individuals that do that remarkably well,” Kennedy said. “It is without question in my mind to the detriment of our nation.”
The United States needs to acknowledge and embrace the diversity that exists within its borders in order to establish a more cohesive nation, Kennedy said.
“By recognizing diversity, by understanding that people come at this with different ideas and different opinions and different ideologies and different backgrounds and experiences that already you do come out with a … society, a country, a culture, a nation that is stronger,” Kennedy said.
Neglecting to protect any religious, ethnic, national or other identity groups contradicts civil rights law and marginalizes members of those groups, Kennedy said.
“If you start to say, ‘Well this is just too hard, or there’s not that many of you, you’re a small minority, or to do this is going to be too expensive to actually make sure we take care of X group or Y incivility or some small racial ethnic group,’ you actually are saying that you don’t count, that you are not seen,” Kennedy said.
Despite partisan divisions, the Nov. 6 midterm elections brought more expansive health care policies throughout the country. Nebraska, Utah and Idaho all passed ballot initiatives that expand Medicaid eligibility in the Nov. 6 election, which Kennedy said reflects a larger national movement towards more inclusive health care.
“Of all of the lessons from Tuesday night, the issue that had the best night was health care,” he said.
Republicans and Democrats, though hostile to each other on many fronts, share a vision of affordable health care for U.S. citizens, according to Kennedy.
“If the basic promise that we should be able to make as the most powerful nation in the world is that every person gets access to health care when you need at a price that you can afford, we can do that, and I don’t think many of our Republican colleagues would actually disagree,” he said.
Health care is one of four issue areas, including infrastructure, pensions and mental health, that Congress should strive to address, according to Kennedy. Republicans want to work with Democrats to tackle these issues, and they are especially willing to develop better mental health care policies, he said.
“There is not a Republican I have met and discussed this issue that doesn’t say, ‘Hey I’d love to help,’” he said.
Bipartisan agreement may exist on issues like infrastructure and mental health, but deep political divisions, which are symptomatic of larger cultural fractures, undermine cooperation in U.S. politics today, Kennedy said.
“A number of the biggest issues out there, whether it’s immigration, whether it’s gun violence, whether it’s health care to some extent — those issues are framed as policy questions, but what they actually are is a … cultural divide,” he said. “It ends up being a question of, is one side of, one aspect of, one slice of America trying to impose its values, vision, way of life on somebody else.”
The newly elected Democratic House of Representatives should focus on expanding oversight of the executive branch, including following up with federal agencies to ensure that they are properly enforcing laws already passed by Congress, Kennedy said.
“Just because you have an administration that has blocked all convention about compliance with the law and oversight doesn’t mean they get a pass just because they don’t want to do it,” Kennedy said.
President Donald Trump should release his tax returns to the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee to ensure that he is not engaged in illegal activity, including dealing with foreign agents, Kennedy said.
“Every president in recent history released their tax returns; you decided not to. You said you would and then you didn’t,” Kennedy said. “So yeah, I think we should get the tax returns, and just because you don’t want to release it doesn’t mean that you just say, ‘OK that’s fine; we’re not going to do that.’ No, those are out there to ensure that every single president and administration abides by the same set of rules and that you are not engage in self-dealing.”
The Trump administration likely engaged in illegal behaviors, according to Kennedy.
“Let me be clear, I hope there is nothing there,” he said. “I hope Mr. Mueller comes back tomorrow and says, ‘Case closed. There’s nothing else to do; all set, all good.’ I don’t think he’s going to do that.”
Kennedy said he looks forward to the next two years with a Democratic majority in the House of Representatives, which had been previously dominated by Republicans since 2010.
“I have never spent a day in the majority, and I’m very much looking forward to it.”
Special to The Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 15, 2018 by Elizabeth Ash and Will Cromarty Leave a Comment 
Will Haskell (COL ’18) knew his political ambitions were far from the norm. When asked about running for office at the age of 22, Haskell admitted the decision was anything but reasonable.
“It was sort of a crazy idea to run,” Haskell said. “But behind that crazy idea was [one that] was not so crazy.”
The “crazy idea” landed the recent Georgetown graduate an Oct. 1 endorsement from former President Obama and, ultimately, a seat in the Connecticut state Senate.
Haskell defeated Republican incumbent Toni Boucher by a margin of 6.6 percent last week. With his victory, Haskell flipped a seat that had been red since 1973 and helped the Democrats gain a majority in the Connecticut state Senate. Boucher, who has worked in local government as long as Haskell has been alive, has served as a Connecticut state senator since 2009, winning her last election by a margin of over 20 percent.
Haskell put on hold his plans to attend the Georgetown University Law Center, seeing the United States and Connecticut at a crossroads in the wake of President Donald Trump’s election. Hoping to encourage more young people to move back to Connecticut, Haskell launched his long-shot campaign with his four-year roommate and campaign manager Jack Lynch (COL ’18). (Full disclosure: Lynch previously served as a Hoya staffer and member of The Hoya’s editorial board.)
In their senior year, both witnessed their friends choosing to start their careers anywhere but Connecticut. The pair opted for the nontraditional approach; for them, it worked out.
Campaigning to Listen  
Haskell admitted he was nervous about his young age when he ran for office, particularly against a seasoned opponent. Conceding he was “clearly not your guy” for voters focused on experience, Haskell positioned his age as an asset that offered a different perspective.
“I thought I would be asked constantly to explain my age and to address my lack of experience,” Haskell said. “But what I found was when I was just upfront, I became a much better candidate.”
Still, Haskell had to overcome a lack of name recognition with a staunch commitment to door-knocking — 4,000 doors and 142 meet-and-greets, according to his estimates. Through personal conversations, Haskell learned about voters’ specific concerns, from high prescription-drug prices to the effects of gun violence.
“I became a much better campaigner when I realized that it isn’t so much about talking about your platform,” Haskell said. “It’s about listening to people and finding out how the state government can serve them better.”
Haskell said authenticity and attentiveness won him voters — a contrast to the negative attack ads released by the Senate Republican Campaign Committee and approved by Boucher. The mailers featured a Photoshopped image of Haskell with his arm around Connecticut’s unpopular governor, Dan Malloy (D).
Haskell sees the ad as a tactical mistake by his opponent that may have won him sympathy from voters.
“They Photoshopped my face onto this stock photo — I don’t think they ever met me — of this really fit, fashionable, tall guy. None of those adjectives describe me,” Haskell said. “I was up before sunrise talking to people. One of the commuters came up and said, ‘I saw that they photoshopped you. That person doesn’t look anything like you.’ And it really won me a lot of voters, simply because they were frustrated to see politics sort of devolve into that level of Photoshopping and nastiness.”
Mobilizing Every Generation 
Campaigning against a politician who had served in public office for 22 years — the same number as his age — Haskell attracted support from young people. Many of his campaign volunteers were in high school and college — some of whom could not vote.
Charlotte Cohen, a 17-year-old senior in high school from Westport, Conn., worked as a volunteer on the Haskell campaign, serving in roles ranging from photographer to graphic designer. She heard Haskell’s first public speech as a candidate, at the March for Our Lives rally, a student-led demonstration calling for tighter gun control, in Hartford. His message resonated with Cohen and inspired her to work in his office every day.
“I started volunteering on and off as I could, and then this fall I really took it on,” Cohen said. “I decided to quit soccer, which I’ve been playing since I was 3, to spend more time on it, because I thought it was super important.”
Cohen was hardly alone: Voters of all ages rallied around Haskell, and witnessing their enthusiasm Nov. 6 convinced the Georgetown graduate he might have a chance.
Standing outside polling stations, Haskell met retired voters who showed up at 6 a.m. because they “couldn’t imagine being awake and not having voted yet.”
“I met two people who told me that their very first vote was for Harry Truman, and yet this was the election that they were most excited for in their whole lives,” Haskell said.
On election night, surrounded by family, volunteers and friends, Haskell waited for the results to trickle in. The race result was called around 11 p.m. but Haskell wanted to hear from his opponent before he claimed victory.
“The last thing I wanted to be was the kid to give a victory speech, so I waited until my opponent called, and very graciously, she congratulated me, wished me the best of luck. She is a good person,” Haskell said. “She and I disagree on policy, but we shared the goal of making Connecticut a better state to live in.”
After Boucher called to concede, Haskell gave his victory speech with a rush of excitement.
“I sort of came out from around the corner where I was talking to her, and I said, ‘Okay, let’s do this thing,’” Haskell said. “I have no memory of my feet touching the floor in order to get to the victory stage.”
Looking Ahead
While he waits to begin his new job in the state Senate in January, Haskell hopes to connect with constituents and other current and incoming state representatives, including Boucher. Once his term begins, Haskell plans to serve on the Higher Education Committee to provide a student perspective and to advocate for a student loan forgiveness program. Haskell also hopes to be on the Government Administration and Elections Committee to work toward easier voting.
Haskell’s main policy priority, however, will be gun control. Connecticut suffers from outdated storage and concealed carry laws, as well as a lax policy concerning the sale of firearms online, according to Haskell.
Driven by conversations with students who are unable to focus on their work because they feel unsafe in classrooms, Haskell is determined to instigate change.
“My first priority when I get to the legislature, number one has to be gun violence prevention,” Haskell said. “The vast majority of voters I talked to felt this was the pressing issue of our generation.”
Above all, the state senator-elect hopes to impart on his voters the importance of young people’s voices. Youth from all walks of life should not be dissuaded from participating in politics, according to Haskell. Rather, they should run for something they believe in.
“I hope that this is an era where the history books are not just going to look at Donald Trump’s administration,” Haskell said. “They’re going to notice how our generation responded by running for office in droves to make our voice heard and speaking with a moral clarity that the moment so desperately requires.”
Correction: This article previously stated Will Haskell received news of his win at 11 a.m; Haskell learned he had won the race at 11 p.m. on Nov. 6. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 15, 2018 by Emma Wenzinger Leave a Comment 
The hiring process for a Title IX coordinator is still in progress nearly five months after Laura Cutway’s June departure, with one round of interviews, including a student panel, complete.
Student leaders and administrators say the appointment may not take place until the spring semester, leaving the university without a Title IX coordinator for at least seven months. Samantha Berner has served as interim Title IX coordinator, in addition to continuing in her role as Title IX investigator, since Cutway left the position unannounced.
“On average, the process to recruit, interview, hire, and onboard highly qualified higher education leaders in roles that require expertise can last between 6-12 months,” a university spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The Title IX Coordinator is critical to Georgetown’s efforts addressing sexual assault and misconduct and the university is committed to finding a highly qualified individual to serve our campus community.”
Given the timeline so far, remaining interviews, deliberations and the hiring process could potentially push the official start of a new Title IX coordinator to spring, according to Kory Stuer (COL ’19), who served on the student panel.
As part of the daylong interview process for each candidate, which took place throughout October, a panel of five to six mostly undergraduate students convened to conduct hourlong interviews.
“Student voices are imperative in shaping how our campus community addresses sexual assault and misconduct,” Rosemary Kilkenny, vice president for institutional diversity and equity, wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Undergraduate and graduate student leaders who actively engage on these issues are providing valuable input and feedback during the interviewing and hiring process.”
The student leaders chosen were from the Sexual Assault and Misconduct Advisory Committee, Sexual Assault Peer Educators, the Georgetown University Student Association, Georgetown University Graduate Student Government and other groups that engage on issues that the Title IX office handles, according to the university spokesperson.
Some students were chosen for the interview panel based on recommendation from administrators and because of their leadership positions on campus, but not for their knowledge of sexual misconduct policy and climate at Georgetown, Stuer said.
“Multiple students did not know why they were chosen. They had practically no knowledge of sexual assault policy at Georgetown,” Stuer said. “While everyone was a leader on campus, and I mean no disrespect to anyone who was on the panel, people literally didn’t know why they were there.”
The students were given evaluation forms for each of the candidates that they filled out and submitted to Kilkenny about a week after interviews, according to Stuer, Cindy Tran (COL ’20) and Grace Perret (COL ’20), who all served on the panel.
Tran, a member of the provost’s advisory committee for diversity, was invited by Kilkenny to serve on the student panel for evaluating candidates for the position. The lack of any guidance from the administration made her unsure how the university would take her evaluations of the candidates into account, she said.
“Personally, the way that affects me and how I view the process, is one: Is the student input actually something they take into consideration?” Tran said. “Are they having us interview, or is it something they use to say, ‘Well, we did have student panelists interviewing but actually don’t consider any of their input’?”
Other than students, campus organizations and groups involved in the process include faculty and staff members from the Women’s Center, the LGBTQ Resource Center, Health Education Services, the Georgetown University Police Department’s Sexual Assault Response Team, the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access, deputy Title IX coordinators, the Office of Student Conduct, and the Office of the General Counsel, a university spokesperson said.
The interviews followed a Sept. 20 meeting between administrators and five students: Stuer, Daria Crawford (COL ’20), Avery Moje (COL ’19), Andy Turner (SFS ’20) and Susu Zhao (COL ’19), who had published a letter Aug. 31 demanding action from the university on several issues relating to sexual misconduct on campus.
The letter, addressed to Kilkenny, Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson and Assistant Vice President for Student Health Dr. Vince WinklerPrins, calls for increased transparency and speed in the hiring process for the Title IX coordinator position, among other demands.
Kilkenny, Olson and WinklerPrins committed during the meeting to update the campus community about the lack of a distinct Title IX coordinator and the progress of the search, according to Moje, Stuer and Zhao. There has been no update at the time of publication.
“I think that students must be informed of the position’s vacancy and the search for a new coordinator because of the [vitalness] of the Title IX Office’s role in supporting students who have been assaulted while at Georgetown,” Moje wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Despite their involvement in anti-sexual misconduct advocacy and work as a SAPE facilitator on campus, Stuer said their own difficulty understanding and navigating Georgetown’s policies indicates how the system can be a barrier to students who are less informed.
“Even as we, as students who have been involved in this work for years and have spent much of our Georgetown careers thinking about this, we struggle to navigate these systems,” Stuer said. “So what does that mean for the freshmen?”
Two other requests made in the Aug. 31 letter, including the formation of a Coordinated Community Response Team and the release of updates from the Sexual Assault and Misconduct Advisory Committee, were addressed in a Nov. 2 email update to the Georgetown community.
Georgetown is one of a small group of universities employing a full-time Title IX coordinator, which began Jan. 11, 2016, with Cutway’s hiring. The role was previously part of Kilkenny’s duties as vice president for institutional diversity and equity.
Cutway’s departure was never publicly announced to the community.
In the 2016-17 school year, 161 reports of sexual misconduct were made to the Title IX office. Reports have been rising in recent years, consistent with national trends.
At nearby universities, staff recruitment for Title IX offices has been met with varying degrees of success. While American University replaced its Title IX coordinator within two months of the previous coordinator’s departure, The George Washington University has seen a high turnover rate for staff in its Title IX office in previous years.
Stuer said their overarching hope is that the university will be transparent about staffing in the Title IX office given upcoming changes to related federal law.
“The fact that we’re getting toward six months and the university still hasn’t told the student body that we don’t have a Title IX coordinator anymore is a problem, especially as we’re expecting new rules from the Department of Education that are expected to completely overhaul Title IX,” Stuer said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 15, 2018 by Karena Landler Leave a Comment 
Students are concerned about a perceived lack of sufficient training for the Georgetown University Police Department on responding to reports of sexual assault.
GUPD has 14 officers, known as the Sexual Assault Response Team, specifically trained to respond to sexual assault and provides “standard training” to all other officers on sexual assault response. However, students, including members of the new student group Students Taking Action against Interpersonal Violence, have little awareness of this standard training and its contents and some are concerned the training is not enough, according to Kory Stuer (COL ’19)
“On campus and nationally, we are in a moment of crisis right now when it comes to sexual violence,” Stuer said in an interview with The Hoya. “Students [are feeling] like the University is not doing enough and one of the areas where it’s not doing enough is when it comes to GUPD.”
Chief of Police Jay Gruber emphasized the value of SART’s training in working with survivors.
“SART officers are trained to respond to reports with professionalism and compassion,” Gruber wrote in an email to The Hoya. “They have a deep understanding of the on- and off-campus resources available to survivors and can explain University and criminal processes to help ensure survivors understand all options moving forward and are fully supported throughout their process.”
Many of the officers have personal biographies listed on the SART website in which they detail their experience and for many, their desire to help survivors get the best options they can on campus. However, these officers make up a relatively small segment of the department — 14 of the over 70 officers have SART training.
“There are currently 14 active SART officers and five additional officers undergoing training,” Gruber wrote. “GUPD strives to have at least one SART officer on every shift so they are available 24 hours.”
Georgetown’s Counseling and Psychiatric Services also provides services to survivors of sexual assault, according to Claire Bernstein, Staff Clinician and Sexual Assault Specialist.
“CAPS has a clinician on-call at all hours and they are a great resource for supporting survivors in emergency situations,” Bernstein said. “In addition, we regularly refer students to the 24/7 community resources with expertise in assisting survivors, including the D.C. Victim Hotline, D.C. Rape Crisis Center, and [Rape, Abuse, Incest National Network].”
However, members of STAIV, which was formed by Stuer and Avery Moje (COL ’19), are concerned that this support is not enough.
“It is absolutely not sufficient that we only have 14 people for the only 24/7 crisis resource for this university,” Stuer said in an interview with The Hoya. “[24/7 coverage] should not be the goal. The goal should be to get the entire department SART trained as basic due diligence and best practice around, ‘How are we making sure that that everyone at this university has adequate training and knowledge about how to support survivors?’”
There were approximately 17 reports of sexual assault, eight reports of dating violence and 11 reports of stalking specifically reported to GUPD in 2017, according to GUPD’s annual crime reports. However, this number is not representative of the actual number of assaults on campus, as stated in the 2016 climate report. Just over three in 10 female undergraduates and about one in 10 male undergraduates reported experiencing “non-consensual sexual contact as a result of physical force or incapacitation since entering Georgetown,” according to the report.
Moje explained that increased training and awareness thereof in GUPD and the student body could help increase trust and reporting.
“I think it’s very important that students can call immediate response services and know that they won’t experience secondary trauma by calling that service,” she said.
Moje criticized the lack of transparency on the level of training that all officers receive.
“I think that this is an important point from the standpoint of student transparency or administration transparency with the students,” Moje said. “If they are being trained, I don’t know about it and I am heavily involved in this work.”
For some students, GUPD does not represent an accessible source of support, said Diego Blandon (COL ’19), a member of both STAIV and Georgetown United Against Police Aggression. The question of trust in the police and accessibility leads to underreporting, they said.
“You could have 400 officers and there still would be a large portion of the population who that isn’t serving, and whom that is making less safe,” Blandon said. “We know that students of color and workers at this university face a lot of harassment from GUPD, and the university’s failing the students who feel unsafe calling GUPD for something else to say that ‘this is your only resource.’”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

