
December 3, 2018 by Max Levine Leave a Comment 
The School of Foreign Service announced its undergraduates will be able to minor in disciplines within Georgetown College as part of an interschool collaborative effort Dec. 6.
The announcement comes after the SFS Faculty Council voted in favor of the policy Nov. 30. The council’s vote awaits approval by the School Council of the SFS, a body which oversees the school’s educational policy, SFS Academic Council Vice President Forrest Gertin (SFS ’20) said. If approved, College minors can be taken by SFS students, including current juniors, as long as the appropriate course requirements are fulfilled.
SFS Dean Daniel Byman expects the change to pass and go into effect in the upcoming academic year.
Under the new policy, college minors can be taken by SFS students, including current juniors, as long as the appropriate course requirements are fulfilled. Minors in the government, history and economics departments will be limited to students pursuing a major outside of those fields, according to the Dec. 6 news release. For example, an international history major cannot obtain a College minor in history.
Though the SFS did not historically offer minors, students have been able to choose from a limited selection of certificate programs, which emphasize regional or thematic areas of interest. A 2016 decision allowed SFS students to pursue minors exclusively in the foreign language departments of the College.
Students will be permitted to add a total of any two supplements to their majors, including both minors and certificates, according to the news release.
Opposition to allowing SFS students to pursue college minors was grounded in the belief that minors presented an unnecessary addition to the SFS curriculum, according to Byman.
“The belief was that SFS, which has an interdisciplinary curriculum, did not need minors and that the many SFS requirements made minors impractical,” Byman wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The recent vote by faculty members comes after years of SFS students pushing for access to minors in the College, Byman wrote.
“The decision to allow minors was very much a student-driven initiative,” Byman wrote. “For years, students have wanted the SFS to allow minors, believing that they help a student diversify intellectually and provide benefits on the job market.”
Some students felt the original policy limited their academic opportunities, leading the student organization SFS Academic Council to press for change.
Students have sought access to College minors due to the complementary nature of certain academic disciplines, Gertin said.
“If you think about it, you’re someone who is studying international political economy who’s also interested in financial journalism, getting a journalism minor, which is currently — or used to be — not allowed, could really complement your degree,” Gertin said.
The original policy seemed unfair to SFS students as the only school with this restriction, according to Gertin.
“It’s an issue of fairness. If my roommate is in the College, why should we be able to take the same courses and the SFS student not receive the same credential?” Gertin said.
The decision comes amid a curriculum restructuring process by the SFS that started in 2016 to update the curriculum in advance of the school’s centennial in 2019. Starting in fall 2018, the school added a science requirement to its core curriculum with the aim of helping students understand scientific issues through the context of international affairs.
The decision will help provide university guidance to students who would have otherwise pursued their interests independently, Byman wrote.
“My hope is that SFS students will take advantage of minors both to round themselves out and to go deeper on subject areas that complement their SFS studies,” Byman wrote. “Another advantage of a minor from a learning point of view is that it is a structured set of classes. Thus students who complete it will gain a better understanding of the subject than if they did the same number of courses on their own.”
Both Gertin and Byman noted the success of the original 2016 initiative that allowed SFS students to minor in foreign languages assured students and faculty that further expansion was a good next step.
SFS students would not be the only students affected by the decision, according to David Edelstein, vice dean of faculty in the College. While the plan originated in the SFS, it has since become a joint initiative with the help of the College.
Faculty members from the schools hope the policy shift yields mutual benefits, Edelstein said.
“I would just emphasize the cooperative spirit in which this was accomplished. Both Georgetown College and SFS are stronger for having access to the resources and offerings of the other,” Edelstein wrote in an email to The Hoya.

This article was updated on Dec. 5 to correct Gertin’s graduation year. This article was updated on Dec. 6.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 3, 2018 by Amy Li Leave a Comment 
Technology that reduces energy consumption and informs consumers about sustainable products should be used to make improvements to urban infrastructure, Massachusetts Institute of Technology professor of urban planning Carlo Ratti said at an event Nov. 30.
Cities cover 2 percent of Earth’s surface but contain over 50 percent of the population, make up 75 percent of the world’s energy consumption and produce 80 percent of carbon dioxide emissions, Ratti said at the event, which was held in the Intercultural Center Auditorium.
The Georgetown University Italian Research Institute hosted the event in collaboration with the Italian Embassy; the Italian Cultural Institute, an office dedicated to the promotion of Italian culture in the United States and housed in the Italian Embassy; and the Georgetown College art, art history and Italian departments.
Ratti, an Italian architect and engineer, is the director of Senseable City Laboratory, a research initiative at MIT. In 2007, Ratti’s work on a building made of water was recognized among Time Magazine’s “Best Inventions of the Year.”
The internet’s ability to create wider online networks between people has altered the way they live, according to Ratti. He disagrees, however, with scholars who suggest this connectedness has made physical space obsolete.
“Technology hasn’t killed physical space,” Ratti said. “Something else has happened, which is this kind of convergence of technology with the city, of digital and physical.”
Technology instead can be used to analyze energy usage and track movement, which can make transportation, shopping, working and the overall experience of living in a city more efficient, Ratti said.
In 2014, Ratti conducted a study analyzing taxi data in New York City at the request of former NYC Mayor Michael Bloomberg (D).
The study found that although people in New York have experienced trouble finding rides, many taxis in the city consistently remained empty. Manhattan needs only 60 percent of its current number of taxis to satisfy the transportation of its people, according to the report.
Ratti used his findings to work with Uber’s carpooling feature, which allows multiple parties to ride-share simultaneously in the same vehicle. A widespread use of the feature would lower the number of cars and therefore reduce the amount of traffic and pollution, according to Ratti.
“Two people going more or less in the same direction share a ride, which means one less car on the road, which is less energy consumption, less pollution and less congestion on our roads,” Ratti said.
However, a 2018 report by transportation expert and consultant Bruce Schaller has also found that ride-share services like UberPool can increase traffic congestion in urban centers by redirecting commuters away from public transportation alternatives.
Self-driving cars have the potential to further improve the transportation system over the next few years, according to Ratti. 
“If you’ve got an intelligence system where every car knows where it is and where all the other cars are, you don’t need to stop anymore,” Ratti said. “You can keep on going just avoiding collisions.”
The expanding role of technology in the workplace will allow people to access information differently and use spaces more flexibly, eliminating the need to create spaces strictly for work, Ratti said.
“We don’t need to be in our office anymore for meetings,” Ratti said. “We can build buildings that are more sociable, and also buildings that can save a lot more energy and a lot more space.”
Ratti believes the exploration of data can promote consumers to make more informed and environmentally sustainable purchasing decisions. The implementation of real-time product information in grocery stores will allow for consumers to choose products based on their environmental effects, he said.
The Carlo Ratti Associati, an international design and innovation practice founded by Ratti, along with Coop Italia, Italy’s largest supermarket chain, built a grocery store equipped with interactive smart screens. The screens provide customers with the products’ nutritional values and the amount of energy consumed during the item’s production.
The evolving use of technology must be considered in the development of urban infrastructure in order to ensure the city’s longevity, according to Ratti.
“It’s very, very important that the infrastructure that we build in cities today will last for 5,000 to 10,000 years, but the way we use it may change in five, 10 or 20,” Ratti said. “It’s very important that we try to future-proof it to make sure that what we build today can be adapted to different futures.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

