
October 23, 2018 by Ashley Zhao Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University School of Medicine students have established GUSOM Generation I, an organization for students who identify as first-generation to access a structured network of resources and support from peers and faculty members with similar backgrounds.
The group, which began as an initiative proposed by the medical school’s Council on Diversity Affairs and six first-generation students, hopes to support first-generation medical students throughout their time at Georgetown and celebrate their shared experiences, according to GUSOM Generation I founding member Wooju Kim (MED ’21).
“Our goal is basically to create a safe space for people to talk about things from their past that they may not have had the liberty or space to talk about with other people, especially in medicine,” Kim said.
Reflecting on the difficulty many first-generation students share in relating to the rest of their peers, Kim noted the importance of having friends and mentors with similar backgrounds who have faced similar struggles, especially given the difficulties of medical school. GUSOM Generation I provides an outlet for such students to build relationships with peers working to overcome similar barriers, Kim said.
Of the challenges facing first-generation students, one of the biggest is a lack of access to the same resources as other students, GUSOM Generation I founding member Matt Triano (MED ’21) said.
“I think while applying to med school I really noticed my lack of connections,” Triano wrote in an email to The Hoya.
As many medical schools expect applicants to have experience shadowing and working in the medical field, Triano and Kim both noted their lack of connections as a disadvantage that their more privileged peers did not experience. This lack of access to resources is another issue GUSOM Generation I hopes to alleviate.
“I don’t want other first-generation students to have a similar experience as I did in college,” Triano said. “It makes me think about how many people could be phenomenal physicians but, because of these roadblocks, never get there or are deterred away — I certainly almost was.”
By providing first-generation medical students with resources they often do not have as much access to, GUSOM Generation I hopes to bridge the gap between the rates at which first-generation and continuing-generation students attend medical school.
While the percentage of first-generation and continuing-generation students in bachelor degree programs is similar, there are nearly twice as many continuing-generation students in doctoral and professional degree programs as there are first-generation students.
The lack of first-generation students pursuing doctoral and professional degrees points to a lack of diversity within medical and professional schools, an issue that GUSOM Generation I is working to address, according to GUSOM Generation I founding member Hailey Roumimper (MED ’21).
“In addition to providing a supportive and inclusive community for first-generation students, for me one of the other goals of this group is to spark larger conversations about the importance of having a diverse student body from a variety of backgrounds,” Roumimper wrote in an email to The Hoya.
This push for greater diversity is reflected within GUSOM Generation I’s community itself: The group does not abide by a strict definition of what it means to be a first-generation student.
“We have a very flexible definition of first-gen, since it’s often difficult to put people into neat little boxes,” Triano wrote. “We allow people to self-identify, and welcome anyone who thinks they could benefit from our community and our resources.”
Kim herself uses a “more nuanced definition” of first-generation: Her parents attended four-year colleges in South Korea, but she is part of the first generation in her family to attend college in the United States, and the first to attend medical school. GUSOM Generation I allows her to connect with students sharing the same feelings towards being first-generation as her, Kim said.
The club plans to continue fostering a supportive community for first-generation medical students at Georgetown while expanding the program to provide more mentors and resources for its members. By increasing the visibility and support for first-generation students in medical school, GUSOM Generation I is working to eliminate the stigma around being a first-generation college student, Triano said.
“I think we’re all becoming more comfortable speaking candidly about our experiences and backgrounds, wearing them as a badge of honor rather than hiding them as evidence of being abnormal or undeserving,” Triano wrote. “By building a community and fostering mentorship we hope to uncover more of these barriers so that we can better understand and overcome them.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 23, 2018 by Kareeda Kabir Leave a Comment 
Israel’s technology industry struggles to cultivate diversity, said Ifat Baron, founder and executive of ItWorks, an Israeli non-profit that promotes diversity in the technology industry, at the Start-Up Nation Tech Fair on Oct. 16.
The tech fair, which was hosted by the Georgetown Israel Alliance, brought to campus Israeli companies including Annoto, an educational video annotating company; Easyway, an artificial intelligence traveling companion; Innovation: Africa, a non-profit which provides water and electricity to countries in Africa; Materials Zone, a database for scientific research; and VR Wiz, a virtual reality production studio.
Israeli Arabs are underrepresented in Israel’s technology industry, reflecting a widespread inequality between Jewish Israelis and Arab Israelis, according to Baron. About 50 percent of Israel’s exports are from the high-tech industry.
“Less than 2 percent of engineers in the high-tech industry are Arabs and 66 percent of Arab children will live in poverty, [compared to] 20 percent of Jewish children,” Baron said.
Transportation to and from the center of Israel, the epicenter of the country’s technology industry, presents an obstacle to increasing the numbers of Israeli Arabs working for Israeli tech companies, according to Baron.
“Most of the companies are located in the center [of Israel], and most Arab villages will be in the north,” Baron said.
The Israeli technology sector has faced diversity shortcomings in other areas, specifically for women and Orthodox Jews, according to Baron. Israeli women face sexism in science, technology, engineering and mathematic fields, while Orthodox Jews struggle to integrate into the technology industry because they require religious accommodations, Baron said.
“If you are [a] man, living in the center, Jewish and white, your chances of finding a job — very, very high,” Baron said. “If you are a woman, if you are Arab, if you are ultra-Orthodox, your chances are slim to none.”
ItWorks strives to assist minorities in Israel with professional development and help technology companies develop strategies for increasing diversity, according to Baron.
“We are offering all the tools they need, networking, soft skills seminar, English seminar, interview skills seminar and vocational training,” Baron said. “We also help the companies understand that there are different codes of conduct for women, Arabs and ultra-Orthodox Jews.”
The Start-Up Nation Tech Fair offered students an opportunity to meet representatives of Israeli technology companies, GIA president Ben Goodman (COL ’20) said. (Full disclosure: Goodman is a deputy sports editor for The Hoya.)
“Attendees certainly got to network and advance their own prospects at the tech fair, but hopefully they also took away the amazing things these startups do — or have the potential to do — for the world around them,” Goodman wrote in an email to The Hoya. “These are not just companies looking to make a buck; they are missions to care for the world being put into action.”
Nearly 300 students registered for the Start-Up National Tech Fair, according to Maya Rabinowitz (COL ’21), the Speaker and Events Chair of GIA. GIA intended to use the tech fair to showcase the business and technology industry in Israel, according to Rabinowitz.
“The reason we wanted to put on the event was to show a side of Israel outside of politics,” Rabinowitz said. “Many who are unfamiliar with the startup hub in Israel associate the country with conflict in the Middle East. I hope that everyone who attended learned about all of the innovation and technology coming out of Israel and might even want to work in Israel one day.”
David Suter, chief marketing officer of Materials Zone, an online research database that provides its subscribers with access to research data and one of the companies at the fair, said Tel Aviv offers his company a robust community of businesses that has helped it expand its platform in the city.
“Tel Aviv is a great place to test things out,” Suter said, “because even though it’s small, everyone is there — Google, Facebook, everyone is nearby.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

