
May 4, 2018 by Erin Doherty Leave a Comment 
United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres, former U.S. Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz and Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.) are set to speak as three of nine speakers at the 2018 Georgetown University commencement ceremonies, which will begin May 17, the university announced this afternoon.
The commencement ceremonies for the nine undergraduate and graduate schools are scheduled to span four days, with the McCourt School of Public Policy commencement kicking off the events May 17 and the Georgetown Law Center commencement culminating the weekend May 20.
Moniz will address the McCourt School of Public Policy on May 17, Guterres will speak at the School of Foreign Service commencement May 19 and Norton will address Georgetown Law graduates May 20. 
Ursula Burns, the executive chairman of the supervisory board for VEON, a multinational telecommunication company, will address the McDonough School of Business on May 18. Susan Hockfield, the president emerita of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, will speak at the Georgetown College commencement May 19 and Luci Baines Johnson, the daughter of President Lyndon Johnson, will address the School of Nursing and Health Studies on May 19.
Additional commencement speakers include William Phillips, a physicist at the National Institute of Standards and Technology, who will address the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences on May 18, and Brendan Tuohey, the co-founder and executive director of PeacePlayers, a nonprofit that uses basketball to unite and educate children, who will address the School of Continuing Studies on May 18. 
Thomas Nasca, president and CEO for the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, the organization responsible for most graduate medical training programs for physicians in the United States, will address the School of Medicine on May 20. 
The Hoya will be covering the events during the commencement weekend. 
All of the commencement ceremonies will be available for livestreaming at the university commencement website.          
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

