
January 12, 2018 by Will Cassou 1 Comment 
A newly proposed Living Learning Community providing a space for students to explore gender and sexuality received approval from Georgetown University’s Office of Residential Living last month.
The LLC, called “Crossroads: Gender and Sexuality,” is intended to serve as a community space for conversations about inclusivity issues pertaining to gender and sexual orientation while remaining true to Georgetown’s Jesuit values, according to Todd Olson, vice president of student affairs.
“Our Catholic and Jesuit values call on us to engage with ‘respect, compassion, and sensitivity’ with our LGBTQ community. It is in keeping with our Catholic and Jesuit values to provide a language, perspective, and sense of inclusion for deepening our sense of cura personalis,” Olson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
LLCs are residential communities “where like-minded individuals can share and deepen their passions through social, educational, and reflective activities,” according to the Office of Residential Living’s website. Student proposals for new LLCs are accepted and reviewed annually.
About 500 students currently live in Georgetown’s 13 residential LLCs, according to Olson. The themes of other LLCs include culture and the arts, entrepreneurship and intercultural living.
Administrators have not yet announced the size and location of the Crossroads LLC, which will launch in the 2018-2019 school year. The proposal was co-authored by Grace Smith (COL ’18) and Henry Callander (COL ’18).
Smith, also the co-chair of the Georgetown University Student Association’s LGBTQ+ Advocacy and Policy coalition, said the new LLC’s approval signifies Georgetown’s acknowledgement of the importance of gender and sexuality in student life.
“This is a major and unprecedented accomplishment for a Catholic university,” Smith wrote in an email to The Hoya. “It makes a profound and radical statement that religion does not have to be mutually exclusive with the freedom to understand, challenge, and grow through and with expressions of and reflection on gender and sexuality. It says: come as you are; be who you are; love how you do; and we’ll make a home for you.”
Chad Gasman (COL ’20), president of the LGBTQ advocacy group GUPride and a coordinator for the LLC, said that, in addition to providing a student-led space as a resource for queer students, this LLC will also ease the housing process for LGBTQ students.
“For trans students especially, housing is a very difficult and stressful process,” Gasman wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I know I spent many nights sleeplessly trying to figure out where to live that was going to get me both an accepting roommate and also an accepting floor community, and having an assurance that a floor on campus is not only geared towards queer and trans issues, but is going to be heavily, if not entirely, filled with fellow queer and trans students is undoubtedly a load off trans students’ minds when housing selection rolls around.”
Gasman added, “What this means for the LGBTQ campus community is, in so many words, an assurance of safety and comfortability.”
The LLC’s approval has drawn media criticism, particularly from religious and conservative circles. Washington Times columnist Cheryl Chumley wrote that the LLC would “water down the gender definitions even further” while “ratcheting confusions and political correctness and fears to speak truthfully about the role of biology and God in determining sex.”
The Office of Residential Living rejected the Crossroads LLC proposal last year. In an April 2017 interview with The Hoya, Smith, who helped author the initial proposal, said she believed the university perceived the LLC as part of a “much larger fight over how Georgetown wants to live its Catholic values and what those Catholic values are.”
Addressing why the application was successful this year after the earlier rejection, Smith pointed to the 10th anniversary of Georgetown’s Out for Change campaign, which was commemorated this year by Georgetown in an event titled “Discerning Our Past: Townhall Revisited.”
“In the wake of the tenth anniversary of the Out for Change campaign at Georgetown and in a time when community and solitary feel especially important, this year is a distinctly powerful and critical one,” Smith wrote.
Georgetown launched the Out for Change campaign in 2007 in response to alleged bias-related incidents that occurred on campus, which sparked a historic town hall held by University President John J. DeGioia on LGBTQ inclusivity. The aftermath of the campaign, the town hall and the incidents led to the improvement of procedure to formally report and record incidents of bias against the LBGTQ community and the establishment of the LBGTQ Resource Center, the first of its kind for a Catholic university in the United States.
At the town hall, DeGioia said that Georgetown must uphold its Catholic heritage in all its actions as a university while also supporting its LGBTQ students.
“We can and must advocate for respect, inclusion, understanding, safety, mentoring, dignity, growth and equal opportunity. We can and must advocate for freedom from prejudice, exclusion, discrimination and homophobia,” DeGioia said.
Smith said the approval of the Crossroads LLC is a major step forward, but room for improvement remains for LGBTQ inclusion at Georgetown.
“Housing and residential life is fundamentally a process of creating a space of home for students on this campus,” Smith wrote. “And this only succeeds if and when the university is willing to recognize the diversity of all its students at an institutional level and allows them to choose the residential conditions that give them a place from which to thrive. This requires a holistic commitment to making residential spaces inclusive — from all-gender bathrooms on every single hall to a housing selection process that is grounded in choice and not policy.”
Special to The Hoya

Joanne Heggen says 
January 25, 2018 at 11:22 am
I think that the Jesuits of the cited tradition are rolling in their graves. LGBTQ represents the normalization of disordered attractions and disordered self-image followed by the centering of one’s life around the identity provided by those disorders. 
Both of those are antithetical to Catholic philosophy.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 12, 2018 by Katrina Schmidt Leave a Comment 
Two Georgetown seniors and one alumna received the competitive 2018 Charles B. Rangel Graduate Fellowship, a State Department program that provides financial support to students pursuing careers in the foreign service for two years of graduate study, internships, mentoring and professional development activities.
Among this year’s 30 fellows are Marta Aparicio (COL ’14), Kala Deterville (COL ’18) and Sofia Gomez (SFS ’18). Georgetown tied with Florida State University this year for most fellows selected from one institution.
John Glavin, director of the Office of Fellowships, Awards and Resources, said Georgetown’s Jesuit values permeate these fellows’ career paths.
“Once again, we see the ongoing power of the Jesuit ideal, training men and women who will work not only for their own success, but also for the wellbeing of humankind,” Glavin said in a  Georgetown University news release.
The Rangel Fellowship is considered one of the United States’ most prestigious diversity fellowships and was created to equip highly qualified applicants from diverse economic and racial backgrounds for foreign service roles. Fellows who successfully complete the program and meet the rigorous foreign service entry requirements receive appointments as foreign service officers.
The Rangel Fellowship program, created by the State Department in 2002, was threatened last year when the department announced it was suspending two classes of the Rangel Fellowship and the Charles R. Pickering Fellowship, a similar diversity-oriented fellowship, instead giving graduates the option to do administrative consular work or wait until foreign service positions reopened.
The decision was reversed within a few weeks following opposition from leaders in the international affairs academic community, including School of Foreign Service Dean Joel Hellman, in a letter to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson.
The three Rangel fellows from Georgetown have followed varied paths to the program, but all say they are ultimately driven to pursue careers in the foreign service.
A double major in sociology and government, Aparicio said her experience as a first-generation student inspired her to become a diplomat. With help from an American diplomat stationed in Guatemala City who granted her a visa, Aparicio reunited with her parents after 11 years apart.
Aparicio said the act influenced her decision to follow the same career path.
“I know the efficacy of giving and receiving help,” Aparicio said in the news release.
Gomez, an international politics major pursuing a certificate in Arab studies, said her family history also played a role in her diplomatic aspirations. Her father was a political refugee from Cuba, and the State Department helped him establish his new life in the United States.
Gomez said she has wanted to join the foreign service since high school.
Deterville’s exposure to the international community drove her interest in the foreign service, though in a slightly different way. Majoring in Japanese and government, Deterville said that growing up, her family would host foreign exchange students from all over the world. According to Deterville, the cultural interchange she witnessed at home expanded her knowledge of the world and precipitated the beginning of an internationally minded career.
Deterville, who studied abroad at Waseda University in Tokyo, hopes to be appointed to a foreign service officer position in Japan.
“As I gain experience and rank, I hope to be recognized for my commitment to ensure U.S. national security and be appointed as the first female African-American U.S. Ambassador to Japan,” Deterville said in the news release.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

