
October 19, 2018 by Myroslav 3 Comments 
Georgetown University students are reporting illness and repeated delays in response by the Office of Planning and Facilities Management to requests for mold removal.
In the period from August through October of the fall 2018 semester, the Office of Planning and Facilities Management responded to 361 work requests relating to mold, according to Interim Vice President of Planning and Facilities Management Greg Simmons. For the same period last year, the office addressed 147 requests.
Recent weather conditions have exacerbated the prevalence of mold in dormitories, as the District has recorded historic amounts of rainfall this fall, Simmons said. September saw a significant increase in precipitation, up to 9.73 inches this year from just 1.43 inches last September.
Village C, Darnall Hall and Village A have had the most requests so far this semester. The Office of Residential Living and the Office of Planning and Facilities Management are collaborating to resolve student mold concerns and to try to expedite remediation efforts, according to Simmons.
“Senior management from our facilities office reviews all requests relating to mold and directs safety managers to conduct mold assessments within two business days,” Simmons wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Exposure to mold can pose various health risks, especially to those who are sensitive to the issue. According to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention website, “molds can cause nasal stuffiness, throat irritation, coughing or wheezing, eye irritation, or, in some cases, skin irritation.”
Sarah Mendelsohn (COL ’21) and her roommate, Deepika Jonnalagadda (SFS ’21) noticed mold in their closets and drawers and on their clothing in their LXR Hall dorm room Sept. 28. (Full disclosure: Mendelsohn and Jonnalagadda are news desk editors at The Hoya). The two immediately called facilities so the issue could be addressed.
Facilities sent someone Sept. 30, two days later, to look at the mold and informed the two that a health inspector would need to examine the room. After Mendelsohn called facilities six times in the following two days with no response, her mother called to report the issue. An inspector came Oct. 3.
If a facilities visual inspection uncovers mold, cleanup occurs the same day: Professionals disinfect the room and complete High-Efficiency Particulate Air vacuuming to get rid of the mold spores, Simmons said.
Professionally recommended mold treatment varies depending on the severity of the mold present, and can range from simply disinfecting and using HEPA vacuums to removing deeply infested surfaces like drywall and carpeting, according to Servpro, a mold removal company.
However, cleanup did not occur until Oct. 3, three days after the initial inspection by facilities, Mendelsohn said.
Mold removal and cleanup usually takes anywhere from three to five days, although this can vary depending on the severity of the problem, according to Andrew Ross, founder and CEO of Triangle Legacy Flood Restoration & Carpet Cleaning, a company serving the greater D.C. area that specializes in mold remediation and removal.
“The cleanup time depends on how large the area is, but of course you have to use a HEPA vacuum to vacuum all the dust and the debris, and the HEPA vacuum collects 99.9 percent of any mold spores or any particles,” Ross said in an interview with The Hoya.
Facilities employees installed a dehumidifier to combat the mold and fixed the air conditioning unit on Wednesday, and PBI Restoration, a mold removal company was hired to clean the room, which had mold visible on the desks, chairs, closets and the students’ clothes.
“They shampooed the carpets, washed down all the surfaces, and they took most of our clothes to have them dry-cleaned,” Mendelsohn said in an interview with The Hoya.
On the day of the initial cleanup, facilities informed the two that the room was no longer safe for habitation and they would need to locate other housing arrangements themselves.
The health inspector returned Oct. 4 to see if the issue had been fixed, and discovered that there was still mold in the room. The following day, the cleanup crew returned to remove the remaining mold.
Residential Living usually facilitates temporary housing arrangements when mold cleanup is underway, according to Simmons, but Mendelsohn and Jonnalagadda were not offered alternative housing, and instead had to stay with a friend during the mold removal process. Mendelsohn and Jonnalagadda were not informed their room was safe to return to until midday Oct. 8.
Mendelsohn felt that there was a lack of communication between the departments responsible for handling the issue, which made the process more frustrating and time-consuming.
“Facilities didn’t do a very good job at responding efficiently and quickly to the problem, given that we had to call them so many times, and that my mother had to get involved,” Mendelsohn said.
Mendelsohn also suspects that mold was not completely removed from the room due to continued odors and mold-related health symptoms. Mendelsohn received a diagnosis Thursday of cough variant asthma, a type of asthma exacerbated by mold, according to the National Institutes of Health.
Mendelsohn said her doctor told her that the mold likely exacerbated the symptoms she was already experiencing from pneumonia. Additionally, Mendelsohn and her roommate both were coughing and felt chest pain after being in the room for a few hours.
Despite her requests to be moved, residential living has said they have no additional housing Mendelson and her roommate can be relocated to, Mendelson said.
The increase in mold reports at Georgetown comes as University of Maryland at College Park also grapples with significant mold, moving hundreds of students from their dorm due to safety concerns, according to The Washington Post. UMD also attributed a rise in a recent rise in reports of mold to increased humidity and rainfall in the past month.
These complaints also come after Aleta Mack, former executive assistant to Georgetown University Police Department Chief Jay Gruber, sued the university in 2015 for failing to accommodate her appropriately when dealing with mold related illnesses in 2014 amid concerns the university had not appropriately removed drywall infected with mold. However, a judge ruled in favor of the university in August 2017, and an appeal was denied in July 2018.
After discovering mold on a wall in their Alumni Square apartment, Emma Ladouceur (MSB ’21) and her roommates submitted multiple work orders and called emergency services, but no one responded to their concerns. After a week, Ladouceur’s father contacted facilities himself, and facilities responded and sent someone the following day, Ladouceur said.
“Once my parents got involved, [Facilities] were helpful, and I just think that they need to be more responsive to student requests for help, and not let the problems go on this long,” Ladouceur said in an interview with The Hoya. “And I know that other people have not gotten responses because their parents haven’t called.”
Facilities removed the wall with mold; however, about a month after the mold was removed, the wall has not been replaced, Ladouceur said.
Maddie Rivers (SFS ’21) also experienced issues with mold when she and her roommates found mold on a wall of their Alumni Square apartment. They were surprised because their newly renovated apartment is supposedly one of the best spots to live on campus.
“It’s so surprising that at an institution like Georgetown, some of the supposedly nicest places to live have pretty dangerous living conditions,” Rivers said.
A roommate’s parents got involved because they were worried about health risks, Rivers said. Facilities eventually removed part of the wall with the mold and installed a dehumidifier. Rivers said that the root of the problem was never explained, and she and her roommates are unsure if the mold is completely gone.
Though the panel with the mold was removed, her wall, like Ladouceur’s, still has not been fully repaired and a large hole remains to be addressed by facilities, Rivers said.
Malachy McLaughlin (SFS ’22) and his roommate similarly experienced issues with mold this semester. They were relocated to Kennedy Hall after they discovered mold on the ceiling of their room in Darnall.
“The first time my roommate and I noticed [the mold] we just saw a bunch of black spots on the ceiling, but assumed the ceiling was dirty, we didn’t think it was mold,” McLaughlin said in an interview with The Hoya.
It wasn’t until McLaughlin roommate’s mother smelled the odor in the room, that they realized the black spots were mold.
McLaughlin was tested to check if he had spores in his lungs or had developed a mold allergy, but the tests returned negative results. McLaughlin’s roommate also visited a doctor because he had a previous experience with black mold that made him more susceptible to the effects of the spores.
Rivers said the administration needs to improve its efforts to support students who are affected by mold.
“I think there needs to be a larger allocation of funds focusing not only on housing but focusing on supporting students at large,” Rivers said.
Facilities was quick to address the issue, according to McLaughlin, although he feels that the underlying problem of mold in campus dorms is unresolved.
“When [facilities] did respond, they’ve been really nice and really consolidating [sic] with us, giving us this nice room and letting us keep it,” McLaughlin said. “But obviously, there was the problem in the first place.”
Correction: This article has been updated to correct Jonnalagadda’s school. This article has also been updated to correct Aleta Mack’s former position at Georgetown.

Lewis Johnson says 
October 19, 2018 at 2:27 pm
This is an important health issue that must be solved as soon as possible. Excessive mold can lead to the development of permanent allergies.

Lynn Waclawski says 
October 24, 2018 at 12:09 pm
Well, we weren’t imagining this !!!
My most
Admired freshmen I. Darhall Hall
Is extremely ill with these symptoms from mold exposure since school
Started 2018.
Temperatures 102 and 101
through inflammation, allergy, &
infection. Allergic reactions (sore throat, chest congestion, tired, to include
wheezing, difficulty breathing, and
shortness of breath
• Nasal and sinus congestion
• Eye irritation (burning, watery, or
reddened eyes)
• Dry, hacking cough
• Nose or throat irritation
Room is extremely damp and does not dry out!!! Leaky ceilings (gees do you think mold is growing?)
Headaches, mood
swings, nosebleeds, body aches and
pains, but their cause is
not understood.
This is crazy that  they pay 70 K a year to live in these dorms yet get to see rats scrambling the courtyards. The biggest joke is the 70K rat! Students laugh about it. They will all be too sick to laugh soon.

Brittany Monroe says 
October 15, 2019 at 1:09 am
I think it’s a very important health issue. Mold should not be in dorms, let alone in any living condition. If there’s mold, move – or get it addressed.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 19, 2018 by Katrina Schmidt Leave a Comment 
A petition to increase the parental leave of non-tenure-line faculty to equal that of tenure-line faculty is being “seriously considered” by the university, after 282 individuals signed the petition as of its Oct. 15 closing date.
Full-time non-tenure-line faculty members, which includes about 300 assistant, associate and full professors, are entitled to eight weeks of paid maternity leave, while tenure-line faculty members are eligible for one semester of paid maternal and paternal leave.
On Oct. 12, the chair of the Joint Main Campus Committee on Full-Time Non-Tenure Line Issues and two signatories of the petition delivered it to the Office of the President and met with Vice President and Chief of Staff Joseph Ferrara. On Monday, the petition was delivered to the Office of the Provost.
The petition asks for the allotted eight weeks to be increased to a semester for full-time non-tenure-line faculty and include maternal and paternal leave. Created by the Joint Main Campus Committee on Full-Time Non-Tenure Line Issues, a nine-member committee for themain campus that addresses issues affecting full-time non-tenure-line faculty, the petition seeks a decision on the issue by the end of the semester.
“We’re not asking for any new structure or something really new — we’re just saying we’re also faculty and just include us in the benefits,” Astrid Weigert, chair of the Joint Main Campus Committee on Full-Time Non-Tenure Line Issues, said in an interview with The Hoya. “We really feel a sense of urgency about this because people try to plan their lives and their pregnancies.”
The petition will receive serious consideration from university administrative bodies, Provost Robert Groves wrote in an email to The Hoya. Consideration of the petition will be expedited by the Benefits Advisory Committee, which provides feedback on university employee benefit plans, according to Groves.
“We appreciate the important role of full-time faculty members on our campus, including those who are primarily engaged in teaching. We have received a request, initiated by the Joint Committee on Full Time Non-Tenure Line Faculty, which calls for all full-time faculty members on the Main Campus to receive the same new parent leave benefits,” Groves wrote. “This is a reasonable proposal that deserves prompt consideration, and we will expedite its consideration by the Benefits Advisory Committee and other appropriate faculty consultative bodies.”
The group raised the issue to the provost’s office at the annual faculty town hall meeting every year for the past four years, in faculty senate meetings and the main campus executive faculty before deciding to draft a petition, Weigert said.
“Every time we got the reply ‘we are working on it,’ but nothing happened,” Weigert said. “We needed to show that there is really a very strong support for this petition among faculty.”
The distinction between full-time tenure-line and non-tenure-line faculty was not clearly defined until 2001, according to Weigert. A tenure-line faculty member is full time and their responsibilities include teaching, research and university service, according to the Faculty Handbook. The responsibilities of faculty who are not tenure-line include teaching and research, and sometimes service, according to the handbook.
Before the positions were differentiated in 2001, full-time non-tenure-line professors were considered “visiting,” a confusing definition as many stayed at Georgetown for extended periods of time, Weigert said.
“Both groups are essential and complement each other, allowing us to achieve the mission of the University,” a university spokesperson said in a statement to The Hoya.
The leave for non-tenure-line faculty is covered under short-term disability insurance and applies to pregnant mothers.
Tenure-line leave, conversely, applies to the primary caregiver of a child under 1 year old, or under 5 years old and new to the home, according to the Office of Faculty and Staff Benefits, meaning it also applies to new fathers or adoptive parents.
At The George Washington University, a regular, active full-time member of the faculty is granted one semester of paid parental leave, according to the provost office of GWU. A “regular” faculty member can be tenure or non-tenure track, according to the GWU faculty code.
Science, technology and international affairs professor Clare Fieseler (SFS ’06) is a full-time non-tenure-line faculty member and is 34 weeks pregnant. She signed the petition because it relates to her directly, Fieseler said in an interview with The Hoya.
“To have such stark discrepancy in the benefits is really striking, especially at a place like Georgetown,” Fieseler said.
James Sandefur, committee member and former chair of the department of mathematics and statistics, considers educational continuity as one of the key reasons to improve parental leave for non-tenure-line faculty.
In the department of mathematics and statistics, non-tenure-line faculty teach three courses, while tenure-line faculty teach two. If a non-tenure-line faculty member gives birth in the middle of semester and takes several weeks off rather than the whole semester, it can be disruptive for the students, Sandefur said.
“While it’s very inconvenient for the faculty member too, it’s also very inconvenient for the students, and it makes it hard for the department because we have to find people to cover for them while they’re away,” Sandefur said.
Sandefur suspects the discrepancy in benefits is rooted in the pre-2001 faculty member definitions. However, Sandefur said, the issue should have been resolved long ago.
“It’s amazing it has gone on this long,” Sandefur said in an interview with The Hoya. “This petition should have come out in 2002.”
Weigert has been working to improve non-tenure-line parental leave for at least four years, she said. Although the Joint Main Campus Committee on Full-Time Non-Tenure Line Issues was established in 2016, Weigert and a group of interested faculty attempted to adjust the benefits through bringing up the topic at senate meetings and the annual faculty townhall.
Committee member and Faculty Director of the School of Continuing Studies Maria Trujillo began attending committee meetings in October 2017.
“We have had the parental leave item on the Committee agenda since the first day I attended,” Trujillo wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Weigert opened the petition Oct. 2 and began circulating it Oct. 4. The petition closed Oct. 15, receiving 282 signatures in the time that it was open. Weigert is pleased with the response, she said, as she set the petition’s goal at 300 signatures, roughly the number of full-time non-tenure-line faculty.
“I’ve signed some petitions at Georgetown but they were always for DACA issues or kind of larger societal issues that impact the campus, but I’ve never seen a petition that was about some benefits issue, so I had no idea how it would go,” Weigert said. “It was amazing.”
Special to The Hoya Alexandra Bowman contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 19, 2018 by Meena Morar Leave a Comment 
Since the Community Scholars Program was first proposed in 1964, it has grown from a small, faculty-funded program supporting five local students to a large institutional presence serving at least 50 new students from across the United States each year.
The program is celebrating 50 years since its official creation in 1968 this month, culminating in alumni reuniting Oct. 5.
Housed in the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access, CSP is a five-week summer program for incoming first-generation and low-income students, aimed at aiding their transition to higher education, according to the CMEA website. The current cohort of scholars includes 75 first-generation and low-income students from across the country.
CSP students take two courses in the summer and attend orientation workshops to build connections with other students and professors, according to CSP Senior Academic Advisor Elizabeth Velez.
“In terms of Georgetown’s vision, [CSP] is working with the whole student,” Velez said. “It’s not just academic — it’s social, cultural. In the summer, they get to know their deans, their financial aid officers. To know how to navigate the system is part of what we’re doing in the program.”
The attention paid to students’ lives outside of academics may just be paying dividends in students’ success in the classroom: CSP has a 91 percent graduation rate, 32 percentage points higher than the national graduation rate, according to a university news release.
Both a participant in CSP and a former residential assistant for the program, Omaris Caceres (NHS ’20) feels like the program provides an intentionality often missed in higher education.
“Georgetown is recognizing that most students come to campus with a toolbox full of tools that they can use,” Caceres said. “That includes how to do office hours, how to take a test, how to interact with professors — tools that people usually have coming into college. Georgetown is recognizing that scholars who are usually first generation, come from low income backgrounds, are coming in with an empty toolbox, and Community Scholars is the opportunity to fill it because we haven’t really had the chance to collect them.”
The 50th anniversary celebration featured a day full of panel talks on the program’s legacy and a reception, giving previous alumni a chance to reconnect with each other, CSP Director Devita Bishundat said.
“We brought together alums through the years, as well as current students, folks who have taught in the program, to really pay homage to the folks that laid the ground work for this program,” Bishundat said. “Being able to honor that when this program started, it was because of faculty and staff and students who gave money out of their pocket.”
The first year of the program granted $45,000 in scholarships to five black students from the District, according to a 1968 university news release. The funds were donated by 90 lay and 40 Jesuit professors in a drive organized by English Professor Raymond Reno. At the time, only 40 black students were enrolled at the university.
The deep connections and history of CSP allow students the ability to maintain close relationships with other students and mentors throughout their time at Georgetown and beyond, Caceres said.
“The backbone of the program is the ability to have these close mentor-mentee relationships with so many different people,” Caceres said. “I actually met graduates who are succeeding and making money, and proved to me that people haven’t been lying to me this whole time. They had the same tools and access to things that I do, so I’ll be able to reach that too.”
The program itself has shifted and grown significantly from its inception, according to Velez.
“In 1968, Georgetown reached out to the D.C. Public School community — most of those students which were African American,” Velez said. “Since then, the program has evolved. We have 75 students that come from all over the country, they are almost always first-generation students.”
The first CSP cohort was six local black students, as Georgetown sought to “address the extreme disparities experienced by black Americans living in Washington, D.C.,” according to Georgetown’s blog.
In her three years as director, Bishundat has seen the program’s cohorts increase from 50 to 75, with 100 percent of the last cohort being first-generation students.
As a first-generation college student and low-income woman of color herself, Bishundat recognizes the value of investing in a strength-based approach.
“Often times, communities of color, first gen students, low income students, really any marginalized community, are always talked about from a deficit approach – that they’re lacking,” Bishundat said. “For me, it’s really important that we flip the script to take a strength based approach to this work, and really focus on the gifts, the talents, the experiences, the resilience that our students bring to this campus.”
The effect CSP leaves on its community extends past its scholars, but also to the faculty and staff as well.
“If in my twenties somebody could’ve said to me, ‘what would be a good job in the whole world that you would like the best,’ I wouldn’t have been able to articulate it,” Velez said. “This job is amazing working with the students. I’ve been to their weddings, I’ve been to their grandparents’ funerals, some of them are very close friends. They come to Georgetown knowing that their parents haven’t been to college — to watch them do the work and be motivated in this desire to give back to their communities, to their families, is an incredible privilege.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 19, 2018 by Chelsea Hafer Leave a Comment 
The ashes of Matthew Shepard will be interred at the Washington National Cathedral on Friday, Oct. 26, 20 years after his murder in a homophobic hate crime.
When he was 21 years old, Shepard was killed in a hate crime that drew nationwide attention in 1998. Shepard’s parents cremated him and have held onto the ashes for the past two decades out of fear of attracting vandalism to his final resting place, according to The Washington Post.
Shepard’s parents chose the Washington National Cathedral, a cathedral of the Episcopal Church, for the role of its community in Shepard’s life, his mother Judy Shepard said.
“We’ve given much thought to Matt’s final resting place, and we found [that] the Washington National Cathedral is an ideal choice, as Matt loved the Episcopal church and felt welcomed by his church in Wyoming,” Judy Shepard said in the Matthew Shepard Foundation’s Oct. 11 news release.
Shepard, who will be interred following a public service celebrating his life, will be one of more than about 220 people whose remains have been interred at the Washington National Cathedral in the last century, according to the Oct. 11 news release. People previously interred at the cathedral include President Woodrow Wilson; Bishop Thomas Claggett, the first Episcopal bishop ordained in the United States; Helen Keller; Keller’s teacher Anne Sullivan; and U.S. Navy Admiral George Dewey.
On Oct. 6, 1998, 21-year-old Shepard, an openly gay student at the University of Wyoming, left a local bar in Laramie, Wyo., with two young men, Aaron McKinney and Russell Henderson, according to the Wyoming State Historical Society. McKinney and Henderson drove Shepard to an isolated area east of Laramie, where the two assaulted him with a pistol and left the unconscious victim tied to a fence after stealing his wallet and identification. 
Shepard was found almost 18 hours later by a cyclist who initially mistook him for a scarecrow. Although Shepard was rushed to a hospital in Fort Collins, Colo., the damage to his brain stem was severe, and he remained in a coma for five days before dying Oct. 12.
Shepard’s assault became one of the most well-known anti-gay hate crimes in U.S. history, drawing attention to the need for federal hate crime legislation, evident by the passing of the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act in 2009. 
The Washington National Cathedral has been a longtime supporter of LGBTQ rights and considers LGBTQ equality the “great civil rights issue of church in the 21st century,” according to the cathedral’s website.
Shepard’s upcoming interment functions as a reminder of the need for acceptance of LGBTQ individuals, Rev. Randolph Marshall Hollerith, dean of Washington National Cathedral, said in the Oct. 11 news release.
“Matthew Shepard’s death is an enduring tragedy affecting all people and should serve as an ongoing call to the nation to reject anti-LGBTQ bigotry and instead embrace each of our neighbors for who they are,” Hollerith said.
Rev. Becky Zartman, episcopal missioner to Georgetown University, also advocated the need for further progress in LGBTQ rights.
“I’m sorry that violence against LGTBQ folks was accepted for so long, and that Matthew Shepard was so brutally attacked just for being who God created him to be,” Zartman wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We’ve come a long way in twenty years, but we haven’t come far enough.”
Law enforcement agencies reported 1,218 hate crime offenses motivated by sexual-orientation bias in 2016, 1,218 offenses in 2015 and 1,178 offenses in 2014, according to the FBI hate crime statistics.
Students must be aware of the ongoing presence of anti-gay hate crimes, GU Pride President Jenny Xu (COL ’21) wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
“Hate crimes committed on the basis of sexual orientation have not been decreasing,” Xu wrote. “I would even speculate that the official numbers undershoot because not everyone reports due to fear of being outed or shamed.”
Xu emphasized the increased rates of homophobic hate crimes against members of other marginalized communities.
“Furthermore, it’s important to note that trans people, women, and people of color experience sexuality-based hate crimes at disproportionately high rates,” Xu wrote. “Violence against LGBTQ+ people is certainly not a thing of the past; its reduction requires both cultural and institutional support.”
GU Pride is working with students to foster an environment that promotes awareness and acceptance of people with all gender and sexual identities, Xu wrote.
“We create a community on campus for LGBTQ+ people to share their stories and explore the diversity of experiences within the shared queer identity. By being an organization that is highly visible, we are helping to normalize the LGBTQ+ identity in the popular narrative,” Xu wrote. “This normalization and exposure is a key to curb bigotry and hatred; we’re queer, we’re here, get used to it.”
Allies must share the burden of combatting anti-LGBTQ culture, according to Xu.
“Cultural stigma is the antecedent condition to physical assault, so we must stop it at its root,” Xu wrote. “What that looks like is intervening in speculations on someone else’s sexuality, use of homophobic language, or fetishization of queer people. LGBTQ+ folks should not be the only people speaking up for themselves, and the burden should not be on them to educate and justify their own existence to others.”
Zartman welcomes members of the Georgetown community struggling to find acceptance to Commonplace, the Episcopal-Lutheran Campus Ministry.
“Commonplace wholeheartedly welcomes all types of LGTBQ folks as they are, and we have many students who identify as LGTBQ,” Zartman wrote. “It’s a safe space to bring your whole self, to wrestle with issues of faith.” 
Zartman also invites students to join Commonplace on its trip to Shepard’s interment. The group will be leaving the front gates at 9 a.m. Oct. 26, to honor Shepard’s memory at the memorial service.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 19, 2018 by Emily Leng Leave a Comment 
Cyberwarfare and foreign election interference are a threat to American democracy, Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.) said at an event hosted by the Georgetown University Institute of Politics and Public Service on Oct. 16.
Warner was governor of Virginia before being elected to the Senate in 2008. Prior to being elected governor, Warner cofounded wireless service provider Nextel which merged with Sprint in 2005. He currently serves as the vice chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.
Cyberwarfare threatens democracy in the United States, according to Warner. The Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election marked a new form of cyberwarfare through social media platforms, he said.
“In 2016, we broke total new ground, and the American government and the social media companies and others were caught totally flat-footed,” Warner said.
The United States will need to adapt quickly to the immediate threat of cyberwarfare, and the country is facing a historically strong threat from it, Warner said. Cyberwarfare offers a new low-cost mode of attacking countries or groups, and according to Warner, cyberwarfare will reform politics and military intelligence globally.
“This is both cheap and remarkably, remarkably effective, and you can do it from a remote location; you don’t have to send a spy in. It’s just a whole new world of intervention,” he said. “The least of the problems will be politics.”
President Donald Trump’s administration must address Russia’s cyber interference in the 2016 election, Warner said, criticizing the White House for its failure to improve election security to prevent future cyber interference in American elections.
“In a normal world, after this much evidence, a White House would say this is a federal, state and local responsibility, and we need to put a White House coordinator for election security,” Warner said. “This White House, of course, has not done that.”
The Trump administration will continue to grapple with Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into the Trump campaign’s possible collusion with the Russian government until the investigation ends, Warner said.
“The sooner this process can come to a full, truthful conclusion the better. There will always be a cloud over this president until it’s either cleared up or until it’s confirmed,” he said. “We as Americans should know.”
Trump has weakened United States’ role as a world leader, Warner said. He said he worries the Trump administration’s policies and actions do not meet the historic standard for U.S. behavior as a leader in international politics.
“The rest of the world really looks to America for leadership,” Warner said. “I really fear at times that Trump does not understand that responsibility that he has.”
While Warner said he supports the U.S. capitalist system, its failure to address the needs of enough people is damaging.
“I managed to do pretty well in business, and I believe in our system, but I don’t think modern American capitalism is working for enough people,” Warner said.
Warner left students with a couple of pieces of advice about their roles as future leaders.
Warner encouraged students and young people to vote and engage with politics.
“Do not believe any of the bull that comes from people that your votes don’t count and your voices don’t count,” Warner said. “We need your ideas to help figure this out. At the end of the day, don’t lose faith. There’s never been a good bet against the United States of America.”
Correction: A previous version of this article stated that Warner said capitalism was threatening democracy. The article has been updated to clarify that Warner supports U.S. capitalism, but said it is not working well enough for everyone.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 19, 2018 by Amy Li Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown Alliance of Graduate Employees announced its intention to file for an election with the American Arbitration Association on Oct. 8, beginning the process to hold a union election for graduate student teachers and research assistants this fall.
The election will ask eligible graduate students to vote by secret ballot on whether they wish to unionize. If the majority votes in favor of unionization, GAGE will be able to negotiate on behalf of all graduate student assistants.
This development comes after a two-year effort by GAGE for university recognition of a graduate teaching assistant labor union. GAGE reached an agreement with the university to hold an election April 2.
Deidre Nelms, a teaching associate and fourth year doctoral candidate in the department of philosophy, believes forming a union will give graduate students greater bargaining power.
“Organizing is a way to connect workers and teachers across departments and make it easier for us to support each other,” Nelms wrote in an email to The Hoya. “When hundreds of us are united in a recognized union, we’ll be able to bargain with the university for an improved, stable contract.”
Douglas McRae, a graduate worker and fifth year doctoral candidate in the department of history, said unionizing would have a positive influence on the quality of life for graduate workers across Georgetown’s programs.
“Collective bargaining has allowed graduate workers to achieve better compensation and working conditions, as well as gains in areas, such as healthcare and childcare,” McRae wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We’ve seen the benefits of unionization at places like NYU, as well as public universities like UConn, Michigan, and Illinois.”
The Georgetown Solidarity Committee, an organization dedicated to workers’ rights and social justice issues on campus, stands in solidarity with GAGE as they move towards an election.
“Graduate employee’s working conditions are our learning conditions,” a spokesperson for GSC wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Graduate workers deserve to see a doctor, pay their rent, and have a say in their employment without jeopardizing their savings, their research, or our classes.”
Under the regulations of the National Labor Relations Board, graduate student teaching assistants are considered university employees. However, this is under an August 2016 ruling which could be challenged in the future. A third-party organization administering the election helps ensure the result in case the ruling is ever reversed. The election is set to be administered privately by the AAA, a neutral third-party organization, outside the scope of the NLRB, to ensure Georgetown University cannot legally challenge the election’s outcome.
The university will stand by the decision of the graduate students, Provost Robert Groves and Executive Vice President for Health Sciences Edward Healton said.
“We will work together to ensure a free and fair election that encourages dialogue and gives eligible graduate student assistants the opportunity to decide if they would like to be represented by a union,” Groves and Healton said in a joint statement released to the university.
If the election has an affirmative result, GAGE’s next steps will be collective bargaining for and signing a contract intended to benefit graduate employees.
GAGE shared a priorities survey with its members for graduate workers to list what it would like to see in a new contract and what they think would improve their experiences working at Georgetown.
“Our ultimate goal is to negotiate the best possible contract for graduate workers at Georgetown,” GAGE wrote in a statement on its website. “One that truly values our contributions to the university as teachers, researchers, and graduate assistants.”
This article has been updated at 6:36 p.m. on Oct. 25 to reflect the National Labor Relations Board’s classification of graduate student employees.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 19, 2018 by Julia Friedmann Leave a Comment 
Academic institutions can combat racism by cultivating conversations and supporting research about national racial dynamics, former President of Spelman College Johnnetta Betsch Cole said at an event Wednesday in Riggs Library.
The event was part of the Women’s Center’s Biondi Copeland Lecture Series, which aims to spread awareness about issues regarding women in higher education. The series was established by the Women’s Center in 2014 out of an endowment from Gianna Biondi (CAS ’85) and John Copeland (CAS ’84). In addition to Cole, this year’s lecture featured the provost’s distinguished associate professor of history and African American studies Marcia Chatelain.
Cole was the first black woman to serve as the president of Spelman College, which was founded for black women’s education in 1881. She currently works as a senior consulting fellow at the Andrew W. Mellon foundation, serves as co-chair of the American Alliance of Museum’s Working Group on Diversity, Equity, Accessibility, and Inclusion and is a member of the Scholarly Advisory Board for the Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and Culture.
Events like the “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville, Va., in August 2017, which led to an outbreak of violence that left one woman dead, are a call to action for universities, which can lead the fight against racism by supporting research on the topic, according to Cole.
“It’s at a time like this — and this really is said with extreme sincerity — that we need universities,” Cole said. “We’ve got to understand [these circumstances]. We can’t just push back against it, we can’t run away from it, we’ve got, in order to change it, to first understand it.”
The Charlottesville “Unite the Right” rally mirrored racism of the 1950s and 1960s, Cole said, referencing her experience growing up in the South.
“I grew up, as a very young girl, being very knowledgeable of the Klu Klux Klan,” Cole said. “My safety depended on it. To see such expressions of all of that in the streets of Charlottesville took me to my knees.”
The lack of representation of people of color in higher education hinders universities from engaging in an intentional conversation about race, according to Chatelain.
“When you talk about colleges and universities and museums being the sites of these conversations, in terms of people being able to orient themselves intellectually, we have a serious numbers issue, a serious diversity issue,” Chatelain said.
Historically black colleges and universities — schools founded before 1964 for the purpose of educating black people and other minorities — offer more diverse and welcoming communities for minority students and, according to Cole, can fight discrimination against minorities in higher education.
“If our historically black colleges and universities didn’t exist, we ought to create them,” Cole said. “These are special mission institutions, where what they do and what they provide is what we hope is a great education, but they provide an atmosphere where a student’s humanity is never challenged.”
People who are the first of their identity to serve in a position of power have a responsibility to mentor and help others, Cole said, referencing her experience as the first black woman president of Spelman College.
“Anyone who becomes a ‘first’ has an unusual responsibility to make sure she is not the last,” Cole said. “So one of the things I have enjoyed so much is the opportunity to be a mentor to other African-American women, women of color and white women, who perhaps don’t see in themselves what I can see in them.”
Cole’s success in the academic community empowered women like Chatelain to pursue careers in higher education, according to Chatelain.
“For many of us in this particular moment, we may take for granted that a black woman was president in a black women’s college,” Chatelain said. “But this wasn’t always the story. No one could see it until they saw Dr. Cole do it.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 19, 2018 by Alexandra Bowman 1 Comment 
The Pathways to Work Reentry Program allowed its 250th previously incarcerated resident to reobtain a Washington, D.C. driver’s license, Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) announced Oct. 4.
The Bowser administration established the program in November 2017 to help integrate returning citizens back into society, according to the Oct. 4 news release. The program was established in collaboration with the Central Collection Unit, a District government office that collects delinquent debts housed within the Office of the Chief Financial Officer.
Managed by the Mayor’s Office on Returning Citizens Affairs and the D.C. Department of Motor Vehicles, the program assists returning D.C. residents who would otherwise be unable to acquire a driver’s license because of previous automobile ticket debts or insurance lapses.
The Pathways program seeks to address one of the main causes for reincarceration: driving without a license, MORCA director Brian Ferguson (COL ’18) said in an interview with The Hoya.
“Driving without a license or only a suspended license is the main cause of being rearrested in Washington, D.C., for returning citizens in the district,” Ferguson said.
Ferguson, who majored in justice and peace studies while at Georgetown, was wrongfully convicted of murder in 2002, and exonerated in 2013 after serving 11 years in prison. After leaving prison, Ferguson began his education and advocacy career in prison justice and reform.
Ferguson launched Start Line — a startup company addressing the challenges of previously incarcerated citizens by allowing people to identify, locate and rate available resources—before joining the Bowser administration as an advocate for returning residents.
Easing the transition period for returning citizens while ensuring their future success was one of the key considerations in developing the Pathways program, according to Ferguson.
“The challenge was to create the system that enabled [returning citizens] to be able to pay the debt that they owed but also make it more manageable for them,” he said.
The idea for the Pathways program was based on Bowser’s work to obtain an exemption for District residents from a federal law that required the automatic revocation of a driver’s license following a drug conviction, according to Ferguson. The Pathways program brings D.C. residents back into legal compliance, so they are not tempted to drive without a license.
The driver’s licenses obtained through the program also enable returning residents with access to increased job opportunities, Ferguson said.
“Having a license is often a prerequisite for a lot of employment opportunities, especially ‘low barriers to entry’ employment. If you didn’t have a job, it was a vicious cycle,” Ferguson said. “You would not be able to pay the money to get the license, but you needed the license to get the job. We wanted to break that cycle and not have finances, or the lack thereof, determine people’s access to opportunities in the city.”
Ferguson said the Pathways program is currently working to expand to other communities stifled by barriers to employment, including low-income and immigrant communities.
A restored or renewed driver’s license allows returning citizens to pursue job opportunities that are not easily accessible or walkable, and offers appropriate credentialing for jobs that directly require driver licenses, according to the Oct. 4 news release.
A driver’s license is one of the key tools for a returning citizen to reintegrate back into society, Bowser said in the news release.
“A core D.C. value is believing in second chances,” Bowser said. “Returning citizens deserve the chance to contribute to their community, earn a living, and make choices to put their lives back onto a pathway to the middle class, and a driver’s license is a fundamental building block to making those dreams a reality.”

Dionne Bettis says 
April 11, 2019 at 8:54 pm
Hello I would like help obtaining my drivers license back. Please let me know what I need to do to get assistant in obtaining my license back.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

