
September 20, 2019 by Hoya Staff Leave a Comment 
The second and final day of the Climate Forum 2020, hosted by Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service, Our Daily Planet, MSNBC and New York Magazine in Gaston Hall, featured five more candidates speaking on the topic of climate change.
Friday’s schedule included Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.), South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg, Montana Gov. Steve Bullock (D) and philanthropist Tom Steyer. The event concluded with a session with former Massachusetts Gov. Bill Weld (R), the only Republican presidential candidate to accept an invitation to the forum.
Common themes throughout the day included discussion of the intersection of racial justice and climate change, the effect of climate change policies on jobs in the fossil fuel industry and proposals for a carbon tax as an environmental solution.
Cory Booker 
Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.) opened the second day of the forum by underscoring the need for climate change plans that focus on environmental justice for minority populations.
During his experience as the mayor of Newark, N.J., Booker saw firsthand the disproportionate effect that climate change has on these groups, including health issues stemming from the effects of climate change, he said.
“Environmental justice was one of the biggest crises in my community, and I began to understand the link between environmental justice and the larger climate change problem,” Booker said.
Booker’s platform on climate change intends to directly invest more than $3 trillion by 2030 to support a transition to a 100% carbon neutral economy by 2045, according to his campaign website. 
The United States must have zero carbon emissions while still providing coal industry workers alternative employment options in a postcarbon economy, according to Booker. 
“What we need to be doing is show them a future where we say, ‘Hey, we need you to urgently transition off of coal,’ and we will do that with a plan that makes sure that you will not lose your coal job and go to a minimum wage,” Booker said. 
To effectively address the climate crisis, Booker said he would call on citizens to more actively engage in activism.  
“If I am your president, I will ask more of you than any other president has ever asked of you in your lifetime,” Booker said. “I am going to ask your to serve more, to sacrifice more, to engage more, because every period of change that I have read about or witnessed in my lifetime have come about because of activists on the street.”
Steve Bullock 
Former Montana Gov. Steve Bullock (D) focused his forum session on the effect of climate change on his home state, highlighting the issue’s impact on his constituents and their jobs in the fossil fuel industry.
The employment of individuals working in the fossil fuel industry should not be overlooked when proposing solutions for climate change, according to Bullock.
“As we address this, we cannot leave communities behind; we have to have robust investments in these communities,” Bullock said. “As we transition to renewables, we have to, as a federal government and state governments, be making the partnerships every step of the way.”
Despite this job risk, the process of addressing climate change can also create new jobs in renewable energy, Bullock said.
“Not only is it a climate crisis, but it’s a climate opportunity,” Bullock said. “We can actually create jobs along the way — it is not all about sacrifice.”
Bullock criticized the debate requirements set by the Democratic party earlier this year after he did not qualify for the first round of debates in June by failing to meet party requirements in polling and donations. However, Bullock qualified for and participated in the second round of debates in July. 
Under his presidency, climate change would be a priority across the departments of the federal government, in contrast to the current White House administration, according to Bullock.
“The best thing we can do for climate, and the first thing we can do, is replace [President] Donald Trump,” Bullock said.
Pete Buttigieg 
As videos from Friday’s Boston Climate Strike flashed on screens in the background, South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg called for the entire country to mobilize to achieve climate justice and for the implementation of a carbon tax.
U.S. leaders should heed the example of young activists to address the environmental crisis, according to Buttigieg. 
“I think climate is a moral issue. This is about stewardship. This is about justice,” Buttigieg said. “The best hope we have to deal with climate and a whole lot of other things is the moral urgency of young people.” 
Policymakers should consider that climate change disproportionately impacts the economically disadvantaged, Buttigieg said. 
“We need to update the maps; we need to provide the resources for people who never thought they needed flood insurance and now they are going to,” Buttigieg said. “Often those who are the most climate vulnerable are the most economically vulnerable, too.”
Buttigieg released an official climate platform Sept. 4 detailing his environmental policy plans, which include clean energy job creation, strengthening rural communities, protecting natural resources, investing in disaster relief and preventing and improving the United States’ international involvement on climate issues, according to the mayor’s campaign website. 
To engage the entire country on the issue of climate change, Buttigieg hopes to implement a voluntary national service program, the U.S. Climate Corps for high school. The initiative will help motivate all Americans to participate in environmental service, he said. 
“I think that there is a psychology to this that we’ve got to acknowledge. I don’t think ‘See, I told you so’ is going to win somebody over,” Buttigieg said. “I want to appeal to a sense of pride.” 
Tom Steyer
Billionaire investor and philanthropist Tom Steyer advocated for proactive and innovative solutions to the climate crisis during his hourlong session of the climate forum. 
To effectively tackle domestic and global climate issues, the U.S. government must shake off corporate interests that limit government responses, according to Steyer. 
“There are a bunch of people who’re making money off this, who are going to fight to the end to keep making that money regardless of the effect on the health and safety of every American, and I decided we’re just gonna have to win this fight,” Steyer told the audience. “If we’re gonna get the kind of policy action we need, we’re going to have to break that corporate stranglehold.”
Steyer said he would declare a national climate emergency on his first day in office and push Congress to pass legislation similar to the Green New Deal, a sweeping progressive policy declaration focused on combating climate change. 
Policy reigning in climate change must also have a focus on socioeconomic justice, Steyer said. 
“America has concentrated it’s pollution in the low-income neighborhoods that don’t have political power,” Steyer said. “I would immediately initiate a process of going to the most affected communities.”
Bill Weld
Former Massachusetts Gov. Bill Weld (R) emphasized the need to combat climate change denial in the Republican Party during the final hour of the Climate Forum. Weld was the only Republican to attend the forum, and he spoke about the reality of climate change, proposing a carbon tax and other free market solutions to fix it.
President Donald Trump has pulled the GOP away from its commitment to conservation, according to Weld.
“It’s fairly recently that the party has drifted from that, and the capstone of course is President Trump saying climate change is a hoax.” Weld said. “[Trump] can apparently say his opinion, which is based on nothing, by the way, is superior to theirs because it’s an opinion. To say it’s irresponsible is an understatement.”
Though climate reversal may mean higher taxes, this investment is vitally necessary for our survival, according to Weld.
“This is not a sacrifice — this is something we have to do,” he said. “This is not a tax increase, but it is an investment in sustaining the future of the human race on this planet, and it’s an investment that we damn well better make.”
Hoya Staff Writers Sana Rahman, Cady Stanton, Riley Rogerson, Jaime Moore-Carrillo and Connor Thomas contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 20, 2019 by Angela Perez Leave a Comment 
Sitting in the living room of their Magis Row townhouse with the word “HOME” emblazoned on the wall in large, twinkle-light strewn letters, Heejin Hahn (COL ’20) and Jennifer Sugijanto (COL ’20) muse about their final year at Georgetown University. 
Hahn and Sugijanto were freshmen when they helped create the Asian-Pacific Islander Leadership Forum, then a burgeoning committee of the Asian American Student Association in 2016.
Two years after its establishment, the forum recently fulfilled the goal of creating a residential space for Asian American students on campus through the establishment of the Asian American Hub for Organizing, Movement and Empowerment, the Magis Row house that was first opened at the beginning of the 2019-20 school year. 
While APILF has made significant progress over the last few years, however, students still see a need for establishing a permanent house for Asian American students, developing an Asian American studies program and putting constant pressure on the university to ensure such initiatives are always visible and accessible to all Asian American students.
The Currents of Institutional Amnesia
APILF founders sought to differentiate it as a more social justice-centric organization in its own right, focusing on creating a proper space for Asian American students on campus and filling a niche for activism within the community. 
The underlying fear of this student-led activism, however, is the effect of “institutional amnesia,” or the tendency for initiatives or campaigns to dissipate as key campus leaders depart. The transitory nature of the university often leads to a nonstop cycle of reworking, according to Sugijanto.
“Students want this thing, but because of this institutional amnesia, these students graduate and the campaign doesn’t really live on,” Sugiijanto said. “It’s so transient. You’re here for four years and then you’re out.”
Georgetown students pushed for an Asian American studies program nearly a decade ago, but the movement seemed to lose momentum, according Christopher Shinn, an English professor who began teaching “Asian Americans and the Public Sphere” this year.
“In the 12 years, I’ve seen students raise the issue maybe nine years ago, and that activism raised consciousness when students were demanding courses in Asian American studies,” Shinn said. “But only recently has there been a resurgence.”
As a Magis Row house, the Asian American HOME faces the possibility it will be an installment for just one year. As long as the house remains one of the Magis Row Living Learning Community that rotate on an annual basis, rather than a permanent establishment, it will need to seek approval for its continued existence each year. 
For Sugijanto, the process of having to apply and justify the presence of a house sometime feels counterproductive. 
“With the house, we have to prove to the university that this space deserves to exist for a reason,” Sugijanto said. “But at the same time, it forces us to get into the conversation of like, ‘Well, what is the purpose of this affinity space, and why is it a space that has to exist for Asian Americans specifically?’”
In many ways, APILF looked to the past efforts of the Black Leadership Forum and the Latinx Leadership Forum when molding their own place on campus, according to Hahn. However, APILF differentiates itself from other respective affinity organizations in its scope and purpose. 
“It just didn’t make sense for us to replicate that model because we couldn’t,” Hahn said. “There weren’t enough Asian American social justice spaces for us to be able to collaborate. So, we realized that we needed to create a new space.”
La Casa Latina and The Black House are two institutionalized spaces housed by the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access that aim to host programming and provide a permanent on-campus gathering space for their respective communities.
However, more than simply seeking permanent establishments on campus, APILF leaders hope to create structures that Asian American students at Georgetown want to see preserved for years to come.
Full Classes, High Demand
Beyond carving out spaces for cultural dialogue and community building, members of APILF have also worked to promote greater visibility for Asian Americans through the development of an Asian American studies program.
Asian American students made up 7.2% of the university’s population in 2016, according to Data USA — nearly one-tenth of the entire student body. Ye, only in the last year have courses on Asian American studies begun to appear in the university’s course catalogue.   
“The irony is that the largest minority population at Georgetown is the Asian American population, and for this largest group we haven’t seen the establishment of an Asian American studies program or a department,” said Shinn said.
Of the hundreds of classes in the course catalog this semester, the university currently offers three classes on Asian America, according to APILF’s “2019-2020 Academic Year Asian American Class Guide,” in the English, history and anthropology departments. 
By building relationships with several professors who encouraged their activism, Sugijanto found an instructor to help her design Georgetown’s first “Intro to Asian American Studies” class: English professor Christine So. After fielding initial student interest through surveys, drafting a comprehensive syllabus and working directly with So, Sugijanto’s efforts to create the class reached fruition last spring. 
The course offerings seemed to have sparked a greater awareness among the Georgetown community about Asian American studies as a whole, according to Sugijanto.
“The most inspiring thing for me to see is that people actually talk about Asian American studies like it’s a thing,” Sugijanto said. “Two years ago, when we first started it, people were like ‘Oh, Asian American studies at Georgetown. What does that mean?’ And now, people are talking about it and asking more questions.”
Shinn’s course currently has 30 students enrolled, but he expanded the original classroom capacity for the class to accommodate others wanting to take it.
“The fact that there are students who are interested and wanting to enroll in large numbers is a sign that the demand is there,” Shinn said. “We have to build on this.”
Despite Shinn’s efforts to include more students than initially allowed, many students still find themselves unable to enter the limited selection of courses that currently focus on Asian Americans. Though both have publicly advocated and worked for the creation of an Asian American studies department, Leina Hsu (COL ’22) and Gina Kang (SFS ’22), co-chairs of the AASA Political Action Committee, were waitlisted for Shinn’s and were unable to enroll. 
In February 2019, APILF and AASA PAC partnered together for “Georgetown Doesn’t Teach Me,” a photo campaign to highlight the dearth of Asian American studies courses on campus. 
AASA PAC, which similarly seeks inclusion for Asian Americans, takes a different, more person-to-person approach from the more activist-rooted APILF, focusing on informal discussion sessions, programs and articles about and by Asian American students on campus. 
Building Something That Lasts
Though obstacles still exist, this iteration of student activism for greater Asian American representation in Georgetown’s curriculum has inspired hope in many community members on campus. 
Recent curriculum developments to diversify course offerings have also displayed the power student-led initiatives can wield.
The African American studies department, for example, was converted from a program into a permanent department in 2016, with a unanimous vote from the board of directors after significant pressure from students. Before that, the department had existed as an interdisciplinary program since 2003.
“I feel much more optimistic, because in the past there wasn’t a sort of precedent,” Shinn said. “Now, there has been a will to really establish African American studies as a field that people can major in. The reason why I’m optimistic is [that] we’ve seen progress, and now it’s time for an expansion of that diversity and inclusiveness initiative to honor the sacrifices and the efforts made by Asian American students at Georgetown.”
Moving forward, the fate of the Asian American HOME and its state of impermanence stands as a testament to current and future Asian American Hoyas’ will and desire to maintain it, according to Sugijanto. 
“I feel like something we’re trying to do is set up a good institutional framework for students to move forward. I hope that at least what we can leave behind is a more accessible archive for people to be able to tap into and move forward in organizing,” Hahn said.
Within this challenge, however, comes the task of crafting a message that will resonate throughout the diverse identities that make up the Asian American community at large, according to Hahn. 
“There’s always debate about what ‘Asian’ and ‘Asia’ include,” Hahn said. “It’s a race that’s socially constructed in a way that doesn’t really make a lot of sense, but because we have already been politically grouped together, there is still some sense in politicizing it together.”
Hahn and Sugijanto’s efforts have helped bring about tangible change in the organization’s early years of existence, but challenges persist, both in the form of campus administration and within the Asian American community itself.
While Shinn remains optimistic about student efforts to improve Asian American representation on campus, he acknowledges that the onus still lies on the university to realize the aim of these movements. 
“Asian Americans who have contributed so much to the life of the school do not have a curriculum that reflects their history, cultures and traditions,” Shinn said, “[so that] means that we have a ways to go. Hopefully the university will fulfill that promise.” 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 20, 2019 by Riley Rogerson 3 Comments 
Dozens of students chanted, raised posters and interrupted speakers in organized protest of the Georgetown University College Republicans event Thursday night, leading the Georgetown University Police Department to stop and restart the event.
GUCR invited five climate policymakers and climate scientists, criticized by some as climate change skeptics and deniers, to deliver a conservative perspective on climate change at an event in the Reiss Science Building. The event, titled “Climate Forum: A Rebuttal,” was in response to the two-day MSNBC Climate Forum 2020, at which 11 presidential candidates are addressing environmental policy in Gaston Hall on Sept. 19 and 20, according to the GUCR Facebook page. 
After GUCR leadership introduced the first speaker, Marc Morano, a protestor entered the room, loudly providing further background attempting to discredit his career. Simultaneously, audience members started laughing, coughing and shouting while some cellphone alarms began intentionally sounding, causing a disruption. 
Another protestor, Eric Perez (COL ’23) entered wearing a clown costume and honking a horn as Morano began to present his address, “‘Climate Emergency’ Cancelled! Politicians Cannot Legislate Weather, Storms, and the Climate.” Morano is the communications director of the Committee for a Constructive Tomorrow, which advocates for free market strategies to address environmental concerns. 
“I’m so sorry I’m late. Is this the clown convention?” Perez loudly asked while entering the room. 
The protestors were exercising their rights to free speech by interrupting the presenters, not infringing upon the free speech of the scheduled speakers, according to Perez. 
“Saying what I had to say is not me oppressing their freedom of speech. It’s me exercising my own. So they might say, ‘Oh, the left never lets us speak our dialogue’ — that’s because that dialogue is fundamentally harmful,” Perez said in an interview with The Hoya. “People are actually going to die and that’s more important to me than civility and listening to the other side.”
After Perez took a seat, other students stood up and started talking and clapping over Morano. Minutes later, GUPD officers arrived in the room and requested that some of the protestors exit the classroom. 
As protesters refused to leave, a chant broke out among the crowd, “What do we want? Climate Justice! When do we want it? Now!”
GUPD eventually instructed everyone in attendance to exit the room. After about 15 minutes of break, Geoffrey Bible, the university deputy director of protocol and events, announced the GUCR program would resume and students could not reenter the room with signs. 
Bible also warned that any further disruptions would lead to immediate removal from the event by GUPD officers as well as a student code of conduct violation charge. Students were also subject to a bag check upon reentry.
Morano then resumed his presentation. Following the disruption, the event also featured Paul Driessen, the CFACT senior policy advisor, Caleb Rossiter, the executive director of the CO2 Coalition, which seeks to educate the public about the value of carbon dioxide in the environment; and Patrick Michaels the former director of the Center for the Study of Science at the Cato Institute. Kenny Stein, the director of policy for the Institute for Energy Research, a global energy market research organization, closed the event. 
At least one student was later asked to leave for interrupting the speakers following the restart of the event. 
Though GUCR Director of Campus Affairs Dalton Nunamaker (COL ’22) disagrees with some of the speakers’ perspectives, he was disappointed the protestors initially prevented the speakers from delivering their message, he said. 
“Personally, I think it is really disappointing that people are so committed to free speech that they won’t let other people express views that they disagree with. I think it is pretty contradictory,” Nunamaker said in an interview with The Hoya. “I think, as a college Republican, I try to introduce a variety of opinions and allow people to decide for themselves what’s best by hearing everything.” 
Morano’s presentation highlighted what he sees as contradictions in media coverage on climate change that he said spoke to the invalid evidence of the phenomenon. He also rebutted the Democratic presidential candidates’ remarks at the MSNBC climate forum earlier Thursday. 
Until sustainable energy becomes more accessible to the public, other energy sources should not be banned, according to Morano. 
“The day we can go to Walmart, buy a solar panel, put it on a house and get off the grid is the day we can stop having an argument over climate policy. Until that happens, don’t ban everything that works for energy that’s not ready to take over,” Morano said.
Rossiter’s presentation: “There’s No Climate Crisis, Just an Energy Crisis: How Fossil Fuels Save Lives in Africa & America” focused on environmental statistics from his career as a research professor at American University. Climate change is completely linked to cyclical changes in the Earth’s orbit around the sun rather than human intervention, according to Rossiter. 
“There is not enough evidence to support high confidence that humans’ carbon dioxide has affected temperature enough to change the overall trend,” Rossiter said. 
While Georgetown should engage with conservative ideas about climate change, climate change denial should be shunned, according to Georgetown Students Fighting for our Futures, a group of students who helped organize the counterprotest. 
“Conservative perspectives on climate change are welcome on this campus, but climate change denial is not this,” the group wrote in a statement to The Hoya. “Inviting to campus speakers such as Marc Morano, who has said climate scientists should be publicly flogged, is not a right leaning perspective; it is a message of violence.”
Specials to The Hoya Sophia Haber and Grace Buono contributed reporting. 
This article has been updated to correct a transcription error.

Killer Marmot says 
September 21, 2019 at 11:34 pm
“Conservative perspectives on climate change are welcome on this campus, but climate change denial is not this,” 
Translation: We get to determine for everyone else what views are acceptable, and what views may not be voiced. 
What arrogance.

hoyalum says 
September 23, 2019 at 12:06 pm
If Georgetown were serious about free speech on campus and the exchange of ideas, it would expell Eric Perez (COL ’23) or suspend for a year or more.  He does not belong on Georgetown’s campus.  Georgetown is not Middlebury or Williams — we are better than that!

David smith says 
September 30, 2019 at 11:58 am
“Instead of using this incident as an opportunity to educate its members and other students about inclusivity and respect”
Please Hoya’s, explain how the protesters were “inclusive and respectful”. You can’t so STFU.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 20, 2019 by Hoya Staff Leave a Comment 
The two-day Climate Forum 2020, hosted by Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service, Our Daily Planet, MSNBC and New York Magazine, kicked off in Gaston Hall on Sept. 19. Thursday’s schedule for the forum included Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), currently polling second for the Democratic nomination, and entrepreneur Andrew Yang, who interacted with students at Yates Field House the night before the forum.
While candidates throughout the day agreed climate change is one of the most pressing issues for young voters and frequently highlighted the shortcomings of the President Donald Trump administration, their views split on topics such as nuclear energy and carbon capture technologies.
Michael Bennet 
In the first session of the climate forum, Sen. Michael Bennet (D-Colo.) emphasized the need for a moderate, bipartisan solution to the climate crisis, while acknowledging the severity of the issue.
“Obviously we have a huge, unbelievably urgent existential problem on our hands, and we have lots of problems on our hands, and this generation of Americans has a lot to be really angry at us about,” Bennet stated.
In addressing the need for bipartisanship to solve the issue, Bennet touted his record in the Senate representing Colorado, a state that is evenly split down party lines, according to The Denver Post.
A shift has occurred within political parties on the issue of climate change, according to Bennet, who pointed out previous Republican support for the issue.
“The Republican Party used to have a fairly honorable environmental record,” Bennet said. “Richard Nixon created the EPA [Environmental Protection Agency] and signed into law the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act. Ronald Reagan closed the hole in the ozone layer. Both Bushes said, you know, we need to do something on climate, and my friend John McCain ran on climate change. What changed?”
Andrew Yang 
Many of the effects of climate change are irreversible, and our efforts to combat climate change have begun far too late, according to entrepreneur Andrew Yang, the second speaker of the day. 
Nonetheless, we must still work toward a more sustainable future, Yang said.
“I’ll stand by the fact that we are too late to curb some of the warming we’re seeing around the country and the world right now,” Yang said. “We should have been doing this work 20 years ago, but the second-best time is now.”
Many Americans think shifting toward more environmentally friendly living is too expensive and burdensome, according to Yang. However, supporting initiatives to combat climate change can actually be economically beneficial, Yang said.
“This does not have to be a matter of cost and inconvenience,” Yang said. “We can actually create hundreds of thousands of opportunities around the country if we make the move towards a sustainable economy.”
Yang said he strongly supports nuclear power as a potential green energy source and questioned why other presidential candidates would oppose the initiative.
“I don’t know why other candidates are shying away from nuclear,” Yang said. “It’s a responsibility of a leader and manager to consider every alternative, and nuclear is one of the most viable ones.” 
Marianne Williamson 
Author Marianne Williamson addressed economic injustice, intersectionality and nationwide morality, connecting the issues to climate change at each juncture during her session at the forum.
In the opening of her hour, Williamson endorsed big-picture perspectives on the issue of climate change.
“I think in many ways when we talk about climate change we talk about the trees, but we need to take a step back and talk about the forest,” Williamson said.
Williamson highlighted her “Environmental Crisis Plan,” which would create a mandatory year of service for young adults similar to the military draft, through which individuals would participate in efforts to help repair the environment. The idea was met with mixed audience reactions.
When a student voiced concerns about the safety of her policy of using hydrogen fuel in airplanes, Williamson responded that the protection of individuals should be at the forefront of climate change policy.
“I don’t buy that we’re going to have to make a choice between climate reversal and safety,” she said.
Bernie Sanders 
Citing examples of corporate influence and criticizing President Donald Trump, Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) emphasized the importance of tackling climate change and standing up to the fossil fuel industry in his Climate Forum slot. 
Trump should be taking more seriously the problem of climate change much more seriously, according to Sanders.
“We are facing an unprecedented global crisis,” Sanders said. “It disturbs me very, very much that we have a president who believes that climate change is a hoax.”
Sanders has been vocal on the campaign trail about climate change as a global emergency, proposing plans to make large investments in renewable energy and create 20 million jobs.
Sanders also specifically spoke about the disproportionate effect that climate change can have on individuals from low-income socioeconomic backgrounds as opposed to affluent communities.
“We include in our proposal, many, many billions of dollars for prevention, and to do everything that we can to protect those communities, who time and time again have been hit hard by extreme disturbances,” Sanders said.
Sanders also focused on the effect certain industries have had preventing action against climate change. The fossil fuels industry has served as a major obstacle to concrete action against the issue, according to Sanders.
“We have got to stand up to the greed and corruption. I know those are strong words,” Sanders said. “The time is now to save the planet and transform the system away from fossil fuels.”
Sanders responded to criticism of some of his proposals to fight climate change by reiterating the time sensitivity of the issue.
“This is going to be administratively very, very difficult, but no one has given me an idea of what the better alternative is,” Sanders said.
John Delaney
During his time on stage, former Maryland Rep. John Delaney (LAW ’88) focused on his bipartisan record as well as his previous stances on environmental and trade issues from his tenure in Congress. 
The Keystone XL — a controversial extension of the Keystone Pipeline that runs through Canada, Montana, South Dakota and several other Midwestern states — was a mistake in the United States’ environmental record, according to Delaney.
“It was a terrible symbol we were sending to the world,” Delaney said. 
Despite his stance on the pipeline, Delaney was seen as a moderate while in Congress, ranking 36th according to the McCourt School of Public Policy’s Bipartisan Index. Delaney promised to bring bipartisanship into the climate change conversation if elected.
“The best way to pass big, transformative laws is to get bipartisan support,” Delaney said. 
Additionally, Delaney discussed the potential economic gains that he sees from the renewable energy industry as an entrepreneur, including from electric cars and carbon capture. Though Delaney says carbon capture technologies should only be used as a last resort, he mentioned the potential he sees for the technology, comparing it to renewable energy technologies such as solar and wind power.
Delaney criticized Trump’s actions, referencing the ongoing United States and China trade dispute and the president’s isolationist trade policies as a barrier to addressing climate change on a global scale. 
“You can’t tariff your way to solving climate change,” Delaney said. “You have to innovate.”
Tim Ryan 
Similar to Delaney, Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) focused his conversation on industry, innovation and bipartisanship. 
Climate change should not be framed as a partisan issue, according to Ryan.
“Let’s get away from the left and right conversation and get into the newer and better conversation,” Ryan said.
Ryan focused his discussion on the manufacturing industry and the potential he sees for a green economy in the United States, particularly if the profits made from initiatives like carbon taxes are used to stimulate the economy. 
Although Trump is not to blame for every issue, Trump is at fault for not putting enough attention toward environmentally friendly industrial policy, according to Ryan.
“I don’t blame Trump for every problem,” Ryan said. “But I blame him for not having urgency and for not having a green industrial policy.”
Ryan expressed interest in using natural gas as a bridge to a long-term goal of renewable energy and working with U.S. corporations to combat the impacts of climate change. 
“Ultimately, the way you beat them is to move them off of what they’re doing,” Ryan said. “At some point, we’re working with them to get from where we are to where we need to be.” 
Julián Castro 
Former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julián Castro touted his record on developing sustainable infrastructure while at HUD and earlier in his career as mayor of San Antonio. 
Much of Castro’s climate platform draws on his economic and infrastructure-focused experience, and investing in sustainability will benefit the future of the American economy, he said. 
“Maybe it’s the mayor in me, maybe it’s the Texan in me, but I believe there’s a huge economic opportunity there,” Castro said. 
Though enacting strong policies with clear timelines is a key part of his plan for combating climate change, Castro also called for accountability on past missteps on climate policy, including recent appointments of policymakers at the Environmental Protection Agency who support Trump’s plan to roll back environmental regulations in favor of business freedom. 
“I’m going to appoint people to the EPA and other departments who actually believe in science and believe in climate change,” Castro said. “We need to be forward-looking with this while holding people accountable for the past.”
The historically Republican state of Texas will vote Democrat in 2020, Castro predicted, to cheers from the audience. Pro-business and environmentally friendly policies are not mutually exclusive, according to Castro. The areas of Texas that have been home to traditional sources of energy like coal and natural gas will easily transition to sustainable energy sources like wind farms and solar panel factories, Castro said.
“I do believe that [by] embracing the right kind of climate action plan that reflects the urgency of this problem, you can still win in Texas and do that,” Castro said. 
Special to The Hoya Elizabeth Brenneman and Hoya Staff Writers Myroslav Dobroshynskyi, Amy Li, Harrison McBride, Meredith Miller and Katrina Schmidt contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 20, 2019 by Myroslav and Amy Li Leave a Comment 
Crowds of enthusiastic students excited to catch a glimpse of seven 2020 Democratic presidential candidates waited in line outside Gaston Hall for the first day of the Climate Forum 2020 on Sept. 19.
On Thursday morning, the queue of students waiting outside the auditorium grew, especially as Sen. Bernie Sanders’ (I-Vt.) time slot approached. 
Nareg Kuyumjian (SFS ’21), a board member of the Georgetown Renewable Energy and Environmental Network, went to wait in line early in the morning to secure a coveted spot to see Sanders.
“I was super looking forward to the event,” Kuyumjian said. “I lined up from four o’clock in the morning.” 
The event was hosted by The Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service at the McCourt School of Public Policy in collaboration with MSNBC, Our Daily Planet and New York Magazine. Democratic presidential candidates Sen. Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Andrew Yang, Marianne Williamson, Sanders, former Rep. John Delaney (LAW ’88), Rep. Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), and former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Julián Castro were in attendance. Candidates Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.), South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg (D), former Gov. Bill Weld (R-Mass.), Gov. Steve Bullock (D-Mont.) and billionaire philanthropist Tom Steyer will speak at the forum tomorrow.
Tickets for the event, which was also livestreamed and broadcast on MSNBC, were made available to students at Georgetown and other Washington, D.C.-area universities, including The George Washington University, The Catholic University of America and American University. Entrance was first-come, first-served, and students began lining up outside Healy Hall at midnight Wednesday night in anticipation of getting a seat in the auditorium.
Andrew Yang, the second presidential candidate featured at the event, was given a warm welcome from the audience in Gaston.
After being welcomed in by moderator Chris Hayes, Yang jumped off the stage and ran down the front row, high-fiving students in the front row. At the end of his talk, Yang jumped off the stage again and ran down the center aisle with his hands outstretched. 
For many Hoyas, Yang was a familiar face: On Wednesday night, Yang played a game of pickup basketball with students in Yates Field House. Students flocked to Yates and crowded around the candidate, lining up to take a photo with Yang.
Patrick Milito (MSB ’23), who challenged Yang to a one-on-one game of basketball, said he enjoyed having the rare opportunity to engage with the presidential candidate on a personal level.
“It was my distinct honor and privilege to ball out with frankly one of the most energizing basketball players I have witnessed,” Milito wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Yang also visited Georgetown’s campus in February to advocate for his flagship policy platform, a guaranteed social security payment for all U.S. citizens over the age of 18. Sanders previously visited campus in 2015 ahead of the 2016 presidential election, speaking on his foreign policy strategy in response to terrorist attacks in Paris, Beirut and Baghdad that week.
The Climate Forum also marked Delaney’s return to campus. When he took the stage, the Georgetown alumnus spoke fondly of the university, sharing that he met his wife April McClain-Delaney (LAW ’89) as a student at the Georgetown University Law Center and mentioned that his daughter, a current freshman, was in the audience.
Outside of Gaston, various activists were stationed across campus, hoping to bring candidates’ attention to certain issues.
Williamson was approached outside Old North by a People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals activist wearing a cow costume and holding a sign reading: “Go vegan or we all die.” Williamson stopped to take a picture with the activist and said she was trying to adopt veganism into her diet. The moment was captured and tweeted by New York Magazine Washington correspondent Olivia Nuzzi.
Well-known political strategist and pundit Kurt Bardella was arrested early Thursday morning after getting into a brief physical altercation with a Georgetown University Police Department officer who tried to bar him from entering the forum, according to The Daily Beast. 
The GUPD officer attempted to stop Bardella from entering a stairwell and requested to see his credentials. When Bardella tried to walk past the officer, the officer blocked the entrance, and Bardella slapped the officer’s arm and began to run up the stairs to Gaston Hall, the police report said. Bardella has been vocally opposing the arrest on Twitter.
After the first day of the forum wrapped, student opinions of the candidates and their performances began circulating throughout campus.
The candidates successfully explained the importance of tackling climate change and proposed original policy ideas to address the issue, according to Laura Rockefeller (SFS ’22), president of the Georgetown chapter of Citizens’ Climate Lobby, an international climate advocacy organization.
“Bernie Sanders and Marianne Williamson in particular really drove the urgency message home,” Rockefeller wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I was most pleased to hear Senator Sanders speak specifically about the necessity for a carbon fee and dividend bill.”
CCL Georgetown supports the “Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act,” a bill introduced in Congress in January that would put a fee on carbon emissions and pay the dividend out to U.S. citizens.
Kuyumjian said the forum allowed him to become more educated on each candidate’s platform.
“I was excited to see Bernie Sanders and how his policy adapted from the 2016 campaign,” Kuyumjian said, “and to see what other candidates have to say about their policies on climate change, other candidates that I was less familiar with.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 20, 2019 by Ashley Zhao 2 Comments 
Over 100 students and campus groups released a statement condemning an event planned to feature Indian right-wing activist Sunil Ambekar and demanding transparency from the university following the event’s cancellation.
Ambekar canceled his appearance at the India Initiative event, “RSS: Roadmaps for India’s Twenty-First Century,” on Sept. 17, according to Associate Vice President for Strategic Communications Meghan Dubyak. Ambekar was initially invited by a faculty member to address students enrolled in the class “India Innovation Studio,” and the event was RSVP-only.
When the event was canceled, the change was not formally announced; the student statement notes the event’s web page disappeared Sept. 15. Given the lack of clarity, students released the anti-Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad statement denouncing the speaker’s agenda and his affiliation with ABVP on Sept. 16.
Ambekar is the national organizing secretary of the ABVP, a right-wing, Hindu-nationalist Indian student organization with more than three million members. ABVP is affiliated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, a larger paramilitary volunteer organization widely regarded as the parent organization of the ruling political party of India, the right-leaning Bharatiya Janata Party. 
Both the ABVP and the RSS have been accused of fostering violence and intolerance against non-Hindu Indians, particularly Muslims, through their preaching of Hindutva, which refers to “Hindu-ness” and the ideology of Hindu nationalism. 
Groups including the Asian-Pacific Islander Leadership Forum and Georgetown University Student Association signed the statement, which argued that Georgetown should not provide Ambekar a platform to speak to students. The statement cited examples of violence committed and encouraged by the ABVP, including multiple accusations of assault against students and teachers at Delhi University in 2017.
“By bringing Ambekar to campus and promoting the ABVP’s viewpoint to students, Georgetown stands in direct contrast to its moral backbone and Jesuit values by normalizing a group that has a violent history of abusing minorities in India,” the statement reads. “This event should not be taking place and we cannot, in good conscience, allow it to happen.”
The India Initiative, a program in the Office of the Vice President for Global Engagement that works to promote dialogue about India’s role in world affairs, organized Ambekar’s visit. The initiative promoted the event as a conversation about his upcoming book on the RSS and its vision for India — including the role of other faiths in India, Hindutva and caste politics, and LGBTQ rights. The “Indian Innovation Studio” course is taught by Irfan Nooruddin, the director of the India Initiative, and Mark Giordano, a professor of geography.
The event description, however, does not accurately reflect the values that Ambekar and the ABVP stand for, according to Sonali Mirpuri (COL ’20), who drafted the statement with the South Asian Working Group of APILF at Georgetown.
“The event as it was marketed says that he’s going to come to promote his new book,” Mirpuri said. “Simply Googling his name, so many things come up about crimes against humanity, crimes against college campuses, and it just confuses me why Georgetown would sponsor such a figure to come to campus.”
On Sept. 17 Ambekar chose to cancel his visit to Georgetown, according to Dubyak. Ambekar’s invitation to speak was in line with the university’s policy of allowing free speech even if a speaker’s views are highly controversial, according to Dubyak.
“Georgetown does not prohibit speech based on the person presenting ideas or the content of those ideas, even when those ideas may be difficult, controversial or objectionable,” Dubyak wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
Though the event was initially available on the India Initiative’s website, the statement claims that the event page was silently taken down Sept. 15 and no information on the event could be found. However, some students were told by staff members that the event was still occurring, but closed to the public, according to the statement protesting Ambekar’s visit. The visit ultimately did not occur. 
The university needs to be clearer with students about what events are held and the purpose of these events, according to Mirpuri. 
“I feel like the event was put on with very little transparency in terms of like no one knew it was happening, it was a very under-the-radar thing,” Mirpuri said. 
Events like Ambekar’s uplift racist and Islamophobic voices rather than highlighting minority perspectives in India, according to Jamal Jaffer (COL ’21), the academic chair for South Asian Society.  
“There should be a reexamination on our position on India and relations with India,” Jaffer said. “We’re highlighting a lot of voices that are quite Islamophobic in the India space and in the political space, and we’re not really supporting a lot of the minority interests involved in these politics.”
Both Dharmic Life and Hindu Students Association released statements to their members addressing Ambekar’s event. The organizations condemned violence while acknowledging the right to free speech and debate.  
In the wake of this controversy, students should take advantage of campus resources to learn more about India’s culture and politics, according to Hindu Student Association President Darshil Shah (MSB ’20)
“As a Georgetown student myself, I encourage others who are interested in the topics of Hinduism vs Hindu nationalism to read more about it and have meaningful conversations about the two and challenge the beliefs and arguments offered by both,” Shah wrote in an email. 
Though the event was not highly publicized and was ultimately canceled, the fact that few students understood the event’s implications or even knew who the speaker was shows a pressing need for greater university recognition and discussion of non-Western issues, according to Mirpuri.
“Our lack of knowledge and our ignorance as an institution in promoting non-Western values has clearly shown through this event,” Mirpuri said. “It’s important to know about these things because we essentially, by having this event, would prop up someone in another country that has not just university effects, but long-term international effects.”
 

American Ideal says 
September 23, 2019 at 1:56 pm
Awesome and encouraging to know that our young people aren’t turning a blind eye to fascists; these fascists have for a very long time have been propped up by fifth column Americans who espouse American ideals on the outside yet harbor despicable motherland ideals in their private dealings.

Anya Bharadwaj says 
October 1, 2019 at 10:20 pm
Hi;
I graduated from the SFS only a few months ago and with full disclosure, I worked very closely on the board of the India Initiative. The Hoya prides itself in unbiased journalism, but I’m disappointed to see the views of every other concerned party reflected except anyone from the India Initiative. It is the job of Georgetown’s most widely read newspaper to give an active voice to both the professors, and the students involved. Articles such as this will create bifurcations within the student body, and allow one side to leverage the privilege of coverage. 
As someone passionate about justice and strongly against organizations such as ABVP, I can assure you that the intent of the India Initiative was not to spread Hindu nationalism. 
Please reach out to students WITHIN the India Initiative and professors involved, so we can get a more holistic picture.  Either way – this article in its existing structure is problematic for how it  claims the the Initiative partakes in spreading Hindu nationalism. 
Journalism, especially in a place like Georgetown, should not be treated this lightly. I strongly encourage you to revise this with quotes and less biased opinions.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 20, 2019 by Harrison McBride Leave a Comment 
With a focus on facilities issues, expanding dining options and improved representation for minority students, 21 students announced their candidacy for Georgetown University Student Association senate Wednesday ahead of next week’s election. 
Fifteen candidates are running for seven positions in the Class of 2023 senate, one student is running unopposed for a vacant Class of 2020 position and five candidates are running for four at-large spots, according to a series of GUSA elections tweets announcing the initial round of candidates early Wednesday morning. Matthew Buckwald (COL ’20), former senator and transition finance and appropriations chair, resigned from the senate Aug. 30, creating a vacancy in the Class of 2020’s representation.
Charlie Wang (SFS ’22), who is running for an at-large seat, is among the candidates who launched their campaign Wednesday by hanging posters throughout campus. 
Wang is running to ensure that students can provide direct suggestions and proposals on how to solve campus issues, he wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
“I want to run for senate because I want to make sure students with all political perspectives, nationalities, backgrounds, and physiques can have their voices and concerns heard during the decision-making process of the school,” Want wrote.
The formal election campaigning period started Wednesday morning with the release of
the initial list of candidates. The official election is set for next Wednesday, Sept. 25, with a candidate town hall scheduled for Sept. 23 ahead of the election. A large gender imbalance characterized the fall 2018 senate elections results. Male students won all seven seats for the Class of 2022 and one female student, Hayley Grande (COL ’21), won an at-large seat.
Kwan Hopkins (COL ’23) also launched his campaign Wednesday for a freshman senate seat. Hopkins released a document outlining his platform, including plans to offer free feminine hygiene products in all-gender bathrooms, alongside his campaign announcement. 
“My number one priority is guaranteeing feminine hygiene products are offered in Georgetown’s all-gendered bathrooms for free,” Hopkins wrote. “Secondly, we need more 24-hour dining options on campus. When we as a community identify problems on campus, we’re going to need bold leadership to enact real change. I believe I’m the candidate to do that.”
Prospective senators who are not officially registered to run still have until 11:59 p.m. on Sept. 20 to collect 100 undergraduate student signatures and petition to run for a seat, according to GUSA Election Commission Chair Justin Rich (SFS ’22). 
Chris Ziac (COL ’22) also announced his campaign for the at-large seat Wednesday, hanging up flyers and posters in residential halls and public campus spaces. Ziac is focusing on improving facilities, socioeconomic advocacy and sustainability in his platform, his posters said. 
“I want to know what issues students care most about so I know how I can make their lives better on campus,” Ziac wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Whether as a candidate or a Senator, I want the student body to know that my first priority will always be serving as an accessible advocate for their well-being.”
Lucy Sonsalla (SFS ’23) launched her campaign Wednesday for one of the seven seats open to the Class of 2023. Sonsalla is running a campaign based around residential life issues, she wrote in an email to The Hoya.
“I am running for senate in order to improve the quality of Georgetown’s residential life. Many of the problems at Georgetown were immediately obvious to me within days of arriving,” Sonsalla wrote. “I believe that by educating the student body on taking care of themselves and our facilities, we can improve health, lower stress, and boost morale across campus at minimal expenses.”
The freshman candidates currently running include Brandon Yusuf (MSB ’23), Leo Rassieur (COL ’23), Eric Bazail Eimil (SFS ’23), Zach Volpe (SFS ’23), Kelvin Doe (COL ’23), Eddie Galvan (MSB ’23), Eric Lipka (COL ’23), Tyler Bates (SFS ’23), Zumanah Mahmud (MSB ’23), Cyrus Morrell (COL ’23), Trey Di Bona (SFS ’23), Andy Serrano (COL ’23), Jair Pearsall (COL ’23), Sonsalla and Hopkins.
Juliana Arias (SFS ’20) is running unopposed for the Class of 2020 position.
Henry Dai (SFS ’22), Hal Rogers (COL ’22), Alexandra Mucher (COL ’22) and Ziac are all seeking at-large senate seats. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 20, 2019 by Jaime Moore-Carrillo Leave a Comment 
Disorganized scheduling and unclear communication from student guard management contribute to frequently unmanned guard posts in campus residential spaces, according to student guards. 
Student guards, who are employed by the university and managed by the Department of Public Safety, have not had permanent shifts this semester, resulting in scheduling complications and assignment confusion. The scheduling system switched from a permanent, consistent shift assignment system to one in which guards are scheduled on a daily, as-needed basis. 
During the first weeks of the academic year, private security guards from SecTek, a security contractor based in Virginia, sporadically filled guard posts or the posts were left unattended, according to several student guards. 
Student guards send their daily availability to management to organize the day’s schedule, according to a student guard who requested to remain anonymous for fear of employer retribution. The daily schedule caused confusion about scheduling, the guard said in an interview with The Hoya.
“I’ve been giving them my availability trying to be flexible,” the guard said. “A shift is four hours, but I’ve been scheduled for six hours a day for the last three days.” 
Student guards play an essential role in protecting the campus community, according to the university student guard website. The guards sit in residential hall lobbies and Lauinger Library for four-hour-long shifts and scan ID cards before permitting students to enter the building between 8 a.m. and midnight. Student guards receive semesterly training and work with public safety officers to identify potential issues and respond to incidents that may arise. 
The Georgetown University Police Department is about 20% behind in their recruiting schedule this semester because there are more students taking classes in the middle of the school day, less interest in weekend morning shifts and students’ commitment to studies and social activities, according to Georgetown Chief of Public Safety Jay Gruber. These roadblocks, in addition to a strict I-9 policy and restrictive human resources hiring dates, have led to open positions. 
Some student guards have also not shown up for their assigned work hours, Gruber wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
“We have had some student guards not show up for shifts and had to quickly backfill,” Gruber wrote. “For shifts we know are left unfilled we backfill in advance with our contract guard service.”  
Although last semester open posts were not consistently unguarded and the permanent shift assignment system ran smoothly, the student guard program faced other organization problems, according to Kristin Rabil (COL ’22), who served as a student guard in spring 2019. 
“I’d say at the beginning it just seemed very unorganized compared to some of my other jobs,” Rabil said in an interview with The Hoya. “It was kind of slow-paced, but I think that was because they were trying to work with so many students, trying to get them organized.”
Last year’s more consistent work schedule made the transition to daily, more flexible assignments confusing, the current guard said. 
“I was given three shifts, and so I assumed that those were my shifts, so I put them in my calendar and everything,” the guard said. “When they asked for availability the next week, I assumed that those shifts were already mine, so I didn’t send them my availability because I figured it was for nonpermanent shifts, but then I was not scheduled.”
The scheduling chaos deters registered guards from picking up shifts and the unscheduled slots have remained empty, according to the guard. 
“They send us an email the next day saying, ‘These are the open posts — sign up for them,’” she said. “Some people do but some people don’t.”
Although scheduling problems have prevented student guards from effectively working throughout the day, the university hired a comparable number of students this year and last year, the guard said. 
“There are 130 guards in the group chat,” she said. “I think it’s an organizational thing right now because the number of guards we have right now is not very different from last year.”
However, the guard program has yet to reach full capacity and is still actively recruiting more guards, according to Gruber. 
“We have seen this trend for the past year with less students either interested in working on campus or not interested in becoming student guards,” Gruber wrote.
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 20, 2019 by Harrison McBride Leave a Comment 
Jon Ossoff (SFS ’09) announced his decision to run in the upcoming 2020 Georgia Senate elections Sept. 10, joining three other Democratic candidates who are vying to unseat incumbent Sen. David Perdue (R-Ga.).
Ossoff ran for Congress in 2017 in the special election in Georgia’s 6th Congressional District. Ossoff lost the race, which became the most expensive House of Representatives race in history, according to The New York Times. Republican Karen Handel, who beat Ossoff in the runoff, lost the seat, however, in the 2018 midterms to Democrat Lucy McBath (D-Ga.).
Ossoff’s campaign is focused on combating political corruption, which he claims threatens our republic and the future of the planet, according to a statement on his campaign website.
“We’re building a movement to mount an all-out attack on corruption in Washington — starting with President Donald Trump and Georgia Senator David Perdue,” the statement reads. “I believe we are all called to stand up to the abuse of power. And when we stand up together, we will win.”
Before the 2017 election, Ossoff faced a series of attacks from a Republican-funded super PAC that focused on an incident during Ossoff’s time at Georgetown when Ossoff mocked the university’s alcohol policy and sang a rendition of Billy Joel’s “Uptown Girl,” changing the lyrics to “Georgetown Girl.”
Hrithik Saride (NHS ’22), an Atlanta native and former volunteer for Ossoff’s 2017 congressional campaign, expressed his strong support of Ossoff’s candidacy, while acknowledging that Ossoff’s chances of winning seemed slim.
“[I’m] extremely excited to see Jon contest the position of Georgia Senator and I really do hope to engage in any way possible to help with this campaign run as well,” Saride wrote in an email to The Hoya. “However, from the viewpoint of [a] Georgia resident, Ossoff really is fighting an uphill battle as he goes against incumbent David Perdue.”
Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.), civil rights leader and longtime Georgia congressman, announced his support for Ossoff’s Senate bid. Ossoff plans to launch a campaign to increase voter registration with Lewis later this month, according to Politico.
Former Chief of Staff for the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service Hanna Hope led a three-day student trip organized by GU Politics to observe the 2017 special election campaign in Georgia. The six students on the trip attended a debate between the top five Republican contenders for the party nomination and also met with Ossoff. 
During his time at Georgetown, Ossoff was roommates with Michael Tyler (SFS ’11), according to The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Tyler presently serves as the chief of staff to chair of the Democratic National Committee, Tom Perez.
One of the stated goals of Ossoff’s campaign is to help Democrats gain control of the Senate. Republicans currently hold a 53-45 majority in the Senate, with two Independents caucusing with the Democrats. In order to flip control of the Senate, Democrats must gain at least three seats if they win control of the presidency and vice presidency. Many political analysts have listed Georgia and its two special elections as elections predicted to be some of the most competitive during the 2020 election cycle, according to NBC News.
While Georgetown University College Democrats does not support any particular candidate in primary elections, the group acknowledges the importance and competitiveness of the race, according to GUCD Chair Rebecca Hollister (COL ’21).
“We of course wish all the Democratic candidates the best, as our goal is to win the election in order to help achieve a Senate majority,” Hollister wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We will put our full weight of support behind whoever wins the primary as we work to elect a Democrat to Senate in Georgia–a feat that hasn’t been accomplished in two decades.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 20, 2019 by Myroslav Leave a Comment 
The McDonough School of Business now accepts a new standardized test for its admissions application to the Flex MBA Program, a first for graduate business programs in Washington, D.C., Georgetown University announced Monday. 
Applicants with seven or more years of work experience can apply to the Flex MBA Program, the part-time master’s program in the MSB, using the Executive Assessment test instead of the traditional Graduate Management Admissions Test or Graduate Record Examination. The EA takes 90 minutes, rather than the three hours required by the other two tests. The EA also does not have an Analytical Writing section and includes an Integrated Reasoning section, which is not present in the GRE. 
Adding this test option helps recognize the value of work experience, according to Associate Dean for MBA programs Shelly Heinrich. 
“Extensive work experience is a huge asset to the experience in analyzing case studies and group projects,” Heinrich said in an interview with The Hoya. “We wanted to provide an option that’s more geared towards experienced professionals.” 
The EA exam is administered by the Graduate Management Admissions Council, the same organization that administers the GMAT. The EA exam originally targeted executives and included sections similar to the GMAT exam, and launched in March 2016, according to the Princeton Review. 
The EA exam requires less preparation time from candidates, shortens the time needed to complete graduate program applications and provides a more professionally diverse pool of candidates for consideration by graduate business programs, according to the GMAC. 
Allowing students to apply with the EA exam ensures that potential Flex MBA Program candidates are not only strong academically but are also individuals that will contribute to the classroom environment, according to Heinrich.
“At the end of the day, we want to admit candidates who are going to be academically successful in the classroom, but we also want to admit those candidates, competitive candidates that are going to add to the classroom experience,” Heinrich said.
After seeing that some other top business schools accept the EA for their part-time MBA programs, the MSB decided to expand its application to include the shorter test, according to Heinrich.
“The mission at McDonough is constant innovation,” Heinrich said. “So we look at everything, everything from our programs to innovate, to our admissions process to innovate, to our career center to innovate, and this was just a new innovation that we wanted to apply this year.”
The MSB offers the first part-time MBA program in the D.C. region to accept the EA exam, according to Heinrich. Applicants cannot use the EA exam to apply to full-time MBA programs through the MSB. 
“By accepting the EA, we want to provide more flexibility in how we assess academic preparedness and believe this exam better aligns with our experienced populations,” Heinrich said in an MSB news release.
Students who have more professional experience can bring knowledge to classroom discussions that enhance the learning experience for the whole MBA class, according to Heinrich.
“One of the best values from more experienced applicants comes from their professional background rather than the academic discipline they chose at the undergraduate level or their GPA,” Heinrich said in the news release.
The comprehensive application process for the Flex MBA program will weed out candidates that are not qualified for the program regardless of standardized test results, according to TJ Fleming, a first-year Flex MBA student.
“I think the MBA program has a good understanding of the type of student they want to bring in and if that’s the test that gets them here, I think the interview and the application and the essays — if they’re not supposed to be here, that will be clear,” Fleming said in an interview with The Hoya.
Increasing the diversity of the applicant pool to include perspectives of students who have a lot of professional experience enhances the entire MBA program, according to Fleming.
“If it allows more intelligent people with interesting diverse backgrounds into the MBA program, I think that’s a good thing,” Fleming said. “The more options, I think the better.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 20, 2019 by Rachel Friedman Leave a Comment 
Former Georgetown University football quarterback Dr. David Fajgenbaum (NHS ’07) published a memoir Sept. 10 that follows his struggle with Castleman disease and his efforts to pioneer a cure.
In “Chasing My Cure: A Doctor’s Race To Run Hope into Action,” Fajgenbaum recounts his experience being diagnosed with Castleman during his third year of medical school at the University of Pennsylvania, his five near-fatal hospitalizations and ultimately his discovery of a drug to treat his disease.
Castleman disease is a rare disorder in which the body’s lymph nodes, an integral part of the immune system, overproduce cells, causing excessive inflammation which can lead to problems like organ failure and internal bleeding. Around 6,500 to 7,700 new cases are reported each year, and there are no known causes for the disease, according to the Castleman Disease Collaborative Network.
After reviewing his own medical charts, Fajgenbaum hypothesized that the immunosuppressant Sirolimus, which was already Food and Drug Administration-approved for use during kidney transplants, could counteract the damaging immune system response that Castleman triggers. His doctor prescribed him the drug in 2014. So far, the drug has worked for Fajgenbaum and hundreds of other patients suffering from Castleman disease.
Football head coach Rob Sgarlata, who coached Fajgenbaum during his time at Georgetown, said this dedication and talent were clear in Fajgenbaum both on and off the field.
“David was the consummate student-athlete: premed, top of his class,” Sgarlata said in an interview with The Hoya.
Fajgenbaum was diagnosed with Castleman in 2010, following an autoimmune attack that landed him in the hospital for five months. Over the next three years, Fajgenbaum was hospitalized four more times, according to CNN.
Despite his illness, Fajgenbaum graduated from medical school and co-founded the Castleman Disease Collaborative Network, a global initiative dedicated to accelerating research and treatment for Castleman disease.
Fajgenbaum redefined the meaning of patient support, going above and beyond to help those with rare diseases, according to Megan Fisher (NHS ’21), who interned for the CDCN this past summer.
“David’s relentless pursuit for answers combined with his overwhelming compassion for Castleman patients is what makes the CDCN’s model so powerful,” Fisher wrote in an email to The Hoya. “He truly flipped the traditional research model on its head and was able to make incredible breakthroughs in a very short amount of time by traditional research standards.”
In addition to being a varsity athlete, Fajgenbaum was the student commencement speaker for the School of Nursing and Health Studies and a student governor on the Board of Governors, a group elected to manage Georgetown University Alumni Association’s strategy and affairs, according to his Linkedin. He was also a member of the Carroll Fellows Initiative, a selective program designed to prepare undergraduates for prestigious fellowships, jobs and other exit opportunities.
Fajgenbaum’s impressive and diverse involvement on campus reflected a level of maturity that surpassed that of his peers, Sgarlata said.
“He had a perspective on things that you don’t get from every college student that you encounter,” Sgarlata said. “He was a very unique student-athlete for us.”
Fajgenbaum was also the president of Students of Ailing Mothers and Fathers, now called Actively Moving Forward, a grief support network and national nonprofit organization he founded after the death of his mother Anne Marie Fajgenbaum during his sophomore year at Georgetown. Since its founding, AMF has worked with over 3,000 students on over 200 college campuses throughout the United States.
Fajgenbaum was awarded with the Lena Landegger Community Service Award, an annual award created to honor those in the Georgetown community that have made a distinguished contribution to community service, according to the Georgetown football website.
Fajgenbaum now works as an adjunct assistant professor of hematology and oncology at the University of Pennsylvania and runs a laboratory which is currently enrolling patients in a clinical trial for a drug to treat Castleman disease. Fajgenbaum was also named to Forbes Magazine’s 30 Under 30 list in 2015.
Fajgenbaum is continuing his work with Castleman disease at the CDCN. By establishing a strategic research plan, building a collaborative network of Castleman researchers and raising awareness for the disease, Fajgenbaum has made it his life’s work to help the scientific community reach a better understanding of the causes of and treatment plans for Castleman disease, according to the CDCN website.
Fajgenbaum spoke at Georgetown’s 2017 senior convocation. In his speech, he expressed his hope that each student also finds something important one day to which they want to dedicate their lives.
“Find that thing that motivates you, that makes you passionate, and run after it,” Fajgenbaum said in his speech.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 20, 2019 by Harrison McBride Leave a Comment 
Tutoring organizations under the Center for Social Justice now require volunteers to undergo FBI background tests, tuberculosis testing and fingerprinting to comply with preexisting District of Columbia Public Schools policy.
 The new requirements, which have not been required of CSJ tutoring organizations before this year and are now being implemented for undisclosed reasons, will affect at least 10 organizations on campus who tutor at DCPS schools, including D.C. Schools Project and Jumpstart. These organizations’ members are not allowed to tutor until they have been fully cleared by DCPS. 
Although students may get their TB test from any institution that conducts the test, including the Student Health Center or CVS Minute Clinic, all students must get fingerprinted at the DCPS Central Office, located in Northeast D.C., according to an email obtained by The Hoya.
Enforcing these policies for Georgetown University tutoring organizations follows DCPS’ policy of prioritizing DCPS tutee safety, Ashlynn Profit, deputy press secretary at DCPS, wrote in an email to The Hoya.
“At DC Public Schools, the health and safety of our students is our top priority,” Profit wrote. “As a part of our clearance process, all DCPS employees, volunteers, and contractors are required to pass a robust clearance process including fingerprinting, an FBI background check, and proof of a negative TB test before providing services.” 
DCPS did not provide any further explanation as to why the policy was implemented with CSJ tutoring organizations starting this year.
The order of steps that students must take to be fully cleared to tutor at DCPS schools begins with getting a negative TB test, filling out the DCPS clearance application online and bringing the negative TB test to the DCPS Central Office to get fingerprinted. Once a student successfully completes these steps, they will get an official DCPS clearance letter that the CSJ must receive prior to the student being able to tutor, according to an email obtained by The Hoya. Once students satisfy all DCPS requirements, their clearance is valid for two years.
The CSJ is working to support organizations and students by making the clearance process streamlined and affordable, according to Associate Director of CSJ Raymond Shiu. 
“It is a priority for CSJ to make the process straightforward and affordable as possible, so we are providing no-cost options for students in our programs, and CSJ Advisory Board for Student Organizations demonstrated leadership to do the same for student organizations,” Shiu wrote. “We remain committed to best serving the interests of and responding to requests from our school partners, families, and youth.”
The ABSO, which votes on funding within CSJ organizations, voted to provide $8,500 to cover the costs of TB tests as part of the no-cost option, according to an email obtained by The Hoya. Students in the Class of 2023 can use the TB test given to the university upon their enrollment for the clearance process. Additionally, the CSJ is providing student organizations vans to transport students to the DCPS Central Office. 
The new compliance process creates a short timeline for student organizations to satisfy all DCPS regulations that could potentially decrease membership in tutoring organizations, according to Jinia Sarkar (NHS ’20), co-president of Georgetown University Math and Science Hands-On Enrichment. CSJ assistance and ABSO funding, however, have made the process simpler, Sarkar said. 
“Though the volunteer background checks are time-consuming and have the potential to reduce our roster, we strive to work with the CSJ and ABSO to make the process as simple as possible,” wrote Sarkar in an email to The Hoya. “We will be using our funds and support to offer reimbursement for the TB tests, transportation for the fingerprinting at the office, and an incentive for our tutors to complete the entire process!”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 20, 2019 by Moira Ritter 1 Comment 
Holy Trinity Catholic Church hosted its first “Day of Reflection,” an event meant to create a more inclusive church environment for LGBTQ individuals, friends and family, on Sept. 14. 
The event was the product of a small group of church members meeting over the past year to discuss ways to create an inclusive environment for the LGBTQ community. “Day of Reflection” featured the experiences of three LGBTQ and Catholic community members, according to Holy Trinity Pastor Rev. Kevin Gillespie, S.J. The church held the “Day of Reflection,” which included a prayer service meant to encourage discussions about what can be done to best address the needs of church members in the LGBTQ community, according to church’s bulletin.
Gillespie shared that both the parish and church community have expressed support for the church’s efforts. Georgetown professor Emilia Ferrara (COL ’10), a parishioner at Holy Trinity Catholic Church, shared her personal approval for the day as a member of the church and Georgetown community.
“I am exceedingly encouraged to see Holy Trinity not only welcome but embrace all the sheep in its flock, especially those who identify as LGBTQIA+,” Ferrara wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I could not imagine practicing my faith at a place that does not feel that LGBTQIA+ Catholics are just as vital a part of the body of Christ as anyone else.”
Talks of being more explicitly inclusive with the LGBTQ community have been going on since 2017 when Fr. James Martin, a vocal Jesuit author, came to the church to speak about the LGBTQ community’s role in the church, according to Gillespie. 
The “Day of Reflection” was led in part by the LGBTQIA+ ministry, made up of several church and staff members that have worked together this year to bring more awareness to the LGBTQ community. 
The success of the “Day of Reflection” shows its importance as a stepping stone for future discussion opportunities, according to Ferrara.  
 “Our first meeting was very successful, full of reflection and self-discovery, and I look forward to seeing the ways we empower our LGBTQIA+ members also enrich our parish as a whole,” Ferrara wrote.
The need to further increase support for the LGBTQ community came after the clergy sexual abuse crisis in 2018, which led to discussion of areas of improvement within the church, Gillespie wrote. 
“In June of 2018, prompted by the renewed clergy sexual abuse crisis, the parish began a Season of Discernment, one result of which was that parishioners identified a need for more LGBTQIA+ visibility and support,” Gillespie wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Having the parishioners voice a need for this visibility and support moved the staff to more actively engage the LGBTQIA+ members in conversation.” 
Since the event took place last Saturday, church members have expressed their approval of the event in the church more publicly and have explicitly shown their support for the LGBTQ community, according to Gillespie.
“Parishioners have pointed out that the LGBTQIA+ community is a part/has been a part of our faith community all along,” Gillespie wrote. “Parishioners have expressed support and happiness that Holy Trinity is making our commitment more visible.”
The church mentioned its plans to expand programming to facilitate discussion with members of the LGBTQ community in a May newsletter. In a column within the newsletter, Judith Brusseau, pastoral associate for religious education and faith formation at Holy Trinity, reaffirmed that LGBTQ individuals are a part of the universal church and the local parish and proposed that a ministry focused on the LGBTQ community can foster a vision of a more welcoming church.
Pastoral staff and involved church members have already begun thinking of how to further highlight the LGBTQ community’s contributions and needs through programming in the future, according to Brusseau.  
“Interested parishioners and parish ministers have begun exploring what other parishes are doing and discussing what activities and events might be appropriate to make the LGBTQIA+ community’s needs and gifts more present in our church community,” Brusseau wrote in the column.
 

Dr. Jan Hamilton says 
December 12, 2019 at 8:31 pm
I am seeking a spiritual mentor as I traverse the slippery slopes of a
“Conversion Therapy” case docketed from Aspen, Co. to the US Supreme Court.  It is my understanding that my Bishop Mariann Budde has a Jesuit spiritual mentor.  Thomas Keating was at St. Benedicts Monastery in Old Snowmass, Co. where I attended services and retreats.  Is there this kind of venue in Washington, DC?  If so, how can I be involved?  Dr. Jan Hamilton at [email protected].
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 20, 2019 by Grace Buono Leave a Comment 
The implementation of financial transaction taxes by the federal government would put a strain on savings and investment accounts of middle-income Americans, according to a paper written by Georgetown University professor James Angel published through the U.S. Chamber of Commerce on Monday.
Angel, an associate professor of finance in the McDonough School of Business, rebuked the idea of FTTs in a report partnered with the Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness. If adopted, FTTs would tax transactions on financial securities such as stocks, derivatives and bonds by imposing a small fee whenever someone buys or sells the security. The policy has been endorsed by some 2020 Democratic presidential candidates, including Sen. Bernie Sanders (D-Vt.) and Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.).
The proposed policy is misleading and would not achieve its stated purpose of raising revenue by taxing wealthy individuals, according to Angel.
“Financial transaction taxes are these ideas that sound great from a distance. You know, put a tiny tax on Wall Street, and we’ll generate huge amounts of money for all kinds of worthy purposes,” Angel said in an interview with The Hoya. “But when you look at them a lot closer, it turns out it’s a tax that really misfires.”
The implementation of FTTs would produce more losses than gains, and the Congressional Budget Office projects that a 0.1% FTT would lead to a $43.9 billion loss in revenue in its first year, according to the paper.
The U.S. has tried to implement these taxes in the past, with drastic consequences, according to Kathleen Ward, a senior manager for strategic communications at the Chamber.
“In 1914, the U.S. imposed an FTT and in 1932 it was doubled, sending the stock market to its lowest point in the Great Depression,” Ward wrote in an email to The Hoya.
FTTs aim to generate revenue that could go towards programs including free four-year public college, according to Sanders’ campaign website. Sanders, who has been vocal about his opposition to Wall Street, has proposed using FTTs as a way to tax wealthy individuals, arguing that the tax will raise $2.4 trillion over the next decade.
Sanders’ plan, however, would impact the finances of not only the ultrarich but also average people’s savings and retirement funds, according to Angel.
“If you look at the average mutual fund turnover, apply the tax to that,” Angel said. “What you find happening is that worker is going to see by the time they retire, they’ve got $20,000 less in their IRA, that’s 8.5% less of their entire retirement savings gone to the tax.”
The tax on investments will affect not only businesses and individuals, but finances on a state and local level, according to the paper.
“The FTTs collected on the trading of the over one million outstanding municipal issues will be offset by the higher rates that municipal issuers will have to pay to access the credit markets,” the Chamber’s paper argues. “Every state, city, town, school, and water and sewer district is affected. Indeed, every person in the United States is affected.”
For the average Georgetown student, if a policy similar to Sanders’ were to be implemented, they would see sizable changes in their retirement savings, according to Angel. 
“When you go to retire, your nest egg will be 8.5% smaller than it might otherwise be,” Angel said. “In other words, you might have to work an additional year or two to get the same retirement income.”
As an alternative to FTTs, the government should implement policies that can generate revenue in a sustainable way, according to Angel.
“I think we should tax things we want to get rid of — like carbon dioxide pollution,” Angel said. “There are a lot of things we can do that will improve our health, raise needed funds and won’t screw up the economy at the same time.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 20, 2019 by Connor Thomas Leave a Comment 
Twenty staffers were abruptly laid off from The Washington Post’s free commuter paper Express when the tabloid permanently ceased production Sept. 12. 
The paper laid off the Express staffers with little prior notice when Executive Editor Dan Caccavaro called an unplanned meeting of the whole Express staff Wednesday, Sept. 11, to announce for the first time that the paper would be closing the next day. Included in the meeting were Washington Post Human Resources Vice President Wayne Connell, HR Director Jennifer Legat and Managing Editor Tracy Grant, according to one staffer who requested anonymity. 
The Post shuttered Express because it was not making the company enough money to sustain its production, according to the anonymous staffer.
“Basically they told us they’ve decided to shut Express down. They said that it was a financial decision, and that that day, Wednesday, was our last day,” the Express staffer said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “So, the article, the press release that they had, they went up while we were in that meeting which was kind of crappy.”
Express, which had been running as a subsection of The Post for 16 years, served Metro commuters across Washington, D.C. Commuters will miss the Express and the more than 70 people that were employed to pass it out to Metro riders each morning. District residents have been using GoFundMe to raise money for the distributors, who received no severance or advanced notice about their termination.
The goal of the fundraiser is to express support for the Express distributors, who were similarly caught off guard by the paper’s sudden end, according to the page.
“In order to help these kind-hearted individuals who brightened the day of thousands of commuters for many years, we would love to see the greater community come together and offer support in order to keep them on their feet while they look for new opportunities,” the GoFundMe reads.
Laid off staffers have received an outpouring of support from the community, many of whom say Express was a staple part of Washingtonians’ commutes on the Metro, according to the staffer.
“I loved working at Express because it was a part of people’s daily routines, and I loved seeing people on the Metro reading it and getting emails from readers whenever they would catch us in a correction,” the staffer said. “I loved — didn’t love getting corrections — but I loved seeing how invested our readers were and that if we did some small little thing they would always notice it.”
Though The Post did not give them prior notice of their firing, staffers did receive severance, and The Post’s union, The Washington Post Guild, has provided support, according to the staffer.
“We got a pretty decent severance package, so I don’t think any of us feel in imminent economic trouble,” they said. “But also the guild has done a really good job of sharing us.”
The Washington Post Guild condemned the shutdown and layoffs in a tweet that same day and petitioned The Post on Sept. 16 to rehire the staffers in other departments. Employees who are members of the guild receive preferential hiring at The Post when it hires for other positions, but this privilege does not automatically extend to Express staffers, who were excluded from the paper’s union agreement, according to a statement released by the guild.
“They were excluded from a union contract that would have protected them only by legal and bureaucratic fictions that labeled them a different entity within our company, though Post Express and The Washington Post are both owned by Jeff Bezos, the richest person in the world,” the statement said.
Express distributor Hassan Nezhadessivandi learned about the closure Thursday, the day of the last issue, from reading the news online rather than from his supervisors at The Post. 
Distributors established close ties with the commuters they served, according to Nezhadessivandi.
“It was a good job because I was interacting with people, and people who are nice,” he said in an interview with The Hoya. “But it affected me because I don’t get to see those people any more, and second, I’m out of a job. I don’t have money.”
The lack of notice by The Post has put him in financial jeopardy as distributors did not receive the same severance package, Nezhadessivandi said.
“It happened at a time when I was trying to catch up on my expenses because I have so many bills to pay,” he said.
Members of the community posted a GoFundMe on Sept. 12 to help support him, and it has already raised over 11,000 dollars, surpassing its 5,000 dollar goal. One commuter posted a sign at a Metro entrance thanking Nezhadessivandi and encouraged other riders to donate to his GoFundMe page.
The Express’ closure reflects a larger trend of print news publications struggling and shutting down across the country with weekday print circulation of newspapers in the United States decreasing by 12% between 2017 and 2018, according to the Pew Research Center. In light of this trend, the closure of Express is saddening, but not surprising, according to Georgetown University journalism professor Ann Oldenburg.
“I’m not surprised to hear that it’s closing up shop, but I am a little sad about it, just as I’m sad to see the size of many print newspapers shrinking and many local news publications suffering in cities across the country,” Oldenburg wrote in an email to The Hoya. “As we all turn to our phones for information, print just doesn’t seem a viable option. The cover of the last issue of Express lets us know that.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 20, 2019 by Margie Cullen Leave a Comment 
The new Georgetown Capital One Café will hold its grand opening on the SE corner of M Street and Wisconsin Avenue on Saturday, Sept. 28. The cafe will serve as a space to blend banking, coffee shop and communal working space concepts.
The Georgetown location is the second Capital One Café in Washington, D.C., following the opening of one in Chinatown in 2018. The banking company purchased the space for $50.2 million, according to The Georgetowner. 
The first cafe is one of 38 located in the United States and aims to attract a younger set of customers in appealing to Georgetown students, according to Capital One spokesperson Patrica Winston. 
“The Cafés hum with community events, are frequented by local students looking for a place to study and neighborhood associations hosting networking and development events that give other members of the community the opportunity to grow and prosper,” Winston wrote.
Despite the grand opening taking place at the end of the month, the cafe has been open to the public for business since Aug. 28, and is located only six blocks from Georgetown’s campus.
The cafes intend to combine a workspace with the opportunity for financial education, according to Winston.
“Our Capital One Cafés are intentionally designed to empower people to feel more confident in their relationship with money,” she wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Part of the cafe experience is also focused on helping people stress-less through programs and information to help make their lives easier.”
The cafe has many aspects of a normal Capital One bank, including ATMs and associates prepared to help customers. Cafe locations, however, also include special additions that go beyond a traditional bank, such as a money coach, touch screen information panel and events like money workshops and all-day coffee happy hours. 
Besides operating as a fully functioning bank, the cafe serves Peet’s coffee, with baristas and a menu featuring espresso and other caffeinated drinks. Past the bar, the cafe provides study spaces on all three of its levels. 
The location now offers another spacious study spots in Georgetown, according to Colin Petzold (MSB ’20), a Georgetown student who has studied in one of the private spaces in the cafe.
“I like the fact that it has these study rooms — upstairs, downstairs, you can usually find a good place to study,” said Petzold. “There’s more space than Peet’s and Starbucks.”
At Capital One’s Chinatown cafe, customers have focused more on working and buying coffee than on banking, according to Washington Business Journal. Most patrons spent time working on their computers instead of talking to the bankers, which Capital One calls “ambassadors.”
The Georgetown Capital One Café, similar to other locations for the company, will also be a community driven through its choice of partnerships, including Baked & Wired, Bullfrog Bagels and Good Company Doughnuts, according to Winston. The location also plans to enlist local artists to provide the decorative artwork and furniture for the cafe.
Georgetown University Alumni and Student Federal Credit Union leadership does not expect Capital One Café to draw customers away from the on-campus bank, according to GUASFCU CEO Kuran Malhotra (MSB ’20). 
“GUASFCU is confident that its businesses will remain strong here on campus,” Malhotra wrote in an email to The Hoya “GUASFCU does remain the only full service branch on campus, and offers tailored services to Georgetown students, alumni, and their families that can only come from a not-for-profit financial institution like ours.” 
While the location may not become everyone’s new bank, the Capital One Café can act as the next hot study spot when other established places are filled, Petzfold said.
“One of these has been open every time I’ve come,” Petzold said. “I’d say in terms of coffee shops it’s probably one of the best places to study.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 20, 2019 by Connor Thomas Leave a Comment 
Bid2Ride, a new ride-share comparison app that allows users to place bids on prices for ride-share options, launched its flagship service in Washington, D.C., on Sept. 17 despite lacking an application to operate through the D.C. Department of For-Hire Vehicles.
Bid2Ride lets riders set a destination and shows them the average cost of a ride to that location across various apps. Riders then “bid” a price that they want to pay and drivers from different ride-hail apps can choose to accept or reject the bids. If a rider’s bid is not accepted, they can continue to bid or view a list of the cheapest rides to their destination from Uber, Lyft and other local ride-hail apps. 
The app launched in various mobile app stores with availability in the District first but plans to expand to other major cities at a future date, following the anticipated approval of its application to operate.
Bid2Ride could help cut costs for Georgetown University students if the bidding system works as promised, according to Ellie Farrell (COL ’22), who uses Uber and Lyft frequently to travel around D.C..
“For college students, it sounds like a great way to save money and take control over the sometimes crazy pricing of these apps,” she said.
The company says that the bidding process ensures riders will pay the least amount of money possible. The app launched with over 1,000 participating D.C. drivers, according to Mashable.
While DFHV has jurisdiction over ride-sharing in the District, Bid2Ride’s application to operate as a digital dispatch service is technically still under review, according to DFHV. 
In order to operate a DDS, companies like Bid2Ride must complete an application with DFHV, according to DFHV spokesperson Neville Waters.
“Bid2Ride’s application is still under review by DFHV,” Waters wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Thus, the company does not currently have operating authority.”
Companies applying for a DDS permit must submit an application fee, a surety bond of $250,000 and a link to their website and screenshots showing the method of fare calculation and rates and fees charged, among other documents, according to Waters.
The District continues to back ride-share startups, according to DFHV Agency Director David Do.
“The Bowser Administration supports innovation in the for-hire ride services industry,” Do wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The District is known as a leader in leveraging new technologies and platforms to ensure our residents and visitors have access to safe, accessible and affordable transportation options.”
Ride-share apps have transformed transit in D.C., with ride sharing apps and scooters becoming more and more utilized and taxicabs less so. Skip Scooters resumed operations in D.C. this month after safety concerns about their scooters spontaneously combusting caused District Department of Transportation to suspend Skip’s permit in June. Lime recalled thousands of scooters in 2018 because of similar fire safety concerns.
Capital Bikeshare, whose parent company is Lyft, recalled its electric pedal assist bikes in April after faulty brakes caused riders traveling at high speeds to fall over the front of their handlebars. The bikes are expected to return to D.C. streets at an undisclosed date this fall, according to WTOP. 
Bid2Ride has the potential to succeed in a crowded ride-share market, according to Farrell as a potential user of the app, but she is not without her reservations.
“Although it sounds like a great idea, I’d feel pressure to bid higher to ensure a ride, especially if I’m in a rush. Being given a price makes the process less complicated,” Farrell said. “I wouldn’t be opposed to trying it out, but it would be on casual terms first.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

