
September 4, 2019 by Myroslav Leave a Comment 
The School of Nursing and Health Studies appointed Carole Roan Gresenz as interim dean while the university begins its search for a permanent dean of the NHS.
University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95) announced that Gresenz began as interim dean at the start of September in an email to the Georgetown University community Tuesday. DeGioia praised Gresenz’s distinguished career and commitment to the university’s values as an NHS professor and senior associate dean.
“Throughout her time with our University, Carole has demonstrated an exemplary level of commitment and care on behalf of our Georgetown community,” DeGioia wrote in the email. “I am deeply grateful to Carole for assuming this important role as we begin our process to identify permanent leadership for the School of Nursing and Health Studies.”
For the upcoming academic year, Gresenz has three primary goals for advancing the NHS: supporting educational programs, strengthening research opportunities for faculty and students, and taking part in the university’s Health Sciences Strategy Initiative, she said in a university news release. 
“What I’m most looking forward to is strategizing about the ways that Georgetown, in general, and NHS, in particular, can increasingly contribute to the complex and important issues surrounding health and health care in the U.S and globally, both through the education of our students and the work of our faculty,” Gresenz wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Gresenz, who began her interim term at the start of September, is a tenured full professor in the school’s department of health systems administration. She joined Georgetown’s faculty for the first time in 2012, holding the Bette Jacobs Endowed Professorship and became a senior associate dean in 2018. Before Gresenz began working at Georgetown, she was a researcher at a public policy think tank. Research is critical for students and faculty in the NHS and advancing those opportunities is one of her aims as interim dean, she wrote. 
“What I love about research is simple—it is the idea of asking questions about the world—and in my case, about health and health care primarily; identifying ways to answer those questions; and then working on disseminating findings appropriately so that the knowledge can be used to improve peoples’ lives,” Gresenz wrote. 
Gresenz succeeds Patricia Cloonan, who stepped down after serving as dean for five years. Cloonan was appointed as dean of the NHS in September 2016 after acting as interim dean from 2014 onward. 
The university intends to initiate its search for a permanent dean this fall and make a selection in time for the 2020-21 academic year, Gresenz wrote.  
Cloonan strengthened the undergraduate and graduate programs in the NHS and advanced the university’s commitment to academic excellence, according to DeGioia.
“I wish to again express my deepest gratitude to our colleague, Patricia Cloonan, Ph.D., RN, for her service as Dean and steadfast leadership of NHS over the past five years, and for her continued contributions to our community,” Degioia wrote. 
To supplement the NHS’ leadership team, professor Pablo Irusta will also become associate dean of the NHS in addition to his role as chair of the department of human science, according to the news release. Patricia Grady (NHS ’67), director emerita of the National Institute of Nursing Research, will join as a senior advisor for nursing in the office of the dean, supporting the department chairs and helping supervise programs in the NHS.
Leading the NHS is an exciting opportunity that requires a commitment to collaboration across areas of study, Gresenz wrote. 
“We are uniquely positioned to contribute to the interdisciplinary education of students and to interdisciplinary research in health sciences,” Gresenz wrote. “NHS is a gem of Georgetown.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 4, 2019 by Dustin Hartuv Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University began a search for candidates to work as the librarian for collections on slavery, memory and reconciliation, a position established to support the university’s engagement with its historical role in the institution of slavery.
The librarian will work with individuals and organizations at Georgetown and other institutions to address contemporary issues about the effects of slavery, according to the online job posting. The job position comes several months after 66.1% of students voted “yes” to the GU272 referendum, which called for Georgetown administrators to add a $27.20 semesterly fee to students’ tuition and had a 57.9 percent turnout. The fee would benefit the descendants of the GU272, 272 enslaved people sold by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus in 1838 to provide financial support for the university.
Despite the early August job posting, the university is still at the beginning of its search for candidates for the position, according to Meg Oakley (LAW ’87), acting associate Georgetown University librarian for scholarly resources and services. 
“The idea for this position was formed several years ago as the Library was exploring how we could best support the initiatives identified in the Report of the Working Group on Slavery, Memory, and Reconciliation,” Oakley wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The search is in the early stages, so we are still collecting resumes.”
The Working Group on Slavery, Memory, and Reconciliation was formed in fall 2015 by the university to facilitate dialogue in the Georgetown community about the legacies of slavery and to outline recommendations for future university efforts, according to the group’s website. In the summer of 2016, the working group submitted its report and list of recommendations, including strengthening Georgetown’s library and special collections on genealogical work and racial justice, according to University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95).
The search for the librarian also demonstrates the university’s aim to solidify its commitment to descendants of the GU272, according to Elsa Barraza Mendoza, assistant curator of the Georgetown Slavery Archive and sixth-year doctoral student.
“I think this hire shows the university’s intention to institutionalize its work on slavery and racial justice,” Mendoza wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Hopefully, once the college hires someone, they will introduce them to students, the GU272 descendant community, and faculty. Collaboration is essential for this job.”
The job posting for the librarian, which was first listed in August, outlines the importance of outreach between the librarian and Georgetown students, faculty and those who may be descendants of the enslaved people owned by Georgetown. 
“The incumbent also collaborates with individuals, departments, and centers to address contemporary issues related to the legacies of slavery, such as our nation’s system of mass incarceration, unlawful discrimination, unfair housing, unemployment, workers’ rights, and health disparities,” the job posting said.
The librarian will support current initiatives as well as develop new programs to assist the university’s acknowledgment of Georgetown’s historical role in the institution of slavery, according to Oakley.
 “The Librarian will also work with others to expand our collections, foster relationships and collaborate with the wider community of universities, libraries, and archives that support the study of slavery,” Oakley wrote.
Qualified candidates for the position must have a master’s degree in library science from an institution accredited by the American Library Association and be knowledgeable about African American history, according to the posting. 
The university’s board of directors also discussed the results of the referendum earlier this summer. At its June meeting, the board of directors demonstrated a willingness to discuss the referendum’s results, but did not hold a vote on whether to implement the fee that was proposed in the referendum. Students for GU272 also released a Facebook statement in August detailing the questions raised by the university’s board of directors.
During the summer of 2019, the GU272 advocacy team met with Georgetown administrators to discuss the referendum’s results and consider its implementation, according to an Aug. 25 Facebook post. 
“While university administrators have repeatedly articulated their commitment to continued dialogue, they have failed to clarify tangible steps forward,” the GU272 advocacy team wrote in the post. “This measure was democratically voted on and approved by the student body, and we as students must continue to hold the administration responsible for implementing the referendum in a timely manner.”
The article was updated on Sept. 4 to include context on the voter turnout for the GU272 referendum.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

