
October 23, 2019 by Giulia Testa Leave a Comment 
The A. James & Alice B. Clark Foundation donated $12.2 million to the McDonough School of Business to support scholarships and collaboration with local educational programs, Georgetown University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95) announced in an email to the community Oct. 16.
The foundation’s donation will go towards expanding undergraduate need-based scholarships, strengthening education in real estate and providing leadership education in partnership with District of Columbia Public Schools and Public Charter Schools, according to a university news release. 
The Clark Foundation is a family foundation named after A. James Clark, a real estate executive whose firm designed many Washington, D.C. landmarks, such as the Smithsonian Institution’s National Museum of the American Indian and Nationals Park, as well as the Southwest Quadrangle buildings on campus.
The new financial support will enable the MSB to expand programs that are central to the school’s goals, according to MSB Dean Paul Almeida.
“The Clark Foundation funding addresses three key areas of importance for the McDonough School of Business — undergraduate scholarships, academic excellence, and leveraging our expertise as a world-class business school to make a difference in our community,” Almeida wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The Clark Foundation will invest $3.5 million to expand the Robert J. & Elizabeth Flanagan Family Endowed Scholarship Fund, a fund for undergraduate scholarships.
Broadening the Flanagan Family fund will increase the MSB’s ability to support individuals in need of financial aid, according to a university spokesperson.
“These funds are critical to the university’s ongoing priority of making a Georgetown education accessible to talented students with financial need,” the university spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
The MSB hopes to ensure that financial need does not restrict students from attending Georgetown, according to Almeida.
“At Georgetown, we believe a world-class education should be accessible to everyone regardless of their financial circumstances,” Almeida wrote. “I have met so many successful alumni—many of whom are the chief executives in their organization—who share that they could not have attended Georgetown without the financial support we offer as a need-blind institution.”
The Clark Foundation will invest $6 million to establish the A. James Clark Endowed Chair in Global Real Estate at the Georgetown University Steers Center for Global Real Estate, an initiative launched in 2015 to strengthen real estate education, according to a university spokesperson. 
The establishment of the endowed chair in global real estate will strengthen the global aspect of the Steers Center, according to professor Matthew Cypher, director of the Steers Center.
“The goal of the Steers Center is to build a globally pre-eminent real estate program so the A. James Clark Endowed Chair in Global Real Estate is another huge step in that direction,” Cypher wrote in an email to The Hoya. “This center is now directly tied to Robert Steers and Mr. Clark who are global figures that have meaningfully influenced real estate and the built environment over their careers.”
The donation to the real estate program will also allow the MSB to expand its real estate faculty, providing students with more opportunities, Almeida said.
“Part of what makes the Georgetown experience so transformational for our students is our ability to attract the best professors to the school,” Almeida said. “Having an endowed chair allows us to offer more opportunities to our students.”
The Clark Foundation is also investing $2.7 million to support the participation of DCPS and Public Charter School principals in the MSB’s Executive Master’s in Leadership program, a program for working professionals aimed at teaching effective leadership behaviors, the university spokesperson wrote.
The donation to the EML program helps develop future leaders in D.C. schools, according to professor Robert Bies, founder of the EML program.
“The generous support of the A. James & Alice B. Clark Foundation is so critical to the mission of this program—bringing together DCPS and Public Charter School leaders to deepen and broaden their capacity to lead their schools and make a difference in the lives of young people in Washington, DC,” Bies wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We are so blessed to have the Clark Foundation support—and so are the school leaders and the students that they serve.”
Part of the MSB’s responsibility as a leading business school is to change the world through teaching others, which is one of its priorities in utilizing this donation, according to Almeida.
“As one of the world’s best business schools, Georgetown McDonough seeks ways to impact the world through our ability to teach others,” Almeida said. “I can think of no better way to impact our D.C. community than working with the public schools to strengthen the leadership and innovation skills of their principals and administrators.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 23, 2019 by Hansen Lian 3 Comments 
Scientific evidence supports a moral opposition to abortion and contraceptives, anti-abortion activists said at the third annual Lives Worthy of Respect Panel on Oct. 18.
The Lives Worthy of Respect Panel was hosted in Dahlgren Chapel by Georgetown University Right to Life and co-sponsored by the Edmund D. Pellegrino Center For Clinical Bioethics, Catholic Ministry, the Knights of Columbus, Catholic Women at Georgetown and the Cardinal O’Connor Conference on Life. The event occurred during Respect Life Month, a month dedicated by the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops to celebrating life from conception to natural death. 
Wilton Gregory, Archbishop of Washington, D.C., delivered the event’s opening remarks and previewed this year’s panel theme: “To be Pro-Life is to be Pro-Science.”
“At the heart of this evening, the world of science is not opposed to the world of faith, nor is the world of faith opposed to the world of science,” Gregory said.
The main event featured three Catholic panelists including Sister Grace Miriam Usala (MED ’16), RSM; Dr. Marguerite Duane, adjunct associate professor of family medicine at Georgetown and board-certified family physician; and Maureen Condic, an associate professor of human embryology at the University of Utah who was appointed to the National Science Board, a scientific advisory body, by President Donald Trump in November 2018. Director of the Pellegrino Center Dr. G. Kevin Donovan, a professor of pediatrics at Georgetown, moderated the event. 
Science does not acknowledge a fetus’s humanity, allowing proponents of abortion rights to justify the practice, according to Donovan.
“The discussion of a baby in a mother’s womb being aborted, once considered unthinkable, is now tolerable as long as the embryo is not thought of as a human person,” Donovan said. “This perspective sought justification in both a philosophy of personhood and a science of biology that did not recognize the embryo or fetus as a fully human person.”
Society has conditioned women to think pregnancy is a problem they should prevent through contraceptives instead of embracing life created during pregnancy, according to Duane. 
Abortion can be compared to racial discrimination, Usala said. Fetuses are considered inhuman on the basis of age in the same way black Americans were considered inhuman for their race, she said. 
“What makes someone less human? So we used to think that black people were less human because of their skin color,” Usala said. “So now do we think embryos as not being human because they’re younger? That’s the same logic that a man and a woman can both express, and I’m sorry you’re offended by that, but I’m using logic.”
Several anti-abortion activists and politicians, including Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), believe in exceptions in the case of rape, incest and to save the life of the mother. However, fetuses resulting from cases of rape are innocent and therefore should not be aborted, according to Duane. 
“The victim is the woman and the criminal is the rapist, and if a child should result from the act, the unborn child is innocent,” Duane said. “Is killing her child undoing the rape? No — it is another form of physical violence that will only hurt her further.”
The panelists agreed the scientific community unfairly criticizes their credibility because of their commitment to their anti-abortion beliefs. While Condic did not expect much support from professional colleagues, she wasn’t prepared for the pushback she received when she shared her anti-abortion views, she said.
“I was astonished at how unsupportive they were, how blatantly antagonistic and hostile they were.” Condic said. “At no point was it ever a religious argument. It was simply a factual argument, and yet, because the facts only support a conclusion that is consistent with the teachings of the Church, it was interpreted as religious proselytizing, that somehow I was bending facts.”

Jim says 
October 27, 2019 at 5:20 pm
Anti-abortion huh? Not pro-life? I’ll bet the Hoya has no problem calling pro-abortion activists pro-choice? What drivel.

Hoya says 
October 27, 2019 at 6:06 pm
First, in the entire article, nothing is mentioned on how science and religion agree that a fetus is a human other than the claim itself. The fact is that science does not make claims regarding morals. Just as science does not say that it is moral to wave to your neighbor, it does not say that it is moral to or not to have an abortion. Instead, science tells us facts about the world that cannot be debated. The event is merely a veneer to try to convince abortion supporters that anti-abortion activists are not the same crazy people who imprisoned Galileo for saying that the Earth was not the center of the universe. 
“So we used to think that black people were less human because of their skin color… So now do we think embryos as not being human because they’re younger? That’s the same logic that a man and a woman can both express, and I’m sorry you’re offended by that, but I’m using logic.” 
There are so many things wrong about this argument. Let me count the ways.
1. Yes, it is perfectly reasonable to treat people (assuming fetuses are people) differently based on their age. That is why an infant cannot vote, make contracts, drive a car, marry one another, and a whole host of other restrictions. 
2. Your “logic” assumes that age = race in order for your argument that treating people differently based on age is just as wrong as slavery. But, no reasonable person would agree to that claim. First, race is something permanent that you are born into forever. Age is something that increases over time. Second, there is about as much relation between age and race in being human as there is between the color of my shoes and how old they are in determining their “shoe-ness”: none. I can have a brand new pair of red shoes and a 10-year old pair of red shoes; both are shoes regardless of age or race. 
3. There is a difference between treating blacks as inferior and treating fetuses as non-human. Moral questions aside, no one ever in the history of time seriously questioned that blacks were not human, but rather believed that they were less than the white race. So your logical argument does not sync. 
On the general topic of abortion, it is interesting how religious activists often compare it to slavery and racial discrimination. This is so because during the abolitionist and civil rights movement in the 1960s, churches largely stepped to the side and preferred to stay out of the debate or outright oppose it. Of course, some churches, primarily attended by blacks and a small minority of then-radical whites supported these movements. But, that was not the trend. Read MLK’s Letter from Birmingham Jail, for example, which is ADDRESSED to white clergymen. So it’s not like the Church has any real moral footing to say “we said slavery was wrong then, that’s why you should believe us now that abortion is just as bad.”

Jacob Adams says 
October 27, 2019 at 8:26 pm
I would prefer they say “pro-life activists” in the headline.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

