
March 15, 2019 by Will Cassou 4 Comments 
Fr. Daniel C. O’Connell, S.J., once a popular professor in the Missouri Province of the Society of Jesus, was removed from his position as president of St. Louis University in 1978 after an allegation of sexual abuse. His work at Jesuit universities, however, continued for another 20 years, bringing him to Loyola University Chicago and Georgetown University, which only began the process of revoking his title of professor emeritus of psychology this week.
Though notified of credible allegations against O’Connell in 2009, Georgetown University did not decide to rescind O’Connell’s professor emeritus title until Wednesday, eight days after receiving questions from The Hoya for this story.
Now 90, O’Connell served as a chaplain-in-residence in Harbin Hall and taught undergraduate psychology courses at Georgetown between 1989 and 1998, serving as chair of the psychology department for six of those years, according to university archival material. After leaving the university in 1998, he was granted professor emeritus status, a title he held for 16 years after his first legal settlement with a survivor of his abuse.
Two women have settled cases with the Catholic Church regarding O’Connell’s sexual abuse, and a third has publicly accused him of sexual assault. Both cases have been acknowledged publicly by other Jesuit institutions where O’Connell worked — St. Louis University and Fordham University, the latter of which banned him from campus.
O’Connell now lives in the St. Louis University Jesuit Community, according to current Jesuit catalogues.
The university has not issued any public statement regarding O’Connell’s abuse since details of his first private settlement with a survivor of his abuse were made public in 2010.
Hiding in Plain Sight
While accompanying study abroad students on a weekend retreat to Rome in 1983, O’Connell offered a drink to a student from College of the Holy Cross. From that point forward, Jane Doe M.B. has no recollection of that evening until she regained consciousness on a bed the next morning to find O’Connell getting dressed beside her. After suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, she settled privately with the Catholic Church 20 years later, The New York Times reported in 2010 after she alleged O’Connell violated that settlement.
The woman, referred to in the 2010 lawsuit as Jane Doe M.B., first brought her accusations to the Missouri Province in 2003. The province found Jane Doe M.B.’s allegations credible, and that year she settled for $181,000 with the Missouri Province, which has since been absorbed into the U.S. Central and Southern Province.
O’Connell’s 1978 resignation from SLU was prompted by an allegation of sexual abuse, he said in a phone interview with The Hoya, his first interview since his two cases were settled. After his resignation, he was transferred to Loyola University Chicago. Jane Doe M.B. alleges she was abused while O’Connell was working on Loyola Chicago’s Rome campus.
“There was an allegation of sexual abuse,” O’Connell said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “That was the allegation. So they removed me to avoid publicity.”
When asked for a comment on allegations against him, O’Connell said “there’s no guilt involved,” and laughed. 
Another survivor, referred to in a 2012 lawsuit as Jane Doe 929, accused O’Connell of sexually assaulting her in the 1960s while he was teaching at St. Louis University. Four years after filing suit, Jane Doe 929 reached a settlement for $200,000 in 2016, paid for by SLU and the Missouri Province.
Both cases brought public attention to O’Connell’s abuse, including coverage from The New York Times in 2010 and the advocacy group Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests in 2016. Despite the high-profile nature of the cases, Georgetown allowed O’Connell to maintain his professor emeritus status, without publicly acknowledging the settlements or media reporting, until March 2019.
O’Connell has published research under Georgetown’s name as recently as 2016 and is currently working on a project for which he planned to credit the university as of his March 13 interview.
“I always give the credit to Georgetown. Because my status is official emeritus from Georgetown University, so it has to be the official status that is noted for the author,” O’Connell said. “Right now we’re working on an article on dialogue and one on laughter, the nature of laughter.”
O’Connell’s association with Georgetown after details of the settlement became publicly available is made more disturbing by his past work teaching students who may become therapists or psychologists, according to Rebecca Randles, who represented both Jane Doe M.B. and Jane Doe 929 in their suits against the Jesuits.
“To maintain him as a professor emeritus at a university where you’re trying to teach students appropriate and ethical behaviors as a practicing therapist is beyond unbelievable,” Randles said in a phone interview with The Hoya.
‘The Lying Has to Stop’
After learning O’Connell had been allowed to lecture at Georgetown and Fordham, as well as perform Mass in Germany and St. Louis, Jane Doe M.B. sued the Central and Southern Province. The 2010 lawsuit, settled in 2016, was the first ever breach of contract case related to the Catholic Church’s abuse crisis.
In addition to restricting O’Connell’s ability to perform public ministry, Jane Doe M.B.’s settlement forbade him from entering environments in which he could establish an individual relationship with a woman.
The Jesuits also permitted O’Connell to visit Georgetown and Fordham without informing the schools’ administrations of the credible allegation of abuse against him. The order has argued the lectures did not violate the settlement because he would not have enough time to form a relationship with female students at the universities, according to Randles. The Central and Southern Province declined to comment to The Hoya.
After discovering O’Connell’s campus lectures at Georgetown and Fordham, Jane Doe M.B. wrote letters to the presidents of both universities in 2009. Fordham responded by banning O’Connell from its campus, Fordham’s assistant vice president for communications Bob Howe wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Georgetown received a notification in 2009 of allegations against O’Connell, a spokesperson confirmed in a March 13 email to The Hoya.
Only one other suit for violations of private settlements over clerical abuse was filed in 2011. Breach of contract cases allow the usually private details of church settlements to be disclosed publicly.
Beginning in 2009, Jane Doe M.B. documented her journey to court on a personal blog after her revelations about alleged violations of her settlement. The suit was not simply about personal healing, but larger systemic injustices within the church, Jane Doe M.B. wrote on her blog.
“Jesuits — along with Catholic hierarchy — will talk about and expose the lies of others, but not look at their own actions unless they are caught and exposed,”  Jane Doe M.B. wrote. “It’s no fun, any of this, and the cost on me is huge … but the lying has to stop, and I will make sure of that.”
Patterns of Abuse Emerge
Jane Doe 929, now nearly 70, filed her 2012 suit against the Missouri Province after reading details of Jane Doe M.B.’s lawsuit in a New York Times article, which triggered repressed memories of O’Connell’s abuse, according to Randles.
During counselling sessions between 1967 and 1971, O’Connell, then an SLU professor, made Jane Doe 929 sit on his lap while he masturbated and said sex would bring her closer to God, according to the Riverfront Times, a St. Louis newspaper.
Inspired by Christine Blasey Ford, who testified that Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh sexually assaulted her in a hearing for his confirmation to the Supreme Court, a third survivor brought another public allegation against O’Connell in October 2018.
O’Connell recommended Virginia Boller, now 75, see him for one-on-one counselling in 1973 and during sessions invited her to sit on his lap while he rocked back and forth in a rocking chair. The abuse continued until he was named president of SLU in 1974.
As a chaplain-in-residence and chair of the psychology department at Georgetown, O’Connell had regular access to students in search of counselling.
Abusive priests often take advantage of those seeking their advice, according to David Pooler, a professor at Baylor University researching clerical abuse of adults.

“In my research, about 60 percent of the time, this kind of abuse occurs in a counselling relationship,” Pooler said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “It’s these really highly intensive interactions with people where some of the leaders end up exploiting people.”
If you would like to share any information regarding this investigation, please contact The Hoya at [email protected] or through any methods described here. Campus, local and national resources for processing this content can be found here.

Special to The Hoya

TIG says 
June 17, 2019 at 5:18 pm
Why don’t we ask what is wrong w these woman that they didn’t use the grey matter God gave them. If a counselor had asked me to sit in his lap I would have walked out and reported him right then NOT 40 years later! And 929 went along with it for FOUR years. Come on give me a break.
Looks like a good way to hit the lottery to me. BTW I am a 70 yr old woman. I have NO respect for women who make these claims DECADES after the supposed event. Either it never happened or you were stupid beyond comprehension and worse an incredible coward not to report it & deal w it then and prevent future occurences.

Jane Doe M.B. says 
July 29, 2019 at 8:46 am
TIG, your facts are wrong.
I was drugged and sexually assaulted by Daniel O’Connell when I was 20.  I first reported it when I was 20.  I reported it many times later and I was believed every time.
in 2009, I contacted the presidents of Georgetown and Fordham when I learned O’Connell had been teaching there in violation of a legal agreement and contract with me.   Fordham’s president wrote back immediately and said O’Connell would never teach at their university again.  But months later, O’Connell was scheduled to teach at Fordham AGAIN, so I contacted Fordham’s president again.  He yelled at the Jesuit provincial for poor supervision and banned O’Connell from campus for life.
Georgetown never responded to me.  I specifically asked why he had emeritus status.   Nothing happened.  No reply.   It took ten years for something to happen.  It took questions from the Hoya, and I’m grateful they made the effort.
Why did I write in reply to you when you say you have no respect for me?  It’s simple.    The truth matters.
Jane Doe M.B.

Mary says 
May 3, 2022 at 10:46 am
Dear Jane Doe,
It’s 2022 and I’m just now reading this article. I’m so sorry for the abuse you suffered. First by O’Connell then AGAIN by the church and other religious organizations that tried to cover up for him to save their own reputations. I believe you.
I’m glad you responded to TIG. When I read comments like hers, I am first stunned, then angry, that anyone would blame the victim. It’s so wrong.

Tim Lennon says 
July 29, 2019 at 1:01 pm
Tragically those victims who seek counsel when vulnerable and troubled are victimized and exploited by gross abuse of power.  
Many, like myself, bury these horrific memories for decades as they are so painful and horrific. 
It is not unusual for victims to take decades to come forward and tell their story.  
https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-compassion-chronicles/201809/stop-shaming-victims-sexual-assault-not-reporting
Three victims of the same predator. Church honors him with emeritus status, typical of the Catholic church continuing of hiding accused predators like O’Connell.
If you have been sexually abused, please contact the police or SNAP or RAINN.org
Tim Lennon, Survivors Network of those Abuse by Priests, SNAP
[email protected]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Riley Rogerson 3 Comments 
“We have a nightmarish fear that Father Walsh may sexually molest innocent female students, and little girls in the Georgetown area.”
Sarah Lynne Landsdale was 5 years old when her uncle, Fr. William J. Walsh, S.J., first molested her while wearing his clerical clothing. Approximately 40 years later, in 1996, she and four of her sisters told the Maryland Province that Walsh had abused each of them hundreds of times. And two years later, in 1998, she and her sisters called a press conference to plead for their uncle’s removal from Georgetown University’s campus.
Walsh, who served as a Georgetown professor during the 1966-67 school year and conducted research on campus from 1996 until 1998, sexually abused minors in at least four locations — including Washington, D.C. — over the course of four decades, according to a December 2018 report issued by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus that deemed allegations against him credible.
Among the survivors of Walsh’s sexual abuse are five of his nieces, who brought their allegations to the province in July 1996 while he was working in China. The province removed Walsh from the ministry that year, prohibiting him from saying Mass and transferred him to the Woodstock Theological Center, a Jesuit-run research facility in Ida Ryan Hall on campus, where he worked until 1998.
From the 1940s through the 1960s, Walsh, who died in December, abused each of the five sisters hundreds of times after their father passed away when they were between ages 6 and 14, according to public statements the sisters made in 1998.
Walsh researched theology as an administrative assistant at Woodstock from 1996 to 1998. During this time period, he lived in the Woodstock Residential Community, two blocks from Georgetown’s front gates.
Walsh also underwent a treatment program while working at Woodstock, according to a Maryland Province statement released in response to the Landsdale sisters’ April 20, 1998 press conference. The program included attending weekly individual and group therapy, contacting a sponsor on a regular basis and spending one week at at treatment center in Silver Spring, Md., every year, according to the 1998 statement of Susan Lansdale Peters, one of Walsh’s nieces, based on her conversations with the Maryland Province.
The university first learned of sexual abuse allegations against Walsh through news reports of the Landsdales’ press conferences, according to a March 13 email from a university spokesperson.
Georgetown responded to the sisters’ statements in a memo released the same day, offering sympathy and clarifying that Walsh’s employment was not directly linked to the university.
The statement did not address Walsh’s access to Georgetown students while he worked in the Woodstock Theological Center, Denis Ventriglia, the Landsdales’ lawyer at the time, said in a phone interview with The Hoya.
“Georgetown University should be asked: What vetting of Father Walsh did Georgetown University perform prior to allowing him in the Woodstock Theological Center?” Ventriglia said.
Two decades later, the university declined to comment on any oversight of hiring at Woodstock at the time, saying only that the Maryland Province owned and operated the research center.
The 1998 university statement also did not reference Walsh’s past work as a Georgetown professor.
Decades earlier, Walsh taught “Christian Marriage,” an undergraduate theology class at Georgetown during the 1966-67 academic year. University President John J. DeGioia noted Walsh’s year teaching at Georgetown in a universitywide email following the release of the Maryland Province’s report.
Walsh also lived in the Georgetown Jesuit Community from 1974 to 1976, an assignment undocumented by the Maryland Province but confirmed through the Official Catholic Directories from those years.
Though there are no abuse accusations against Walsh from his time at Georgetown, the Maryland Province has documented credible allegations from the 1950s through the 1980s, including instances of abuse in Washington, D.C.
Five of the Landsdale sisters were abused by Walsh, but for decades, each was unaware of their uncle’s abuse of the others. While assigned to Xiamen University in China in 1996, Walsh sent a letter to a family member describing his sexual fantasies about an orphaned 3-year-old girl, according to Peters.
“I felt nauseated when I thought about this poor defenseless Chinese child,” Peters said in her 1998 statement. “I also finally realized after all my years of mental anguish and suffering, that he was to be blamed for the molestations on me, not I.”
In their 50s, five of the Lansdale sisters — Walsh’s nieces — realized they had all been molested by their uncle only after reading the letter. In July 1996, Peters contacted the Maryland Province in Baltimore to report the letter and their abuse as children, according to the Maryland Province’s 1998 statement.
The Maryland Province did not remove Walsh from Woodstock until the sisters’ public statements two years later. At that point, he was sent to live in Ferdinand Wheeler House, a Jesuit residence in Baltimore, where his movement and actions were restricted by the Maryland Province. He was then transferred to Colombiere Jesuit Community in Baltimore, where he lived until his death.
Fr. John Langan, S.J., a friend of Walsh’s who worked with him at Woodstock and lived with him at Colombiere, was surprised by the accusations against Walsh. Langan is a philosophy professor at Georgetown and serves as the university’s Cardinal Bernardin Chair of Catholic Social Thought.
“He was a very kind, helpful person, rather disciplined and dignified but also quite good humored, and he could be quite funny and had a great love of birds,” Langan said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “This was a situation which I think was bound to be puzzling because the general patterns of the man’s life were quite praiseworthy, and I don’t know that anybody would find it easy to fit the accusations into the general picture of how he lived and dealt with people.”
Walsh previously had a “problem” with an individual and received three to four months of psychiatric care before Peters reported her and her sisters’ abuse to the Jesuits in 1996, according to Peters’ statement.
Walsh abused one of the sisters, Victoria Landsdale Long, over 200 times throughout her youth, usually while wearing his collar, according to Long’s 1998 statement.
“Father Walsh would get me alone to take advantage of my innocence and molest me,” Long said. “I remember how he always had such a soft, trusting, smooth voice while his hands, trembling, did sinful outrageous acts to my young virginal body.”
One of Long’s sisters, Mary Therese Landsdale Williams, recounted similar abusive encounters with Walsh, whom she referred to as “Uncle Billy,” in her 1998 statement, written with two of her sisters.
“Father Walsh, also our Uncle Billy, took advantage of our youth and vulnerabilities for his own perverted sexual pleasure and left us with defective souls. It disgusts us to think that our childhood was sacrificed for his moments of sick pleasures,” Williams said. “We have had to pick up our shattered lives with the fact we are forever changed.”
In 1997, Peters filed a criminal complaint against Walsh in Prince George’s County, Md., which was dismissed because the statute of limitations had expired.
Before Walsh died at 95 in December, he lived comfortably at Colombiere Jesuit Community in Baltimore with Langan.
“It is fairly new and it’s a quite pleasant, well-designed complex. It’s a good location; it’s within the city of Baltimore,” Langan said. “There are a lot of birds, a lot of trees and very pleasant to live in.”
Colombiere, which opened in 2011, houses about 40 retired Jesuits. The community is within a one-mile radius of four primary schools.
If you would like to share any information regarding this investigation, please contact The Hoya at [email protected] or through any methods described here. Campus, local and national resources for processing this content can be found here.
This article has been updated to correctly reflect the location of Woodstock Theological Center from Walsh’s time working there.


Harvey Rancer says 
December 28, 2019 at 5:06 pm
Bill died a good man, fully repentant and an inspiration to many. He was resigned to the fact that his name would forever be known for acts borne of mental illness.

David says 
July 4, 2020 at 8:50 am
Walsh was a professor of mine at St. Joseph University. He was a dissenter. A bad tree bears bad fruit.

Catherine Burton says 
July 13, 2020 at 11:07 am
I was step sister to the Landsdale sisters and did not know this had happened until July of 2020.  I am deeply saddened by the news. Walsh’s sister was the most wonderful step mother a girl could possibly hope for, and a wonderful example for her 6 girls. How tragic for his survivors.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Myroslav 1 Comment 
In 1983, Fr. Thomas M. Gannon, S.J., received the faculty member of the year award from Loyola University Chicago for his work as chair of the sociology department. The same year, Gannon left Loyola to become a professor at Georgetown University and the director of the Woodstock Theological Center in Ida Ryan Hall — a move that came after Gannon sexually abused a minor at a church in Highland, Ind., that year.
That accusation, deemed credible by the U.S. Midwest Province of the Society of Jesus in 2018, is one of several against Gannon, both before and after his time at Georgetown from 1983 to 1986. Gannon, who died in 2011, also sexually abused minors while teaching at an Ohio high school in the 1960s and at two parishes in the 1990s, according to the Midwest Province.
While he was chair of the sociology department at Loyola, Gannon — who would later teach sociology to undergraduates at Georgetown — allegedly sexually assaulted and harassed at least two graduate students, allegations that were reported at the time to Loyola administrators in the Jesuit order, but were not public until now.
Gannon taught Georgetown undergraduate classes on comparative social structures and the sociology of religion from 1983 to 1986, according to archives of class schedules from those years. During his time at Georgetown, Gannon lived in a Jesuit residence two blocks from the front gates and worked as the director of the Woodstock Theological Center, a research center located in Ida Ryan Hall that was managed by the Maryland Province of the Jesuit order until the center closed in 2013.
Georgetown University, which first learned of allegations against Gannon from the Midwest Province’s report Dec. 17, 2018, has not publicly acknowledged his past work on campus.
As chair of Loyola’s sociology department from 1972 to 1983, Gannon advised graduate students on their research projects. Two graduate students studying in the department under Gannon were harassed by him in the 1970s, they said in interviews with The Hoya. They reported Gannon’s actions to Jesuit administrators, who dismissed the complaints, leading both students to leave the university.
Gannon routinely invited one of those students, Sam Terzich, to his off-campus apartment while Terzich was conducting research in the early 1970s. During Terzich’s last visit, Gannon made unwelcome advances on him. Gannon’s harassment included a physical attack where he attempted to unbuckle Terzich’s belt and pull down his pants. Gannon said he wanted to spank Terzich and pull him over his knee. Terzich resisted the attack, pushed Gannon to the floor and left the apartment.
“He was a sick guy,” Terzich said in a phone interview with The Hoya.
In the subsequent weeks, Gannon harassed Terzich, calling him repeatedly and showing up to his apartment. Terzich avoided Gannon, rejecting his calls and not answering the door at his apartment. Communicating through other students, Gannon threatened to revoke Terzich’s research assistant position if he did not meet with him.
Terzich informed two professors and Fr. Robert McNamara, S.J., then Loyola’s vice chancellor, about the events and the continued harassment. McNamara did not offer support, though he was not surprised by the assertions of Gannon’s behavior, according to Terzich. McNamara, who died in 1985, supported Gannon, citing the latter’s esteemed status in both the university and the Chicago Province, which has since been combined with other regions to form the Midwest Province.
Terzich left Loyola during his first year of graduate studies because of McNamara’s lack of support. After leaving school, Terzich moved, changed phone numbers and did not hear from Gannon.
When Loyola contacted Terzich several months later regarding the status of his research, Terzich informed them of Gannon’s actions and the circumstances of his departure. The university never followed up.
One of Terzich’s fellow graduate students at Loyola in the 1970s, referred to by the pseudonym Stephen, was also sexually harassed by Gannon, he said in a phone interview with The Hoya. Gannon invited Stephen to his apartment by passing messages through his receptionist, who warned students it was in their best interest to meet with Gannon, the chair of their department.
After rejecting several attempts by Gannon to meet with him, Stephen went to the professor’s apartment, where Gannon tried to spank and hug him. Angered by these unwanted advances, the student pushed Gannon away.
After this incident, Stephen informed an on-campus community of Jesuits and then-president of Loyola University Chicago Fr. Raymond C. Baumhart, S.J., of Gannon’s predatory behavior. Baumhart sent an administrator to speak with the student, and contacted Gannon about the student’s complaint, according to Stephen.
Stephen told the administrator that many male students were uncomfortable with Gannon’s behavior and said they were considering leaving the program because of him. After no disciplinary action was taken against Gannon, Stephen left the graduate program after one semester.
On Baumhart’s behalf, Fr. Robert J. Scullin, S.J., the superior of the Jesuit community in Michigan where Baumhart lives, declined to comment.
In 1983, Gannon left Loyola and began his work at Georgetown, where he taught undergraduate students for three years.
Gannon sexually abused minors at two institutions before coming to Georgetown and two more institutions after, according to a report by the Midwest Jesuit Province released in December 2018 that deemed the allegations against Gannon credible.
The first known abuse, committed between 1961 and 1966, was at St. Ignatius High School in Cleveland, where Gannon taught. Gannon went on to sexually abuse a minor in 1983 at St. James Church in Gary, Ind., before the province reassigned him to the Woodstock Theological Center at Georgetown, where he served as director from 1983 to 1986. After leaving Georgetown, Gannon also sexually abused minors in the 1990s at Our Lady of Mount Carmel Church and Holy Family Church, both in Chicago.
The Midwest Province, which was sent questions for this article March 8, has not commented on when it received allegations against Gannon.
Before 2002, when the Boston Globe’s Spotlight report revealed the Catholic Church’s sexual abuse cover-up, Woodstock did not commonly check for sexual abuse allegations when hiring a Jesuit, according to Fr. John Langan, S.J., who was acting director of Woodstock after Gannon left in 1986 and worked as a senior fellow at the center from 1976 until 1995, according to archival records of the Maryland Province.
“Woodstock is a research institution, and so it doesn’t have a well-defined clientele of students or faculty,” Langan said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “So there is not the kind of direct pastoral responsibility or the likelihood of situations that are focused on the discussions of the abuse of children. I think most of the time we didn’t think much about that.”
Gannon was also the director of studies and religious formation for the Chicago Province of the Jesuits from 1970 to 1980. For six of those years, he was elected chairman of the national policy group for Jesuit training in the United States, where he also acted as a consultant to the Jesuit Superior General in Rome.
Gannon’s positions of power in the province and the university provided him access to students dependent on his advice and counsel. These types of relationships, in which a priest advises someone under their supervision, enable abusers to draw on their embedded power to take advantage of adults, according to David Pooler, a professor at Baylor University researching clerical abuse of adults.
“When someone becomes 18, we make some assumptions that aren’t true, which is that they can provide consent,” Pooler said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “And they can’t when there’s that kind of power differential.”
If you would like to share any information regarding this investigation, please contact The Hoya at [email protected] or through any methods described here. Campus, local and national resources for processing this content can be found here.
This article has been updated to correctly reflect the location of Woodstock Theological Center from Gannon’s time working there.


No Name says 
June 14, 2019 at 12:15 pm
While working on my Master’s Degree in Human Resources, I worked  as a clerk in the Sociology  Dept. at LUC during the late 70’s.  It was always rumored that Gannon would give basketball players  enrolled in his sociolgy classes passing grades if he could spank them.  This helped the players maintain the necessary grade point to remain eligible to play.  After reading your article, it was most likely true.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Harrison Hurt Leave a Comment 
In the midst of an abuse crisis within the Catholic Church, the five Jesuit provinces in the United States released lists in December and January of priests accused of child sexual abuse. Yet the incomplete nature of these lists has sparked even greater criticism from lawyers and advocates, including lawyer Mitchell Garabedian, who has represented over 2,000 survivors of clerical  abuse.
“The diocese and Jesuit Provinces want to appear as doing the right thing when they’re in fact doing the bare minimum,” Garabedian said in a phone interview with The Hoya. 
Two ordained Jesuits with previous Georgetown affiliations and credible abuse allegations — Fr. Thomas M. Gannon, S.J., and Bernard Knoth — served in the Maryland Province but did not appear in the province’s Dec. 17 report, even after another province’s report revealed their time at Georgetown four days later.
For two former Jesuits mentioned the report, Fr. Neil McLaughlin, S.J., and H. Cornell Bradley, the province omitted time both priests had spent on Georgetown’s campus.
And while the Maryland Province report named priests credibly accused of abusing minors, it mentioned no priests accused of abusing young adults, such as former Georgetown professor Fr. Daniel C. O’Connell, S.J., who settled two cases in 2003 and 2016 with survivors of his abuse.
The Maryland Province affirmed its commitment to protecting both minors and adults from clergy abuse.
“The Jesuits are committed to the protection of minors and vulnerable adults in the conduct of our ministry, employing a strict zero-tolerance policy and reporting to civil authorities all accusations of sexual abuse involving a minor,” a Maryland Province spokesperson wrote in a statement to The Hoya.
 
Yet experts continue to criticize the Jesuits’ unwillingness to reveal information about cases of sexual misconduct. Lawyers and advocates feel Georgetown students and parents have a right to know more about potential abusers on campus and think that the Jesuits could be failing to disclose assaults of young adults — including college students.
Incomplete Reports
The Jesuit lists followed an October invitation to release names of priests by the Conference of Major Superiors of Men, a national organization representing the leadership of Catholic male religious institutes and societies, including the Society of Jesus.
From Dec. 7 to Jan. 19, all five Jesuit provinces published lists of abusive priests affiliated with their respective province. However, experts who track clergy abuse say the Jesuits have withheld dozens of names of priests credibly accused of sexual misconduct. 
Jesuit and Catholic officials are generally unwilling to name predatory priests, according to David Clohessy, former national director of the Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests.
“Typically the Jesuits or Catholic officials release the absolute bare minimum that they have to,” Clohessy said in a phone interview with The Hoya. 
The Maryland Province failed to list both Gannon and Knoth, both publicly named in the report by the Midwest Province of the Society of Jesus. The Maryland Province did not report Gannon or Knoth because it did not have information about their abuse when it published its list, according to Mike Gabriele, a spokesperson for the Maryland Province.
“The Maryland Province did not have information regarding their alleged abuse in its records and was unaware of them at the time the Maryland Province’s list was published,” Gabriele wrote in a statement to The Hoya.
The Midwest Province published its reports Dec. 21, four days after the Maryland Province report. Gabriele said that the Maryland Province would update its own list based on information released by other provinces, but the province has not included Gannon or Knoth as of March 14. 
The Maryland Province’s December report also named two Jesuit priests without listing their affiliations with Georgetown: McLaughlin and Bradley. McLaughlin worked summers at Georgetown University Hospital between 1965 and 1983, while Bradley served for a year as a campus minister in 1970. 
When asked about these two priests, Gabriele said McLaughlin was never assigned to the hospital and only came to work during the summers of the 1980s. However, a 2010 statement from the Maryland Province noted McLaughlin’s 18 years at Georgetown University Hospital.
Bradley was ordained the year before he gained work at Georgetown. He was on campus completing his theological studies, according to Gabriele. 
Technical differences provide the Jesuits an excuse to withhold information, according to Clohessy.
“In all provinces, there is a tremendous amount of hairsplitting,” Clohessy said.
Exploiting Vulnerability
Some reports released by the five Jesuit provinces delineated between priests with single or multiple allegations of abuse. However, the scope of priests’ abuse is rarely limited to one incident, according to David Pooler, a Baylor University professor who surveyed 280 adult survivors of clergy sexual abuse.
“My research suggests that there aren’t that many people out there doing these single acts,” Pooler said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “This is a way of being, a way of exploiting vulnerabilities and misusing power.”
Patrick Wall, a former priest, said he has never seen an abuser who harmed only one survivor in his 25 years of experience as a researcher and legal advocate against clergy abuse.
“Once you cross that boundary of behavior, there’s never only one,” Wall said. “No one who is a straight thinker or honest will tell you differently.”
Seven of the nine Jesuits in the province reports linked to Georgetown – excluding Martin J. Casey and Michael L. Barber – had multiple allegations of abuse. However, none of the provincial reports indicated the exact number of allegations against any priest with more than one, which Clohessy felt was deceptive.
“‘More than once’ could be 250 kids, but they don’t tell you that,” Clohessy said.
The Maryland Province did not release the number of allegations out of concern for survivors’ rights and other factors, according to Gabriele.
“Between victims’ rights and other things, we just didn’t want to put details about the number of allegations,” Gabriele said.
However, Clohessy felt that the Jesuits’ unwillingness to withhold details stemmed from a desire for self-preservation.
“They release information in a way that is most minimizing and advantageous to themselves,” Clohessy said. “None of them, for example, provide photos and last known address of these guys.”
Housing Predators
Wall, an expert in canon law, believes the Jesuits are aware of more sexual abusers within the order than have been disclosed, citing a practice known as the manifestation of conscience, which is unique to the Society of Jesus: Jesuits are required to meet annually with the head of their province and tell them every sin they have ever committed.
Wall feels it is irresponsible for the Jesuits to place priests with a history of abuse at universities given their knowledge through the manifestation of conscience.
“That’s why it’s even more heinous when the Jesuits put their perpetrators right on campus at Georgetown,” Wall said.
Priests with a history of abusing minors also pose a threat to college students, according to Pooler.
“If someone has been accused of abusing a child or an adolescent, do I have concerns with them working on a university campus? Absolutely,” Pooler said. “I think that’s really, really concerning. Because what you see is the proclivity to misuse power, to exploit and take advantage of vulnerability.”
Jesuit universities have played a role for housing priests accused with abuse, according to Wall.
“The best way to hide a Jesuit is to hide them at a Jesuit university, a Jesuit institution,” Wall said. “There are a good dozen Jesuit universities in the United States where you simply put them in the local community.”
Because the Maryland Province report did not include priests accused of abusing adults, Mike Reck, a lawyer who has worked on many cases of clerical abuse, felt strongly that the Jesuits could be concealing cases of sexual misconduct against young adults, including college students.
“It’s a very reasonable assumption that the Jesuits are withholding information about sexual misconduct between its clerics and young adults who are under their control,” Reck said.
When asked why the province report focused only on minors, Gabriele explained that the province followed the church’s broader emphasis on minors. 
“That is what the church in general, the Catholic Church, is dealing with right now; the people of God have demanded more transparency when it comes to the protection of minors,” Gabriele said.
But Wall argued the Society of Jesus should be doing more to ensure that the Georgetown community is safe and informed about predatory priests.
“Parents and students have a right to expect that they shouldn’t be sexually assaulted by a Jesuit in attending a Jesuit university,” Wall said.
If you would like to share any information regarding this investigation, please contact The Hoya at [email protected] or through any methods described here. Campus, local and national resources for processing this content can be found here.

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Adam Shaham, Will Simon and Will Cassou 1 Comment 
Since the founding of Georgetown University, its students have learned from, lived with and sought the guidance of religious leaders on campus. Of those leaders, 14 have been credibly or plausibly accused of sexual abuse, according to an investigation by The Hoya.
Their names are Fr. Engelbert M. Axer, S.J.; Fr. Michael L. Barber, S.J.; H. Cornell Bradley; Fr. Neil Carr, S.J.; Fr. Martin J. Casey, S.J.; Fr. Augustine J. Ferretti, S.J.; Fr. Thomas M. Gannon, S.J.; Fr. Jack Kennington; Bernard Knoth; Fr. Anthony McGinley; Fr. Neil P. McLaughlin, S.J.; Fr. Daniel C. O’Connell, S.J.; Fr. William J. Walsh, S.J.; and Sr. Lisa Zuccarelli.
The credibility of accusations against each priest is based on settled lawsuits, the review of Catholic Church authorities or admissions of guilt. Each priest’s affiliation with Georgetown was verified through media reporting, public church statements or university archival material. Though the known abuse periods of three named priests overlaps with their time at Georgetown, neither this report nor the university’s internal review discovered allegations of abuse on campus.
Georgetown confirmed all 14 priests were at some point affiliated with the university in a March 13 statement to The Hoya. Yet the university has publicly recognized abuse allegations against only four. One retained the title of professor emeritus at Georgetown until this week.
Identifying the 14
Of the 14 priests with Georgetown affiliations credibly or plausibly accused of sexual abuse, the university has acknowledged four — Barber, Casey, Ferretti and Walsh — drawing this list solely from a December 2018 report issued by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus.
The full list of Georgetown-affiliated clergy credibly accused of sexual abuse, however, reaches far beyond the Maryland Province’s report.
O’Connell, who was not acknowledged in University President John J. DeGioia’s December statement, was a professor emeritus until Wednesday afternoon, according to Georgetown’s website. University officials were first notified of O’Connell’s abuse in 2009, according to a Georgetown University spokesperson.
Zuccarelli and Knoth both worked as administrators within the last 25 years —  Zuccarelli in the School of Nursing from 1998 until 2003, and Knoth in the College from 1991 until 1995.
Georgetown was notified of a credible allegation of sexual abuse against Zuccarelli in November 2018, according to a university spokesperson. Knoth publicly resigned as president of Loyola University New Orleans in 2003 amid an allegation of sexual abuse of a minor deemed credible that year by the Chicago Province, now the Midwest Province.
The university also failed to acknowledge two Georgetown-connected Jesuits listed in the Maryland Province’s report: Bradley, who worked as a campus minister on the main campus for a year, and McLaughlin, who worked summers at Georgetown University Hospital for 18 years, were both listed as priests credibly accused of sexual abuse. Neither Bradley’s nor McLaughlin’s assignments at the university appear in the report, though the province has previously documented both.
In the last four months, the other four Jesuit provinces in the United States — Midwest, Northeast, West, and Central and Southern — also released lists of credibly accused priests, which included four more Jesuits with Georgetown connections.
The Midwest Province’s report, published in December 2018, named two former Georgetown Jesuits, Knoth and Gannon.
Knoth, who said he was contacted for the Georgetown presidency in a 2000 statement to The Maroon, Loyola New Orleans’ student newspaper, was credibly accused of multiple instances of sexual abuse of a minor between 1986 and 1988. 
Gannon, the director of the Woodstock Theological Center in Ida Ryan Hall from 1983 until 1986, was credibly accused of four separate periods of abuse, two while teaching in high schools and two while working as a minister.
Georgetown has also failed to acknowledge Axer, who represented the university on multiple occasions in the 1950s and was named in the West Province’s report, or Carr, a former student who went on to abuse two minors, according to the Northeast Province.
McGinley was named in a 2018 Pennsylvania grand jury report documenting a two-year investigation into methods used by archdioceses across the state to protect known abusers in the church. He was a professor of child psychology and orthodontics between 1977 and 1987, according to university archival material. Kennington, who worked at Woodstock from 1981 until 1983, was publicly accused in 2002 of sexually abusing two siblings and has faced multiple lawsuits, including one filed last month. Georgetown has not publicly acknowledged either McGinley’s or Kennington’s work at the university.
Pray and Delay
Georgetown’s response to the clerical abuse crisis has mirrored that of the church for nearly two decades, both in rhetoric and action — often in contradiction to the efforts of student activists.
In January 2002, a Boston Globe investigation revealed a coordinated effort among powerful Boston priests to hide known sexual abusers within the clergy by shuffling predatory priests between assignments after learning of their behavior. This system protected abusers from facing criminal charges and often helped maintain their powerful positions within the church.
Georgetown formally responded to the Globe’s investigation three months later, in April 2002, with a Mass in Dahlgren Chapel to pray for the healing of survivors and abusers. In a discussion following the service, university chaplain Rev. Adam Bunnell called on the Georgetown community to recognize the immense scope of the crisis.
“We planned this event to shed light on the truth,” Bunnell said in his sermon.
Since 2002, the sexual abuse crisis has extended beyond Boston to hundreds of dioceses across the United States and the world, revealing similar patterns in which church officials silenced survivors while protecting their abusers in the clergy.
The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops has counted 6,846 priests credibly accused of abuse and over 19,000 survivors, according to church watchdog Bishop Accountability. The FBI’s National Center for the Analysis of Violent Crime has documented a strategy throughout the Catholic Church to maintain the stature of abusers, including closed-door settlements, opaque disciplinary proceedings and the continuous transfer of “troubled” priests.
As coverage of the crisis has developed since 2002, Georgetown’s response has stayed consistent.
After the Pennsylvania grand jury report, DeGioia implored the university community to develop a safer environment for survivors of abuse.
“The most vulnerable among us must be protected,” DeGioia wrote. “They deserve the very best work we are capable of providing.”
The letter did not mention Theodore McCarrick, who was awarded an honorary degree in 2004, or Donald Wuerl, who was awarded one in 2014. Both were named in the grand jury report last year  — McCarrick for incidents of abuse, and Wuerl for protecting McCarrick’s status in the church.
Almost immediately, students called on the university to take accountability for its tangential involvement in the crisis.
By Sept. 21, only 17 days after DeGioia’s message, 1,376 Georgetown students signed a petition calling for the revocation of McCarrick and Wuerl’s honorary degrees. The editorial boards of The Hoya and the Georgetown Voice wrote in support of the petition.
But for months, Georgetown’s response focused on the future of the Catholic Church, rather than students’ calls for action.
The university’s Initiative on Catholic Social Thought and Public Life convened three dialogues last fall, intended to outline paths forward for the church to address the issues presented in the grand jury report. None of the events was oriented toward Georgetown’s involvement in the crisis. Similar to the 2002 Mass, panelists called on the Georgetown community to pray for both survivors and abusers, with frequent condemnations of the act of sexual abuse.
While Georgetown invited panelists to discuss the abuse crisis, other Catholic universities that had previously bestowed honors upon McCarrick took action to condemn his behavior.
The same month as the release of the Pennsylvania grand jury report, Fordham University and The Catholic University of America rescinded the honorary degrees they had awarded McCarrick.
Fr. Joseph McShane, S.J., president of Fordham, recognized the trauma the university’s honorees had inflicted on survivors.
“In taking these steps, we acknowledge the extraordinary and long-lasting harm done to children who were sexually abused by clergy members,” McShane wrote. “While we can never fully repair the sins of the past, we must respect the experience of abuse survivors.”
Georgetown waited for the Vatican to strip McCarrick of his status as a member of the clergy Feb. 19, seven months after the publication of the grand jury report, before revoking his degree.
Trusting the Church
Priests with records of abuse, including several Jesuits sent to Georgetown, have been transferred to Catholic and Jesuit universities without university officials being notified of the priest’s previous abuse. Though Georgetown’s hiring practices for Jesuits include criminal background checks, these checks do not list internal church settlements with survivors, leaving hiring committees in the dark when it comes to an abusive priest’s past transgressions.
In hiring Jesuits, Georgetown must often rely on the honesty of senior officials within the order to disclose documentation of abusive priests.
Standard protocol for transferring priests between dioceses and provinces requires the bishop who holds authority over the priest to certify they are in good standing within their religious order. This certification is typically required before a priest is allowed to perform public ministry within a new diocese.
In many cases, however, bishops have failed to notify local clergy of an incoming priest’s past abuse, leaving Georgetown without access to records that a Jesuit residing on or near its campus may be facing credible allegations of sexual assault.
Gannon, O’Connell and Walsh came to Georgetown’s campus following allegations of sexual assault that were not reported to university officials.
Beyond letters certifying good standing that depend upon the honesty of bishops, who have significant autonomy under canon law, Georgetown has hardly any ability to obtain an incoming Jesuit’s full record, according to Fr. John Beal, a professor of canon law at the Catholic University of America.
In addition to requiring criminal background checks, Georgetown also mandates any students, faculty, staff or Jesuits who interact with minors on campus or in university-affiliated programs abide by its protection of minors policy, according to a university spokesperson. The policy requires training to identify and prevent abuse of minors and mandates reporting of any suspected violations of the policy to the university.
If church officials misrepresent a priest’s standing within his religious order or fail to disclose his record, a university would face minimal liability, according to Rebecca Randles, a lawyer who represented two survivors of O’Connell’s abuse.
“If someone is intentionally hiding the fact that there have been allegations in the past, then the universities do, unbeknownst to them, accept these perpetrators,” Randles said in an interview with The Hoya. “The question then becomes, ‘What should a reasonable university do to ensure that there are no perpetrators who are being invited or otherwise teaching at the university?’”
Church officials cannot be depended on to hold abusive priests accountable, according to lawyer Mitchell Garabedian, who has represented over 1,000 survivors of clerical abuse.
“History has taught us that the Catholic Church cannot self-police,” Garabedian said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “They create their own criteria for naming an abuser.”
If you would like to share any information regarding this investigation, please contact The Hoya at [email protected] or through any methods described here. Campus, local and national resources for processing this content can be found here.
This article was updated on March 15 to clarify that the report did not find allegations of abuse on campus, and to correct the location of Woodstock Theological Center before its close in 2013.

Special to The Hoya

Judy Block-Jones says 
March 15, 2019 at 4:00 pm
The list of ALL credibly accused priests should have been released a long time ago. Exposing their names helps victims to know that they are not alone, plus it protects kids today.
Also, there needs to be a grand jury investigation with subpoena power in every state..like was done in Pennsylvania. This is the one true way to get the full truth of sex crimes and cover ups within these dioceses.  Church officials can not be trusted to expose all the names of credibly accused priests. 
Judy Jones, SNAP Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests, [email protected], 636-433-2511
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Riley Rogerson Leave a Comment 
On Nov. 27, 2018, Georgetown University was notified that Sr. Lisa Zuccarelli, a former associate dean, professor and chaplain-in-residence at the university, had been credibly accused of sexual abusing a minor 30 years earlier. Georgetown has not publicly acknowledged the allegation.
Zuccarelli began her ministry in 1975 with the Dominican Sisters of Peace, a women’s Catholic order. She taught at Georgetown’s School of Nursing from 1995 to 1999 and served as a chaplain-in-residence in St. Mary’s Hall and Darnall Hall from 1996 until 2002, according to university archival material. In 1998, Zuccarelli was named director of academic enrichment and student life in the newly created Office of Student and Academic Affairs, a position she held until she left Georgetown in 2003.
In her administrative role, Zuccarelli, now 65, worked with students often and effectively, according to Dorrie Fontaine, Zuccarelli’s supervisor at the time and the current dean of the School of Nursing at the University of Virginia.
“She and I both took care of students, whether it was academically, whether it was emotionally, when they had issues and concerns — we did a wonderful job taking great care of our students,” Fontaine said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “These were nursing students, and they had a passion for helping and caring for others.”
On July 27, 2018, the Dominican Sisters of Peace chapter in Columbus, Ohio, received a letter from one of Zuccarelli’s former students at Fisher Catholic High School in Lancaster, Ohio, reporting that Zuccarelli, then a teacher there, sexually abused her in 1982.
The letter, which the Sisters of Peace reported to the Lancaster Police Department within 24 hours, did not include details of Zuccarelli’s misconduct, according to LPD Lieutenant Nicholas Snyder.
“The letter is more about, ‘This is how it affected me,’” Snyder said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “This was the emotional response. This is, ‘How it has impacted me going on in life.’”
Georgetown was notified of accusations against Zuccarelli on Nov. 27 after an outside investigation deemed the accusations credible, according to an interview with Alice Black, the Sisters of Peace director of communications. A university spokesperson confirmed that Georgetown learned of the allegations in November.
Upon interviewing, the survivor informed the LPD that Zuccarelli made an unwanted sexual advance toward her after the survivor sought Zuccarelli’s help at St. Mary’s Convent in Lancaster according to Snyder.
“She was in the convent to seek some counsel because she was not getting along with her parents,” Snyder said. “She said her father was abusive and that upon receiving some counselling and talking to her, that is when the alleged perpetrator made advances towards her.”
The LPD could not pursue criminal charges because the Ohio statute of limitations for sexual assault of a minor — 25 years — had expired and because the survivor did not want to press criminal charges against Zuccarelli, according to Snyder. 
An outside investigation was conducted by Buckingham, Doolittle & Burroughs, an Ohio law firm, in late October 2018 at the request of the Sisters of Peace. The investigation deemed the accusations credible, according to an Nov. 28 statement written by Sr. Patricia Twohill, the prioress of the Sisters of Peace, which notes Zuccarelli’s time at Georgetown.
“We consider this conduct reprehensible, and we are deeply sorry for the pain it has caused,” Twohill wrote. “We are doing all that we can to support the healing of all involved.”
Zuccarelli was forbidden from having unsupervised contact with any minor or former student after the allegation was reported to the Sisters of Peace in July. She is now undergoing psychological assessment at a center that specializes in therapy for religious and clergy, according to the Sisters of Peace statement.
However, Zuccarelli is still an official member of the Sisters of Peace, Black said.
No other survivors have accused Zuccarelli of sexual misconduct, though the Sisters of Peace have encouraged any others to come forward, according to Black.
“We’ve encouraged people to come forward,” Black said. “We’ve encouraged people to first contact law enforcement and, if they want to, they can contact us.”
On July 27, the Sisters of Peace brought the allegations to Salve Regina University in Newport, R.I., where Zuccarelli worked as an associate biology professor and chair of the chemistry department between 2003 and 2018. Salve Regina immediately placed Zuccarelli on an leave of absence prior to the fall semester. Salve Regina cooperated with the Buckingham, Doolittle & Burroughs investigation, according to Salve Regina’s statement. Zuccarelli resigned in early November. 
“The Congregation of the Dominican Sisters of Peace and Salve Regina jointly conducted an independent investigation in full cooperation with authorities, while also balancing the needs of transparency and respectful privacy for the victim,” the statement said. 
Salve Regina’s investigation did not find any evidence suggesting that Zuccarelli acted inappropriately toward any Salve Regina student on faculty member during her tenure at the university, according to Salve Regina’s statement.
Upon notification of the investigation into Zuccarelli, Georgetown conducted an internal review of records and did not identify allegations of abuse from her time at the university, according to a university spokesperson.
If you would like to share any information regarding this investigation, please contact The Hoya at [email protected] or through any methods described here. Campus, local and national resources for processing this content can be found here.

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Catriona Kendall Leave a Comment 
Former Jesuit priest Bernard Knoth was a fondly remembered high school principal in Indianapolis, a beloved chaplain-in-residence and administrator at Georgetown University, and an esteemed university president at Loyola University New Orleans. Until a credible allegation of sexual abuse of a minor surfaced in 2003 from a former student at that Indianapolis high school, most who knew Knoth regarded him as affable and devoted.
Knoth, who was removed from the priesthood at his own request in 2009 after the first sexual abuse allegation against him was reported, made public and deemed credible by church authorities in 2003, worked at Georgetown from 1990 to 1995 as an assistant dean in the College, a professor of education and a chaplain-in-residence for freshman students in Darnall Hall.
In 2000, while serving as Loyola president, Knoth, now 70, was considered for the Georgetown presidency, Knoth said in a statement to Loyola’s student newspaper, The Maroon, at the time.
Georgetown has not publicly acknowledged Knoth’s connection to the university since the first allegation against him was made public in 2003. The university was not aware of the allegations against Knoth until the Midwest Province’s report 15 years later, a university spokesperson said in an email to The Hoya.
Knoth was first accused of sexual abuse of a minor in 2003, when a former student at Brebeuf Jesuit Preparatory School in Indianapolis reported a 1986 incident of misconduct to the Chicago Province of the Society of Jesus, now the Midwest Province. Knoth was the school’s principal at the time of the alleged incident. The Chicago Province reported this allegation to the Marion County Prosecutor’s Office two days after Knoth’s 2003 resignation, according to a spokesperson for the Midwest Province. 
In 2004, a second allegation, deemed credible by the Midwest Province and made public in 2018, regarding an incident in which Knoth abused a minor in 1987, was reported to the Archdiocese of Indianapolis, which then reported the accusation to the Chicago Province, now the Midwest Province. The archdiocese also reported the allegation to civil authorities upon receiving it, an archdiocese spokesperson said. 
No criminal charges have been filed against Knoth, according to a spokesperson for the Marion County Prosecutor’s Office. 
In addition to working as a dean in Georgetown College, Knoth taught an interdisciplinary course called “Education in America” during the spring 1993 and spring 1994 semesters. He also lived in Darnall as a chaplain-in-residence from 1991 until 1994.
Knoth had a positive reputation at Georgetown after his five years at the university. When he left for Loyola in 1995, many were sad to see him go, including Richard Engel (GSB ’95), who lived on Knoth’s floor his freshman year.
“He’s the ideal Jesuit as far as dealing with the students go,” Engel said in a 1995 interview with The Hoya. “He’s well-rounded; he’s not just a teacher or administrator.”
Now, nearly 25 years later, Engel expressed surprise at the allegations and disappointment in his former mentor.
“There was nothing that raised any kind of suspicions or red flags of any sort whatsoever,” Engel said in a phone interview with The Hoya this week. “He was genuinely a nice person to talk to and didn’t make you feel that anything was out of sort.”
Though the Midwest Province has received multiple allegations against Knoth, neither the province nor the Indianapolis archdiocese has disclosed any information about the number of people who reported allegations, their identities or the nature of the alleged abuse.
Knoth requested a leave of absence from the Jesuits immediately after the 2003 allegation was deemed credible; he asked to be dismissed from the priesthood in 2009, according to the Midwest Province. The province did not comment on any disciplinary processes that took place internally during this six-year period. 
Knoth’s status as a layperson was first made public in October 2018, when he was named on a list of clergy credibly accused of sexual abuse of a minor released by the Archdiocese of Indianapolis. By policy, the Midwest Province does not ordinarily disclose when a Jesuit is laicized, a provincial spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The Midwest Province is not in contact with or monitoring Knoth, according to the provincial spokesperson. Knoth did not respond to multiple requests for comment.
In 2007, Barbara Blaine, then-president of advocacy group Survivors Network of Those Abused by Priests, noted the danger in leaving Knoth unmonitored.
“For the Jesuits to allow a known child molester to live without any kind of monitoring or treatment sets up children for abuse,” Blaine said in an interview with the Chicago Sun archived by Bishop Accountability, a website dedicated to aggregating all priests accused of abuse.
Knoth was removed from active ministry in October 2003, which stripped him of the ability to perform Mass, pursuant to church procedures adopted by U.S. bishops of the Roman Catholic Church in 2002, according to The New York Times.
Per Loyola’s bylaws at the time, which required the president to be a Jesuit in good standing, Knoth had no choice but to resign Oct. 7, 2003. He denied any inappropriate conduct in a personal statement to the Loyola community that day.
Knoth received an outpouring of support from the Loyola community in the wake of his resignation, according to the Times-Picayune, a local New Orleans newspaper. University leadership, including Fr. William J. Byron, S.J., acting president in Knoth’s absence, called on the community to pray for Knoth, as well as for survivors of sexual abuse. 
“I have deep, deep sympathy for this good man who has been accused, and I have deep sympathy for any victim of sexual abuse,” Byron said at a press conference after Knoth’s resignation. 
Students, faculty and clergy on campus used prayer vigils and submissions to The Maroon to express their sorrow, disbelief and even anger, convinced Knoth had been falsely accused.
“I believe that rather than focusing on what may or may not have happened in 1986, we should focus on what a good man Father Bernard Knoth was for Loyola University,” Kathleen Goodrich, then a junior at Loyola, wrote in an op-ed in The Maroon. “He committed himself completely to the betterment of the student body, and his presence as a leader and a friend will be sorely missed.”
An affable personality can make abusive priests hard to spot, according to Garnett Bedenbaugh, the New Orleans leader of SNAP.
“The exterior that they’re displaying may have nothing to do with their undercover activities,” Bedenbaugh said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “They can be well-liked by people; that doesn’t mean it’s not a credible charge against them. It’s which face you want to put on.”
If you would like to share any information regarding this investigation, please contact The Hoya at [email protected] or through any methods described here. Campus, local and national resources for processing this content can be found here.

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Myroslav 1 Comment 
During a long and storied career in Washington, D.C., Fr. Martin J. Casey, S.J., baptized the son of a president, held central roles in the Georgetown Jesuit Community and was buried on Georgetown’s campus. 
First, though, Casey was the pastor at Holy Trinity Church on N Street, less than a quarter-mile from Georgetown, where he faced an accusation of sexual abuse of a child that was deemed plausible by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus in a report issued December 2018.
A member of Georgetown’s Jesuit community from 1973 until his death in 2006, Casey held many internal and administrative roles over the course of his three decades on campus. He lived in Wolfington Hall, and his funeral was held in Dahlgren Chapel.
But in December, when the Maryland Province published an allegation from his time at Holy Trinity in 1959 and University President John J. DeGioia noted Casey’s allegation in an email, Casey’s former peers in Georgetown’s Jesuit community — some of whom knew him for three decades — were hearing of the case for the first time.
The Maryland Province was first informed of the allegation against Casey in 2002, according to a spokesperson from the province. Georgetown was not notified; Casey lived on campus at the time and worked part-time in the Office of Federal Relations.
Fr. William McFadden, S.J., a former professor in the theology department who knew Casey from their time living in Wolfington Hall, was surprised to hear of the accusation.
“He was a good friend, to me and everyone else in the Community,” McFadden wrote in an email to The Hoya.
When Casey died in 2006, Georgetown professor Fr. Ronald Murphy, S.J., mourned him, remembering his accomplishments, kindness and good humor.
“He rooted for everyone in the [Jesuit] House and was our cheerleader, even when in a wheelchair,” Murphy said at the time.
The accusation that Casey sexually abused a minor in 1959 while working at Holy Trinity Catholic Church only became public in 2018. Casey was the pastor of Holy Trinity from 1958 to 1964, a period during which President John F. Kennedy and his family were parishioners. Casey baptized John F. Kennedy Jr. at Georgetown Hospital in 1960, according to university archival material.
Holy Trinity, founded by Jesuits in 1787 and located a block from Georgetown’s front gates, is the oldest operating Roman Catholic community in Washington, D.C.
The sexual abuse allegation against Casey was considered plausible by the Maryland Province, meaning it could not be fully investigated to determine credibility, but there is a reasonable possibility the abuse against a minor occurred at the church.
A full investigation of the accusation was not possible, according to the province, because the historical information about the accusation is incomplete.
Casey did not teach classes during his time at Georgetown, working exclusively for the Jesuit community on campus. Casey was a treasurer and assistant administrator from 1973 to 1992, according to university archives of the Official Catholic Directory and the Catalogues from the Maryland Province.
Casey also worked for Georgetown University as a part-time financial officer in the Office of Federal Relations from 1997 until his retirement in 2006. Casey worked under Fr. T. Byron Collins, S.J., and Scott Fleming (SFS ’72), who served as associate vice president for federal relations from 2001 to 2018. 
“At the time, he was quite frail and elderly,” Fleming wrote in an email to The Hoya. “His role was in place when I came to the Office, and he came in only periodically to handle the accounts.”
Before he joined the Jesuit community at Georgetown, Casey was a superior of the Leonard Neale House Jesuit community near Dupont Circle from 1971 to 1973. Casey entered the Society of Jesus in 1931 and was ordained in 1943.
While only one known allegation against Casey was deemed plausible by the province, one-time abusers are rarely found in the church, according to Patrick Wall, an expert on the Catholic Church’s abuse crisis and an advocate for clergy abuse survivors.
“I have never seen, in 25 years, a priest only rape or sodomize one child,” Wall said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “Once you cross that boundary of behavior, there’s never only one. To make that difference in accounting is simply a public relations move.”
If you would like to share any information regarding this investigation, please contact The Hoya at [email protected] or through any methods described here. Campus, local and national resources for processing this content can be found here.


Bryan says 
March 16, 2019 at 4:08 pm
Many things are “plausible.” Especially given that no investigation was ever completed, this article’s headline and narrative slant seem pretty unfair. It’s true one time abusers are rare, but one might well conclude from that fact that this “plausible” incident is unlikely to have occurred. This whole series seems to presume guilt – Shameful job by the Hoya.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Cady Stanton Leave a Comment 
Anthony McGinley, a Catholic priest from Pennsylvania, sexually abused young boys for 30 years, according to a 2018 report on clerical abuse published by a Pennsylvania grand jury. For five of those years, he taught courses in child psychology at Georgetown University.
From 1977 to 1981, McGinley taught graduate classes in orthodontic statistics each fall and child psychology each spring, according to the archived schedules of classes from those years. He is also listed as a lecturer in orthodontics in telephone directories from 1977 to 1987, the year the church prohibited him from celebrating Mass.
Sexual abuse allegations against McGinley, who was ordained in 1945 and died in 2006, were deemed credible by the Diocese of Harrisburg, Pa., in August 2018.
Multiple young boys were sexually abused by McGinley between 1953 and 1982, according to the report, which documented priests in Pennsylvania whose accusations of sexual abuse were covered up by church officials in the state.
Georgetown has not acknowledged McGinley’s time at the university, which overlaps with his reported period of abuse, since the grand jury report was released in August. The university did not comment on when it first learned of the allegations against McGinley.
While working at Georgetown from 1977 to 1987, McGinley also taught psychology, sociology and education at Marymount College, now Marymount University, in Arlington, Va., from 1972 to 1982, according to Marymount’s archived schedules of classes. His courses included “Psychology of Maturing,” “Seminar in Testing and Assessment of Children,” and “Pupil Evaluation: Tests and Measurements.”
The first accusations against McGinley came in 1953 from three male students at Lebanon Catholic High School in Lebanon, Pa. They alleged McGinley brought them on overnight trips and provided them with alcohol before sleeping in the same bed as them and touching them in a sexual manner.
When the students told a priest stationed at the school of McGinley’s “immoral advances” toward them, they were told to keep silent about the incident and instructed about the “gravity” of the charges they were making, according to the report. After a conversation with George Leech, then the bishop of Harrisburg, McGinley was transferred to Our Lady of Mount Carmel, a Catholic church in Mount Carmel, Pa.
Lebanon Catholic declined a request for comment.
As a result of these incidents, McGinley was sent to the St. Luke Institute Catholic treatment center in Maryland by Bishop William Keeler in 1987 and lost the ability to perform pastoral duties, such as celebrating Mass or hearing confession, according to the grand jury report.
The center at St. Luke housed pedophiles in need of psychiatric treatment, according to Jason Berry, a reporter and author who has written extensively on the sexual abuse crisis in the Catholic Church.
“Most mental hospitals have their share of horror stories, people who act out,” Berry said in an interview with The Hoya. “Some people are just sick and do not meld comfortably with society.”
After his time at St. Luke, McGinley was caught working as a priest near Allentown, Pa., violating the order he received in 1987, according to the report.
Two accusations were brought against McGinley after he lost the privilege of celebrating Mass.
In 2004, a man reported to the Diocese of Harrisburg that McGinley had molested him when he was 11 years old and McGinley was assigned to the Annunciation Blessed Virgin Mary in McSherrystown, Pa., where he worked as a minister from 1945 to 1953.
Another survivor came forward two years after McGinley’s death. The man reported McGinley molested him at St. Patrick Church in Carlisle, Pa., in 1969, when he was in fifth grade and McGinley was the church’s pastor. The man reported the molestation to McGinley’s successor three years after the event and was told McGinley was “ill,” according to the grand jury report.
McGinley also served as the director of Campus Ministry at Marymount University and celebrated Masses through the art program throughout his time at the school, delivering opening prayers and homilies at services, according to Marymount’s archived church programs.
Because he died before any allegations were made public, McGinley faced no criminal charges during his lifetime.
If you would like to share any information regarding this investigation, please contact The Hoya at [email protected] or through any methods described here. Campus, local and national resources for processing this content can be found here.

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Sana Rahman 1 Comment 
In between two periods of abusing minors as an administrator and a teacher at Gonzaga College High School in the 1960s and 1970s, former Jesuit priest H. Cornell Bradley worked as a campus minister at Georgetown University. Neither the university nor the Maryland Province of the Jesuit order, which has deemed allegations against Bradley credible, have acknowledged his time at Georgetown since his abuse was made public in 2006.
One year after his ordination, Bradley, who left the Jesuits in 2007 shortly after being removed from ministry, came to Georgetown in 1970, according to the Official Catholic Directory and contemporaneous records catalogued by the Maryland Province.
Bradley, now 80, lived two blocks from the university’s front gates at Holy Trinity Church from 1972 until 1976, according to a December 2018 report issued by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus.
The province did not include Georgetown on Bradley’s assignment record for the report but later acknowledged his work on campus in a March 13 statement to The Hoya. Georgetown has not publicly acknowledged the allegations against Bradley, of which it was first notified by a March 1 email from The Hoya.
After Bradley was removed from ministry amid several credible accusations brought forward in 2006, the province sent letters to former places of employment to obtain information about any other potential abuse allegations. These letters helped surface five new allegations of abuse from students and staff at several of Bradley’s past assignments.
But because Georgetown is not listed in Bradley’s pastoral assignments in the provincial records, those who came in contact with Bradley while he was on campus in 1970, a year that falls within his time frame of abuse as estimated by the Maryland Province, did not receive letters.
The absence of Bradley’s year at Georgetown on his record exemplifies common practices of the province meant to conceal details of sexual misconduct allegations, according to David Clohessy, former national director of the advocacy group Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests.
“I don’t think it’s a mistake at all,” Clohessy said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “We see this more often than not. Church officials act like they’re being forthcoming but very, very often withhold key information to paint a less awful picture about what went on.”
The first credible and substantiated accusation against Bradley was brought forward in the early 1990s by a woman who reported a long-term, sexually abusive relationship with Bradley in the 1970s, after he left Georgetown, according to The Washington Post. Bradley, who was assistant principal of Gonzaga at the time of the relationship, was “unable to deny the allegations,” according to a provincial spokesperson quoted in the Post.
Also in the 1990s, Bradley faced two accusations of inappropriate sexual contact with minors at Gonzaga in the late 1970s, according to articles in The Baltimore Sun and NBC News archived on Bishop Accountability, a website dedicated to aggregating records of clergy accused of sexual misconduct.
Based on these three accusations, Bradley was sent to a residential psychiatric treatment center in 1993 while at the provincial residence in Baltimore. When Bradley returned to the ministry in 1994 after concluding his treatment, he went to St. Joseph’s University in Philadelphia in 1994, where he worked as a campus minister and basketball team chaplain for 10 years.
Of the five allegations brought against Bradley following the Maryland Province’s letters in 2006, two were from a student and staff member at St. Joseph’s. The other three were from students at Gonzaga who attended the school during his time there in the 1960s and 1970s.
The Maryland Province has not received or reviewed allegations against Bradley from the 1960s, a spokesperson for the Province said in an email to The Hoya.
The church’s use of treatment centers, such as the one Bradley attended in 1993, is seen as a way to limit damage to the institution and to protect clergy members, according to Clohessy
“Generally speaking, the church hierarchy is fixated on damage control, keeping it quiet, protecting clerical careers and reputations, and assuming the best: that predators can, with a little bit of therapy or change of location, be cured,” Clohessy said in a phone interview with The Hoya.
In 2006, the Maryland Province permanently removed Bradley from ministry after deeming credible an accusation of sexual misconduct with an adult male in the 1980s, according to The Washington Post.
The province’s exclusion of Georgetown from Bradley’s pastoral assignments on his record removes the university’s accountability and deters questions from important donors and alumni, according to Robert Hoatson, co-founder and president of Road to Recovery, a nonprofit organization focused on helping survivors of clerical abuse.
“Why they left his Georgetown University year off the list? My guess is so as not to raise suspicion about abuse at Georgetown University,” Hoatson said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “When you do raise suspicion, maybe heavy donors and alumni might begin to ask questions. That tends to be why religious orders and dioceses do not give all the information.”
Bradley has not been accused of sexual abuse during his time at Georgetown.
Failures to draw proper attention to all assignments of abusive priests can prevent survivors from coming forward, Hoatson said.
“Yes, it will silence other people from coming forward,” Hoatson said. “Every time we shine the light, every time the truth comes out, usually we find other victims.”
If you would like to share any information regarding this investigation, please contact The Hoya at [email protected] or through any methods described here. Campus, local and national resources for processing this content can be found here.
This article previously included a photo of Fr. Harold C. Bradley, S.J., not Fr. H. Cornell Bradley, S.J.


Lawrence Phelps says 
March 20, 2021 at 1:19 pm
I attended Gonzaga College High School from 1966 to 1969.  Bradley was the “Prefect of Discipline” and terrorized students.  I witnessed him punching a kid in the face in the cafeteria.  After that I hid in the library at lunch time to protect myself.  There were hair regulations and if he didn’t like a student’s hair style, he took scissors and savaged it. I convinced my parents to transfer me to public school in 1969 and they agreed. What a hellish school.  Horrible theology.  I went against Father O’Brien’s liberal theology so he failed me. Those priests were brutal.  I got slapped in my head twice and saw stars.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Mason Mandell Leave a Comment 
Fr. Augustine J. Ferretti, S.J., began his career as a Jesuit priest at Georgetown University, enrolling in a graduate program during World War II. Though accusations of abuse would not emerge until six decades after he left Georgetown, Ferretti would eventually become one of the church’s most serial abusers, with dozens of accusations spanning decades.
Ferretti, who was ordained in 1941 and died in 1982, did not ultimately complete his planned doctorate in philosophy, according to graduate student and alumni directories. Ferretti was at Georgetown from 1944 until 1947, according to Jesuit records.
University President John J. DeGioia first acknowledged Ferretti’s time at Georgetown in a December 2018 email, three years after church authorities in Helena, Mont., named Ferretti in a report on abusive priests. Georgetown first learned of the abuse in 2018 from the Maryland Province, according to a university spokesperson.
Allegations against Ferretti were first publicly reported in 2009 in a lawsuit against the Oregon Province of the Jesuits, which oversaw Ferretti while he was assigned to a Native American reservation during the 1970s in Lapwai, a small town outside Lewiston, Idaho.
Dorothea Skalicky, one of the women who first brought the suit against Ferretti, said she was first abused in 1973, when she was 6 or 7 years old.
“Ferretti lured Dorothea to the church premises, under the pretense of inviting her to ‘play’ at the church, for the purpose of sexually abusing Dorothea,” the suit said.
The suit was later combined with several similar cases into a monthslong lawsuit that invited all survivors of clerical abuse in the Oregon Province to come forward within a period of six months. The combined case ultimately resulted in one of the largest settlements in church history, with more than $166 million paid to over 500 victims of sexual abuse, most of whom were Native American. Because the case was resolved in a bankruptcy court, the province did not have to release internal documents associated with any abusive priests or survivors.
The church is ultimately responsible for the duration of Ferretti’s abuse, according to Skalicky.
“This may not have even happened if they would’ve done something instead of just, ‘Okay, let’s kick him out of here because he did this and then put him here,’” Skalicky said in an interview with The Hoya. “So that is very frustrating.”
Ferretti would abuse children numerous times a week, according to lawyer Leander James, who represented survivors of Ferretti’s abuse in the later suit.
“It’s kind of like having a lion in the zoo,” James said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “And you let a bunch of children in the zoo, and then open the lion’s door and let him walk around the zoo. Well, kids are going to get killed, eaten, because that’s what the lion does.”
Mia Sonneck, who alleged in a 2008 lawsuit that Ferretti abused her while he was counselling her parents in 1973 and around the time he baptized her in 1974, referred to him as a “child predator of the worst kind.”
When the Jesuit order began an effort to expand into Native American communities, it attracted many priests interested in drawing closer to vulnerable children with few adults, according to John Allison, an attorney involved in the bankruptcy case.
“They tended to assign priests who wanted to go to these far-off places for bad reasons and it was a real confluence of bad choices that put the Native American children who were among some of these priests directly in the crosshairs,” Allison said in a phone interview with The Hoya.
Using a government program that granted Jesuits authority to distribute food vouchers on Native American reservations, Ferretti leveraged his power over children and their families, including one of James’ clients, the attorney said.
“He used quid pro quo at times to facilitate his abuse,” James said. “She was able to have access to food vouchers only if she did him sexual acts.”
Many of the survivors in the bankruptcy settlement, which ultimately named 64 priests, had been abused by Ferretti, according to Allison.
“Unfortunately there were also a number of serial pedophiles who were responsible for a good number of those claims, and Father Ferretti was one of them,” Allison said.
The allegations of abuse against a minors disclosed by the Jesuits’ Western province do not overlap with his time at Georgetown. The organization lists his periods of abuse against a minor as 1952 to 1958, 1960 to 1969 and 1971 to 1976. It does not disclose any abuse against individuals over the age of 17.
Because Ferretti’s period of abuse began several decades before the settlement, many survivors of his abuse were not accounted for, Allison said. This meant that many victims were deceased and unable to include their record in the bankruptcy suit that included 34 accusers, according to the Spokesman-Review, a local paper in Spokane, Wash.
The bankruptcy case, which involved a significant number of Native American victims, exemplified the pattern that perpetrators often target the most vulnerable, according to Timothy Walton, an attorney who represented survivors of Ferretti’s abuse in the combined case.
“The children who have very little in terms of a support group around them and who are always looking for attention from adults because of it — those are the ones the perps go for,” Walton said in an interview with The Hoya.
The survivors of Ferretti’s abuse displayed a telling similarity in their accounts, according to Walton.
“What was interesting is the modus operandi described by the children in Montana was virtually identical to the modus operandi described by the children in Lewiston,” Walton said. “And they didn’t know each other.”
The power of the priesthood and the vulnerability of Native American children were critical to Ferretti’s pattern of abuse, according to James.
“It’s a sociopathic victimization of children to dominate, control and have power over them,” James said. “And he used the religious medium as his access to kids — not only his access, but in the sense of his elevated status given to him by the church, particularly on a Indian reservation, to sexually dominate and control children.”
If you would like to share any information regarding this investigation, please contact The Hoya at [email protected] or through any methods described here. Campus, local and national resources for processing this content can be found here.

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Sarah Mendelsohn Leave a Comment 
Shortly after his ordination in 1959, Fr. Neil McLaughlin, S.J., sexually abused two minors, including his niece, according to accusations deemed credible by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus. He then went on to work at Georgetown University Hospital over 18 years.
From 1965 until 1983, McLaughlin worked during summers under the hospital’s pastoral care program, according to a Maryland Province statement posted on the University of Scranton’s website in 2010.
The first allegation against McLaughlin, now 91 and living in the Colombiere Jesuit community in Baltimore, was made public in 1990 by his niece, who said he “hugged her in a sexual manner” in 1959, according to a report on sexual abuse in the Catholic Church published by a Pennsylvania grand jury in August 2018.
Another woman made an accusation against McLaughlin in 2008, the Maryland Province disclosed in its 2010 statement. She informed the Jesuits that McLaughlin sexually assaulted her and touched her inappropriately in 1963, when she was 10 years old and the priest was assigned to Scranton Preparatory School.
Georgetown has not acknowledged McLaughlin’s work at the hospital since allegations against him were made public in 1990 and first deemed credible in 2010. The university first learned of the allegations against McLaughlin in a March 1 email from The Hoya.
McLaughlin worked at Georgetown University Hospital while assigned to the University of Scranton, according to Mike Gabriele, a spokesperson for the Maryland Province.
“He wasn’t assigned to the hospital, but he did come down on more than one occasion in the summers to assist at the hospital,” Gabriele said in a phone interview with The Hoya.
The pastoral care department at MedStar Georgetown University Hospital is responsible for religious support of patients and their families through programs like masses, patient visits, sacramental ministry and ethical decision-making counselling, according to the hospital website.
McLaughlin’s responsibilities included all the hospital’s patients, according to Fr. Daniel Gatti, S.J., the director of pastoral care at Georgetown Hospital from 1975 until 1989 and McLaughlin’s supervisor for nine of those years.
“We tried to visit all the new patients, regardless of religion,” Gatti said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “If a patient died, that’s a tough time. So pastoral care, someone would be there, with the family to try to console them, pray with them.
McLaughlin told the Maryland Province that more survivors of his sexual abuse exist, according to the Province’s 2010 statement. He abused minors from the 1950s through the 1980s in six locations, none of which were Washington, D.C., according to the Province’s 2018 report.
After his ordination, McLaughlin taught at Scranton Preparatory School in Pennsylvania for 23 years, from 1961 to 1983, according to the 2010 province statement. After being listed as “absent with leave” from 1983 until 1985, he then worked in administrative roles at the Alumni Office of the University of Scranton, a Jesuit university in Pennsylvania, from 1985 to 2006, according to archived records of the Maryland Province.
After the first accusation in 1990, McLaughlin was diagnosed as a latent pedophile, implying a manifest sexual attraction to children. After a recent re-evaluation, a doctor said McLaughlin was not a threat to children, according to the grand jury report. In January 2006, the Maryland Province recommended to the Diocese of Scranton that McLaughlin be allowed to resume his priestly responsibilities on the condition that he not work with children.
In 2007, after re-examining the 1990 allegation, the Maryland Province moved McLaughlin and removed him from ministry, stripping him of the ability to say Mass, according to the grand jury report and Maryland Province statement.
The province did not comment on what prompted the re-evaluation of the 1990 allegation.
All credibly accused Jesuits live under a safety plan, which removes them from public ministry and requires that their actions are closely monitored, according to a statement from the Maryland Province. A credibly accused Jesuit also has limited access to technology and restrictions on travel, according to the province. The Maryland Province monitors McLaughlin’s actions and communications as part of McLaughlin’s relocation plan. 
An outside accrediting agency called Praesidium audits the safety plans for accused Jesuits and sets standards for monitoring those priests, Gabriele said in an interview with The Hoya. Praesidium is a company that advises organizations on how to prevent sexual assault.
Mitchell Garabedian, a lawyer who has represented survivors of clerical abuse in high-profile cases since 2002, does not trust the church to properly monitor priests placed under restrictive plans.
“The Catholic Church — and specifically the Jesuits and other orders — cannot self-police,” Garabedian said in a phone interview with The Hoya.
If you would like to share any information regarding this investigation, please contact The Hoya at [email protected] or through any methods described here. Campus, local and national resources for processing this content can be found here.

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Mason Mandell Leave a Comment 
Fr. Michael Barber, S.J., who was removed from the ministry in 1994, served as a chaplain at the Georgetown University Hospital from 1976 to 1978 in the department of pastoral care, where he assisted patients and staff in their religious life. 
But in 1994, Barber, now 76, admitted to sexual abuse of a minor, according to a December 2018 disclosure by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus.
Georgetown Hospital chaplains offer Mass, visit patients and their families, and counsel staff in decision-making, according to the hospital’s website.
University President John J. DeGioia first acknowledged Barber’s time at Georgetown Hospital in a December 2018 email, 24 years after Barber was removed from ministry, stripping him of the ability to say Mass. Georgetown first learned of the abuse in 2018 from the Maryland Province, according to a university spokesperson.
Once he was removed, Barber was relocated to Colombiere Jesuit Community in Baltimore, according to left-leaning media outlet ThinkProgress. The Maryland Province monitors Barber’s travel and use of technology in accordance with his safety plan, the Province said in its 2018 report.
A spokesperson for the Maryland Province was unable to comment on punishments for Jesuits who violate their safety plans, saying only that several broken safety plans may risk the province’s accreditation.
The Catholic Church and Jesuit order often use safety plans to deflect criticism without punishing abusers or supporting survivors, according to lawyer Mitchell Garabedian, who has represented survivors of clerical abuse in high-profile cases since 2002.
“History has taught us that the Catholic Church cannot self-police,” Garabedian said in a phone interview with The Hoya.
In his work as a hospital chaplain, Barber interacted with patients, their families, hospital staff and medical school students, but he spent little time with undergraduate students, according to Fr. Daniel Gatti, S.J., who served as director of the pastoral care department from 1975 until 1989. Gatti oversaw both Barber and Fr. Neil McLaughlin, S.J., who was removed from the ministry in 2007 and also faces credible accusations of sexual abuse of minors, according to the Maryland Province’s report.
“In relation to the academic side, they were not dealing with students,” Gatti said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “Their presence at Georgetown, from my recollection, was limited to their work with me in the hospital.”
The Maryland Province’s disclosure that Barber pleaded guilty to harassment did not clarify if that admission was made to a criminal court or through an internal church process. The church can protect senior officials by keeping abusive priests out of civilian legal systems, according to Benson.
“If law enforcement can’t press charges, then law enforcement also can’t get documents,” Benson said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “And if law enforcement can’t get documents, then they can’t get any evidence. They don’t have any evidence to prove their case or to show what the diocese knew of what he did.”
Gatti did not encounter any reports of inappropriate behavior by Barber or McLaughlin while serving as their supervisor.
“There is no indication to me or knowledge that I had that they had any improprieties or anything like that,” Gatti said.
While working at the university’s hospital, Barber lived two blocks off campus at Campion House, a small Jesuit community located across the street from Holy Trinity, a Catholic elementary school. Colombiere, where Barber has lived since 1994, is within a one-mile radius of four primary schools.
If you would like to share any information regarding this investigation, please contact The Hoya at [email protected] or through any methods described here. Campus, local and national resources for processing this content can be found here.

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Yasmine Salam Leave a Comment 
Christine Lyons saw Fr. Jack Kennington as a close family friend. Her neighbors on Manhattan’s Lower East Side saw him as a proud advocate for people struggling with drug addiction and a popular priest in the community throughout the 1980s. All the while, Brendan and Bridget Lyons, Christine’s children, knew “Uncle Jack” as a sexual abuser. 
The abuse, which spanned from 1984 to 1987, began a year after Kennington, a member of the Redemptorist order of the Catholic Church, finished his assignment at the Woodstock Theological Center. Woodstock was a research center located in Ida Ryan Hall on Georgetown’s campus and was managed by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus until the center closed in 2013.
The Lyons case resurfaced last month, when Bridget Lyons brought a joint suit against the Catholic Conference of Major Superiors of Men, demanding all Catholic orders release lists of known abusers within the church. The lawsuit follows her brother’s successful legal bid 18 years earlier. Brendan Lyons received a settlement from the church in 2001, a lawsuit that excluded his sister because of New York’s statute of limitations policies at the time.
Kennington, who was ordained in 1959, played strip poker with 13-year-old Bridget and 8-year-old Brendan to the point of nakedness, he admitted during a court deposition for a suit settled in 2001. After convincing the children the abuse was “our secret,” he gave them erotic back massages before tucking them into bed while their mother was home, Newsday reported in 2002.
Georgetown University has not publicly acknowledged Kennington’s work on campus since the allegations were made public in 2002. The university first learned of the allegations against Kennington in a March 1 email from The Hoya.
The Lyons siblings’ single mother regularly enlisted Kennington, now 85, to help with child care in their Manhattan home. The abuse would soon follow the siblings to beaches in the Hamptons and their grandparents’ home in Florida, where Kennington masturbated to pornographic magazines in their presence, according to Brendan Lyons’ testimony, which was released in 2002. 
The Lyons children were raised to look up to Kennington, which made grappling with the abuse decades later all the more challenging.
“That was the big thing for me, because priests are supposed to be infallible and perfect,” Bridget Lyons said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “They’re in a control position, and we in our families are raised to trust them.”
Kennington worked in Georgetown’s Woodstock Theological Center between 1981 and 1983, according to the Official Catholic Directory. He is also listed in the OCD as a researcher in the Catholic Information Center, a research facility in downtown Washington, D.C.
The Redemptorist order refused multiple requests for comment regarding Kennington’s work in D.C.
Christine Lyons learned of her children’s abuse years later when her daughter refused to invite Kennington to her high school graduation party in 1989.
With the support of his mother and sister, Brendan Lyons filed a lawsuit against Kennington in 1994. Almost eight years later, the church settled his lawsuit for an undisclosed amount, as well as a nondisclosure clause that applied exclusively to him.
New York’s statutes of limitations, however, barred his sister Bridget Lyons from seeking legal accountability when she came forward at the same time as her brother.
Restrictive statutes of limitations are the biggest legal hurdle survivors of sexual abuse face in court, according to Stacey Benson, an attorney on Bridget Lyons’ legal team. Benson’s firm, Jeff Anderson and Associates, has specialized in defending victims of child sexual abuse for over 30 years.
“The vast majority of survivors don’t come forward if at all until they are much older,” Benson said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “The majority of laws which were written put such a short time limit that when a survivor is ready to come forward, their legal opportunity is often gone.”
Determined to speak out, Bridget Lyons and her mother shared their story with the New York Post in 2002. That year’s March 21 front page featured a photograph of Kennington with the two survivors of his abuse.
Despite the press attention and settled lawsuit against him, Kennington remains active in the Redemptorist order and currently lives in a private residence for Redemptorist priests in Brooklyn, N.Y. The religious order celebrated Kennington’s 50th anniversary as a priest in 2009, according to Redemptorist order materials archived on Bishop Accountability, a website dedicated to aggregating information about sexual abusers in the clergy. 
Approximately seven priests currently live in the residence, which functions as the headquarters for the Redemptorist order in New York, according to an employee of the residence. Priests can conduct services at local congregations, take part in retreats and engage with the community. 
Now 47, living in Atlanta and working in violence prevention for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Bridget Lyons is seeking legal justice and accountability against her abuser, decades after she first came forward about Kennington’s abuse.
On Feb. 14, New York passed the Child Victims Act, enabling survivors of sexual assault, including survivors of clergy sex abuse, to bring a civil lawsuit until they reach the age of 55. Before this act passed, New York enforced one of the most oppressive statutes of limitations for survivors, who had only three years to report their assault under the policy, Benson said. That same day, Bridget Lyons and four other plaintiffs, all of whom have alleged abuse by religious order priests in New York, filed a lawsuit against the Catholic Conference of Major Superiors of Men, an umbrella organization that has representatives from all 120 orders of the Catholic Church.
The lawsuit aims to pressure all Catholic orders to disclose which clergy have been accused of sexual abuse. Of the 120 Catholic orders, only six have published such lists, including the Jesuit order and excluding Kennington’s order, the Redemptorists, Benson said.
Unlike Catholic archdioceses, which cover particular geographic regions and face public pressure to investigate and disclose lists of known abusers, religious orders have autonomy that has allowed them to cover up clerical abuse for decades, according to Benson.
“The religious orders have largely gotten away with everything unscathed,” Benson said. “They aren’t releasing names; they aren’t under fire; you do not see headlines about the provincials and the orders. You see the archbishop and the diocese. When in reality, it’s the same thing; it’s just a different group within the church. Especially in New York, every survivor deserves justice, not just a select few that the diocese decide deserve it.”
Bridget Lyons remains hopeful the new act could implement more widespread support for survivors seeking justice. 
“I am just hoping that this will also cause a shift where changes are finally made to protect kids,” she said.
Seventeen years after Brendan Lyons received a settlement from the church for his abuse, Georgetown has not acknowledged its ties to Kennington.
Georgetown, along with other Catholic higher education institutions, can play an influential role in supporting survivors of clergy sexual abuse and demanding transparency, according to Bridget Lyons. 
“I think Georgetown and Notre Dame especially are very well-respected institutions worldwide,” she said. “If they are sending out a message that accountability needs to be done and if they had a zero-tolerance policy that supported victims, that would be huge.”
If you would like to share any information regarding this investigation, please contact The Hoya at [email protected] or through any methods described here. Campus, local and national resources for processing this content can be found here.
This article has been updated to correctly reflect the location of Woodstock Theological Center from Kennington’s time working there.

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Will Simon Leave a Comment 
On Nov. 7, 1958, the University of Washington inaugurated Charles Odegaard as its 25th president. The speakers for the week’s events included luminaries from highly esteemed institutions across the country, such as the president of the University of California system, the editor of the Christian Science Monitor and the dean of law at Yale University.
Representing Georgetown University among Odegaard’s guests was Fr. Engelbert Axer, S.J., a former professor of religion and doctoral student at Georgetown.
Axer, who died in 1989, sexually abused a minor during a summer ministry program two years prior to the inauguration, an allegation made public in 2006 and deemed credible by the Seattle Archdiocese in March 2017.
Axer’s time at Georgetown as a professor and student began in 1946, and he completed his doctorate in 1949, according to university archival material. After graduating, Axer spent most of his career in Seattle, but maintained a relationship with Georgetown.
In addition to Odegaard’s inauguration, Axer represented Georgetown at Waseda University in Tokyo at Waseda’s septuagenarian celebration Oct. 21, 1952. He also served as chaplain for the Georgetown Alumni Club in Seattle, according to university archival material from 1962.
Two years after the allegation was deemed credible and 13 years after it was made public, Georgetown has not acknowledged its connections to Axer. The university first learned of the allegations against Axer in a March 1 email from The Hoya.
After finishing his degree at Georgetown, Axer spent five years teaching at Sophia University in Japan. In 1956, he went to Seattle University, where he worked as a professor of philosophy. Axer had previously taught at Seattle University for four years, according to a 1946 article in The Spectator, Seattle University’s student newspaper.
Axer’s second stint at Seattle University lasted from 1956 until 1987, though his legacy endured long after his departure. Until the accusation against him surfaced in 2006, the chairship of Seattle University’s philosophy department was named for Axer. Seattle University also hosted an “Axer Conference” in March 2001, where lecturers presented on a range of academic subjects such as literature and education.
When the Oregon Province of the Society of Jesus, which included Washington state in its domain, received the allegation in 2006, province officials alerted the faculty, staff and students of Seattle University, according to a Seattle Post-Intelligencer article archived by Bishop Accountability, a website dedicated to aggregating information about clergy accused of sexual abuse.
Fr. Stephen Sundborg, S.J., the president of Seattle University, vowed to support survivors and reconcile the university’s connection to Axer in a 2006 statement.
“It is profoundly important that we step forward and create an environment of acknowledgement and healing for both the victims and our community,” Sundborg said. “I am committed to reconciliation as both a Jesuit and President of Seattle University.”
Contacting the former communities of known abusers is essential to protecting survivors and creating a safer campus environment, according to David Clohessy, former national director of the advocacy group Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests.
“Step one has to be, first of all, aggressive outreach to anyone who is or was on campus when these dangerous men were put there,” Clohessy said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “University officials should first and foremost work very hard to publicly beg victims, witnesses and whistleblowers to come forward to law enforcement.”
If you would like to share any information regarding this investigation, please contact The Hoya at [email protected] or through any methods described here. Campus, local and national resources for processing this content can be found here.

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Sana Rahman Leave a Comment 
Before embarking on his path toward ordination as a Jesuit priest, Fr. Neil Carr, S.J., began his Jesuit education with a year at Georgetown University.
Carr enrolled at Georgetown in 1937 and left the following year to enter the Jesuit seminary in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., according to later articles published in The Buffalo Courier and The Buffalo Evening News announcing Carr’s 1966 appointment as the highest-ranking Jesuit in the Buffalo Province of the Jesuit order since it was incorporated into the U.S. Northeast Province of Jesuits.
Carr went on to sexually abuse two minors, with one incident at Jesuit High School in New Orleans, where he chaired the department of theology in the 1970s, and the other in the late 1980s while Carr was teaching at Canisius High School in Buffalo, N.Y., according to the Archdiocese of New Orleans and the Northeast Province.
Georgetown has not publicly acknowledged Carr’s time at the university since allegations against him were reported to the Northeast Province of Jesuits and deemed credible in 2005 and first made public in September 2018. The university first learned of the allegations against Carr, who was ordained in 1951 and died in 2013, from a March 1 email from The Hoya.
In 1966, Carr was named the provincial superior of the Buffalo Province of Jesuits. While in this position, Carr was the leading Jesuit in the province and supervised the work of 450 Jesuits in a region encompassing Rochester, Albany, Syracuse, Ogdensburg and some islands in the South Pacific.
The 2005 allegation dated back to Carr’s time in Buffalo, N.Y., where he was a priest and counselor at Canisius High School from 1984 to 1993, according to a local ABC News station. However, the incident took place during a summer in the late 1980s at the Cathedral Basilica of St. Augustine in Florida, where Carr was serving as a summer priest, according to the Democrat & Chronicle, a Rochester, N.Y., outlet.
After the first allegation of abuse in 2005, Carr was immediately removed from ministry, stripping him of the ability to perform Mass. The next year, the Northeast Province set up a constant monitoring arrangement meant to prevent Carr from having access to minors.
After the Jesuit order began monitoring Carr in 2006, he was housed in Murray-Weigel Hall, a nursing home at Fordham University, a Jesuit institution in New York, until he died in 2013. Fordham was unaware of allegations against Carr until 2018, according to Bob Howe, Fordham’s assistant vice president for communications.
Failure to disclose the identities of known abusers can bring dangerous consequences to the communities they inhabit, according to lawyer Mitchell Garabedian, who has represented survivors of clerical abuse in high-profile cases since 2002.
“The Jesuits have responsibility to victims — to sexual abuse victims and society — to research their own records and to reach out to victims,” Garabedian said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “Publicize lists of known perpetrators [and] sexual abusers and release documents related to those sexual abusers.”
More than a decade after the first allegation against Carr and five years after his death, another survivor shared his story of Carr’s abuse.
Ricky Windmann first came forward about his experience reporting Carr’s abuse to Jesuit High School in a September 2018 interview with the New Orleans Advocate. Windmann, who was not a student at the high school but regularly visited the basketball courts, had been sexually abused numerous times in the late 1970s by Peter Modica, a janitor at Jesuit High School who has since died.
In one instance, Modica was raping Windmann when Carr, who had come to Jesuit High School in 1976 as the head of the theology department, walked in. Rather than stopping the abuse, Carr began masturbating and told Windmann to “relax” as Modica continued to rape him, Windmann told the Advocate and The Fordham Ram, the student newspaper of Fordham University.
Windmann informed Jesuit High School of the abuse in 2012. Based on the information he presented, the school agreed to a $450,000 settlement with Windmann later that year.
Six years later, though, Windmann shed light on how both Jesuit High School and the Jesuit order’s local leadership covered up the settlement, which was not publicly disclosed to students, their families, or the staff or faculty of Jesuit High School. The high school is overseen by the Jesuit order, the guidelines of which do not require sexual abuse claims to be publicized, unlike other Catholic orders, according to the Advocate.
Such cover-ups fall into the Catholic Church’s larger pattern of diminishing the trauma abuse has on survivors, according to Garabedian.
“The Jesuits, historically, have tried to downplay the extent of clergy sexual abuse,” Garabedian said. “The Jesuits work very hard at spin control and media and manipulation.”
If you would like to share any information regarding this investigation, please contact The Hoya at [email protected] or through any methods described here. Campus, local and national resources for processing this content can be found here.

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Sana Rahman and Riley Rogerson 3 Comments 
In the wake of the U.S. Department of Justice’s report that revealed a former Georgetown tennis coach accepted bribes from parents to guarantee their children admission, university students and professors speak out against inequality perpetuated within the college admissions process. 
The college admissions bribery scheme highlights how socio-economic status plays a role in gaining admission to prestigious universities, according to Daniel Sulmasy, the acting director of the Kennedy Institute of Ethics.
“Because you have money does not mean that you deserve to go to Georgetown or Harvard,” Sulmasy said in an interview with The Hoya. “It sheds light on more of those kinds of problems in our society where super wealthy people think that the rules sometime don’t apply to them, that money can buy anything. It shouldn’t buy justice. It shouldn’t buy admission to Georgetown.”
Former Georgetown tennis coach Gordon Ernst fraudulently recruited at least 12 Georgetown applicants, many of whom did not play competitive tennis, to the Georgetown tennis team, according to a March 12 DOJ indictment. Ernst coached the men’s and women’s tennis teams from 2006 until December 2017, leaving the university in January 2018.
The indictment involves eight different U.S. colleges, with the DOJ bringing charges against 50 defendants. Among those charged are athletic coaches, parents of university students and administrators of college entrance exams engaging in fraudulent behavior. Five Georgetown parents were named in the indictment.
The college admissions process already provides legal avenues for those from higher socio-economic classes to obtain admission into universities, which deprive low-income students of potential opportunities, said Onrei Ladao (COL ’21), Center for Multicultural Equity and Access intern. 
“We should be reminded that there are plenty of legal ways in which students are essentially ‘buying their way’ into universities, whether it be through their ‘legacy’ status, having wealthy donors for parents or having access to more resources to increase their test scores,” Ladao wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Students that may be coming from a first-generation low-income background don’t have any of this.”
The CMEA offers multicultural programming and academic support to students of racial and ethnic backgrounds that have historically found Georgetown inaccessible. Ladao is also a member of Georgetown Scholars Program, which provides support, advising, networking and mentoring to over 600 Georgetown undergraduates, most of whom are first-generation college students or come from low-income families. 
College admissions fraud is an example of widespread societal cheating, a trend which should be condemned by all, according to Georgetown sociology professor Sarah Stiles.
“It’s not easy to live by one’s values, and that’s the point. It’s not easy. And when we know there are people who are cheating, and yeah they are gonna get a better grade because they cheated, does that mean you cheat too?” Stiles said in an interview with The Hoya. “If that becomes the norm and everybody is doing it apparently, you’ve got a rotten to the core culture.”
Prior to when the DOJ made the results of its own investigation public, Georgetown found that Ernst violated admissions policies during an internal investigation in 2017 and put Ernst on leave. The university did not encounter bribes or other criminal conduct in its investigation until contacted by the U.S. attorney, university spokesperson Meghan Dubyak wrote in a statement to The Hoya. 
The university should be recognized for its work uncovering this misconduct, Sulmasy said.
“With respect to Georgetown, I was gratified to hear that we had as a university already recognized some of the improprieties regarding the former tennis coach’s activities,” Sulmasy said.
The 30 parents charged in the indictment include Elizabeth and Manuel Henriquez, Stephen Semprevivo, Elisabeth Kimmel, and Douglas Hodge, all of whom have or had children at Georgetown University between 2013 and 2019. Parents paid a fraudulent test proctor to oversee the SAT and falsified athletic records and admissions essays, according to the charges. 
The university declined to comment on any disciplinary action against students who attend Georgetown and were admitted with fraudulent applications because of protection afforded by the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act. Georgetown will review the U.S. attorney’s indictment and “take appropriate action,” according to university spokesperson Matt Hill.
Moving forward, the admissions office and the university need to take further steps to acknowledge flaws present in the system and increase transparency surrounding future admission processes, CMEA intern Christine Sun (SFS ’22) said.
“Some changes need to happen, not necessarily just by sending a letter, but I think the admissions office could come out with upcoming statements with changes in their policies and more transparency about what’s actually going on,” Sun said.
Although there is no indication that Georgetown was directly culpable in the bribery scheme, the indictment reveals the university has failed to promote a culture of integrity, a core St. Ignatius Jesuit value, according to Stiles.
“There is a good segment of the population that is mostly concerned with money and status and prestige and I think St. Ignatius would have a problem with that,” Stiles said. “Georgetown is a reflection of the larger culture. So I think that at Georgetown we need to highlight the importance of living truth, and that’s integrity, even if it means you don’t come out on top.”

Bob Gambarelli says 
March 15, 2019 at 11:04 am
Until legacy admissions is severely curtailed ( or eliminated), there will always be a question of equity with respect to Georgetown admissions. Obviously, legacy admissions can be a great financial benefit to GU, but the price is that GU will always be labeled as an elitist institution- and it should be!
It was an ongoing joke during my years at GU of the students who had no business being there ( for more than just academic reasons), but once you knew who their parents were, it made sense.

Mickey Lee says 
April 12, 2019 at 8:59 am
I absolutely agree with the legacy system corrupting the meritocracy of education, particularly in the United States.

Mickey Lee says 
April 12, 2019 at 9:03 am
Through my online petition (click on my name for this post), I have seen first-hand that this college admissions cuts even the polarized political climate that exists today.  This is a truly universal and non-political issue because it deals with executive corruption as well as institutions serve as the enablers of future corruption in positions of leadership.
Not only are people of along the entire political spectrum in support of Georgetown rescinding admissions AND degrees fraudulently attained by these criminals, our supporters represent a wide socioeconomic spectrum as well.
A perfect example of this is since even LEGACY applicants (more qualified than those in the scandal) were denied admissions at the expense of an Henriquez, Semprevivo, and Dodge, a strong number of financially well-off alumni-parents support our petition.  This includes donors, fund chairs/co-chairs, and university board of advisers.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Cady Stanton Leave a Comment 
Though outgoing Georgetown University Student Association President Juan Martinez (SFS ’20) and Vice President Kenna Chick (SFS ’20) began their term unexpectedly, the circumstances did not prevent them from prioritizing the issues that matter to students most: diversity, student activism and mental health resources.
The pair, who were confirmed to office in October following a series of resignations in September, entered their term with an emphasis on diverse representation and encouraging student advocacy. Martinez, who previously served as transition chair of the senate, became president under GUSA’s bylaws Sept. 16. Martinez nominated Chick on Oct. 1, and the GUSA senate confirmed her nomination Oct. 2.
The week they exit office, Martinez and Chick reflect on their term as GUSA executives, including the obstacles they faced restoring stability to student government and the highlights of their term.
What are you most proud of from your term, as a collective administration and as individuals?
Martinez: I think Kenna and I did a good job on starting a conversation on the importance of valuing student activism within GUSA. It was a really big part of the executive elections this year, which is something that ever since I came into GUSA as a freshman senator, I was very passionate about.
Chick: When we came into office, for us the really main thing we wanted to focus on was just stabilizing the situation, as you all know. I think that for us, part of it was definitely just making sure that the situation is something that we needed to take care of, but also moving forward from that and doing the work that we wanted to do within policy, and I think that given we did not have a full term to really work on the things that we did, we still made changes in places that we felt like were very important to make changes in, particularly within policy.
What challenges did you face coming into your term in the middle of the fall semester?
Martinez: Following all the events in September, we couldn’t expect huge turnout and interest in people wanting to join our organization, but we did pull through and we managed to get a good cabinet in place where our senior staff, the first group we managed get in the executive, was extremely diverse with a majority of people indicating different non-white races. It consisted mostly of women, not men. That was one of the first things where we said, you know, maybe we didn’t get a full term in and maybe we didn’t get all the fallout, but we still are drawing from these communities that are underrepresented and we had a lot of students who had never indicated interest in GUSA apply to our cabinet, students activists who wanted to join. 
Chick: The transition had been very difficult just because of the timing of things. Neither of us had really planned to devote this amount of time to GUSA, and for us, once we counted, I think it was around 20 hours a week, just for planning and meetings. In addition, when there were different emergencies that we had to deal with or things that came up last minute that we had to work on, there’s just added time to that. For us, that was not something that we expected and I would say I think that we both managed to change our schedules around to ensure that whatever time was needed was put into GUSA, and made it our priority. 
Given the nature of the last executive’s resignation, how have you worked to restore trust and stability in GUSA during your term?
Martinez: I think one thing we have done is we’ve tried to be more transparent by putting out many more press releases than in the past. That’s a direct way of getting the messages out to people, telling them here’s what we stand for, here’s what we support. When students in our community are hurting, how we’re going to show up for you. 
Chick: I think that GUSA definitely has the resources to do a lot of the work, but also that working with student activists is very very important in getting things done, definitely to ensure that we’re all working on things together, because I think that at the end of the day we all care about things on this campus and we all want to see changes, and it is definitely more helpful to work together with people that are involved and really understand what are the different sides to this, rather than working against each other. I think that that’s definitely something that we’ve made a point of doing in order to bring stability really to our administration, is to really start working on things with the people that it involves. 
What do you see as your legacy? What do you hope students took away from your leadership this year? 
Martinez: I think that in terms of our legacy, I hope people felt comfortable with us in office at the top. I think that us taking over was a huge change from the last administration, and I hope that people recognize that. We did our best to represent students in the face of sort of any major concern that hit campus, making sure we stood with students. 
Martinez: I think it’s very very powerful the way that Kenna and I were able to change the conversation, or kind of shape the conversation for the future. But also, I hope that the projects that the projects we were able to accomplish during our three or four months provide some sort of help to anyone in the Georgetown community. As long as that’s true I think that I will think we left a good legacy on campus. 
What is the biggest challenge incoming GUSA President Norman Francis Jr. (COL ’20) and Vice President Aleida Olvera (COL ’20) face entering office and the biggest thing they have working in their favor?
Martinez: I think that in response to lack of confidence in GUSA, and that’s something that a lot of admins have faced before, but I think especially in light of recent events in September, addressing that and making that a big part of how they’re going to respond to these concerns. You have concerns that come up from the conference in GUSA, but you also have this new conversation that’s starting with how to best incorporate students. I know they did a really good job of addressing those concerns specifically, making them a big component of their debates and their campaign, but I think manifesting that into action. 
Chick: We’re very happy to provide any advice or insights or let them know what happened at certain meetings so that when it’s their turn to pick up that mantle and start advocating for some of these issues, they can do so with the full knowledge of what had happened in the past. So that way they have in their favor people who have been working on these issues for a really long time and that is so important for advocacy. Given the way that transition looked for us, I think that I’ve put it as a priority to help them through their transition as well.
What strengths do you think each of you have that played well off of one another this semester?
Martinez: Where we complement each other specifically is that I used to be in the senate beforehand and Kenna used to be in the executive, so Kenna knew a lot about administrators and specific areas, but also the way administrators would respond to certain things, saying, ‘They’re gonna say this. Here’s how they responded to me before. They tell you to contact 10 people, which is just a tactic to slow you down.’ Stuff like that I found really useful, just like institutional knowledge, knowledge of who the admin was and how they think. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Moira Ritter Leave a Comment 
Georgetown plans to roll out its first Cultural Climate Survey to gauge inclusivity and diversity on campus, according to the Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity & Affirmative Action.
The Cultural Climate Survey is set to examine an array of identity and diversity distinctions, including race, ethnicity, faith, sexuality, ability, gender identity and other backgrounds, according to Rosemary Kilkenny, vice president for Institutional Diversity and Equity.
The Coalition on Racial and Cultural Inclusivity is currently collaborating with IDEAA on the Cultural Climate Survey, according to Uju Nwaigwe (COL ’20), chair of the Georgetown University Student Association Coalition on Racial and Cultural Inclusivity. The coalition was planning to administer its own racial climate survey before IDEAA announced plans to develop the Cultural Climate Survey.
Nwaigwe said that she hopes the survey will resemble the Sexual Assault and Misconduct Climate Survey.
 “I hope the survey also speaks to various situations, such as what it is it like to be a queer POC on campus or what is the experiences of students of color in classrooms,” Nwaigwe wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The university is committed to using the survey as a tool for identifying areas of concern related to policies, practices and resources, Kilkenny said.
“As a Catholic and Jesuit university, we are committed to fostering a welcoming and inclusive campus and always working to improve our institutional policies and programs,” Kilkenny wrote in a statement to The Hoya.
Similar climate surveys have been administered at a number of other universities. The University of Michigan administered the Campus Climate Survey on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in 2016. The Office for Inclusion, Diversity and Equal Opportunity at Case Western University administered the Diversity Climate Survey in 2011.
Discussions between university leaders and the Georgetown community regarding the details of the Cultural Climate Survey are ongoing, and IDEAA has not yet established a timeline for the survey.
The Cultural Climate Survey can help bring attention to discrimination issues on campus, according to Nwaigwe.
“As a person of color, there is no number to the amount of times that I have been discriminated on this campus,” Nwaigwe wrote. “My decision to make this climate survey happen was to create data to strengthen my arguments that racism and discrimination are prevalent on Georgetown’s campus.” 
Georgetown administered its inaugural Sexual Assault and Misconduct Climate Survey in 2016 to assess the prevalence of sexual misconduct on campus. In the 2016 survey, 31 percent of female undergraduates who answered the survey and 10.8 percent of male undergraduates respondents reported experiencing nonconsensual sexual contact on campus. Over 7,900 undergraduate and graduate students participated in the survey.
The second Sexual Assault and Misconduct Climate Survey is currently taking place. The survey opened Feb. 1 and is set to close Friday. Over 5,000 students have participated in the survey thus far, according to Kilkenny.
As a result of the Cultural Climate Survey, a broad spectrum of identities can be heard, according to Kendell Long (COL ’19), resident director of the Black House.
“One identity doesn’t take the backseat to another,” Long said. “All are covered in a very intentional and with a great level of depth.”
Having statistics that prove the prevalence of discrimination on campus may pressure the university to take action, Long said.
“The Cultural Climate Survey will be able to hear the hard and undebatable data based on student experiences,” Long said. “I think it is somewhat disheartening that it takes numbers and data to do this rather than student experiences, but I am hopeful for the impact it can have on campus.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Taylor Kahn-Perry Leave a Comment 
Three Georgetown alumnae shared their stories of breaking gender barriers in college at the opening of the Georgetown Women Alliance’s “Women on the Walls” photography exhibit March 14.
Georgetown became fully co-ed in 1969, when the College of Arts and Sciences became the last of Georgetown’s undergraduate colleges to admit women. GWA is a collective of staff, faculty, students and alumni for professional training and collaboration around women and leadership, and curated the exhibit, which depicts 12 portraits of women from Georgetown’s history, each with captions sharing their stories. 
Held in Hoya Court, the “Women on the Walls” exhibit opening included remarks from three women who were featured in the exhibit. The university’s first female provost Dorothy Brown, Artrice Valentine Bader (GRD ’66), the first Georgetown student to receive a Ph.D. in biology, and The Hoya’s first female editor-in-chief Bernadette Savard Tramm (CAS ’73) returned to campus for the event. 
C.C. Borzilleri (COL ’19) led the project to memorialize the legacies of Georgetown women as part of her GWA fellowship, which connects undergraduate and graduate students with mentors and networking opportunities within the GWA. The exhibit’s opening comes two years after a collaborative effort from Borzilleri and the GWA that included archival research on the women whose portraits are featured in the exhibit.
Brown joined Georgetown’s history department in 1966 as the department’s only female faculty member. Brown told the audience she participated in the vote admitting women to the College in her first year.
Brown filled numerous roles at Georgetown, including director of the American studies program and chair of the department of history.
Georgetown’s Jesuit values helped women become incorporated in the college’s student body, Brown said at the event
“The Jesuits turned out to be very supportive of women, I found, and colleagues did. When I left, women were 39 percent of the faculty, and I’m sure it’s been growing ever since,” Brown said.
Brown left Georgetown in 2001, and women currently make up 50.5 percent of the university’s faculty.
Before the university became fully co-ed, Bader was a pioneer for male and female Georgetown students alike. She began graduate school in 1963 and was the first student of any gender to earn a doctorate in biology at Georgetown.
Bader’s time at Georgetown came in the middle of her career at the National Institute of Health, where she worked at the National Cancer Institute.
“I spent 32 years at the NIH split between research, which was always my first love, and health-science administration,” Bader said at the opening.
Tramm, a member of the College’s inaugural class of women, became editor-in-chief of The Hoya in 1972. Tramm’s time at The Hoya spanned tumultuous political moments for the country that often coalesced in Washington, D.C., giving student reporters the chance to address major stories, according to Tramm.
“The challenges were really more how to cover and personalize some of the major events that were sweeping across the country in those years,” Tramm said in an interview with The Hoya. “There were a lot of other forces converging, with the women’s lib movement and the anti-war movement, and there was a great feeling of students being empowered to really drive change.”
Exhibits like “Women on the Walls” are part of GWA’s ongoing efforts to create programming regarding women and gender on campus, according to Lauren Mullins, GWA communications co-chair.
“In addition to giving Hoyas a chance to learn about some of the most unique and accomplished women in Georgetown’s history, it also demonstrates the opportunities students have to effect real change on campus,” Mullins wrote in an email to The Hoya.
“Women on the Walls” is an example of how the GWA Student Fellowship Program helps students convert ideas into action by connecting them with relevant leadership, project and initiatives, according to Mullins.
“C.C. saw a chance to make a difference, and GWA provided her with the space and resources to make it happen. We could not be more proud of her hard work,” Mullins wrote.
Borzilleri worked hard to ensure that the stories picked for the exhibit reflected the diversity of Georgetown female students, she said at the exhibit’s opening.
“Having strong female role models is incredibly important for women at Georgetown, and one of the goals of this exhibit was to ensure that we all had people to look at and to be inspired by for their incredible accomplishments,” Borzilleri said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Moira Ritter Leave a Comment 
The House of Representatives passed its first-ever endorsement of Washington, D.C. statehood in H.R. 1 with a 234 to 193 vote March 8. 
Although campaign finances, voting rights and anti-corruption were the primary focuses of the bill, known as the For the People Act, an endorsement for D.C. statehood was also included, according to a March 8 news release from Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton’s (D-D.C.) office. 
Introduced to the House in January, H.R. 1 has a record 236 cosponsors, all of whom are Democrats. The bill was passed along party lines, with no Republicans voting in favor. Although the House has approved H.R. 1,  Republicans hold a majority in the Senate and have historically opposed D.C. statehood.
D.C. currently operates as a district under federal jurisdiction rather than as a traditional state. Because of this title, the District is granted one delegate seat in the House of Representatives and no seats in the Senate. The House delegate is only eligible to participate in procedural votes and cannot vote on the House floor. 
The March 8 vote is a step forward, but more work needs to be done to ensure equality for the District’s citizens, according to Josh Burch, an organizer for an advocacy group of D.C. citizens who support statehood. 
The issue of democratic rights should be nonpartisan, which allows Republican lawmakers to also show support for H.R. 1, according to Burch. 
“Protecting and expanding democratic rights for all Americans is a non-partisan issue and we call on Sen. McConnell to take up this bill and give it a floor vote in the US Senate as well,” Burch wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
Norton has introduced a series of bills to grant D.C. more autonomy, including one to establish a local prosecutor and another to eliminate the congressional review period for legislation. This period allows Congress to have 30 days to veto civil legislation and 60 days to veto criminal legislation.
Among the supporters for D.C. statehood are Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and presidential candidate and U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), according to Norton. 
“A wave of momentum is sweeping across the country for D.C. statehood,” Norton said in a March 7 news release. “The strong Schumer and Pelosi endorsements, and the 200 cosponsors in the House for D.C. statehood, are among the indicators that the American people want to right the historic wrong for over 200 years of disenfranchisement.” 
Warren voiced her support for H.R. 1 in a tweet after the bill was passed March 8. The bill will help fight corruption in the nation’s capital, according to Warren. 
Despite the District’s large population, D.C. residents are disproportionately represented in Congress, Warren wrote in a Jan. 28 tweet. 
“700,000 people is more than the populations of Wyoming or Vermont. But DC residents don’t have an equal voice in our government – despite paying federal taxes,” Warren tweeted.
Senator Tom Carper (D-Del.), another longtime supporter of D.C. statehood, introduced The Washington, D.C. Admission Act, H.R. 1’s counterpart in the Senate, on Feb. 28. The bill has 29 cosponsors. 
Norton introduced H.R. 51, known as the Washington, D.C. Admissions Act, which would make D.C. the 51st state. The passage of H.R. 1 is a historic achievement because it draws more attention to H.R. 51, according to Norton.
“After decades of struggle, the House of Representatives today endorsed D.C. statehood in H.R. 1, our major democracy reform bill,” Norton said. “What today’s vote does do is pave the way for a vote on H.R. 51, the Washington, D.C. Admission Act, and assures we are on the cusp of righting one of the nation’s oldest continuing wrongs.” 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Yolanda Spura Leave a Comment 
Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.) introduced a bill to the U.S. House of Representatives to prohibit the U.S. Census Bureau from asking questions regarding citizenship, nationality and immigration status in the 2020 census on March 13.
Including the citizenship question on the census will not help enforce civil rights laws, which have been enforced without this information, Norton said. The citizenship question will only cause response rates, especially among minority communities, to decline, compromising the accuracy of the census, according to Norton.
“Since the all-important questions of congressional apportionment and federal funding rely on an accurate census, we must do everything we can to ensure this unnecessary and harmful question is not allowed to drive down response rates to the 2020 Census,” Norton said in the news release.
The citizenship question, which asks, “Is this person a citizen of the United States?” was approved by U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, whose department oversees the Census Bureau. The addition of the question has raised objections from opponents who argue because it might cause an underreporting of population count because minority groups may interpret the question as an effort to target immigrants without documentation. 
The Census Bureau estimated that the addition of a citizenship question would cause an estimated 630,000 households to not complete the 2020 census, according to a Jan. 19 memo. 
The bill was introduced shortly before a March 14 hearing in which Ross was questioned on his motivations for including the citizenship questions. Before adding the question, Ross learned that the Justice Department had requested that the question be reinstated in December 2017 to help enforce the Voting Rights Amendment, Ross said at the hearing. During the hearing, Republicans said that the census has asked citizenship questions in the past, although these have been located on supplemental forms, according to NBC News. 
Ross is facing accusations of giving misleading statements about the reason for requesting the inclusion of the citizenship question. Ross alleged the request was at the behest of the Justice Department, but Ross himself may have requested the question, according to a March 13 news release by Norton’s office.
A federal judge ruled March 6 that Ross broke several laws and violated the enumeration clause of the Constitution, which requires the U.S. government to conduct a census every 10 years to determine a state’s representation in the House of Representatives, according to The Washington Post.
The ruling comes after 18 states, nine cities and Washington, D.C. sued the Commerce Department over concerns that including the citizenship question in the census will decrease its accuracy, affecting congressional funding and representation. The U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York ordered the Commerce Department to remove the citizenship question from the 2020 census on Jan. 15.
The Institution for Constitutional Advocacy and Protection, a group based at the Georgetown University Law Center, filed an amicus brief on the behalf of the House of Representatives on Feb. 11. The brief claims that the citizenship question would undermine the accuracy of the census, according to Joshua Geltzer, ICAP executive director and visiting Georgetown law professor.
“Adding it would thwart the constitutionally mandated goal of the decennial census, which is to determine an actual and accurate count of everyone present in the United States,” Geltzer wrote in a February email to The Hoya.
A bill similar to Norton’s, the Every Person Counts Act, was introduced by Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.) on Jan. 24. The bill would prohibit information regarding citizenship or immigration status from being asked in any census. The bill has been referred to the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, where it awaits further action.
Norton introduced a similar bill on Jan. 30, 2018, which was referred to the House Committee on Oversight and Reform but has received no further action.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 15, 2019 by Anya Howko-Johnson Leave a Comment 
The largest U.S. center focused on artificial intelligence technology and policy is set to open on Georgetown University’s campus in fall 2019.
The center will be housed in the Walsh School of Foreign Service, offering undergraduates the opportunity to partake in research as assistants and students, according to SFS Dean Joel Hellman.
“First of all, they are going to be doing really interesting research on issues related to AI, advanced computing and security,” Hellman said in an interview with The Hoya. “We hope that we are making available to them a kind of ready group of talented, eager, researchers who want to build up their knowledge and expertise and can help more experienced researchers.”
The new initiative, named the Center for Security and Emerging Technologies, will be funded by a $55 million grant from the Open Philanthropy Project, a nonprofit foundation that aims to improve public welfare, and will host approximately 20 researchers to study cybersecurity, technology policy and artificial intelligence, Georgetown announced in a Feb. 28 news release.
The newly hired specialists will also be encouraged to integrate with the university community through outlets other than research, according to Hellman.
“They could be giving lectures in individual classes, they could be teaching as adjunct faculty members,” Hellman said. “They could be available for coffee chats and lectures and other things for students who are really interested in this area.”
The CSET will meet the growing need for policy makers in artificial intelligence by dedicating itself fully to the topic, according to Jason Matheny, the founding director of the CSET.
“We will focus mainly on AI and cybersecurity for the beginning, as policy makers are increasingly asking for advice on AI and technology policy,” Matheny said in an interview with The Hoya.
The center will work closely with the Science, Technology, and International Affairs program in the SFS to provide the major with new classes and broader expertise, according to Mark Giordano, STIA director.
“Getting people at Georgetown who work on artificial intelligence and cybersecurity, getting the right faculty is really difficult because there’s so much industry demand,” Giordano said in an interview with The Hoya. “This is going to be a huge new injection of skill to SFS, STIA and Georgetown more generally.”
Georgetown was chosen to house the center in Washington, D.C. and abroad based on its ties to public policy, technology and its extensive global network, according to Hellman.
“Knowing that we not only deep ties to the defense community, the intelligence community the legislative and regulatory communities here in Washington but that we also have deep ties and networks across Asia, across Europe and elsewhere was I think the main feature that attracted the group working on this to Georgetown,” Hellman said.
The Open Philanthropy Project said the mission of CSET embodies its values of reducing the risks of technological advances in AI, according to a post on the foundation’s website.
“We think one of the key factors in whether AI is broadly beneficial for society is whether policymakers are well-informed and well-advised about the nature of AI’s potential benefits, potential risks, and how these relate to potential policy actions,” the website reads.
The $55 million grant is the largest amount ever given by the Open Philanthropy Project, and the second grant given to Georgetown. The foundation has previously granted the university $250,000 for research on marijuana legalization and health initiatives.
The center will add an important element to the university’s technology curriculum, according to Hellman.
“We really do think the center represents a sweet spot for Georgetown in linking the latest advances in technology to the deep traditional ties that we have in the policy community all based on an ethical and moral foundation of what these changes mean for policy,” Hellman said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

