
March 13, 2019 by Meredith Miller Leave a Comment 
Georgetown law student and a New South residential minister, Cedric Asiavugwa, died in the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines flight that killed all 157 people on board March 10. 
Asiavugwa, 32, was traveling to Nairobi, Kenya, when flight ET302 crashed near Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa. 
Asiavugwa should be remembered for his character — especially his concern for the well-being of others, according to Fr. Gregory Schenden, S.J., the director of campus ministry. He spent three years as a residential minister on the second floor of New South, where he provided support to first-year students. 
“While Cedric certainly accomplished much good in his life, it is my hope that he will always be remembered for the extraordinary values that governed his life – his kindness and generosity, his magnanimity and deep love and care for all, especially those most in need,” Schenden wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The mass held at 7 p.m. in Dahlgren Chapel on March 10 was dedicated to Asiavugwa. 
Born and raised in Mombasa, Kenya, Asiavugwa graduated from the University of Zimbabwe with a bachelor’s degree in philosophy. After graduating, he traveled in eastern Africa, working on issues such as refugee settlement and food security. He also served as the assistant director of advancement for a free high school in Nairobi, Kenya, for orphans living with HIV/AIDS.
Asiavugwa was recognized for his dedication to social justice issues, William Treanor, dean and executive vice president at Georgetown Law, and Rev. Mark Bosco, vice president for mission and ministry, wrote in a March 10 campus-wide email to the Georgetown community.
“With his passing, the Georgetown family has lost a stellar student, a great friend to many, and a dedicated champion for social justice across East Africa and the world,” Treanor and Bosco wrote.
Asiavugwa was also a practicing Catholic and Jesuit Scholastic for the past eight years, while living in both Africa and the United States. 
Asiavugwa’s residents mourn the loss of their community leader, who served as a positive influence to students, according to New South 2 resident Julio Perla (SFS ’22).
“He was extremely caring, he paid close attention to our responses and offered us advice. He told us he was there for us if we ever needed anything,” Perla wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I also know that Cedric made a tremendous impact on my fellow NS2 peers, he was just an overall incredible human being and he was an important member of our floor.”
Asiavugwa was a supportive leader, particularly to his residence hall and to underserved populations, according to Matthew Hall, the associate director for residential ministry.
“I can attest to the caring, pastoral support that Cedric provided to New South over three years as a residential minister, the gentle support he provided for fellow RMs, and the impact of his efforts working toward social justice and inclusion,” Hall wrote in an email to The Hoya.
As a third-year student at Georgetown Law, Asiavugwa was pursuing a joint Juris Doctor and Master of Laws degree in international business and economic law. He was also the recipient of several Georgetown scholarships, including the Blume Public Interest Law scholarship and the Global Law scholarship, which provide law students with additional resources and mentorship.
During the fall semester, Asiavugwa worked directly with refugees as a part of the Center for Applied Legal Studies clinic, where he assisted those seeking asylum in the United States. 
Asiavugwa planned to continue social justice work in Africa after obtaining his law degree, according to the March 10 email.
“Cedric’s goal was to return to Kenya after his studies to pursue a career promoting the rights of refugees in East Africa and beyond,” Treanor and Bosco wrote.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 13, 2019 by Erika Gebhardt Leave a Comment 
Because of high levels of contamination, student volunteers have begun monitoring a composting pilot program in O’Donovan Hall.
Beginning this past fall, post-consumer composting, an initiative led by the Office of Sustainability, seeks to reduce landfill waste by collecting organic materials to be turned into soil by the decomposition process. 
Though the bins have been closed most of this semester because of high levels of contamination, when open, Hoya Hospitality and the Office of Sustainability has used students volunteers during peak meal times to help students separate their waste. 
This voluntary monitoring system has reduced the amount of non-compostable material found in the bins, according to Samantha Panchèvre (SFS ’19), Georgetown University Student Association sustainability chair.
“Based on what I’ve heard from the Office of Sustainability, this program has been successful at both mitigating compost contamination—which is hugely important otherwise it would compromise the entire stream and risk getting our contract cut—and educating students about how to properly compost,” Panchèvre wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
The voluntary monitoring role should be made into a paid student position, especially during the beginning of each semester when new students are still unaware of environmental initiatives, according to Panchèvre.
The composting vendor used by the office for the program would not accept contaminated compost, leading to the initial decision to close the bins, according to Office of Sustainability intern Chelsea Hafer (COL ’22). (Full disclosure: Hafer is a staff writer for the news section of The Hoya).
Hoya Hospitality partners with the Office of Sustainability to pursue opportunities for waste-related initiatives, collect statistics and data on waste and organize pick-ups around recycling and composting, according to their website.
The organization claims 90 percent of all waste from Leo’s is composted. 
The pilot composting program includes audits on the amount of non-compostable material found in the Leo’s composting bins. Interns at the Office of Sustainability manually sort through the compost to get statistics on how much and what kind of contamination is present, according to Hafer.
Volunteers include Noelle Gignoux (SFS ’22) and Hannah Funk (SFS ’20), co-chairs of composting for the student-run environmental organization Georgetown Renewable Energy and Environmental Network.
GREEN is in the pilot composting program to educate students on the importance of composting and instill it as a norm on campus, Gignoux said.
GREEN is also working to eventually facilitate composting in residence halls and at the Georgetown Farmers’ Market, according to Funk.
“Our main initiatives this semester are that we applied to a Laudato Si’ Grant to promote residential compost and we’re currently partnering with Hilltop Compost at the Farmer’s Market,” Funk said. “We’ve also done some volunteering at the Leo’s compost initiative to try to educate students about what is and what is not compostable.” 
The Farmer’s Market is set to return to campus for the rest of the semester Wednesday.
To improve the current system at the dining hall, the Office of Sustainability is working on more signage and educational programs to teach students how to compost. 
The monitoring of the compost bins will continue until students know how to properly sort their waste, according to Hafer.
“We are hoping to get the compost program up and running before the next academic year,” Hafer wrote. “The main problem is that students don’t know how to compost, and if they do, they don’t do it correctly. We need students to know that without them, we can’t have a functioning compost program. It is so important for students to compost correctly.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

