
October 2, 2019 by Kelly Anderson Leave a Comment 
New Georgetown University Student Association committee chairs, chosen at a GUSA senate meeting Sept. 29, plan to start their terms this week with a renewed emphasis on transparency in the organization and the addition of a policy and advocacy committee.
The new chairs include Ethics Committee Chair Zev Burton (SFS ’22) and Vice Chair Chris Ziac (SFS ’22), Finance and Appropriations Committee Chair Juliana Arias (SFS ’20) and Vice Chair Layla Weiss (MSB ’22), and Policy and Advocacy Chair Leo Arnett (SFS ’22) and Vice Chair Daniella Sanchez (COL ’22). The new chairs of these committees, which oversee other committees within the GUSA senate, were nominated and elected to their positions by fellow GUSA senators, including the new class of freshman senators sworn in on Sunday.
The Policy and Advocacy Committee is a new addition to GUSA this semester. GUSA formed the committee this fall to focus the organization by assigning policy issue areas, such as facilities issues or the support of under-funded groups, to each GUSA senator based on their interests, according to Arnett, the committee’s chair. The chairs also intend to meet with each senator to discuss policy areas that they are interested in.
An early goal for the committee will be to promote the use of the Georgetown University Events Calendar, a platform for student organizations to publicize scheduled events, according to Arnett and Sanchez. 
“This committee will be structured like a think tank where senators will come together to brainstorm policy and will break into groups to implement this policy,” Sanchez wrote in an email to The Hoya.  
The group’s work will include a diverse set of initiatives ranging from fixing facilities to promoting the work and events of student organizations, according to Arnett. 
“Policy captures both the tangible and communal support that a student government should provide to its students,” Arnett wrote. “Supporting under-funded groups, marginalized campus communities, and the ideals of tolerance and understanding that give Georgetown its identity are a few examples.”
GUSA has not created a new committee since October 2018, when the organization added an Ethics and Oversight Committee to track senators’ attendance records at meetings and monitor potential conflicts of interest within GUSA. The committee is also able to investigate the financial activities of GUSA and can subpoena any GUSA member and initiate articles of impeachment after investigation if necessary. Last April, several senators accrued dozens of unexcused absences from senate meetings, leading to a formal disciplinary act from the organization for some members.
This year, the Ethics and Oversight Committee will focus on holding senators and the GUSA executive accountable for accumulating absences or engaging in conflicts of interest, according to Burton, the new committee chair. 
“We hold elected officials accountable for their actions in the most direct way. In a sense, we are the ones who ensure that Senators and Executive members are not shirking their duties to the Georgetown Community,” Burton wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I’m excited to ensure that the Senate and the Executive are doing ethical and beneficial work.” 
The chairs will also seek structural reforms within the Ethics and Oversight Committee to ensure the future sustainability of the committee, Burton wrote. 
“We want to increase the standardization of the committee, so that actions taken by the committee don’t drastically change based on the whims of whoever is in charge,” Burton wrote. 
Transparency-building measures will include increasing involvement of other GUSA senators in the committee’s work and possibly adding input from members of the student body, according to Ziac, the committee’s vice chair. 
“I believe the Committee can bring positive change by increasing faith in GUSA and encouraging students to be more aware of the doings of their elected officials,” Ziac wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
The senate considered legislation last month to abolish the GUSA Fund, which provides ad hoc funding to student groups. As the new Finance and Appropriations Chair, Arias does not intend to eliminate the Fund in her new position as the committee’s chair, she wrote. 
“GUSA fund will stay, but we don’t have set parameters for how it will be reformed,” she wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
The Finance and Appropriations Committee allocates money in an annual budget to seven advisory boards, the Georgetown Program Board, the Georgetown University Lecture Fund and the GUSA executive. 
The Finance and Appropriations Committee will implement a four-year plan for the allocation of its funds and aim to increase communication with other senate groups, according to Arias. 
“We are committed to minimizing cost-prohibited activities for low-income students by having an increased support for organizations constituting underrepresented communities on campus,” Arias wrote. “There will be a need for increased transparency and communication between the different boards and FinApp.”
Hoya Staff Writer Harrison McBride contributed to this reporting. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 2, 2019 by Madiha Sohani Leave a Comment 
Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton honored three women for their fight against violence and injustice in Latin America at the seventh annual Hillary Rodham Clinton Awards for Advancing Women in Peace and Security ceremony Sept. 27.
“Never underestimate the power of women and girls not only to improve their own lives but to lift up families, communities and entire nations,” Clinton said. “The women we recognize today embody that truth.”
Hosted by the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security, the HRC Awards in Gaston Hall annually honor three individuals who advance peace by promoting women’s role in society. 
In her opening remarks, Clinton addressed the political climate of the United States by pointing out President Donald Trump’s lack of attention towards issues such as foreign officers overseas and the intervention of foreign powers in the 2016 election.
“In the course of his duties as president he has endangered us all by putting his personal and political interests ahead of the interests of the American people,” Clinton said. “He has turned American diplomacy into a cheap extortion bracket.”
Clinton presented this year’s awards to Michelle Bachelet, the former president of Chile and the current United Nations high commissioner for human rights; Rosa Anaya, coordinator for Catholic Relief Services, an international humanitarian organization; and Virginia “Marta” Velásquez, founder of Movimiento de Mujeres de la Colonia López Arellano (MOMUCLAA), an advocacy group that provides legal, psychological and other support services to women and advocates for peace in their communities.
Bachelet, one of the award recipients, served as president of Chile for two four-year terms, first in 2006 and again in 2014. After the 1975 coup in Chile, Bachelet was tortured in a detention center along with her mother and later forced into exile for four years. Bachelet has dedicated her career to advancing women’s rights.
Emphasizing the importance of equality in the world is more important now than ever, according to Bachelet.
“It is well past time for universal realization for the equality of every human being,” Bachelet said.
Anaya and Velásquez were honored during the awards ceremony for promoting equality in Central American communities overrun by violent crime.
Violence against women has skyrocketed in Latin America, which, as a region, has the highest homicide rate in the world. In El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras, gang violence has a particularly harsh impact on women, and in El Salvador, the death rate of women is 13.5 per 100,000, according to The Wall Street Journal. This is more than six times the women’s death rate in the United States. 
Anaya, who currently serves as the program coordinator for Segundas Oportunidades, an initiative of Catholic Relief Services in El Salvador, told the audience to look at one another and say “thank you” to establish that all people can do something to break the cycle of violence.
After fleeing to Canada at age 10, Anaya later returned home to El Salvador and began working in prisons with young men. Anaya currently works to rehabilitate young men and return them to society to break the cycle of violence in the country.
After experiencing the horrible effects of gang violence in her home country, Honduras, Velásquez founded MOMUCLAA, despite great opposition from both men and women in the community because the program was radically different in its purpose.
Working with the local police department, MOMUCLAA has pushed for change such as a new law that banned domestic violence, lobbying for access to drinking water and the construction of a walking bridge over a freeway.
The HRC Awards were established in Dec. 2011 under the U.S. National Action Plan for Women in Peace and Security. GIWPS was established that same year to advance a similar goal of creating leaders who understand the importance of promoting the role of women in peace and security issues globally. Clinton is an honorary founding chair of GIWPS.
Last year, the HRC Awards honored three women, including Iraqi Yazidi human rights activist Nadia Murad, who also received the Nobel Peace Prize later that year. The Awards also honored Rohingya activist Wai Wai Nu and Lyse Doucet, the BBC’s chief international correspondent.
Clinton invoked women leaders like Greta Thunberg, a 16-year-old Swedish environmental activist, to remind the audience of the power of women in the world.
“This week she delivered a powerful speech at the United Nations climate action summit that should be required viewing for every lawmaker,” Clinton said. 
Since policy enacted today will impact future generations, U.S. leadership should focus on advancing social change and empowering women, Clinton said.
“This is ultimately about much more than Donald Trump, it is about us,” Clinton said. “It is about who we are as a nation. History is being written and the world and our children are watching.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 2, 2019 by Meredith Miller Leave a Comment 
Proactive, community-based prevention is more effective in reducing the threat of domestic terrorism than singling out a particular group’s radicalization efforts, panelists said at a Lecture Fund event Thursday. 
The event, “Domestic Radicalization: A Panel on Homegrown Terrorism,” featured Counterpart International’s Technical Director of Peace and Security Mehreen Farooq and former Chief Probation Officer Kevin Lowry. Daniel Byman, vice dean of the School of Foreign Service, moderated the panel, which discussed new methods for addressing domestic terrorism that steer away from traditional approaches.
Farooq, an adjunct professor in the School of Foreign Service, specializes in peacebuilding, conflict mitigation and countering violent extremism. The class that she teaches is called “Community-Based Terror Prevention.”
Efforts to quell domestic terrorism should be proactive rather than reactionary, according to Farooq.
“Most folks would say that investigation and incarceration cost a tremendous amount of time and taxpayer dollars,” Farooq said. “Preventative efforts, in comparison, are far less resource-intensive.”
Lowry created the United States’ first program for the disengagement and rehabilitation of extremist and terrorism related offenders while he served as chief probation officer for the District Court of Minnesota. This program works with people who are convicted of crimes related to terrorist activity, including those radicalized by foreign terrorist groups like ISIS and domestic white nationalist groups, to determine what caused the recruits to be radicalized in each individual case.
Terrorist groups are particularly challenging for intelligence agencies to address. Their grassroots organization allows for recruitment through the internet and across various geographies, according to Lowry.
“I think there’s never been a greater challenge for criminal justice professionals than the challenge of working with extremists with terrorism cases,” Lowry said. “They have networks that reach throughout the whole world, into individual small communities and households worldwide.” 
Farooq’s dedication to the prevention of the spread of terrorism came from her research about the Taliban’s growth in Afghanistan and Pakistan. In her research, she focused on the importance of civil society for preventing terrorism. Throughout her career, she has applied what she learned in this research to other countries and situations, including domestic radicalization in the United States. 
Both of the speakers stressed that the tools they have developed are not focused solely on one group or demographic and instead attempt to address many organizations with an individual focus. In addressing the differences between various groups’ tactics while acknowledging similarities in structure, researchers can gain an understanding of why people turn to violent tactics, Farooq said.
“These groups are just really good at interchanging different demographics, different local and political grievances, but using the same overarching framework to basically say, ‘The system is broken, it’s corrupt, it’s rigged against us,’” Farooq said. “It really leads that individual to believe that violence is the only way to address whatever it is that they’re working towards.”
Lowry’s programs focused on intervention post-conviction, whereas Farooq worked with individuals known to be at risk for radicalization. While their approaches have been different, Lowry acknowledges the importance of community-based intervention as well. 
“I think if you’re developing a violence-prevention program, you really want to look at what are the underlying factors that could cause some form of fragility or instability in an individual’s life or in a particular community,” Farooq said.
One major challenge for implementing new tactics to prevent violence is the lack of resources dedicated to these programs and the dearth of precise statistics about their success rates, according to Farooq.
“We have to acknowledge that this is an imperfect science,” Farooq said. “We’re talking about behaviors, and human beings are complex entities. So we might be able to measure one little thing here, but there might be a whole other thing over here that we aren’t touching.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

