
October 1, 2019 by Sophie Haber Leave a Comment 
Uncommon Grounds raised $2,300 for immigrant rights organization Border Angels at the second annual UG Pop-Up Thrift Store held in partnership with Hoyas For Immigrant Rights Sept. 28.
This year’s fundraiser on Leavey Esplanade collected triple the number of donations for this year’s thrift store as they did last year, according to organizer Roya Wolfe (SFS ’21). This year was also the first time that UG partnered with HFIR, a student group dedicated to advocating for immigrant students on and off campus, for the fundraiser.
After the nationwide U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement raids this summer on undocumented families, Wolfe contacted HFIR President Arisaid Gonzalez Porras (COL ’21) to ask for input in deciding where to donate the proceeds from this year’s thrift store, Gonzalez Porras said. 
Together, the groups decided to donate proceeds from the fundraiser to Border Angels, an organization that provides free immigration services and consultations in Spanish and English. Border Angels serves immigrant communities through consultations for people recently released from immigration detention centers, as well as by building water stations along the border, Gonzalez Porras said.
“I know they do great work near the border,” Gonzalez Porras said. “There’s a stigma with immigration and crossing the border, so this organization is trying to help these people succeed, whether that be crossing the border successfully or returning home if they decide not to go through with the journey.”
Gonzalez Porras said that in addition to raising money for the organization, she hopes the pop-up thrift store was able to raise awareness among the student body about the work that Border Angels does.
“I hope that people saw the name Border Angels on the flier and it sparked curiosity,” Gonzalez Porras said. “Maybe they Googled something about it.” 
Fast fashion, an industry that focuses on low-cost production and speed to keep up with the latest trends, has a significant environmental impact. Criticisms of fast fashion include its contribution to water pollution, its use of toxic chemicals and dyes, and the industry’s production of greenhouse gasses, according to the Independent. Discarded clothing made of nonbiodegradable fabrics can sit in landfills for up to 200 years, according to the World Resources Institute.
Wolfe said she hoped the event raised awareness about the importance of sustainability in fashion.
“The amount of fast fashion waste is insane because with new trends people bring in a lot of new clothing week by week,” Wolfe said. “Just to be able to sell secondhand clothing, or by purchasing it, you are reducing your carbon footprint.”
The items sold at the pop-up thrift store was all donated by students. Even the hangers that the clothes were displayed on were donations, according to Wolfe.
UG set prices incrementally and made all pricing decisions in talks between their upper management and HFIR, Wolfe said. UG focused on making sure the prices were reasonable for a college student’s budget. 
“We’re all college students, so we wanted to give an outlet to buy inexpensive clothes,” Wolfe said. “It’s less about selling high fashion clothes and making money; it’s more about making sure that clothing is accessible.”
Some items for sale at the pop-up thrift store came from designer brands, including a Gucci belt that sold for $20, normally priced at around $500, and Lululemon leggings that sold for $10, which usually retail for around $100.
Aisha Tounkara (SFS ’23), a student who shopped at the thrift store, said she came to the event in search of more affordable clothing options.
“Everything in D.C. is very expensive, everything in the Georgetown area is very expensive, so I thought it would be really nice to come and get clothes that are not $30 for a T-shirt,” Tounkara said. 
UG donated all the clothes that they did not sell to Martha’s Table, a nonprofit based in Washington, D.C., that works to increase access to high-quality education.
Three hundred and thirty-eight Georgetown students responded that they were interested in the event on Facebook. Wolfe said she wanted the event to serve as a way to bring people together on campus.
“I think that’s what this thrift store is all about,” Wolfe said. “It’s about all of the community members coming together because this could not be a thing without Georgetown students.”
UG plans to continue hosting the event annually and hopes that both the event itself and attendance at the event will continue to expand, Wolfe said.
“We really want this event to be about making a difference,” Wolfe said. “I think it will continue to grow more every year.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

