
May 25, 2019 by Katrina Schmidt Leave a Comment 
Internationally recognized chef and humanitarian José Andrés extolled the value of collaboration between insiders and outsiders in the public policy world at the McCourt School of Public Policy commencement May 16.
Andrés, an immigration reform advocate and founder of the nonprofit World Central Kitchen, which aids hunger relief efforts, described the value of public policy both historically and in his own life. Addressing the over 170 graduates assembled on Healy Lawn, he described their futures as public policy “insiders,” those with access to the conventional ways of accomplishing change. 
Andrés spoke about his experiences as an “outsider” in public policy and humanitarian work, given his background as an immigrant from Spain and nontraditional emphasis on philanthropy in his career as a chef.
“Immigrants like me, we are outsiders, and outsiders see things differently,” Andrés said. 
This different perspective is beneficial, he continued, because in situations like the 2010 earthquake in Haiti, for which Andrés’ team provided relief, outsiders may be the ones to act decisively. In the aftermath of the earthquake and other disasters, public policy experts may find themselves caught in bureaucracy. In life or death situations, Andrés said, spreadsheets and meetings are not going to provide immediate solutions, and decisive action from outsiders like himself is necessary. 
Andrés relied on an item he knows well as a chef—the “humble tomato —to describe the significance of public policy. Holding up a ripe tomato, which he would later toss into the crowd, he chronicled its trajectory and the role of politics through it. 
Tomatoes are botanically fruits, Andrés pointed out. An 1893 Supreme Court case, Nix v. Hedden, however, is what led tomatoes to be considered vegetables under official U.S. government classification. In 1893, vegetable imports carried a 10% tariff, but fruits had none. 
John Nix, a produce wholesaler, sued on the grounds that tomatoes are technically fruits, and should not be taxed as vegetables. However, the Supreme Court disagreed, since tomatoes are prepared and eaten like vegetables. This case was only the beginning of the tomato’s spotlight in national policy, Andrés showed. 
He alluded to the infamous 2011 Congressional decision that allowed one-eighth cup of tomato paste, a key ingredient in pizza sauce, to continue to be considered equal to one-half cup of vegetables in school lunches. The controversial move echoed a similar proposal from the former President Ronald Reagan administration in 1981 that could have allowed ketchup the same latitude.
“How can pizza be considered a vegetable without the help of some very bad-intentioned policy experts,” Andrés said.
In 1996, Andrés had moved to Washington, D.C. three years prior, and Jaleo, the first of his current portfolio of 31 restaurants around the country, became one of the first restaurants to legally donate its leftover food to feed the hungry after the passing of the Good Samaritan Food Donation Act. Jaleo donated tomatoes, he said. 
Andrés recounted the history of migrant tomato pickers in Immokalee, Fla., where farm workers organized for improved wages and working conditions, bringing the conversation about social justice to public policy. 
This common thread of tomatoes continues through 2018, when Andrés saw a tweet from Sen. Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) that said Alexander brought Tennessean Grainger tomatoes to D.C. Andrés replied to the tweet, and the senator personally delivered a box to the restaurateur. During the visit, Andrés asked Alexander to support a bill for Tennessee school districts to purchase local produce, again making tomatoes a policy tool, Andrés said. 
“What is important is that we speak truth to our leaders at every opportunity,” Andrés said. “Public policy itself can turn tomatoes from our biggest challenge to its greatest opportunity.” 
While Andrés career and work has been often defined by his position as an outsider, the graduates of the McCourt School will be insiders in the policy world, according to Andrés. Thanks to their Georgetown University education, they will be familiar with the politics and procedures of enacting change. Working with nontraditional characters like himself, however, allows policy makers to combine their skills to find innovative solutions to the world’s difficulties. 
“You get to be in the room where it happens,” Andrés said. “Our world needs thinkers and doers that can adapt their skills to tackle humanity’s greatest challenges. Insiders like you, working to make it happen with outsiders like me.” 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 25, 2019 by Myroslav Leave a Comment 
Professional and personal success can be achieved by following the “Georgetown factor,” according to Joseph Baratta (GSB ’93), the global head of private equity at the asset management company Blackstone, at Georgetown University’s McDonough School of Business commencement ceremony Friday, May 17. 
Baratta, who graduated magna cum laude from Georgetown’s business school in 1993, spoke to the specific traits and resources graduates have obtained in gaining a business education at Georgetown in his address. Traits of modesty and passion, which build to create a “Georgetown factor” in teaching students how to be and not just what to do, will set graduates apart as they move along their career paths, according to Baratta.
“Hard work, humility, honesty — these are the things that will distinguish you beyond your talent or intelligence. These are the things that win respect and admiration,” Baratta said. “I’m a pretty good investor, but I credit my success as a professional and also importantly as a father and a friend to the ‘Georgetown factor.’”
A first-generation college student, Baratta’s mother was born without a birth certificate to farm workers in Oklahoma, and his father was a bodybuilder who ran a chain of gyms, he said in his address. Both of his parents informed him of the important role of hard work, rather than luck, in achieving success, according to Baratta.
“My dad was an amazing man, and he and my mother instilled in me the belief that there was no special reason why some people are accomplished in life and certainly no reason why I could not be one of them,” Baratta said.
Baratta has served as Blackstone’s global head of private equity since 2012, but he joined the firm in 1998. During his time at Blackstone, Baratta has been involved in many of the firm’s significant private equity transactions and helped establish Blackstone’s private equity business in Europe. Before joining Blackstone, Baratta also worked at two private investment firms, Tinicum Incorporated and McCown De Leeuw & Company.
Following Baratta’s address, MSB Dean Paul Almeida and Vice Dean Pietra Rivoli presented Baratta with the Dean’s Medal for his service and contributions to the school. The MSB graduated more than 900 students, including 336 undergraduates, in the commencement ceremony on Healy Lawn on Friday.
Other colleges have begun to incorporate the type of values a Georgetown education has historically provided to its students, according to Baratta.
“When we look out at the higher education landscape, we see schools across the country looking to rethink their mission and curriculum to encompass justice, ethics and morality,” Baratta said. “These virtues have formed the basis of Georgetown’s mission since its founding.”
Baratta currently serves on the Georgetown board of directors, the MSB board of advisors and the MSB Global Business Initiative advisory board.
In 2016, Barrata and his family established the Baratta Endowed Global Business Education Fund, which supports business consulting projects for undergraduate students, as part of a $7.3 million donation to the MSB.
As students graduate from Georgetown, they should strive to use the values they learned at Georgetown to guide their actions, Baratta said.
“It’s not enough for me to say there’s a Georgetown difference. We must embody that difference,” Baratta said. “We need to reinforce that difference and we need to project that difference into the world.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

