
September 19, 2019 by Meredith Miller 2 Comments 
Georgetown Disability Alliance, a developing student organization, will encourage education on disability issues and advocate for on-campus accessibility and awareness of both physical and mental disabilities in its conception, according to a Sept. 7 announcement. 
Co-founders Anna Landre (SFS ’21) and Kenna Chick (SFS ’20) are founding the student organization to draw attention to issues affecting students with disabilities on campus. Specifically, the alliance plans to advocate for increased funding and staffing for the Academic Resource Center, which provides academic assistance for students with chronic health conditions, learning disabilities and psychological/psychiatric disorders, according to Landre and Chick. 
The Georgetown Disability Alliance is not currently recognized by the Student Activities Commission, but Landre and Chick plan to undergo the new club development process next semester to be fully recognized and receive Access to Benefits status.  
Georgetown student culture creates stigmas that perpetuate the notion that mental health problems and learning disabilities conflict with one’s ability to achieve, Landre said. 
“At a school like Georgetown, disability is not something you really talk about because it’s seen as incompatible with your success here, with fitting in here, especially when it comes to learning disabilities and mental health issues,” Landre said in an interview with The Hoya. 
Despite the stigma surrounding those living with disabilities, as many as 1 in 8 Georgetown students are registered with the ARC, according to Landre. The club plans to work on expanding the ARC’s resources to better accommodate these students. Additionally, Landre and Chick plan to potentially work toward creating an Americans with Disability Acts Compliance and Advocacy officer within the Georgetown administration.
The club also hopes to create an environment where students can relate to one another’s stories and experiences with disabilities. As a student with disabilities, finding a community of others with similar experiences on campus has been difficult, according to Landre. 
“I have felt a pretty big lack of community,” Landre said. “It’s been kind of on an individual basis with meeting random people.” 
Georgetown launched its Disability Studies program in 2017, allowing students to minor in the study area, though some courses were available as early as 2010. The Georgetown Disability Alliance will add to a lineage of steps taken on campus to bring more awareness to members of the Georgetown community living with disabilities, according to Sylvia Önder, a Disabilities Studies faculty member. 
“We have a long way to go, but we have also, over time, improved awareness of the problems by teaching a variety of Disability Studies classes here at Georgetown,” Önder said in an interview with The Hoya. “I am impressed by our students’ willingness to listen and learn, and by their impulse to take action and get things done to make this a better place for us all.” 
Requests for accommodations under the Americans with Disabilities Act are currently referred to Rosemary Kilkenny, the vice president for Institutional Diversity and Equity for the university. Creating an inclusive community for students with disabilities through language and actions is important on campus, according to Kilkenny. 
“It is incumbent upon us to recognize that as members of this community, we all share and have a responsibility to foster an inclusive environment in our verbal communications and actions,” Kilkenny wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
The student organization is an opportunity to better articulate the needs of students with disabilities and provide them with a more fitting support system that expands past medical accommodations, according to Chick. 
“A lot of the times when people think about disabilities, they think about it in terms of more accommodation and medical needs,” Chick said in an interview with The Hoya. “But we’re finding more and more the case of students wanting and needing additional support when it comes to navigating society as a person with a disability.”
The club will further serve to educate Georgetown students through conversations on how disability relates to identity, according to Chick.
“People don’t view disability as a social identity, even though it is and that’s kind of where a lot of difficulty comes in when we try to have conversations with people to talk about diversity and inclusivity,” Chick said. 
This article was updated on Sept. 22 to correct the year the Disability Studies minor was approved.

Hoya says 
September 22, 2019 at 12:05 am
Sounds like part GUSA (Disability Coalition) part disability-identity club. Probably won’t get access to benefits due to the former part because SAC doesn’t allow for clubs that overlap in goals/purposes. It would have a better shot at solely being a disability-identity club that seeks to foster a community on campus without explicit, purposeful advocacy.

Libbie Rifkin says 
September 22, 2019 at 10:51 am
Hi folks,
Just wanted to offer a correction: the DS Minor program was not approved until 2017. While there were a couple of courses starting in 2010, there was no program.
Thanks,
Libbie Rifkin
Director, Program in Disability Studies
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 19, 2019 by Riley Rogerson 1 Comment 
An article examining the motivations behind the pending merger between cigarette company Altria and e-cigarette company Juul Labs was released by Georgetown University School of Medicine professor of oncology David Levy on Sept. 4 amid national conversation surrounding the possible dangers of flavored e-cigarettes.
In the merger, Altria, the producer of Marlboro cigarettes, would purchase 35% of Juul Labs, an e-cigarette company, providing Juul with potential legal and regulatory experience and guidance, improved market prospects and increased sales, according to Levy’s article published in the British Medical Journals. However, much remains unknown about the deal’s impact on future cigarette use and Juul. The acquisition should trigger careful oversight of the nicotine delivery market on the part of the Food and Drug Administration, according to the article.
The merger shines light on the urgency of an oversight on the nicotine industry, Levy said in a phone interview with The Hoya.
“Regardless of one’s views on harm reduction, the Altria-Juul Labs deal should serve as a wake-up call on the need to carefully monitor competition in the nicotine delivery market, and evaluate how regulations and policies impact cigarette and noncigarette firms selling alternative nicotine delivery products,” Levy said.
Juul Labs caused harm in their initial marketing strategy in targeting young consumers by marketing a variety of flavors. However, the full health effects of vaping remain unknown and require further research, according to Levy.
“I think vaping is a concern, especially Juul because Juul is really high in nicotine and therefore has more potential to be addictive,” Levy said. “At the same time, we don’t yet know how addictive Juul is, and so I think we need to study what’s going on now.” 
The journal published Levy’s article just days before the FDA condemned Juul Labs in a Sept. 9 press release for their marketing practices, including those targeted toward students. President Donald Trump also announced that his administration would pursue a national ban on most flavored e-cigarettes, excluding tobacco flavors, Sept. 11. 
To address health concerns around vaping, the government should raise the age to purchase all nicotine products to 21 instead of limiting flavor access, according to Levy. Restricting flavor access might discourage those trying to quit cigarettes from switching over to other less harmful e-cigarettes, he said. 
“Until we know more we should be careful, for example, limiting the flavors can do more bad than good but these are things we need to understand better before the government makes policies,” Levy said. “I think the government needs to present better information that vaping is potentially addictive, that is is much less harmful than cigarettes but at the same time, nicotine has more of a harmful effect on youth and young adults.”  
Last year, Georgetown University officials announced that smoking and other tobacco products, including e-cigarettes, will be prohibited on university-owned buildings and grounds effective Aug. 15, 2020. The commitment to a tobacco-free campus came after years of student advocacy to ban the products on campus that led to a 2016 schoolwide referendum on the topic, in which 49.6% of participating voters cast a ballot in favor of the ban. 
Although the university should not expedite its tobacco ban, Georgetown should educate students about vaping health risks, said Casey Kozak (NHS ’20), the Georgetown University Student Association policy chair for student health. 
“I think students should be aware of the possible risks and false advertisements related to vaping, as mentioned above,” Kozak wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I think the vaping industry should be closely monitored and regulated, and that users should stay informed with news and emerging data related to vaping.” 
Georgetown’s tobacco ban initiative, which remains set for next August, aims to support the health of the entire university community, according to Associate Vice President for Benefits, Payroll and Wellness and Chief Benefits Officer Charles DeSantis.
“Our concern is for the whole of our student body, faculty, staff and visitors and the new policy encompasses a place that is free of tobacco and smoke including e-cigarettes like the juul,” DeSantis wrote in an email to The Hoya.   
Last year, 5 million minors reported recent e-cigarette use, and approximately 25% of American high school seniors reported vaping in the past 30 days, according to Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar II, up from 20% last year. In 2019, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found about 380 confirmed and probable cases of vaping-related illnesses in 36 states and the U.S. Virgin Islands. 
Many of those deaths and illnesses might be connected to e-cigarettes that also dispense marijuana THC and cannabis-related substances, according to health officials in California. Marijuana is more of a health concern than vaping for students, according to Levy. 
“I, for one, view vaping as quite low risk,” Levy said. “Marijuana has addictive aspects also. It is inhaled into the lungs so it is not good for a health standpoint there either and it has clear effects on people’s cognitive abilities than vaping does.” 

Paul J Molinaro MD JD says 
October 25, 2019 at 5:58 pm
AN OPEN LETTER TO THOSE IN THE VAPE INDUSTRY WHO HAVE MARKETED THEIR PRODUCTS DIRECTLY TO CHILDREN 
To paraphrase Beto O’Rourke, “Hell yes, we are coming for you.” Your greed has overcome your morals, ethics, and consciences. You have taken a play out of “big tobacco’s” playbooks and decided to get an entire generation hooked on your addictive poisons. While the government uses legislation and statutes to quash your predatory practices, plaintiffs’ lawyers will be hitting you in the only place you care about… your bank accounts. Ask Purdue Pharma, the maker of OxyContin, how it feels to be in the defendant’s chair in such lawsuits.
While your products may have positive attributes with actual tobacco smokers who are trying to quit, you knew there was little money in targeting only those who could actually benefit from your e-cigarettes. So, you decided to create a new, and much larger, group of consumers – our country’s teenagers. Sound familiar? It should. It’s what Purdue Pharma did with OxyContin. Purdue Pharma had a product that had benefit for those few patients with truly intractable pain. OxyContin was a life changer for such patients when used properly and in the right patient. OxyContin has true and measurable benefits. However, there were not enough of those patients to make this addictive drug into a multi-billion dollar market for Purdue Pharma. Seeing the potential in getting just about any patient with pain hooked on OxyContin, the opioid manufacturers and distributors promoted the campaign to make “Pain” the “Fifth Vital Sign.” This campaign was incredibly successful and opened addictive opioids like OxyContin to patients who did not have any medical need for it. You are doing the same thing.
You are putting profit ahead of lives, and it’s disgusting. What you are doing is indefensible. You need to be held accountable and be disgorged of your profits. Your profits should be used to compensate the people that have become addicted to your products, the people who have developed lung disease in just a few months after using your products, and the families of those that you have killed with your products.
And… as I end most of my posts (rants or tirades)…
TO THE VICTIMS OF THE VAPE INDUSTRY: If you are 25 YEARS OR YOUNGER and ADDICTED to a JUUL device, you may be entitled to compensation. My name is Paul J. Molinaro, M.D., J.D., and I am a California physician and attorney. If you live in California and your first experience with nicotine was through a Juul device and you are now addicted, please contact me for a free / no-obligation consultation. I want to hear your story. I want to tell your story to a judge. (www.888mdjdlaw.com).
* The above text may be considered an ad from a California law firm.
#ecig #vape #addiction #nicotine #toxin #poison #epidemic #lawyer #attorney #lawsuit #ecigarette #vapelife #vapenation #vapeon #vapecommunity #vaping #vapefam #vapers #vaper #vapestagram #vapetricks #vapor #vapelyfe #ejuice #vapedaily #instavape #eliquid #vapelove #vapeshop #vapepics #vapes #vapesociety #ecig #vaporizer #vapestore #liquid #vapefamily
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 19, 2019 by Riley Rogerson Leave a Comment 
The sixth annual Georgetown University Latinx Heritage Month commenced last Friday and features newly expanded programming such as an instructional folklorico dance event, Latinx jeopardy and a pupusa making workshop this year.
The 2019 Latinx Heritage month started Sept. 15 with a kickoff party hosted by La Casa Latina, a residential community for Latinx-identifying students. Other events this upcoming month include a welcome dinner, discussions about anti-blackness within the Latinx community, immigration and the media, a lotería night, a film night and a leadership forum. 
This year’s heritage month programming will emphasize intersectionality as one of its themes in discussions of Latinidad, which refers to the various attributes shared by Latin American people and their descendants, according to Ty Padilla (COL ’20), La Casa Latina financial coordinator.
“It is a time to really delve into topics that we normally don’t think about just because in general Latinx identity is painted with a very large brush and sometimes people feel left out of that,” Padilla said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “Latinx Heritage Month is a way for conversations or celebrations of certain cultures that aren’t really highlighted when people generally think of Latinidad.” 
The events are all coordinated by the Latinx Leadership Forum, a group of 16 student leaders from different organizations at the university who share a passion for Latinx culture and community. The LLF leaders intend to organize, celebrate and advocate for Latinidad on campus, according to its Facebook page. The LLF started Latinx Heritage Month at Georgetown in 2014 in collaboration with a Provost-run committee and the University President’s Office. 
This year, the LLF underwent significant restructuring and adopted a new charter, according to La Casa Latina and the LLF. They are excited about the new opportunities for various campus groups to come together for the month of events, Juan Martinez (SFS ’20), LLF acting chair wrote in an email to The Hoya.
“Being able to bring together so many Latinx organizations to coordinate a month dedicated to our community has been truly empowering,” Martinez wrote. “Particularly after a summer replete with degrading rhetoric and violent actions toward Latinxs in the U.S. and abroad, it feels great coming together and producing a month of celebration and healing for our community.”
The groups represented in the LLF will be represented at the month’s signature Latinx Welcome Back dinner, set for Sept. 20 in the Healey Family Student Center Great Room. The dinner, which was spearheaded by LLF Programming Chair Joshua Marin-Mora (SFS ’21), will support local Latinx-owned community vendors as opposed to more corporate restaurants, according to Carmen Mata (SFS ’20), Ballet Folklorico Mexicano de Georgetown LLF representative. The various organizations will each have their own specially decorated table to introduce themselves to students in attendance.
Although BMFG has historically performed solely at the Welcome Back dinner, this year they will additionally teach folklorico dance, a traditional Mexican dance that emphasizes local folk culture, to interested Georgetown community members in a separate event from 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Sept. 20 in the Healey Family Student Center, according to Mata. 
“A lot of people are interested in folklorico but they don’t necessarily want the commitment of it and so we’ve decided to put on this event just kind of like, ‘Hey, come on, test the skirts out!’” Mata said in an interview with The Hoya. 
Hermanas de Georgetown, a student group that strives to support the professional and personal development of its undergraduate members, will host a game of Latinx-themed jeopardy on Oct 3. In addition, the Central American United Students Association will host an Oct. 9 pupusa making workshop, where students will make the Salvadoran flatbread. 
Latinx Heritage Month gives BFMG an opportunity to share their culture with the broader community and complete the goals of the dance group’s first members, Mata said.
“It is something fun. It is something simple, not something that is like really heavy, besides the skirts, those are actually really heavy sometimes,” Mata said. “It is just something just that kind of gets a lot of people to dance — this is just a very specific kind of dance.”
Although the events are tailored to the Latinx community on campus, all Georgetown students are welcome and encouraged to attend the programming, Padilla said. 
“Our events are geared toward people who are of the identity but we also don’t want to be just limited to that,” Padilla said. “I would encourage anyone who is even remotely interested to attend one of the events to just see what’s out there.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

