
January 30, 2019 by Mason Mandell Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University has identified four finalists in its search for a full-time Title IX coordinator, according to Grace Perret (COL ’20), a member of the student panel reviewing applicants and Georgetown University Student Association’s sexual assault and student safety Policy chair.
The university has not had a full-time Title IX coordinator since Laura Cutway vacated her position unexpectedly in June 2018. Title IX Investigator Samantha Berner has been serving as both her own role and that of a Title IX coordinator in the midst of the search for Cutway’s replacement.
Finalists under consideration to replace Cutway as Georgetown’s Title IX coordinator are meeting with campus partners and students leaders engaged in advocacy against sexual assault, according to Vice President for Institutional Diversity and Equity Rosemary Kilkenny.
“Georgetown has made significant progress in its national search for a full-time Title IX Coordinator and remains committed to hiring the most qualified individual to serve our students and campus community,” Kilkenny wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Those selected to meet with and interview the candidates for the position include the Women’s Center, Health and Education Services, the LGBTQ Center and Georgetown University Police Department’s Sexual Assault Response Team, among others, according to a university spokesperson.
The university spokesperson declined to comment on the remaining number of candidates, citing a concern for the confidentiality for the candidates.
The university had at one point selected two candidates to advance beyond interviews but has identified two more candidates it is in the process of evaluating, according to Perret and Kory Stuer (COL ‘19), who also serves on the student panel reviewing applicants for the position and is a member of Students Taking Action Against Interpersonal Violence.
Though the university is making progress in its search, it still may not hire a Title IX Coordinator by the end of this semester, despite the protests of students, Stuer said in an interview with The Hoya.
Though the university has included student voices in the search process, participating students report feeling disconnected from the overall process. The university does not provide students with many specific details about the process, according to both Stuer and Perret.
“They basically just cold email us with a date, time, and candidate, and expect us to be there and review them, but not much else,” Perret wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The full-time position remains vacant as the university prepares to release its second campus climate survey Feb 1. Georgetown and 27 other universities conducted a first campus climate survey in 2016 to gather information on incidents of sexual assault on their campuses as well as their frequency. The survey found that nearly one-third of female undergraduate and 10 percent of male undergraduates experienced sexual assault at Georgetown.
Georgetown also formulated its comments to proposed changes Title IX regulations while Cutway’s position remains unfilled. These proposed changes include changing the definition of the sexual harassment and introducing cross examination of the accused students and accusers in Title IX hearings.
Conjoining the positions of Title IX coordinator and investigator, as well as the sustained absence of a full-time coordinator, has provoked criticism among student groups. The university needs a full-time coordinator to make a complete commitment to supporting survivors of sexual assault, Stuer said.
“A full-time Title IX Coordinator is important because there is enough to be done that someone needs to be focusing on those job responsibilities, and not also splitting their time with another role,” Stuer said.
However, identifying, interviewing and hiring qualified candidates for positions of leadership at elite institutions of higher education can take as long as a one year, according to a university spokesperson.
Other Washington, D.C. universities have encountered varying difficulty in filling roles related to Title IX. The Title IX Office at The George Washington University has experienced a high rate of turnover, while American University filled a vacant coordinator position within two months.
Recruiting high-quality candidates requires extensive research and effort, but Georgetown should have been able to conclude its search earlier in the year, Stuer said.
“A national search does take time, and they want to make sure they’re getting the best, and I  completely understand that,” Stuer said. “But, if it were a priority, I’m sure they would have done it by now.” 
Universities are not federally required to have two separate positions of Title IX coordinator and investigator. Nationally, roughly 40 percent of private four-year universities have full-time Title IX coordinators, and 18 percent of coordinators also serve as the investigator. Methods of investigations vary widely among universities. While coordinators are responsible for resolving the complaint 37 percent of the time, investigators are responsible seven percent of the time.
Georgetown should not simply strive to meet legal requirements, but instead seek to provide for the needs of its students, which includes hiring a full-time Title IX coordinator, Stuer said.
“Just because federal law does not require a full-time Title IX coordinator doesn’t mean it’s not best practice, doesn’t mean that’s not what our community needs. It absolutely is what our community needs, but unfortunately it seems we’re going to have gone this full academic year without it.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 30, 2019 by Erika Gebhardt Leave a Comment 
The Smithsonian museums and the National Zoo opened again Tuesday morning for the first time since the partial shutdown of the federal government began Dec. 22.
The Smithsonian Institution promised regularly scheduled operations pending passage of a continuing resolution to fund the government in a Jan. 25 tweet.
The Smithsonian, a federally funded organization of 19 museums, closed Jan. 2 because of the government shutdown that began Dec. 22. Reserve funds from the previous fiscal year enabled the museums to stay open for 11 days after the shutdown, according to The Washington Post.
Although admission to the Smithsonian museums is free, the Smithsonian still lost revenue during the shutdown, according to Linda St. Thomas, chief spokesperson for the Smithsonian.
“We lost a total of $3.4 million in gross revenue because the museums were closed which means the cafeterias, shops and theaters were closed,” St. Thomas wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
The closure also affected the 4,000 federal employees who work for the the museums and the National Zoo. Last week on Jan. 16, President Trump signed the Government Employee Fair Treatment Act of 2019, which provides back pay to federal employees whose salaries were affected by the partial government shutdown.
However, the bill did not provide financial compensation for workers during the shutdown and did not guarantee compensation for contract employees such as janitors and cafeteria workers, who work in service of federally funded institutions like the Smithsonian.
Some employees who perform critical jobs in service of the Smithsonian had to work the 24-day closure without pay, according to St. Thomas. 
“We had a number of people working at the National Zoo to care for the animals 24/7 and some security and maintenance staff in the museums,” St. Thomas wrote.
The Smithsonian is the world’s largest museum and research complex. The closure of the Smithsonian also had consequences for visitors who were not permitted due to the shutdown. Smithsonian secretary David J. Skorton approximated 45,000 visitors a day were prevented from engaging in the educational experiences of the Smithsonian due to the closure, according to USA Today.
The Smithsonian’s $1.4 billion annual budget partially relies on revenue from its retail services. The closure of restaurant, shops and IMAX theaters cost the Smithsonian $1 million in revenue a week. Additionally, the weeks around Christmas are some of the museums’ busiest, with attendance rising 50 to 75 percent, according to The Washington Post. Although the financial impacts on future exhibits and museum operations are still unclear, these losses will have an affect the Smithsonian’s budget for this fiscal year, according to USA Today.
Several exhibits have been threatened by the shutdown, according to artnet News, an art market website. The “Tintoretto: Artist of Renaissance Venice” exhibit at the National Gallery of Art, which would be the first retrospective display of the artist’s work in North America, was slated to open March 10, but the shutdown has delayed preparations. The “Striking Iron: The Art of African Blacksmiths” exhibit, which looks at the evolution of ironworking and the role of industrial innovation in African cultures, has been postponed by the National Museum of African Art from late February, when it was originally scheduled to begin.
The three-week agreement between the White House and congressional leaders to temporarily keep the government open will end Feb. 15. Debates will recommence on a federal budget that includes a proposed $5.7 billion for Trump’s border wall with Mexico. If the new bipartisan conference committee on the southern border does not come to an agreement on funding for the wall, the government will shutdown again Feb. 15 or Trump will declare a state of emergency to get the necessary funds.
Although the Smithsonian might once again be forced to turn away visitors and employees starting in February, steps are being made to eliminate the possibility that it will have to do so in the future. Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.) and Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio) have both introduced bills that would automatically fund the federal government in the event that lawmakers cannot meet deadlines.
Warner’s bill, nicknamed the Stop STUPIDITY Act, would provide for continuing appropriations for the federal government during a shutdown with the exception of the legislative branch and the Executive Office of the President, a group of agencies that supports the function of the executive branch. The government shutdown is disturbing the lives of federal workers, Warner said in a Jan. 22 news release.
“The Stop STUPIDITY Act takes the aggressive but necessary step of forcing the President and Congress to do the jobs they were elected to do,” Warner said. “Workers, business owners and tax payers are currently paying the price of D.C. gridlock and my legislation will put an end to that.” 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

