
February 5, 2019 by Will Cassou and Yolanda Spura 4 Comments 
Students are set to vote on the creation of a semesterly fee that would go toward a fund to benefit descendants of the GU272 this April after the Georgetown University Student Association senate approved the proposed referendum Sunday evening.
The $27.20 reconciliation fee would be added to students’ tuition to financially contribute to the descendant community of the 272 enslaved individuals sold to pay off Georgetown’s debt in 1838. The referendum is set to coincide with GUSA’s senate election in April, the date of which has not been set.  
If the referendum passes in April, the “Act of Referendum to Establish a New GU272 Legacy” would create the Reconciliation board of trustees, a group of students and descendants tasked with allocating funds towards initiatives to benefit descendant communities. 
If the resolution passes, the Reconciliation fund could collect $405,987 from its 7,463 undergraduate students. The financial aid office indicated students receiving financial aid from the university would not have to pay the fee, according to former GUSA Senator Sam Appel (COL ’20), who originally sponsored the resolution proposing the referendum; the board of directors has not made its stance on the referendum clear. The sale of the GU272 in 1838 raised $3.3 million, when adjusted for inflation.
With a 20-4 vote, the proposed referendum received the necessary support from two-thirds of the 29 GUSA senators. Five senators were not present. The vote follows an endorsement of the referendum from GUSA President Juan Martinez (SFS ’20) and Vice President Kenna Chick (SFS ’20).
The push to hold this referendum began with the GU272 Advocacy Team, a group of students who advocate for descendants on campus, who began looking into the possibility of allowing students to vote on the reconciliation fee early last semester.
Following the bill’s passage, the GU272 Advocacy Team plans to initiate education campaigns prior to the referendum to inform the student body on descendant communities and their relationship to the university, according to Advocacy Team member and descendant Mélisande Short-Colomb (COL ’21).
These plans include forums to facilitate dialogue such as town halls, though specific details like dates have not yet been set, Short-Colomb said.
Prior to debate, The senate approved an amendment Dylan Hughes (COL ’19) introduced. Hughes proposed the amendment to clarify language referring to the GU272 Reconciliation board and add financial and accounting guidelines such as prohibitions on using the fund for political purposes. 
The GUSA senate does not represent the diversity of voices on campus, which is why the reconciliation fee ought to be presented for the consideration of the student body, Advocacy Team members and senators supportive of the referendum said
“We as the GU272 student Advocacy Team believe the entire undergraduate community should have the opportunity to have this conversation together, as we in this room can’t and shouldn’t speak for the student body,” Aly Pachter (COL ’19) said at the meeting. (Full Disclosure: Pachter formerly served on The Hoya’s Board of Directors.) 
Four senators opposed the referendum. Senators Sam Dubke (SFS ’21) and Evan Farrara (COL ’19) objected to placing the responsibility on students to atone for the university’s sale of the GU272.
“It’s manifestly Georgetown University’s obligation to make financial commitments regarding its legacy with slavery, not student’s,” Farrara said at the senate meeting. “Additionally, student money should only be used towards student’s purposes, even if non-student purposes are meaningful, as in today’s referendum.” 
The university should seek to institute more of the recommendations made by the Working Group on Slavery, Memory and Reconciliation; however, students should not bear this burden, Dubke wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
“As the Working Group on Slavery, Memory, and Reconciliation made clear in 2015 – these are obligations of the university and not of its students,” Dubke wrote. “I would ardently support any lobbying of our administration to live up to its own promises and recommendations, but I do not feel comfortable making the same demands of individual students.”
Georgetown University President John J. DeGioia formed the Working Group on Slavery, Memory and Reconciliation, a group of faculty and Georgetown Alumni, to address the university’s legacy of slavery in September 2015. Though Georgetown has offered preferential consideration to descendants of the GU272 among other recommendations it has met, multiple recognitions still remain unaddressed, including financial aid for descendants. 
Following the vote, supporters of the bill celebrated the bill’s passage. The GU272 Advocacy Team is prepared for the next steps after the vote, Hannah Michael (SFS ’21) said. 
“I look forward to working with senators and other students as we dig deeper into relearning our understanding of Georgetown’s history regarding slavery and move forward with educating and empowering descendant communities,” Michael said in an interview with The Hoya. 
Although she objected to the referendum, Lexie Gutierrez (COL ’20) was glad that Sunday’s meeting gave students a chance to speak their mind. 
“It’s the student’s choice at this point. I’m going to vote no on the referendum but I’m glad tonight everybody spoke their mind. I have some inherent problems with the referendum but at this point it’s in the students’ hands,” Gutierrez said in an interview with The Hoya..
*Special to The Hoya Casey Ferrante contributed Reporting
Special to The Hoya

Fitting says 
February 5, 2019 at 12:11 pm
Least surprising thing in the world that Sam Dubke is an intern for Rob Portman

Anthony B Eben,Jr. says 
February 5, 2019 at 1:57 pm
Wow, it will only take 8 years to get square with the descendants. Light at the end of the tunnel. In 1838 slaves were sold to keep Georgetown in business long enough to have a student body in 1861 fight in a war resulting in the death of 620,000 fathers, sons, brothers,uncles, and nephews. i think that debt was paid a long time ago, Georgetown.

Anonymous due to fear of retribution on my student daughter says 
February 17, 2019 at 2:01 pm
When I attended law school tuition was  about $600/ semester at a top tier school.   Way too much of the increased tuition today goes to left wing administrators and programs, I hope this at least sparks open debate but doubt the recipients of the student loan debt my freshman daughter is incurring to be a Hoya will truly, truly allow that, they will instead steer that money toward their victim- centered agendas.

Raul Pedrozo says 
April 11, 2019 at 1:17 pm
I’m a Georgetown Law graduate (LLM). If this referendum passes Georgetown will never see another penny from me in gifts to the university.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 5, 2019 by Dustin Hartuv 1 Comment 
The Georgetown Exorcist Steps became recognized as a historic landmark after the Washington, D.C., Historic Preservation Review Board approved their application Jan. 24.
The Prospect Street Citizens Association, a local group that advocates for the neighborhood, filed the application Sept. 25 of last year, citing the historical significance of D.C.’s streetcar system to its designation as a landmark. The steps, which were originally built in 1895 during the construction of the Car Barn, gained their fame from the 1973 film “The Exorcist,” one of the most profitable horror movies ever made, according to Forbes.
The application was reviewed by the Historic Preservation Review Board, which communicates with the mayor on matters of historic preservation and designates historic property, created its own report identifying the steps’ history as the main reason why they should be designated a historic landmark. Instead of the stairs’ appearance in “The Exorcist,” the report points to the stairs’ history as part of the Capital Traction Company Union Station, where it served as a station and barn for streetcars until 1950. The building, now known as the Car Barn, houses many of Georgetown’s undergraduate and graduate academic programming. 
In addition to the steps, the adjacent Car Barn and retaining wall were also given historic status. 
While the neighborhood of Georgetown has already been designated a historic neighborhood, the additional designation would acknowledge the specific importance of the steps, according to Jacqueline Drayer, the D.C. Preservation League’s outreach and grant manager.
“Being designated an individual landmark conveys that the site has a high level of significance on its own, not just in the context of the neighborhood,” Grant wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The other important thing that individual designation does for the site is to document its history and appearance in greater detail.”
The official recognition of the steps also helps draw public attention to the Georgetown community, according to D.C. Office of Planning Communications Officer Mekdy Alemayehu.
“The historic landmark designation of the Car Barn and its adjacent walls and steps recognizes the unique architectural qualities of the complex and its various uses over a long span of history,” Alemayehu wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
The Prospect Street Citizens Association filed the application to ensure the protection of the steps while condos are being built at the former Exxon Mobil station on M Street, according to DCist. The Historic Landmark and Historic Preservation Act of 1978 ensures that any tampering with historic landmarks requires approval from the mayor. 
In light of this new status, the steps are set to receive several benefits, including additional protections and tax incentives, according to Drayer.
“As a historic landmark—and previously, as contributing resources to Georgetown Historic District—these resources’ exteriors cannot be significantly altered without review,” Drayer wrote. “Designation of a site also opens up the possibility for owners to take advantage of incentives, such as the National Rehabilitation Tax Credit, for qualifying projects.”
Although the steps did not gain their landmark status due to their portrayal in “The Exorcist,” the film has been influential in public knowledge of the landmark, Matthew Hua (COL ’22), a Georgetown student and D.C. native, said. 
“Growing up just outside of D.C. and going to Georgetown Men’s Basketball games, my father would always mention the Exorcist Steps every basketball season,” Hua said. “The film has shaped the stairs’ fame. Everything I know about the steps starts with the movie.”

Bob Moore SFS '74 says 
March 19, 2019 at 6:02 pm
They were the Crew steps before the Exorcist. 20 times up and down was part of a normal practice – leg numbing…Blatty’s son was on the Crew, and the Crew running the stairs was filmed early one Sunday morning for the opening aerial shot along the Potomac from Foggy Bottom to the stairs and house. The Crew was unfortunately cut from the movie. But the Crew made about $6k as extras which went to the program. Little University funding in those days. The railings were built for the camera for the final shot at the end of the movie….
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

