
April 11, 2019 by Riley Rogerson 60 Comments 
Georgetown University student and Korean pop artist Kim Sang-woo (COL ’19), popularly known as Roy Kim, is under investigation as a suspected member of a group chat where sexually explicit videos of women filmed without their consent were shared.
Kim was charged by the Seoul Metropolitan Police Agency with circulating obscene materials in violation of information and telecommunications law April 4, after sharing sexually explicit photographs of women in a KakaoTalk mobile chat room, according to the Korea Herald.
After winning a  South Korean music competition show “Superstar K” in 2012, Kim rose to fame and released a song that topped the K-Pop Hot 100 chart for three weeks in 2013. Now 25, Kim first enrolled at Georgetown in 2013 and is expected to graduate this May. After he was formally charged, he left the United States for South Korea on Tuesday morning and was questioned by the Central Seoul Major Crimes Unit on Wednesday.
Kim intends to cooperate with the police investigation, he said in a Wednesday statement.
“First and foremost, I apologize to my fans and the public for causing concern,” Kim said to reporters. “I will faithfully face the investigation.”
The university has not taken any action or made public comments against Kim. Georgetown takes seriously all accusations of sexual misconduct, according to university spokesperson Matt Hill.
“Georgetown is committed to making sure that reported cases of sexual misconduct are investigated and responded to promptly and thoroughly,” Hill wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The charges against Kim come after fellow K-pop stars Jung Joon-Young and Seungri were charged for posting lewd photographs in one of Jung’s 23 group chats last month. Jung admitted to filming sexually explicit videos of women without their consent and posting them in a groupchat with Seungri. The scandal has received national attention in Korea because of the prominent celebrities implicated by it.
In addition to sharing videos taken of women without their consent, multiple prominent K-pop stars in a chat of at least nine men also discussed raping and drugging women as well. Since the allegations, Jung’s management company dropped him, and Seungri decided to leave music industry, according to CNN. 
“I gave her sleeping pills and did her,” an as yet unspecified man with the last name Park who is a friend of Jung wrote in one of Jung’s chat group.
Dissatisfaction with the university’s response thus far has prompted responses from students calling on the university to take a stance. Finn Thompson (COL ’22) started a Change.org petition April 8 calling on University President John J. DeGioia to suspend Kim until he is formally charged and expel him if he is convicted. The petition has received 26 signatures as of time of press. Thompson declined a request for comment from The Hoya.
The phenomena and arrests of K-pop stars sparked a conversation in K-Pop fan Gina Kang’s (SFS ’22) third-level Korean class, where students have presented on the growing problem of illegal filming in Korea.
Georgetown should condemn Kim’s misconduct if he is found guilty, according to Kang. 
“I think that the university does have a responsibility to take a position, even if it is against the student, and not condone this kind of behavior,” Kang said in an interview with The Hoya. “They cannot be facing any more special treatment or not be addressed just because they are celebrities or wealthier.”
The pattern of K-pop stars sharing obscene photographs highlights a broader problem of illegal nonconsensual filming of women. Every year there are on average approximately 6,000 incidences of “spy cam porn” reported to the Korean police, and 80 percent of these victims are women, according to BBC News.
Because each case involving sexual misconduct is distinct, it is unclear exactly what disciplinary action Kim could face at Georgetown, according to Grant Olson (COL ’19), director of the Student Advocacy Office of the Georgetown University Student Association.
“Each case and each person has mitigating and aggravating factors that go into how they are going to be seen when they are brought forward for any charge,” Olson said in an interview with The Hoya. “Most of the time it is a very individualized thing based on what the university thinks that have to do with a specific individual”
The Georgetown Code of Student Conduct does not explicitly outline consequences for distributing lewd photographs. However, the code does recognize sexual harassment and cyberbullying as significant infractions.
Though the Code of Student Conduct requires that students respect local D.C. laws, the consequences of breaking a law of a foreign country is not explicitly laid out within the code.
Although it is unknown whether Kim sent lewd photographs while at Georgetown, the location of the alleged crimes does not matter in university disciplinary processes as long as the student is affiliated with the university, Olson said.
“The second you sign to become a Georgetown student, the code of conduct follows you everywhere,” Olson said.
*An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that Kim was suspected of sharing explicit videos. This article has also be updated to reflect Jung’s multiple group chats.
 

David Yo says 
April 11, 2019 at 2:26 pm
I think those Korean articles were convoluted and that his article also puts him down without confirming the truth that came out from the police investigation – The police revealed today that he confirmed that he shared a photo from online that he did not take. This is against law in Korea(any obscene photo is cannot be shared, and porn sites are banned in Korea), but not in the United States first of all, but he is getting way too much publicity for this action.

Justice for Victims says 
April 12, 2019 at 2:07 am
He shared ‘molka’ pornography, which is a hidden camera filming of people, typically in public restroom or changing room,  without the victim’s knowledge or consent. It is sinister, illegal, and sadly an ongoing epidemic in Korea, hence why the public outrage. 
His lack of apology to the victims is disturbing, he only apologizes to the fans and the public, and that speaks volumes.

David Yo says 
April 12, 2019 at 8:15 pm
Nowhere does it say after police investigation that he shared a “molka” pornography. It only confirms that another celebrity Eddy Kim(graduate of Berkeley) and him shared an obscene image from the internet. The public outrage comes more from how he was in a group chat where JJY shared a video of a person without consent, which I’m not sure about why he did not speak up against or reported him.

Justice for Victims says 
April 13, 2019 at 11:05 am
To put things into perspective:
– This is the official statement from the Seoul Metropolitan Police Agency (key word is in ‘illegally taken footage’): “We booked and notified Roy Kim to be investigated for charges of violating the Act on Promotion of Information and Communications Network Utilisation and Information Protection, etc by spreading illegally taken footage” 
– Roy Kim has reportedly admit to shared the footage to the group chat, according to several news reports
– Roy Kim is part of the group chats with the other serial rapists that objectified, drugged, raped, and filmed the victims. He did not raise any alarm to the the authorities, and choose to be a member of the group chats that have exist for years. 
–  Roy Kim has not make any apology to any of the victims till this day

David Yo says 
April 19, 2019 at 12:07 pm
Not true. See the most recent comments below. I speak Korean too and can read

YS says 
April 25, 2019 at 12:11 pm
You should be aware that many Korean media have reported and written so many incorrect information so far to make this issue sensational in order to attract viewers and posts for their influence and business. If you referred to those misleading media and shared those info, you are also misleading your audience whether or not you intended. 
Seoul metropolitan police agency said that they didn’t think that Roy Kim took the one photo. According to them, Roy Kim also said that he shared the one photo from internet during the investigation. Therefore, what he shared with his friends in the chat was not illegally taken footage until the final prosecutor’s decision. You also should know that few cases of sharing couple of photos with s small group of friends has been convicted in Korea.
I strongly believe that he deserves to be judged based on what he did, not by what those misleading media and anti-fans of him and the upper class and allied corrupted police who want to divert the public attention to the clubs, i. e. the core and breeding ground of sexual assault onto the misdemeanors of celebrities only.  
I’m sure you will find very strange, but typical behaviors of the police which leaked the info of celebrities one by one and tweaked them whenever they leak to media, if you take a close look at this case. According to a famous culture critic in Korea placed his column on this in a media which didn’t join the stimulating rally of putting the spotlight on celebrity stories, such an action is classic to hide big issues and turn attention to others. He mentioned your student and singer as the victim of such method.

TT says 
April 12, 2019 at 2:14 am
It sounds like you are convoluted. According to the SK police, as of right now, Roy is already criminally charged with sharing photos taken without consent. He claimed that the photos were from internet, but the police seems to have enough proof to summon him. Let’s see how things go.

David Yo says 
April 12, 2019 at 8:12 pm
Not true. He was summoned because the police wasn’t sure if 1) the photos were taken by him or 2) the photos were simply from the internet. He stated that they were from the internet. The police have enough proof to summon him because sharing any obscene photo is illegal in Korea

lol says 
April 13, 2019 at 2:52 am
I bet all of his friends do the same thing sharing porns,  he probably got caught because he’s a celebrity.

TT says 
April 14, 2019 at 1:38 am
FACT 1) ROY IS ALREADY CRIMINALLY CHARGED. Police already collected more than enough evidence from the investigation of other singers even before the summon of Roy.
FACT 2) Only 3 out of all other singers(10+) in the same chatroom were criminally charged so far. Police confirmed those others didn’t share anything illegal(which means random internet P), found no suspicion, has no plan to summon others. ROY IS NOT TARGETED FOR NO REASON OR BEING THE ONLY CELEBRITY.
FACT 3) Roy claimed that the tings he shred were from internet, but police confirmed that some photos and videos from other singers were illegally taken and shared without consent of women. It could be extremely hard, maybe impossible in some cases(lucky for who), and time consuming to find victims and crosscheck the evidence. But POLICE IS VERY SUSPICIOUS OF THE SOURCES OF OTHER PICS AND VIDEOS SHARED IN THE CHATROOM BECAUSE OF THEIR CONVERSATION.
FACT 4) SOUTH KOREA POLICE IS NO DUMB. They are too busy to investigate/summon a person in another continent for no more than a misdemeanor.

David Yo says 
April 19, 2019 at 12:08 pm
Fact 3 is not an actual fact. That’s your speculation. Read the actual reports without a biased title to stir people up

Arjava says 
April 12, 2019 at 12:01 pm
It isn’t illegal to share drug rape and spy cam sex clip in America?Wow

David Yo says 
April 12, 2019 at 8:11 pm
Where does it say that he himself shared drug rape and spy cam sex clip? Nowhere

ICareAboutWomen says 
April 13, 2019 at 12:31 am
He’s getting publicity also for being in a chat where his celebrity buddies were sharing videos of them raping unconscious women spiked with drugs – and admitting in no uncertain terms that what they were doing was rape and could put them in prison. He was okay with what his friends were doing and passively condoned it – and we don’t actually know whether he took part in the same “activities” as well, but was smart enough to not leave any trace. In that chat, they treated women like objects, using offensive words to describe their bodies. If Roy Kim was fine with all that, then he is not a person who should be trusted to be around women, especially students. You have no idea what was in the photo he shared and if you think that it’s too early to condemn him, it doesn’t change that it’s too late to defend him. He chose his own path to be witness to rape and horrible objectification and unfortunately for him he got caught, so take your sympathy elsewhere.

Expressing Concern says 
April 11, 2019 at 4:35 pm
Although I am not a student at the university, I feel the need to comment because some may be taking it too lightly. First, it is still in investigation so it cannot be said where that obscene photo was actually gotten from based on my understanding from reading various articles. The articles mostly are just stating that it was taken from the internet, what does that mean? Was it from a porn site? or was it from a place where photos were being shared without consent (this is a very extreme issue)? All possibilities should be taken into account. Second, it seems to be unknown what chatroom he was exactly in and I think that should be an important consideration as well. These chatrooms are reported to have have very disturbing things discussed within them and that should be looked into. I hope proper action is taken with due diligence.

Kathie Doyle says 
April 11, 2019 at 8:47 pm
Folks, please remember that kindness matters. No women would ever sanction this, however, the pain of this felt by all parties will be excruciating. Let’s promote healing, restitution, justice and personal growth. None of us are without mistakes. Better to use those angry feelings toward producing change in Korea and elsewhere.  The exact same thing is happening in the U.S. too. Men need to respect for women. They are not tissues.
https://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2019/02/18/what-went-wrong-at-new-york-city-ballet

Mitch says 
April 11, 2019 at 9:40 pm
To Georgetown University: 
All I can say is this is so unfair for Roy. It’s not like human has been created with perfection. Everyone commit mistakes. I, myself work in a University, so I know the disciplinary actions a school gives to a student. However, to expel him from the University, while the graduation is only a month away, is too much. Roy has sacrificed a lot just to finish his studies and to reach his career as a singer. Throughout his youth, he devoted his time with studying just to get in to a good University. And now that he is about to graduate, please,don’t take away what he has worked hard for. Going back and forth from being a student to a singer was never easy to him. During his break in Georgetown, instead of going to a trip or vacation, he used the time to comeback to Korea and share us the music the had created. A music he came up with from all the experiences he had, being a singer, a student, a citizen, and a son. He has a lot ahead of him. So, please don’t take it away. He suffered a lot already from all the criticisms which he doesn’t even deserve. He lost so much weight. Please let him live. It’s not like he did drugs or such way too serious crimes that deserve him to receive all those hates. All he did was share ONE PHOTO from INTERNET. You all know that everyone can access Internet. If he is someone that can be considered a “trash”, then he wouldn’t have given his efforts to value to his education. He has been a solace to many people. I, myself, had suffered from depression. But because of him, his voice, his character, of how he is as a human, I doing great. He made me realized that there is more to life than embracing the sadness that I was feeling back then. He encouraged me, helped me picked myself together and go on with life. He has done great things, not only for me, but also to other people. I may not know him personally, but I know he’s not a bad person. Everyone deserves a second chance. Please don’t take away what he had worked hard for all these years.

Mauro says 
April 12, 2019 at 6:56 pm
but its rape videos and such without consent? is it still just a mistake when he knowingly share these? hes only caught because the guys he shared them with are getting caught. Do you think someone who knows about what he did is sorry only because he got caught?

David Yo says 
April 12, 2019 at 8:19 pm
It doesn’t say that it was a rape video that he shared. I am waiting for this to be confirmed as well, but the police has confirmed that it was from the internet. I do think that it was wrong for him to be in a group chat where there were disturbing images/videos/talks.

ICareAboutWomen says 
April 13, 2019 at 12:42 am
What you described as “disturbing” was actual footage of drugged women being raped by his friends and dehumanizing comments on their bodies and such. And thank you for thinking it’s “wrong” of him for being in that chat. Maybe one day you will even realize that preventing abuse against women is just as important as your touching dude solidarity.

Mauro says 
April 13, 2019 at 3:19 am
hey fool check it here on this headline and peep the subreddit he admitted to sharing illegal photos bro so you are wrong
https://www.reddit.com/r/kpop/comments/bbcaun/burning_molka_17_bc_holdings_suspected_of_tax/

M says 
April 13, 2019 at 3:21 am
also  im in korea and so the info here seems to be saying more than just what you think it is

anti-chris brown says 
April 12, 2019 at 7:23 pm
you need to do research more on what is actually happening before defending him and saying it’s “just ONE PHOTO from the internet”. if you work at the university you should know how to read

Motch says 
April 12, 2019 at 11:42 pm
You sure know how to read and research too. I’m not saying that sharing a lewd photo is right. What I’m saying is you all talk and accuse him and say that he raped, drugged someone and filmed videos illegally. He DID NOT do any of that. It is true that he was in a group chat with Jung Joon Young but it wasn’t the same group chat there the spy cam videos were uploaded. The police already confirmed it. All he did is share one freakin’ photo from Internet.

ICareAboutWomen says 
April 13, 2019 at 12:33 am
He’s getting publicity also for being in a chat where his celebrity buddies were sharing videos of them raping unconscious women spiked with drugs – and admitting in no uncertain terms that what they were doing was rape and could put them in prison. He was okay with what his friends were doing and passively condoned it – and we don’t actually know whether he took part in the same “activities” as well, but was smart enough to not leave any trace. In that chat, they treated women like objects, using offensive words to describe their bodies. If Roy Kim was fine with all that, then he is not a person who should be trusted to be around women, especially students. You have no idea what was in the photo he shared and if you think that it’s too early to condemn him, it doesn’t change that it’s too late to defend him. He chose his own path to be witness to rape and horrible objectification and unfortunately for him he got caught, so take your sympathy elsewhere.

M says 
April 12, 2019 at 12:32 am
So are you going to look into every male student that views and shares porn then, or conversations in group chats? Just how many male students would obtain a degree if you hold them to same standards as Mr. Kim? Also, Korea has different laws regarding porn. I think the University iS making a statement through this article. Seriously how many men in this country could throw the first rock? Porn is the problem, not people. It changes your brain and values. They are addicted for a reason. Unless he filmed someone without consent or raped someone, he is no Guiltier than most of his peers. I do not like that people view/share porn or talk about women like toys, but this is the world we live in. It is not going to change. Meanwhile, pedophiles and rapists govern everything…those are worse crimes in comparison. He paid tuition and did the work, he had better get the degree. No matter the outcome, this is all he will have since this situation has destroyed his career and family regardless of outcome and true facts. Korea is not like America where you get second chances.

Mauro says 
April 12, 2019 at 6:57 pm
they are rape videos of people filmed without consent

ICareAboutWomen says 
April 13, 2019 at 12:59 am
Who are you to say that it’s not going to change? Who are you to decide that women should live their whole lives in a toxic world where they are dehumanized and objectified? That change is up to each and every one of us as individuals – we change that but choosing not to rape/objectify/stand by while abuse is happening. And that’s exactly what Roy Kim did. He was in a chat where actual footage of his friends raping drugged women was shared, along with disgusting comments on their bodies. If you want him to be allowed to get his degree, that’s one thing, but you are no expert on abuse and what should or shouldn’t change.

Sarah L says 
April 12, 2019 at 12:37 am
David Yo above is nicely missing the point – this is not about some men sharing lewd photos. It is about some men for years having sex with various women, filming it without their knowledge, and sharing the videos in a chatroom. It is about how some of these women could actually have been drugged and raped. And that Roy Kim was one of the nine in that chatroom. 
Can you imagine a video of you having sex, with your face clearly visible, recorded and shared online among people who actually know you? They watching and commenting on how you climax? That there is no guarantee how many people have seen or will see this in the future? That is what these women have to live with. 
These men sacrificed others’ basic human dignity for their entertainment. I don’t think ‘giving Roy Kim too much publicity’ is really a concern here.

David Yo says 
April 12, 2019 at 8:22 pm
All I was saying was that what is said in the article is inaccurate and not confirmed. I do think that it was wrong that he was in that group chat allegedly and did not speak up.

Very Disappointed says 
April 12, 2019 at 12:38 am
This incident should not be taken lightly. The number of victims, just in the year of 2015, are known to be at least 10.(We basically can’t find out how many victims there are as the most recent cellphones of suspects were strategically removed after the suspects heard that the police had launched a probe.) Imagine yourself being secretly filmed while you’ve had sex or even while you’ve been drugged/raped. The videos were further shared by numerous people of whom victims have no idea who they are and even how many there are. The pain the victims have to face is just unimaginable as their most secretive parts of lives have been publicly exposed and ridiculed. Some people say that Roy Kim just posted a random lewd photo from the internet. This fact alone has not been confirmed by the police in the first place, but the fact that Roy Kim was aware of the sources of Jung’s videos doesn’t change. Kim, instead of criticizing Jung or reporting him to police, repeatedly made fun of the victims with his friends. He is, by this fact alone, already an accomplice.

TT says 
April 12, 2019 at 2:13 am
It sounds like you are convoluted. According to the SK police, as of right now, Roy is already criminally charged with sharing photos taken without consent. He claimed that the photos were from internet, but the police seems to have enough proof to summon him. Let’s see how things go.

Majore Jason says 
April 12, 2019 at 4:40 am
Must expelled from the university as he is not just involved with sharing sexual contents but also having the suspicion of raping female with drug.                              This seems really serious criminal charge a student of Catholic University can have. Aren’t you the one who kept silence when NAZI holocaust 6 millions Jews in Germany? Prove me wrong. Do something!.

TH says 
April 12, 2019 at 7:39 am
Hi, the writer of this story mistakenly referred to Jung Joon-Young as “Joon-Young” (and “Young” in one instance?) as though it is his surname. In Asia, the surname usually comes first. Therefore, he should have been referred to as Jung. A quick Google search would have revealed that.

Mitch says 
April 12, 2019 at 7:52 pm
I think you guys needs to read the news from Korea first. Roy was only charged for sharing one photo he downloaded from Internet. He didn’t film any videos. He didn’t rape anyone just like what you are claiming. All he did was share one freaking photo anyone can download from Internet. It was confirmes by Seoul Metropolitan police. I’m sure that one of you are not that innocent too. You must have watched porn or what not since that’s any man’s nature.. I do not tolerate his actions being in that group chat but he didn’t took any illegal videos or rape anyone. Get your facts straight..

Jinny says 
April 12, 2019 at 10:52 pm
Hi. I’m a Korean woman and I’m in no way defending perpetrators in this incident. However, I believe this article is factually misleading and the author should really correct them. 
1. Roy Kim is only confirmed to have shared a sexually explicit photo in a chatroom (he claims to be from online) — he did not share any video. There are allegedly multiple videos and multiple chatrooms that the main perpetrator Jung Joon-Young had. Some of the videos are alleged to be taken while the women were unconscious and getting raped. While Roy Kim was part of one chatroom that videos were shared, it is unclear which chatroom he was in and whether the “rape video” was shared. (re-reading the article, this is maybe what the comments are confused about not the author but the author could have been clearer in this also)
2. Again, there were multiple chatrooms and the “rape conversation” happened in ONE of those chat rooms. It was not confirmed that Roy Kim was part of that chat room where the rape conversation happened. The article makes it sound like there was only one chatroom. No — we don’t even know whether Seungri and Roy Kim were in the same chatroom.

David Yo says 
April 13, 2019 at 12:49 pm
Exactly. I am not defending him but I do think that many articles that came out have headlines that are inaccurate and have not been confirmed. There’s many reddit sources claiming random information that none of the official South Korean Police have explicitly stated

Isabella says 
April 13, 2019 at 2:19 am
여성의 동의없이 촬영된 성관계 몰래카메라를 수년간 단체채팅방 안에서 같이 즐겨본건 공범이다. 수많은 여성의 수치심과 불안함에 견주어보면 퇴학은 정당하다

bigdeal says 
April 13, 2019 at 2:46 am
Under no circumstances should sharing a sexual picture/video be justified. What if he shared a naked picture of you? Would you still stand up for him? Roy Kim and Joon-Young built up their careers from the same Korean show and they went through everything together. No wonder they are best friends. The fact that they are so close and that he was in several group chats with Joon-Young are more than enough to assume that Roy is involved in even more sexual misconduct scandals than what is currently revealed in the public. And he used to go to different colleges to give lectures to students of his age on how he became so successful. But now I know he was just enjoying his superiority and having fun sharing sexual photos. The presumption of innocence is the legal principle that one is considered innocent unless proven guilty, but he is already guilty. Georgetown must conduct a COMPREHENSIVE investigation, and by this I mean not just talking with Roy Kim to see what happened. It may be hard because the incident happened in Korea, but the school should step up and get the most objective information as possible.

Sunny says 
April 13, 2019 at 4:34 am
Well. The one who shared photos from Internet is not Roy Kim. It was Eddie Kim. We don’t know what kind of pictures he shared in the group chat. Don’t spread wrong information.

Mitch says 
April 13, 2019 at 10:48 am
It was confirmed by the Seoul Metropolitan Police that BOTH Roy Kim and Eddie shared a photo they got from Internet. I have been following the news since the Burning Sun incident. So I know what I am talking about.

Justice for Victims says 
April 13, 2019 at 11:19 am
Eddie Kim took and shared the footage he obtained, while Roy Kim shared another footage.

Erica says 
April 14, 2019 at 9:03 am
Roy kim also sharded photo from Internet. You should have to know fact of this issue. Don’t spread wrong information.

Tt says 
April 13, 2019 at 6:41 am
He is Korean sex master.

Isabella says 
April 13, 2019 at 5:16 pm
Roy Kim is an accomplice who has seen Malka with his friends in the group chat room for years. Roy Kim admitted to spreading pornography at the police station. There was talk of drugs in the chat room, but Roy Kim refused to take the drug test at the police station and came home close to his lawyer. Giving a diploma to a sex offender is a breach of school reputation.

Rina says 
April 15, 2019 at 3:12 am
Why don’t you find right information about him? That is only a supposition on your part.

Surfer says 
April 13, 2019 at 6:10 pm
Georgetown is now famous in Asia. Not many knew the university, but now they all know.

Justice for Victims says 
April 24, 2019 at 8:15 am
It is now known as “THAT campus of the rapist’s accomplice”, which is sad.

Erica says 
April 14, 2019 at 9:07 am
The police confirmed that Roy Kim shared a photo downloaded from an online source. Rumors that he had allegedly shared ‘sexually explicit vidios of women filmed without their consent’ turned out to be fake. I want people to know the truth.

Marina says 
April 16, 2019 at 8:25 am
There are several petiions for helping Roy Kim to grad this May at Georgetown University https://chng.it/PyySdqT2Dm and https://chng.it/6dmDPDbbs8
If you sing the situation is unfair to Roy, please, sign it.

H.M.A says 
April 20, 2019 at 7:06 am
An outsider from the internetcan sign this, so it is not official! And the numbers are low.   Make the students themself sing, fans sings should not be accepted.

Dewwy says 
April 18, 2019 at 8:56 pm
I really think like you. I agree with you one hundred percent. Just watching without feeling guilty and notifying the police is criminal as well.

L says 
April 19, 2019 at 3:26 am
I think people are really missing the seriousness of all this. By the way, Jung Joon-Young and others (not including Roy Kim) are now being investigated for rape of at least 5-6 women using drugs.
That Roy Kim was only charged with one transfer of a pornographic material is rather not the point here. 
Roy Kim took part in the online chat room where they shared sex videos filmed without consent and horribly debased the victims through the texts. That is undeniable at this point – that is why Roy Kim was investigated in the first place.  
Given that, it is highly likely that Roy Kim was aware of what was going on, and that he took part in the conversation and watched at least some, if not most, of the videos. Unfortunately, none of these makes a criminal case against according to the current Korean law. Even sharing a video taken without consent cannot be charged any differently from sharing a random American porn, because the perpetrator can always deny the knowledge. Please see https://www.vop.co.kr/A00001399444.html titled “Why Roy Kim’s charges can only be light” 
Roy Kim likely knew about the victimization of the women, condoned it, even enjoyed the results, and willingly took part in degrading the women through the chats. None of these may be illegal in Korea, but one cannot turn a blind eye repeating over and over “But still just ONE charge … ” when the moral corruption is glaring. 
In the victims’ point of view, it would truly be an injustice for Roy Kim to be bestowed with the honor and privilege of being a Georgetown graduate, when he took part in ruining their lives.

Cho says 
April 21, 2019 at 4:46 am
He was already criminal

Tip of Iceberg says 
May 8, 2019 at 7:51 am
He’s confessed to actually filming and distributing these films according to Newsweek (https://www.newsweek.com/roy-kim-k-pop-singer-suspect-sex-chatroom-scandal-1383343): “I admit to having committed all the wrongs that have been reported…I filmed women without their consent, spread (the films) in chat rooms. I did these activities without feeling any guilt. Throughout the rest of my life, I will repent on my immoral and illegal acts that constitute crimes.”  
My bro actually knew him when he attended the Asheville school, and they used the same college essay consulting firm to help them get in (my brother got into a number of ivies and ended up going to Penn but Roy could not get into any ivies so chose Georgetown since it is more well known in Korea). He’s not surprised at all as he’s hung out w/ that crowd and seen and heard similar things.
Filming is perverse but not so bad as when he was bragging about drugging girls then sleeping w/ them and being involved with circle that needs an incineration team to get rid of evidence after:
https://www.koreaboo.com/news/burning-sun-vvip-crime-horrifying-detail-mbc-straight/
https://www.vox.com/2019/4/29/18306249/k-pop-sex-scandal-seungri-burning-sun
This is only tip of iceberg if you really know Korean society. 
Does not matter though. The other singers have ruined lives but Roy’s dad runs a well known conglomerate that Roy will take over so he will be fine, and Georgetown will get their $$$. It’s sad but reality here.

Marina says 
May 14, 2019 at 3:16 am
You should know, that: “I admit to having committed all the wrongs that have been reported…I filmed women…” is Jung Joon Youngs’ words. You can see it in the article, that you red with deep attantion in the Newsweek. Well. I don’t know who is your brother, I prefer listen oficial Police statment. So. Shut up )

david yo says 
May 14, 2019 at 10:54 pm
can you read the article first. The person who admitted to filming without consent is another guy. Not roy kim

Sarah says 
May 8, 2019 at 9:13 am
Women drugged and held against their will. Rape. Torture. This club and all its members should be tried and held accountable.
https://www.koreaboo.com/news/burning-sun-club-allegedly-involved-filming-snuff-torture-videos/

Ayumi says 
February 25, 2020 at 4:26 am
JJY,CJH,HEO,KWON,KIM  are found  guilty  in the molka case trial
It has ended  already

. says 
May 12, 2020 at 7:57 pm
Roy Kim was not even part of the group chat this whole time where the other guys including JJY were sharing illegally taken photos and videos of women. He was in another group chat with Jung Jun Young and Choi Jung Hoon specifically made for “fishing”. (literal fishing) What happened was that one other member shared a photo of a celebrity that is photoshopped pornographically. Roy Kim sent a screenshot of a blog on internet that he saw to tell them that the photo is photoshopped and is originally not the celebrity in the picture, to say that the rumor is not true. But this was against the laws in Korea because Korea bans porno sites and sharing of any porno pictures or videos online. He admitted that it was a wrongdoing regardless of his motive and that he could look back at his past during the time of investigation and realize how precious the love he was getting from his fans and public was. He says he will come back as the “Roy Kim” that people loved and supported for. He has volunteered to join the marine corps to start his military service in March and was accepted to join in April, so he will start his military service in June 2020. 
I think he has already gotten all those hates that he never even deserved. Only because of the fact that he was friends with JJY does not mean that he is like him. The fact that he was never part of the group chat even though he was pretty close with JJY shows that even JJY and his friends knows that Roy Kim’s character is not like one of theirs. All those news portals need to apologize for delivering fake news that weren’t confirmed to the public, and we should be sorry that we blindly believed whatever was online before the police officially closed the case and released the investigation results. 
Now let’s go back to the time where we listened to Roy Kim’s music for hours and just let him take enough time for himself before he comes out to the public again. I love his music, so I really hope he releases more songs after his service!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 11, 2019 by Myroslav Leave a Comment 
A Georgetown University group that promotes accessible education for youth without documentation hosted three more events than last year and increased the number of co-sponsorship opportunities with student organizations during its third annual UndocuWeek.  
Through UndocuWeek, which runs from April 6 to April 12, GU Undocumented Student Support Services aims to address topics relating to the experiences of students without documentation through educational sessions, events and community activities during the entire week.
The educational campaign seeks to raise awareness about the experiences of students without documentation not only at Georgetown but nationwide, according to Arelis Palacios, associate director for undocumented student services within the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access.
“We seek to address broader immigration topics related to family separation, immigration detention, experiences across graduate levels, and political activism,” Palacios wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The week includes information sessions on allyship and life in detention centers, a screening of the documentary “Salud Sin Papeles” and two events on the intersection of political activism and art. 
This year’s UndocuWeek increased the number of days during which the organization hosted two events and includes co-sponsorship from more student groups than last year, according to Arisaid Gonzalez Porras (COL ’21), co-president of Hoyas for Immigrant Rights, a student advocacy group administered by the Center for Social Justice.
“This year we did two events per day which has been kind of hectic but also pretty amazing that we’ve gotten so far,” Gonzalez Porras said. “Some of the events that are different is that we partnered with the medical school, which we haven’t done before. We also highlighted other narratives that are not normally shared or you don’t normally see in the mainstream.”
While the main coordinators for the week are the student leaders of Hoyas for Immigrant Rights, other organizations that are co-sponsors include the Georgetown Scholars Program and Movimiento Estudiantil Chicanx de Aztlán, an advocacy group for students identifying as Chicanx. The LGBTQ Resource Center, Georgetown University College Democrats, GU Pride and others also co-sponsored.
The collaboration of these student groups to support students without documentation and address broader immigration issues is encouraging and exciting, according to Palacios.
“I’m excited to see the allyship and solidarity building across different student groups, as a showing of support to our community members, but also as a showing of their commitment to broader social issues,” Palacios wrote.
The Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals policy grants immigrants without documentation who arrived in the United States as children protection from deportation. In 2012, former President Barack Obama issued the DACA executive order after the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors Act, a bill that would grant minors without documentation a path to citizenship, did not pass in Congress several times. 
In the future, Gonzalez Porras said she would also like to see an event that shares the story of parents of DACA policy recipients and other students without documentation, who are often portrayed negatively in society. The young people affected by DACA and the DREAM Act are often referred to as dreamers.
“I think I would love to see more about the, we call it the original dreamers, or our parents, that usually are the ones that are criminalized in the narrative,” Gonzales Porras said. “And maybe like if some students feel comfortable to speak about how it’s been like for their parents, because a lot of parents don’t want to speak on their experiences just because they’re still scared since they’re not protected.”
UndocuWeek began April 6 with a Mass at Holy Trinity Catholic Church with Bishop Mario Dorsonville. There are two events scheduled for each day except Friday, when the week is scheduled to end with the Undocuqueer Coffee Hour with the LGBTQ center from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m.
Undocumented Student Resources were launched in 2016, when University President John J. DeGioia reaffirmed Georgetown’s commitment to supporting students without documentation.
“As a university located in our nation’s capital and animated by our Catholic and Jesuit identity, we are called to support all of our students, including our undocumented students,” DeGioia wrote on the university website. “These young women and men demonstrate an extraordinary passion to make America, and our increasingly interconnected world, a better place.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 11, 2019 by Nate Kral Leave a Comment 
 
Campus food service workers are preparing to picket and rally outside O’Donovan Hall on April 16 after months of protest and negotiation with campus food service provider Aramark. Workers’ complaints include low wages, short break times and disrespect from their managers, according to several workers who requested anonymity because of concerns about their employment.

Student activists from the Georgetown Solidarity Committee hung a banner in Leo’s in support of food service workers on April 10. Groups of about 30 workers had previously protested in Leo’s on Feb. 27 and  April 4. The latest contract between Aramark and the campus food service workers, who are represented by labor union Unite Here, expired in December. 
The two parties have still not agreed to new terms several months after the contract’s expiration. Aramark met with the delegation of workers to negotiate a new contract April 5. Aramark respects workers’ right to protest, according to Karen Cutler, Aramark vice president for communication and public affairs.
“We respect the right of our employees to demonstrate and look forward to continuing to bargain in good faith,” Cutler wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
Workers plan to strike April 16 if a resolution is not reached within the week, according to Joshua Armstead, vice president of the D.C. chapter of Unite Here Local 23.
“We are hoping to have a fair contract by the end of this week,” Armstead wrote in an April 8 statement to The Hoya. “If not, join us outside the dining hall on the 16th of April for a demonstration.”
Campus Protests
Georgetown’s food service workers officially unionized in March 2011 with Aramark’s approval and agreed to a three-year contract with Aramark 10 months later. As that contract approached expiration in February 2015, Aramark workers and student activists from GSC marched together from Sellinger Lounge to Leavey Court to protest poor working conditions. 
After those demonstrations, workers negotiated a contract with new benefits, including a 50-cents-per-hour raise and cheaper health care coverage for workers. However, food service workers continue to cite poor working conditions, such as insufficient vacation time and low wages, according to a food service worker who requested anonymity because of concerns about their employment.
“We want longer vacations and a pay raise. Two weeks isn’t enough,” the worker said. “We have kids.”
Breaks for campus food service workers are limited, according to another worker who also requested anonymity for employment concerns. 
“If you work 5 hours, you don’t get a break,” a food service worker said in an interview with The Hoya. “When you do get a break, it’s 30 minutes.”
Cutler said that the collective bargaining agreement between Aramark and workers allocates breaks based on the amount of time worked each day. 
A third worker suggested that food service workers only receive complimentary meals in the downstairs section of Leo’s, which means they have less access to hot meals if their break falls between 2 p.m. and 4:30 p.m., when the Fresh Food Company downstairs transitions from lunch to light lunch. 
“My doctor said I’m not eating enough and that I don’t get enough square meals,” the worker said. “I can’t eat enough. My break is at 3 p.m., and they only let employees eat downstairs. They only serve hot meals until 2 p.m. Workers either have to pay for their meals upstairs; the meals that we make, or try and turn the salad bar into a full lunch.”
Cutler said that workers have access to hot food between 2 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. 
“All team members, including management employees, have the opportunity to dine in the residential dining facility,” Cutler wrote. “Between 2p and 4:30p hot options are available along with a variety of other options.” 
Cutler did not indicate whether employees must pay for meals in the upstairs dining section, however. 
Student Solidarity
Prior to hanging the banner in Leo’s on behalf of food service workers, GSC also hosted a Feb. 14 open forum about ongoing labor contract negotiations. The group is pushing for meaningful wages and benefits for Unite Here workers, according to a GSC statement.  
“We are in complete solidarity with the Unite Here Local 23 workers at Georgetown fighting for a contract that will allow them to provide for themselves and their families,” GSC wrote in a statement to The Hoya. 
Recent public outcry from students and workers at Georgetown follows protests directed at Aramark at American University and New York University. 
University officials at American University decided to look into alternative food service providers to Aramark after a student-led town hall and protest in response to price increases in a proposed meal plan, according to The Eagle, AU’s campus newspaper.
New York University chose not to renew Aramark’s dining contract in light of multiple protests, including a 155-hour long occupation of NYU’s main library, according to Washington Square News, NYU’s campus newspaper. The protests centered on Aramark’s role as a food service provider to the private prison industry.
Georgetown renewed Aramark’s campus food service contract for 10 years in November 2016. The university is not involved in current contract negotiations between Aramark and Unite Here workers, according to a university spokesperson.
“While Georgetown is not part of the ongoing negotiations between Aramark and Unite Here, we are committed to ensuring both entities negotiate in good faith and reach an agreement that continues to adhere to university policies, including the Just Employment Policy,” the university spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Georgetown’s just employment policy sets standards for compensation, job loss and grievance procedures for workers on campus. The just employment policy applies to workers hired by contractors such as Aramark. 
GSC members, however, believe the university is not genuinely interested in the needs of workers or students.
“The university is not concerned with the knowledge or experiences of its students or with the ethics of its subcontractors,” GSC wrote.  “It is more interested in making profitable decisions, even at the cost of its morals; choosing Aramark as our food provider was such a decision.”
Protection Protocols
Though Georgetown has not been involved in the ongoing negotiations between Unite Here and Aramark, the university has established a protocol for employees to file complaints about violations of the just employment policy.
“We have outlined a clear and accessible protocol for contract employees to notify the university of any concerns related to the Just Employment Policy,” a university spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “This includes the Georgetown University Compliance Helpline, a safe, and anonymous if desired, way to report problems or raise questions or concerns.”
Aramark also has a toll-free employee hotline for anonymously reporting workplace grievances that is managed by a private third-party provider, according to Cutler.
Students will need to place pressure on Aramark on behalf of food service workers since the university is unlikely to act, according to GSC. 
“In this situation Aramark is the one negotiating with workers and our job as students is to support them in their efforts and put public pressure on Aramark,” GSC wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Based on our experience, we don’t think change will come from the university.”
Several workers feel mistreated and intimidated by Aramark management, according to two workers who requested anonymity for employment concerns. 
“They don’t care about us at all and are intentionally intimidating,” one worker said. “We will keep fighting until we get our rights.”
Aramark has not received any reports of abusive conduct by the company’s management, according to Cutler. 
Disrespect from management is an even greater concern than wages for one food service worker, however. 
“This isn’t just about money. It’s about respect,” the worker said. “We’re all going through a lot and we’re treated like we’re not even human.” 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 11, 2019 by Connor Thomas Leave a Comment 
Compass Coffee, the main supplier of coffee products for Students of Georgetown, Inc., commonly known as The Corp, opened its own new location in Georgetown on April 6, as it aims to offer a new study space for Georgetown students off campus.
The coffee shop, located at 1351 Wisconsin Avenue NW beneath the neon “Georgetown” sign, served free drinks of any size to customers from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. Saturday. The new location covers a 3,000-square-foot space and is Compass Coffee’s 10th storefront since the company’s founding in 2014.
Washington, D.C. residents Michael Haft and Harrison Suarez co-founded Compass Coffee four years ago when they both returned from active duty in the Marine Corps. The company’s first location opened on 7th Street in the Shaw neighborhood of D.C., and its reach has since expanded to nine other locations in the District.
Compass Coffee’s Georgetown building was formerly a jewelry exchange. The company expanded into the space because the Georgetown sign has elevated the building to an iconic status, Haft said.
“It just seemed like a great location for Compass, a great community space,” Haft said. “It seemed like we could do justice to the building and build something great for the community.”
Evan Conner, a shift supervisor for the Georgetown location, said that many of the cafe’s college-age employees believe the new location is a prime spot for students to study near Georgetown’s campus.
“One of the big things they expressed was that there isn’t a facility that is similar to the one that we’ve built here in the Georgetown community,” Conner said. “So we get a lot of students coming through, studying, even looking around now pretty much everyone in here is deep in schoolwork, which is really exciting.”
Compass Coffee joins Blue Bottle, Starbucks and Peet’s Coffee, among other coffee shops in the neighborhood.
Seo Young Lee (COL ’21), CEO of The Corp, said that she is excited about having Compass Coffee in the area, a company The Corp has had a partnership with prior to its Georgetown opening.
“I’m happy to welcome Compass Coffee to the Georgetown neighborhood,” Lee wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The Corp has been proudly making all our drinks with ethically sourced beans from Compass Coffee for years.” 
As one of four individuals on the leadership team for the Georgetown location, Conner previously worked at a coffee shop in D.C. that mainly catered to working professionals. Compass’ approach creates a cafe environment that encourages customers to stay for longer periods of time, a tactic which Conner said he prefers.
“I know that I came from a downtown cafe that was more like immediate drinks, trying to get people on their morning commute,” Conner said. “So this is an excellent change of pace, more attention paid to vibe, the environment that we’re creating, so that everyone feels comfortable sitting here, staying here and getting their work done while they’re here.”
The Georgetown location’s decor features greenery, wall art, a fireplace and a variety of seating options. 
Sherry Gholami (MED ’22), who was studying at Compass Coffee on opening day, said the location was a refreshing change for her and her peers to study.
“We study frequently so we get tired of going to the same old places,” Gholami said.  “So it’s really exciting when there’s a new coffee shop or a really nice environment to study in.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 11, 2019 by Rachel Friedman Leave a Comment 
Peter Marra, a leading researcher at the Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute, has been named director of the Georgetown Environment Initiative, the university announced in a news release April 3. 
Marra, who holds a doctorate in ecology from Dartmouth College, will also serve as the Laudato Si’ chair in biology and the environment and as a professor in the McCourt School of Public Policy. Prior to joining GEI, which provides research opportunities for students and faculty to advance environmental preservation efforts, Marra worked for nearly 20 years at the Smithsonian Institution.
The position of GEI director provides Marra with more opportunities to directly affect environmental conservation efforts, Marra wrote in an email to The Hoya.
“I knew I wasn’t going to be able to move the needle from my current position at the Smithsonian,” Marra wrote. “So I had been looking for another position, preferably within academia, in which I could help do more to protect our environment, for people and biodiversity.”
Established in 2012 as part of the university’s commitment to address environmental concerns, GEI leads Georgetown’s efforts to advance the interdisciplinary study of the environment and conservation, according to the initiative’s website. Through a variety of programming, GEI aims to improve public understanding of environmental public policy. 
Marra said that his past work studying bird habitats and urban ecosystem has prepared him to lead GEI in addressing key environmental issues.
“I’ve spent my entire career trying to conserve biodiversity through research, education and public outreach on an international scale,” Marra wrote. “Problems facing many individual species are the same large-scale problems we all face and must solve – climate change, habitat destruction, loss of biodiversity, pollutants, disease, and the list goes on and on.”
Georgetown University Student Association Sustainability Chair Rowlie Flores (COL ’22) said that students are often unaware of the university’s environmental initiatives because of a lack of communication from the administration. Flores said he hopes Marra’s work with GEI will increase the initiative’s presence on campus.
“I hope that with this new GEI leadership, we can increase student interaction with administration and that students become more familiar with sustainability efforts that the university has and is planning to enforce in the future,” Flores wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
Among recent conservation efforts, students have worked with the Office of Sustainability on a composting pilot program in O’Donovan Hall, though the program has faced challenges with contamination in the composting bins. GUSA’s sustainability policy team has also recently implemented a Go Plastic-Free initiative that promotes sustainable alternatives to single-use plastic products.
Marra recognized the importance of student engagement with GEI, and plans to create new ways they can get involved. 
“Our GEI goal is to create the conditions that spark and amplify student creativity, collaboration, thought, and action to protect our environment,” Marra wrote. “Students have to be an integral part of the GEI if we are to succeed.”
GU Fossil Free member Juliette Leader (SFS ’19)  said Marra’s commitment to growing GEI and increasing student involvement is an important step towards making Georgetown’s campus more environmentally friendly. (Full Disclosure: Leader is a member of The Hoya’s editorial board.)
“I’m glad the university is investing in developing and deepening our engagement with environmental issues on campus, and that I hope the GEI will be able to expand its on campus presence and leadership under Peter Marra,” Leader wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
Previous sustainable efforts made by the university include the  recently established Laudato Si’ Fund, which will provide $300,000 in grants to student-, faculty- and staff-proposed projects seeking to combat sustainability challenges both on and off campus. Georgetown also divested from tar sands oil in June 2018 after a petition from GUFF, and is currently considering a second proposal to further limit its investments in any non-renewable energy company.
Over the next few years, Marra hopes GEI will help transform Georgetown into an institutional leader in the fight against environmental degradation through incorporating sustainability more deeply into the lives of students and faculty. 
“Broadly, we will create an atmosphere at Georgetown that has everyone thinking about ways to incorporate environmental and sustainability thinking, attitudes and actions into everything they do,” Marra wrote. “We must act now to protect our environment. If we don’t do it, who will? I can’t wait to get started.”
Though Marra hopes to improve Georgetown’s environmental outreach, his appointment comes amid criticism against the university for a proposed solar panel project.
Student activists and local environmentalists recently urged the university to disclose the timeline on its proposed solar panel project in La Plata, Md., as the plan would deforest 240 acres of land. 
Despite upcoming challenges, the chance to work directly with members of the Georgetown community on environmental initiatives presents a change of pace, according to Marra.
“I feel so lucky to be working with such extraordinary and committed Georgetown students, staff, and faculty to leave the world a better place,” Marra wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
*This article has been updated to reflect the name of the Smithsonian Institution
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 11, 2019 by Afua Nyantakyi Leave a Comment 
Patrick Kennedy, former campaign co-chair to Washington, D.C. Councilmember Jack Evans (D-Ward 2), announced April 8 that he will be opposing Evans in the 2020 D.C. Council elections following recent ethical scandals involving Evans. 
Evans was reprimanded by a March 19 council vote after using his government email to solicit business deals and offering to use his influence to help clients. D.C. Council Chair Phil Mendelson (D-At Large) reduced some of the responsibilities Evans holds as chair of the Committee on Finance and Revenue, such as control over tax policies and his oversight over the city’s sports and events authority, but did not strip him of his position as chair of the committee. 
The federal grand jury is investigating Evans because of legislation he promoted in 2016 that would have benefitted a digital sign company, Digi Outdoor Media, which Evans had previously purchased stock from a month earlier, according to The Washington Post. 
Evans, the District’s longest-serving councilmember, lacks the fresh perspective needed to address the issues that D.C. currently faces, according to Kennedy, who is currently serving his fourth term as a neighborhood commissioner in D.C.’s Foggy Bottom neighborhood. 
“As I have said, I think even aside from the ethics issues, that Jack’s sensibilities and policy preferences just aren’t a good fit for the District as it exists today and that this election is an opportunity to discuss doing things differently,” Kennedy wrote in an April 9 tweet.
Kennedy plans to focus his campaign on a progressive platform that extends beyond criticizing Evans. He aims to highlight issues of affordable housing and transportation, including plans for a network of protected bike lanes and dedicated bus lanes. 
The candidate also plans to receive funds through the new public financing program, a program facilitated by the government to offer candidates who swear off large corporate contributions with matched funds for each small public donation those candidates receive, according to DCist.
In addition to Kennedy, others are considering running against Evans, who previously ran unopposed in the 2016 election. However, some officials are skeptical of the potential success of any opposing campaign because of Evans’ 28-year run as D.C. councilmember, according to The Washington Post. 
Although former incumbents involved in scandals have been ousted by newcomers in the past, including the concession of former D.C. Mayor Vincent Gray (D), who served from 2011 to 2015, to Mayor Muriel Bowser (D), it would take more recent allegations to garner enough push for a new candidate to eliminate Evans, according to DCist.
In 2014, former D.C. Medicaid contractor Jeffrey Thompson pled guilty to felony charges for illegal contributions to Gray’s campaign. Bowser received 44.2 percent of the vote in the 2014 Democratic primary, defeating Gray in an election that had the lowest voter turnout in 30 years. 
There has already been a push from D.C. activists to recall Evans from his post. However, the campaign was halted by the D.C. Board of Elections on April 3 as a result of technical mistakes regarding paperwork that needed to be filed in order to collect signatures for a forced recall, according to The Washington Post.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 11, 2019 by Erika Gebhardt Leave a Comment 
From struggling to take his first step after an accident in 2008 to completing the first unassisted, unsupported solo crossing of Antarctica, Colin O’Brady described the unexpected events that changed the trajectory of his life Monday.
O’Brady’s transcontinental trek spanned 932 miles and took nearly two months to complete. O’Brady decided to finish the last 77 miles of his journey in a final 32-hour push to which he credits his success.
“I’m sure of this: Achievement is not for the select few, it’s simply for those who never quit,” O’Brady said. 
On Nov. 3, 2018, both O’Brady and British Captain Louis Rudd set out to accomplish the record. Rudd was a close friend of Henry Worsley, an Englishman and special forces veteran who died in 2016 after attempting the same trip, according to The New Yorker. 
For the first week of the two-month race, Rudd was in the lead. However, on Nov. 9, O’Brady overtook Rudd and remained just a day or two ahead for several weeks, ultimately finishing the race Dec. 26, 2018.
The April 8 event, titled “The Impossible First: Crossing Antarctica Solo,” was hosted by the Lecture Fund and held in the Leavey Program Room. 
O’Brady was raised in Portland, Oregon. Following graduation from Yale University in 2006, O’Brady set off for the South Pacific with a backpack and surfboard using money he had saved painting houses. A 2008 accident he faced while traveling in Thailand, which caused much of his body to be significantly burned, altered the course of his life, according to O’Brady.
“The rope wrapped around my legs and lit my body completely on fire to my neck,” O’Brady said. “Survival mode kicked in when I needed it the most and I jumped into the ocean which saved my life but not before most of my body had been significantly burned.”
Doctors at the hospital to which he was taken told O’Brady he might never walk again, but his mother encouraged him to set the goal of doing a triathlon. He began training with weights in his bed, and his mother encouraged him to work slowly, according to O’Brady. 
“The first morning when I got home in Portland I was sitting in my mother’s kitchen and she said to me ‘Okay Colin, I know you have this big triathlon goal but today your goal is to take your very first step,’” O’Brady said. “She then grabbed a chair from our kitchen table and placed it one step in front of my wheelchair and she said ‘You need to figure out somehow how to get out of your wheelchair and take your first step into that chair in front of you.’”
Eighteen months after taking that first step, which O’Brady said took three hours, O’Brady not only completed his first triathlon in Chicago, but placed first overall.
“I finally found the courage and took that first step, all the while thinking about this recovery,” O’Brady said. 
After spending six years as a professional triathlete, O’Brady decided to set the world record for the Explorers Grand Slam. The challenge entails reaching the North Pole, the South Pole and all of the seven summits, the highest peak on each continent. Beyond the physical limitations, completing the Explorers Grand Slam, according to O’Brady, requires approximately half a million dollars because of logistical expenses. 
Fundraising did not come easily, and O’Brady was rejected by hundreds of potential sponsors, but after an unplanned run-in with Nike CEO Mike Parker at a Los Angeles spin class, he got the sponsorship he needed to set off on his trip, O’Brady said. 
“What I’ve realized is that most people actually have a lot of good ideas, but it’s hard to take that next step, to actually turn an idea into action,” O’Brady said.
O’Brady finished his challenge May 27, 2016, and set two world records in the process. He set the speed record of the seven summits by completing it in 132 days. He also set the speed record of the Explorers Grand Slam by completing it in 139 days. 
The next step after the Explorers Grand Slam was searching for something new to accomplish, O’Brady said. 
“It was in this moment that I had a sort of mindset shift and I started seeing myself less as an athlete and more as an artist. My canvas just happens to be endurance sports,” O’Brady said. “We were painting it with impact work and diving into human performance. I wanted to do more than that, but a true artist creates something unique, something that’s never been done before in the world.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 11, 2019 by Alexandra Bowman Leave a Comment 
The Washington, D.C. Board of Elections ruled that D.C. residents may not vote to enact term limits for city officials April 3, effectively cancelling an upcoming ballot initiative that would limit D.C. councilmembers to two terms.
Imposing term limits on city officials would require an amendment to the D.C. city charter, which only the D.C. Council can propose, according to a 10-page decision released by the board. 
The initiative proposes changes to the contents of the Home Rule Act, which delegates legislative power to the District, making the initiative illegal, according to Rachel Coll, a representative from the D.C. Board of Elections general counsel.
In 1994, D.C. residents voted by a 62 percent majority to approve a similar ballot measure imposing term limits. The referendum was overturned seven years later by the Council, according to DCist. 
The D.C. Council considered but ultimately did not pass a bill that would have established term limits in 2011, amid an ethics scandal that saw two councilmembers resign and two serve prison time for bribery and stealing public funds, according to DCist. 
James Butler, who unsuccessfully ran for mayor in the 2018 Democratic primary and as a write-in candidate during the general election, filed paperwork to start the proposed ballot initiative in January, according to DCist. 
Butler said the Board of Elections should not rule out his initiative because a similar 1994 initiative on term limits was passed and approved by the council as well.
“It made it all the way to the ballot and became law, so I’m confused at why they’re saying now that what happened in 1994 was unlawful,” Butler said in an interview with The Hoya. 
Butler’s unsuccessful candidacy against incumbent candidate Mayor Bowser (D) reminded him of the importance of his initiative.
“Challenging an incumbent really showed me that there are many advantages of incumbency that definitely, in my opinion, does not mean that the incumbent is more qualified than his or her opponents.” Butler said. “Almost every single incumbent was reelected. You have to ask yourself — does that mean that every single incumbent was doing a good job?” 
Bowser and six incumbents won nominations for mayor and city council positions in the June 19 primary election. Bowser received 83 percent of the vote for the Democratic bid and faced no Republican opposition in the November re-election.
Over three dozen states impose term limits on governors, and 15 states currently impose term limits on legislators, according to U.S. Term Limits, a group that assists in enacting and promoting term limits in all levels of government. 
No limitations currently exist on how long the D.C. mayor, attorney general or councilmembers can serve in any of these offices. If term limits were approved, they would not apply retroactively. 
The initiative is especially important in light of the recent scandal involving long-serving Councilmember Jack Evans (D-Ward 2), Butler said. 
“Most recently, Jack Evans has touted his influence as the longest-serving councilmember seeking outside employment, using emails from the DC Council,” Butler said. “I definitely believe he has raised some questions about incumbents staying in too long, and their terms not being limited.” 
Evans, the longest-serving lawmaker in D.C., repeatedly used his government email account to solicit business deals from law firms that had lobbied the D.C. government, offering to help clients through his connections and influence as a public official. 
Councilmember Evans’ office declined The Hoya’s request for comment. 
Butler plans to take his initiative to the D.C. Superior Court this Friday. 
“I will file for the Writ of Mandamus with the D.C. Superior Court on Friday in the morning. I think we’re going to win in the courts. We are ready to take it the Supreme Court if we need to,” Butler said. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

