
December 4, 2019 by Amy Li and Riley Rogerson 2 Comments 
Georgetown men’s basketball junior forward Galen Alexander, freshman forward Myron Gardner and former sophomore forward Joshua LeBlanc were named in November civil complaints, which include allegations of burglary, sexual harassment and assault.
Head Coach Patrick Ewing (CAS ’85) announced Dec. 2 that LeBlanc and former sophomore guard James Akinjo will no longer be members of the men’s basketball team for the remainder of the season. Their removal is separate from the allegations, which do not involve Akinjo, according to a Dec. 3 statement from Director of Intercollegiate Athletics Lee Reed. 
On Nov. 5, a student plaintiff filed a civil complaint against LeBlanc, alleging he burglarized her off-campus residence Sept. 16 and has since threatened physical harm against her and her roommate. 
“He continued to threaten me verbally and via text message in the following week,” the Nov. 5 complaint read. “We continue to fear for our personal safety and well-being.”
The complaint also names Alexander as an involved party in the burglary.
Also on Nov. 5, the plaintiff filed a motion to obtain a temporary restraining order against Alexander and LeBlanc. Alexander and LeBlanc were served papers to appear in court for two separate hearings but did not attend either hearing. The plaintiff’s application for a temporary restraining order was granted by the Superior Court of the District of Columbia on Nov. 14. 
The first plaintiff’s roommate filed a separate complaint against Gardner on Nov. 12, alleging Gardner had sexually assaulted her at her home Sept. 15. The complaint names Gardner as well as Alexander and LeBlanc as participants in the Sept. 16 burglary. 
A Playstation 4, two controllers, a Nikon camera, a camera lens and a pair of shoes were reported stolen from the property, according to a Nov. 4 Metropolitan Police Report. 
On Nov. 12, the roommate filed a motion to obtain a temporary restraining order against Gardner. The hearing on the temporary restraining order is scheduled for Dec. 9.
Gardner denied any involvement with the crimes described in the Nov. 12 complaint, according to The Washington Post.
“I don’t know who you’re getting that from, but I’ve never done those things in my life,” Gardner said in a Dec. 2 interview with The Washington Post. 
Both Alexander and Gardner played in the Dec. 4 basketball game at Oklahoma State University. Alexander played 13 minutes and Gardner played 10 minutes in the Hoyas’ 81-74 victory in the first game since Monday’s announcement that Akinjo and LeBlanc are leaving the team. 
The departure of Akinjo and LeBlanc from the team comes after the players expressed interest in transferring from the university, according to Reed’s statement. Akinjo has led the team in minutes played and assists recorded as the starting point guard, according to ESPN. 
Reed’s statement also acknowledged outstanding allegations against three members of the team.
These developments come amid proliferation on social media of a list of alleged perpetrators of violence at Georgetown including predatory behavior, coercion, rape and physical assault. 
No formal disciplinary action against any of these students has been disclosed. The university does not comment on individual students because of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, according to Reed.
Basketball players are not granted special treatment in disciplinary processes, according to a Dec. 4 statement from Ewing. 
“I address this because I don’t want there to be any question about the culture of Hoya basketball. The G we wear on our uniforms is about much more than basketball,” Ewing wrote. “It’s about a culture that expects the best of our players, both on and off the court. Having a strong culture is also about respecting and supporting those members of our community who come forward to report misconduct.”
The university requires that all student athletes complete education on interpersonal violence and sexual assault, according to Reed. 
“Please know that we are deeply committed to the integrity of our athletics program,” Reed’s statement reads. “We aspire for our student-athletes to exemplify the excellence and integrity of the Georgetown community and will continue to work to achieve this mission.”
Alexander, Gardner and LeBlanc did not respond to The Hoya’s requests for comment. 
This story was updated on December 4 at 10:30 p.m.
This is a developing story. This post will be updated as more information becomes available.
Hoya Staff Writers Rachel Gaudreau, Jake Wexelblatt and Doris Zhang contributed reporting. 

Michael Flynn says 
December 5, 2019 at 1:24 pm
Akinjo, was not named as part of the alleged crimes. Having his transfer in the same article can be misinterpreted, even though it states it’s unrelated. From what I have read he is leaving due to his dissatisfaction with not being,”the go to guy”? He may find out there are not many major programs that are looking for a ball hog?
LeBlanc can simply transfer to a place like Auburn where talent trumps integrity. The part I find really stupid is texting physical threats providing proof of the crime!

Joe says 
December 7, 2019 at 11:11 am
The part you find really stupid is not concealing the crime? I think the stupid part is committing a crime.
Ewing and his staff (and the university overall) need to do better with their recruits and players.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

