
April 24, 2019 by Jaime Moore-Carrillo Leave a Comment 
Plaintiffs challenged the constitutionality of the GU272 vote but argued their suit does not oppose the referendum’s objectives at a Georgetown University Student Association constitutional council hearing April 17. 
The case, “Saydlowski and Castaldi-Moller v. Ethics and Oversight Committee, Election Commission, and GUSA,” was filed by Rowan Saydlowski (COL ’21) and Chris Castaldi-Moller (SFS ’21) to the GUSA constitutional council April 14, hours before the GUSA senate was scheduled to confirm the results of the GU272 referendum. (Full Disclosure: Saydlowski currently serves on The Hoya’s editorial board.) The three councilors are expected to release their decision, coming from a majority vote, by the end of the week.
Before the hearing, constitutional council Chief Justice William Morris (COL ’19) faced a challenge to the constitutionality of his extended tenure on the council, as his term was intended to end with the election of the new GUSA senate. Morris responded to the challenge through an email detailing his qualifications for the position.
The suit claims that the referendum is unconstitutional because of bylaw and constitutional violations by the election commission, the ethics and oversight committee, and GUSA. 
The GU272 referendum, which was attached to GUSA senate elections April 11, voted to establish a semesterly fee that would go toward a fund benefiting the descendants of the GU272, the 272 enslaved people sold by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus in 1838 to financially sustain the university. The referendum proposed a $27.20 semesterly fee included in student tuition bills would be allocated to descendants of the GU272. The referendum, which passed with 66.1% of participating students voting “yes,” should be nullified to safeguard the student body and GUSA, according to Saydlowski and Castaldi-Moller.
“It is through these two deeply important goals, the protection of the student body and the preservation of GUSA’s institutional legitimacy, that we come before the Constitutional Council today,” Saydlowski said at the hearing. “The goals can be achieved only if the illegal referendum is question is overturned.” 
The hearing Wednesday was split into three sections to address each of the plaintiff’s main pillars in the case. Saydlowski and Castaldi-Moller made arguments for each of their points, following which Hughes, representatives from the election commission, and current GUSA President Norman Francis Jr. (COL ’20) and former President Juan Martinez (SFS ’20) (representing GUSA) responded to allegations against each of their parties.
The plaintiffs claim the ethics and oversight committee former Chair Dylan Hughes (COL ’19) had a potential unresolved conflict of interest at the time of the referendum, as they both co-sponsored the bill and oversaw referendum complaints. The suit claims that Hughes could have had a motivation to withhold disagreeing complaints. 
The chair of the ethics and oversight committee is not prohibited from endorsing GUSA senate candidates or referenda per GUSA bylaws, according to Hughes. 
“While I neither endorsed nor campaigned for either side of the referendum, I would have still been free to as Chair,” Hughes said in their statement at the hearing. “While I alerted the Election Commission of every complaint I received, I am not mandated to do so. I have simply been given the power to do so.” 
Despite the claims of the document, the suit does not oppose the objectives of the GU272 Referendum, according to Saydlowski. 
“Nowhere in our suit do we combat the legitimacy of the ideas behind the referendum, nowhere do we make an argument that is partisan in nature,” Saydlowski said in his opening statement at the hearing. “This suit is about one thing and one thing only: that the process of executing this referendum, the ethics and oversight committee, the election commission and GUSA as a whole violated their own constitution, bylaws and ethical guidelines.”
The election commission, the GUSA body responsible for administering elections, improperly responded to election complaints, insufficiently publicized election rules and the details of the referendum and did not communicated important election details widely enough by only utilizing Twitter for spreading information, according to the suit. 
Among other complaints, the suit claims that the election commission confused voters about the portion of the student body needed for the referendum to pass. The election commission Twitter account incorrectly tweeted that the referendum approval threshold was 25% on April 7, but retracted the statement and issued a correction later that day.
The series of tweets and corrections was misleading to voters and possibly suppressed voter turnout among those opposed to the referendum and energized those who supported it, according to Saydlowski. 
“Having occurred three days before voting began and only having been explained over Twitter, this caused widespread confusion among voters and differences in beliefs about the threshold requirements of the referendum,” Saydlowski said. 
GUSA also had no authority to issue nonamendment referenda, as no clear rules delineating such actions exist in the GUSA constitution or its bylaws, according to the suit.
GUSA can legitimately issue referenda, however, according to an amicus brief submitted to the Constitutional Council signed by 150 Georgetown alumni. Alumna Kara Brandeisky (COL ’13) and Sam Ungar (COL ’12) co-authored the brief which argues that referenda issued by GUSA have historically been an important way for GUSA to express students’ will.
Regardless of the outcome of the case, the university should still appreciate the results of the referendum and the voice of students, according to GUSA transition chair and former GUSA president Juan Martinez (SFS ’20).
“I think that is something that is still expressive of the student body opinion and something that they should take very seriously when they have board of directors discussions and discussions within the presidential cabinet and other administrative bodies,” Martinez said in an interview with The Hoya.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 24, 2019 by Amy Li 1 Comment 
Fr. James Schall, S.J., 91, a former Georgetown University government professor and longtime columnist for The Hoya, died April 17, leaving behind a legacy of dedicated teaching and writing on the subject of political philosophy.
Schall’s death comes after a brief hospitalization, according to an April 18 email Rev. Ron Anton, S.J., sent to the campus community announcing Schall’s passing. The university is currently finalizing arrangements regarding funeral services for Schall. 
Born in Pocahontas, Iowa, in 1928, Schall entered the California Province of the Society of Jesus in 1948 after serving in the army immediately following World War II and was ordained as a priest 15 years later. He earned his doctorate in political philosophy from Georgetown in 1960 and returned to the university as a professor of political philosophy in the department of government in 1977, where he taught for 35 years. As a three-time recipient of the Edward B. Bunn, S.J., Award for Faculty Excellence, an honor bestowed annually on a faculty member chosen by the senior class of Georgetown College, Schall’s classes were very popular among the student body. 
Schall should be remembered for his immense devotion to his students and the intellectual life he fostered at Georgetown, according to former student Cindy Searcy (COL ’04). 
“He devoted his entire life to the proposition that there is such a thing as Truth, and that we are capable of understanding it,” Searcy wrote in an email to The Hoya. “He cared for students as souls made in the image and likeness of God, each one entirely unique and worth knowing. I have never met anyone who so thoroughly lived what he preached.”
Schall was a didactic professor, who aimed to teach lessons that were applicable outside the classroom as well, according to Colleen Dawson (COL ’10), a government major who took Schall’s popular “Elements of Political Theory” course.
“I can’t say that I’m, at this point in time, a political philosopher, but I think that some of the things we learned in class are still with me — talking about friendship, what it means to be a good person, a good friend,” Dawson said in an interview with The Hoya.
Schall focused on igniting students’ interest in the subject matter he taught, former student María Teresa Chamorro (COL ’12) wrote in an email to The Hoya.
“The point was not to test the student, but to spark in her a light-bulb, a curiosity about what is,” Chamorro wrote. “What fascinated me about Fr. Schall’s classes was his philosophy on teaching, and for that matter, his philosophy about what life is all about.” 
A renowned scholar, Schall authored more than 30 books on religion and political philosophy in his lifetime, including “Another Sort of Learning,” a book which explores how to obtain an encompassing education both within and outside of academia.
Schall also wrote over 40 columns and essays for The Hoya during his tenure. Schall, along with former Associate Dean Fr. Ryan Maher, S.J., and Executive Director of Campus Ministry Fr. Kevin O’Brien, S.J., alternated writing for a weekly column titled, “As This Jesuit Sees It.” While a professor, Schall lived in Wolfington Hall and took a semester off from teaching in 2010 following a surgery for jaw cancer. Schall moved to a Jesuit retirement home in Los Gatos, Calif., after retiring in 2012, where he continued to write books and lecture for small groups.
After a 35-year-long career teaching at Georgetown, Schall delivered his final lecture at Georgetown in Gaston Hall in December 2012. His last lecture was titled “The Final Gladness” and focused on the topic of friendship.
Though he met hundreds of students and faculty during his time at Georgetown, Schall never forgot a person or their story, according to Fr. Matthew Carnes, S.J., an associate professor in the department of government and a longtime colleague of Schall.
“He genuinely loved getting to know people, and he did so with a humility and a real interest that are rare today,” Carnes wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I was touched about how he would always ask about my mom and dad after meeting them one time, and he always amazed me at his recall of students that he had taught years before.” 
A true pillar of the community, Schall embodied the Jesuit ideals the university is founded on, Dawson said.
“He represented, in my mind, what it means to be men and women for others,” Dawson said. “He cared for students beyond how they did on the final exam. He cared about them as people.”

John H Thomas says 
April 27, 2019 at 4:58 am
Father Schall’s political theory class kick-started my Georgetown education when I began classes in August of 1982.    Socratic.   Inspiring.  Connected to reality and yet connected to a spiritual real.  I bonded with some of my best friends preparing for his thrice a week class.   May the Jesuit tradition at Georgetown University perpetuate the standard that Father Schall boldly curated.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

