
March 18, 2019 by Casey Ferrante Leave a Comment 
The fourth annual BRAVE Summit, a day-long conference dedicated to black female empowerment, highlighted the role of activism in daily life March 16.
The keynote address was delivered by Yandy Smith, criminal justice reform activist and reality star from VH1’s “Love & Hip Hop: New York,” who said activism and media coverage complement each other well.
The activism of black women should be celebrated and not stereotyped, Smith said.
“More of us need to celebrate the way we talk, the way we walk, the way we are super passionate about the things we believe in because our passion runs deep,” Smith said.  “It comes from a generation of things that we care about, and sometimes it hits the surface and it explodes, and they think that’s just an angry black woman thing. No, it’s a passionate black woman thing.”
This year’s theme, “Vigilant: Maintaining the Movement,” was derived from the fourth letter in the acronym of BRAVE — black, resilient, artistic, vigilant and enough — and examined how activism shapes the lives and experiences of black women, according to Deirdre Jonese Austin (SFS ’19), marketing director for BRAVE.
“When we considered what it means to be vigilant for a black woman, activism came to our minds,” Austin wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
Approximately 275 people attended the summit, which marks a slight decrease from the figures in 2017. The event included opening remarks from the BRAVE directors, or #MelaninMilitia as they refer to themselves, three mainstage panels and eight breakout sessions. Breakout sessions centered on topics such as activism in politics, entrepreneurship, student leadership and the LGBTQ community. 
A panel called “A Cultural Transformation: #MeToo as a Contemporary Social Movement,” focused on the culture of silence and disbelief surrounding black sexual assault survivors, empowering black women to reclaim their bodies. 
Black female survivors face distinct, intersectional difficulties when they speak out about assault, according to panelist Chandra Robinson, deputy director of the D.C. Rape Crisis Center. 
“The majority of women who are sexually assaulted are sexually assaulted by men of color, but we don’t want to say that and I understand,” Robinson said.  “We are already a marginalized group and so we are sometimes forced to sit in this chair of ‘Do I protect myself?’ or ‘Do I protect my race?’ and that is a very hard choice.”
Epigenetics plays a role in the physiological consequences of silence, according to panelist Wendi Cherry, host of “The Sanctuary,” a radio show about the commodification of indigenous, holistic methods of healing from the black community.
“If you are silent, you are pretty much re-traumatizing yourself, and then you’re setting it up for your babies, and then your babies’ babies,” Cherry said. “Because if they are sitting in a womb, and they’re sitting in that space, and you’re feeling all this sadness and anxiety and guilt and shame, that’s in their DNA.”
Black women must support each other in their activism to achieve justice, according to Cherry. 
“Now it’s up to us to save ourselves,” Cherry said. “Black women have been saving black women since the beginning of time.”
Black woman survivors need greater representation in campus resources to feel comfortable seeking help about experiences with sexual assault, according to Rosemary Kilkenny, vice president for institutional diversity and equity at Georgetown.
“We need to have more black women in our counseling center, we need more black women in Health Education Services,” Kilkenny said at the panel.  “We really need to have that safe space so that we can reveal what is happening to us and see that what we are experiencing can be addressed in a really specific way.” 
Robinson echoed Kilkenny, calling for structural changes that can combat systematic sexual violence towards black women.
“There is healing and empowerment in telling your story, I will never take that away from a survivor,” Robinson said.  “But that’s not enough.” 
The summit also featured panelists Makia Green, Black Lives Matter D.C. organizer; Sadarie Holston, attorney litigation specialist at the U.S. Department of Agriculture; and LaToya Stubbs, a member of the board of directors for Rainbow Families, an organization that seeks to empower LGBTQ families.
BRAVE was founded by Alexis Oni-Eseleh (COL ’16), Bserat Ghebremicael (MSB ’17) and Candice Milner (MSB ’16) in 2016 with the mission to uplift black women who are often overlooked on campus and in the United States, according to Austin. At the time, the organizers sent out an email to approximately 20 students, highlighting the need to have a summit that offers a space for black women on campus.
This year’s summit aimed to provide attendees with practical tools for activism, according to Austin. 
“We hope that attendees left ready to implement and practice activism within their own lives and with skills on how to advocate for themselves and their needs in the workplace, in the classroom, and in other areas,” Austin wrote.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 18, 2019 by Rachel Friedman 2 Comments 
Seth Owen (SFS ’22) has raised over $30,000 for his scholarship fund toward financial assistance for LGBTQ high school students after it officially launched Feb. 25.
Owen was able to found the Unbroken Horizons Scholarship Fund following a $25,000 donation from Ellen DeGeneres and Cheerios. The fund will provide five LGBTQ students with $2,500 in its inaugural year and has already raised $30,840 of its $37,500 goal since it was first posted on gofundme.com.
Owen, who identifies as gay, rose to national attention after his high school biology teacher started a campaign to pay for his college tuition when he left home because of tensions with his parents regarding his sexual orientation, jeopardizing his ability to attend Georgetown. His teacher raised $140,000 through the GoFundMe campaign before Georgetown University adjusted Owen’s financial aid package to fully cover his tuition.
Though the effort to develop the fund is still ongoing, Unbroken Horizons has already received attention for its achievements. Owen and Kaylee Petik, Unbroken Horizons senior vice president of communication and marketing, were recognized at the Equality Florida Greater Jacksonville Gala with the Voice for Equality Award in honor of their activism supporting educational opportunities of LGBTQ high school students.
Many other LGBTQ students face difficulties affording higher education, according to Owen.
“Whereas I had my educators that I could lean on and ask for support, we understand that it’s not always that easy for people to trust their educators and the faculty at their school,” Owen said.
Owen’s work with the scholarship stems from his own difficulties affording his Georgetown education, according to the GoFundMe page. However, the scholarship is aimed toward LGBTQ students of color whose stories may not galvanize the same level of public action, Owen wrote.
“After realizing that I would not have received the same support from the community if it weren’t for my perceived race, I knew I needed to speak up and do something, thus Unbroken Horizons was born,” Owen wrote.
LGBTQ communities of color suffer from additional discrimination and marginalization, which is why the scholarship is geared toward LGBTQ students of color, according to Jacob Imber (COL ’22), communications director for Unbroken Horizons.
“Unbroken Horizons tries to focus on the fact that, as lucky as Seth was to have the support and help that he did in his situation, students who aren’t white or who come from other marginalized communities typically don’t have that sort of luck,” Imber said.
According to The Atlantic, around half of LGBTQ students of color reported verbal harassment because of their racial or LGBTQ identity, and another study found that less than half of queer students of color reported harassment or bullying they experience in school to an educator. Though LGBTQ youth make up around 5 percent of the youth population, LGBTQ youth make up nearly 40 percent of the youth homeless population.
Owen wanted students and members of the Georgetown community to serve on the board of directors for Unbroken Horizons, he said.
“I think that it’s really important that we have students on our board of directors,” Owen said. “We have to keep the students’ perspective in mind.”
In addition to educators and administrators who serve on the board of directors, three undergraduate Georgetown students also joined Owen in his venture. Emma Chuck (COL ’21), Matthew Mita (COL ’21) and Jay Thomas (COL ’22) also serve on the board of directors of Unbroken Horizons.
In addition to expanding educational opportunities available to LGBTQ high school students, the fund also provides a unique leadership experience for the undergraduates who serve on the board, Thomas said. 
“I’ve never been on the board of anything or in a leadership role in this way,” Thomas said. “I’m still learning how to speak out and be comfortable in that space.”
Despite difficulties getting used to the responsibility, both Owen and Thomas credit the Unbroken Horizons team for helping ease the transition into their new leadership roles.
“They’ve coached me along and helped me assume those leadership positions,” Owen said. “So it’s been a pretty smooth ride so far.”
Unbroken Horizons is currently made up of 30 students, but the organization is aiming to expand its staff and influence to students across the country, according to Owen. 
The beginning weeks after launching the scholarship already show good signs for the fund’s potential, according to Thomas.
“I think we’ll be seeing a lot of growth with our foundation,” Thomas said.
The fundraising campaign’s success is critical to the scholarship’s sustainability, according to Owen. 
“I really hope that our new GoFundMe campaign for the foundation specifically takes off so we’re able to award additional scholarships,” he said.

Gtown Alum says 
March 20, 2019 at 10:36 pm
@copy who edited this article

Gtown Alum says 
March 20, 2019 at 10:36 pm
lots of mistakes, cmon guys
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 18, 2019 by Jaime Moore-Carrillo Leave a Comment 
Increased commitment to international economic cooperation from world powers is necessary to protect the advantages of globalism, according to a March 13 panel of economic experts that included the former president of the World Bank.
Leaders need to fight to preserve free international trade in light of increasing protectionism, especially in the United States and Europe, according to Gita Gopinath, economic counsellor and director of research development at the International Monetary Fund.
“When you think of the benefits to the global economy of international trade, they’ve been robust, when you think of the number of people that have been raised from poverty because of this kind of integration,” Gopinath said. “Trade is a good thing and it is a thing worth preserving.” 
Titled “The Future of the Global Economy,” the panel addressed fears of economic protectionism, American disengagement from global affairs and a continuing trade war between the United States and China.
Caroline Atkinson, an expert in international economics and former head of global policy at Google, moderated the panel, which included Gopinath; Robert Zoellick, former president of the World Bank; and Adam Tooze, Columbia University professor and author of the book “Crashed: How a Decade of Financial Crises Changed the World.”
Despite globalization’s immense benefits, policymakers still need to create solutions to minimize its unavoidable consequences, Gopinath said. 
“Going forward, there absolutely needs to be a better response to how globalization affects different communities,” Gopinath said. “But we have to recognize the fact that even if we have the best possible multilateral negotiators out there, we are never going to solve the problem that there are going to be winners and losers.”
Tooze also pushed for renewed global economic integration and criticized Europe for shying away from increased globalization. 
“When it comes to the question of Europe, obviously the answer has got to be yes. Yes Europe can do more, Europe should do more,” Tooze said. “It is extraordinary that it has retreated.”
In recent years, anti-globalist movements have gained influence in European politics, challenging systems of continental economic integration in the face of increasing international trade. The United Kingdom Independence Party successfully campaigned for the U.K. to exit the European Union in 2016, and far-right parties like The National Rally in France have received large gains in the share of votes in parliamentary and presidential elections.
Zoellick echoed calls for rule-based international cooperation and encouraged continued U.S. engagement and normalized relations with China.
“My point is not that we should ignore their behaviors, but the idea that we can’t work with the Chinese to set up rules and improve behavior, I think, is mistaken,” Zoellick said.
President Donald Trump has imposed $250 billion of tariffs on Chinese imports in retaliation for perceived unfair trading practices, and China has responded by imposing tariffs on $110 billion of U.S. goods, according to CNBC. Currently, U.S. negotiators are meeting with Chinese officials to negotiate an end to the trade war.
The United States cannot avoid engagement in the economies of other countries like China, according to Zoellick.
“The United States and other key players cannot avoid making these choices,” Zoellick said. “Inaction is a form of action, and there are various forms of destructive action that we may also see taking place today.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

