
December 24, 2019 by Clara Grudberg Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Institute of Politics and Public Service announced its 10th class of fellows Dec. 16, which includes former Congressman Joe Crowley (D-N.Y.) and other veteran figures in political campaigns and media.
Joining Crowley to make up the spring class of fellows are former Communications Director for Kamala Harris for President Lily Adams, BuzzFeed News Washington Bureau Chief Kate Nocera, co-founder of Torchlight strategies John Rogers and Head of Public Affairs for Facebook Robert Traynham.
Fellows hold weekly discussion groups and office hours during which students can listen to them speak about their experiences in the political field, ask questions and seek advice. Each semester, GU Politics accepts applications for the next semester’s class of fellows. The spring 2020 GU Politics Fellows are the product of one of the most competitive applicant pools, according to GU Politics Executive Director Mo Elleithee (SFS ’94).
“We couldn’t be more thrilled with this class,” Elleithee wrote in an email to The Hoya. “If you’ve ever wanted to sit down and talk with political leaders about running for office, presidential campaigns, political reporting, or the intersection of tech and politics, this class has you covered.”
The GU Politics Fellows Program began in fall 2015 and has brought five distinguished figures to campus every semester since. Past fellows include former Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley (D), former Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.) and ABC News White House Correspondent Karen Travers (COL ’00, GRD ’03).
Crowley served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1990 to 2019, representing New York’s 14th congressional district. He became the chairman of the House Democratic Caucus in 2017 and remained in that role until his primary defeat by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.), an upset that attracted national coverage.
Adams most recently served as the communications director for the presidential campaign of Senator Kamala Harris (D-Calif.), who withdrew from the race earlier this month. In 2016, Adams served as the spokesperson and Iowa communications director for former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign.
Nocera is a veteran Washington, D.C. political journalist who has served as D.C. Bureau Chief for BuzzFeed News since 2016. Prior to joining Buzzfeed, Nocera worked as a health care and congressional reporter for Politico. She received a 2014 National Press Foundation Everett McKinley Dirksen Award for distinguished reporting of a congressional resolution that authorized military action against the perpetrators of the 9/11 terrorist attacks.
Rogers is a co-founder of Torchlight Strategies, a company that produces political advertisements and documentaries for Republican candidates. Before founding his company, he worked for the National Republican Congressional Committee for almost eight years, serving as the executive director from 2017 to 2018.
Traynham is the head of public affairs for Facebook, a role he has held since 2018. Prior to working at Facebook, Traynham worked as a political consultant at companies including Wamart and Comcast. He served as an assistant dean at Georgetown from 2012 to 2013 and remains a member of the university’s faculty. 
The fellows have expressed gratitude and excitement at their selection on social media. To be a part of such a distinguished group is an honor, according to Traynham.
“So excited to be amongst so many legends,” Traynham wrote in a Dec. 16 tweet.
Discussion groups and office hours are not the only ways students will be able to interact with the fellows. Students have the opportunity to apply to be a part of a Student Strategy Team. Each fellow will be assigned a small group of students who will help them research for their discussion groups, promote their sessions and events, and connect them with the broader campus community, according to the GU Politics website.
The GU Politics team hopes students will take advantage of this opportunity to work closely with experts in the fields of politics, government and media, according to Paula Pecorella, GU Politics manager of fellows and career programming
“We are thrilled to welcome this dynamic group of fellows to Georgetown next semester. Their expertise and discussion topics could not be more timely and we know how valuable they will be to our students,” Pecorella wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Signing up for a Student Strategy Team, where you’ll get to work one on one with the Fellows, or simply attending their weekly discussion groups and office hours, are some of the best ways to get involved with GU Politics and begin building your political network.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 24, 2019 by Kelly Anderson and Jaime Moore-Carrillo 1 Comment 
Professors expressed concern about the Georgetown University administration’s response to allegations of sexual misconduct filed against former members of the Georgetown men’s basketball team at a Dec. 16 faculty senate meeting.
The faculty senate consists of 75 full-time faculty members from all three university campuses who advise the university president on academic and administrative issues. The senate cleared the scheduled agenda for its December meeting to discuss a letter signed by 68 faculty members in which they advocated for greater university support for survivors of sexual harassment and assault. 
“Deeply disturbed by recent allegations of sexual misconduct and other forms of intimidation by and toward students on campus, as well as media coverage, we members of the faculty write to express unreservedly our support for survivors of all forms of harassment, misconduct, assault, and any other discriminatory or violent behavior,” the letter reads. 
The letter was sent to University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95) on Dec. 12. DeGioia had not responded to the faculty letter as of Dec. 16, according to professor Alison Games, who signed the letter.
Faculty members hope the letter will usher in campus reform of sexual misconduct policy and encourage university action, according to Katherine Benton-Cohen, a professor in the history department and signatory of the letter. 
“We would like to see a shared expression of support to survivors,” Benton-Cohen said at the meeting. “We’d like to see more prominent university leadership, an actual statement from Jack DeGioia about this, and we’d like to see a more transparent policy about what athletics does in instances like this.”
Georgetown men’s basketball players Josh LeBlanc (MSB ’22), Galen Alexander (COL ’21) and Myron Gardner (COL ’23) were named in November civil complaints. A Nov. 5 civil complaint filed by a Georgetown student names LeBlanc and Alexander in allegations of burglary and harassment. A different student plaintiff filed a civil complaint against all three players Nov. 12, alleging robbery, sexual harassment and assault. 
Alexander, Gardner and LeBlanc resolved the Nov. 12 complaint and signed a Consent Stay Away Order Without Admissions in a Dec. 9 hearing, an agreement stating the three players cannot contact the plaintiff or her roommates in any manner and must stay at least 50 feet away from them and their home. The Metropolitan Police Department closed two cases against LeBlanc and Alexander on Dec. 18 and made no arrests, an MPD spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
No formal disciplinary action against any of the players has been disclosed. The university does not comment on investigations of individual students due to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, according to a Dec. 3 statement from Director of Intercollegiate Athletics Lee Reed. 
The letter calls for the university to provide clarification on FERPA, specifically the ways in which FERPA prevents transparency in investigations of misconduct. A lack of transparency about the university’s investigation into the former players has raised concerns about possible bias due to the prestige of the men’s basketball team, according to Benton-Cohen. 
“This felt very ad hoc, very high profile, and many of us felt like it’s entirely possible this could have been the men’s lacrosse team and been handled differently,” Benton-Cohen said at the meeting. 
The university’s investigations of the players’ conduct followed the same processes of investigation and adjudication as those involving other students, according to Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson, who attended the faculty senate meeting. 
“In this case, as we do in all cases, we were very careful to follow our policies,” Olson said at the meeting. “We were very careful to handle it in the same way on the same timelines, using the same communication mechanisms, offering the same resources to all the students involved that we do in any other case.”
The university must implement visible reforms to sufficiently address problems surrounding sexual violence and misconduct on campus, according to Benton-Cohen. 
“To me it is almost sad how many times this has been reiterated — that student athletes have the same process as everyone else — because to me that is a bare minimum,” Benton-Cohen said at the meeting. “It’s not enough to say we treat student athletes like everyone else.”
Georgetown students reported low trust that campus officials would conduct a fair investigation in response to a report of sexual assault in the 2019 Campus Climate Survey on Sexual Assault and Misconduct. The university’s handling of the recent allegations has failed to alleviate student wariness about reporting sexual harassment or assault, according to Games.
“I think we know the larger context of the student mistrust in bringing forward complaints, especially women,” Games said at the meeting. “And it seems like to me what this whole process has crystallized is the absence of even better policies that might help mitigate some of that mistrust.”
Faculty and staff members under investigation for Title IX violations may be removed from the workplace at the discretion of the Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity and Affirmative Action, according to the IDEAA grievance procedures. The university should look into creating similar policies for students who also represent the university as members of teams, according to the letter.
The university remains committed to addressing issues of sexual assault and misconduct and aims to provide greater transparency to the campus community, a university spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
“We appreciate the feedback and viewpoints of our faculty,” the university spokesperson wrote. “Georgetown University has a longstanding commitment to preventing and addressing sexual assault and misconduct through comprehensive trainings, programs and engagement with the campus community. The university will continue to promote and focus on supporting survivors.”

LCHOYA says 
January 11, 2020 at 12:26 pm
Must be nice for the perv athletes. But in Georgetown’s defense, its just one of, well almost all, the many rapes, assaults, bullying, and other criminal behavior that athletes commit and walk away with nothing. An American citizen without the lofty, protected perch of an athlete would be arrested when charged, and the legal system would work its magic (that is sarcasm for the sarcasm challenged). They’re not arrested, usually never see a day in court because money has greased the already greasy hands of an administration whose neoliberal ideology comes before… well, anything else. So pucker up ladies, the basketball team has been informed they have a lot of ‘get our of jail free cards’… no wait… make that ‘never go to jail free cards’ and you can bet they’ll use them.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

