
February 19, 2019 by Mason Mandell Leave a Comment 
While Georgetown continues to consider revoking the honorary degree awarded to former Cardinal Theodore McCarrick, Pope Francis expelled McCarrick from the priesthood Feb. 16.
The expulsion follows the conclusion of a canonical trial dealing with allegations of sexual abuse, according to a Feb. 16 statement by the Vatican. Since October 2018, McCarrick has been under investigation by the Vatican after allegations surfaced that he groped an altar boy, as well as allegations by seminarians of sexual abuse.
McCarrick, who was stripped of his honors as a priest, is the first member of the College of Cardinals, a body which advises the papacy and currently has 223 members, to be removed from the clergy for sexual abuse, according to The New York Times. McCarrick is the highest clerical official to fall as part of the abuse crisis that has rocked the church for decades.
McCarrick received an honorary degree from the university for his humanitarian work in 2004 when he was archbishop of Washington, D.C. He has maintained connections to Georgetown through frequently holding Mass and attending speaking events until 2013. McCarrick also served as an adviser to the university’s Initiative on Catholic Social Thought and Public Life.
Pope Francis’ choice to defrock McCarrick should motivate the university to rescind McCarrick’s honorary degree, according to Erica Lizza (SFS ’19), president of Catholic Women at Georgetown. (Full disclosure: Lizza is a former member of The Hoya’s editorial board.)
“The Vatican’s decision to remove McCarrick from the priesthood should spur Georgetown to rescind the honorary degree it bestowed on the former priest years ago,” Lizza wrote in an email to The Hoya. “It should serve as an impetus for both clergy and lay leaders within the Church to redouble their efforts to prevent and punish sexual abuse, as well as to re-examine the legacy of those involved in the crisis.”
Lizza has been part of a effort that has been pushing the university since August 2018 to revoke the degrees given to McCarrick and Cardinal Donald Wuerl, who was implicated in a Pennsylvania grand jury report last August for covering up abuse. The group of students delivered a petition Sept. 14 urging the university to revoke the degrees given to McCarrick and Wuerl. The petition has 1,733 signatures at the time of press.
The university said later that month it was considering revoking the degree given to McCarrick and announced in October 2018 it was assembling a working group to deliberate on the matter as well as the meaning of honorary degrees more broadly. However, the university has never before rescinded an honorary degree it has given out.
The working group consists of members of the Georgetown board of directors: Ann Sarnoff (MSB ’93), who serves as President of BBC America; Antoine Garibaldi, president of University of Detroit Mercy; Fr. John Fitzgibbons, S.J., president of Jesuit Regis University in Colorado; and Kathleen Hugin (COL ’82), a philanthropist who has donated to Georgetown’s Kennedy Institute of Ethics.
Pope Francis’ decision means McCarrick should no longer hold an honorary degree from the university, according to Grace Laria (SFS ’19) and Julie Bevilacqua (COL ’19), two students who voiced their support of revoking degrees to the working group in early November. (Full disclosure: Laria is a former member of The Hoya’s editorial board.)
“Considering the forced laicization of Mr. McCarrick, we believe now more than ever Georgetown must revoke his honorary degree,” Laria and Bevilacqua wrote in a joint statement to The Hoya. “The Church has made it clear that McCarrick cannot hold the title of Cardinal, Bishop, or priest, and Georgetown must follow suit by no longer calling him an ‘honored’ member of our community.”
The university was not available to provide comment on McCarrick’s expulsion as of press time. Representatives for Garibaldi, Fitzgibbons and Sarnoff declined to comment, while Hugin could not be reached for comment.
Other universities who granted honorary degrees to McCarrick have handled the question of  revoking such degrees on a different, often quicker, timeline than Georgetown. Fordham University rescinded in June 2018 the honorary degree given to McCarrick, and Catholic University of America did the same the following month.  
The University of Notre Dame declined in August 2018 to revoke its honorary degree given to McCarrick, citing the lack of a judiciary process, but reversed its decision in a statement Saturday following the conclusion of the Vatican’s investigation.
Saint Peter’s University, the University of Portland, the College of New Rochelle, St. Bonaventure University and the College of Mount Saint Vincent all revoked degrees they gave to McCarrick between July 2018 and October 2018.
The Georgetown Knights of Columbus, a service-based fraternal Catholic organization, called for the university to rescind McCarrick’s honorary degree in August 2018. 
The expulsion of McCarrick, also known as defrocking, means the university has more grounds than ever to rescind an honorary degree, said Ryan Anderson (NHS ’20), speaking on behalf of Georgetown’s chapter of the Knights of Columbus. 
“The defrocking now gives Georgetown ample reason to rescind an honorary degree for the first time,” Anderson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The university also awarded an honorary degree to Cardinal Donald Wuerl in 2014. Pope Francis accepted Wuerl’s resignation as archbishop of Washington, D.C., in October. Francis appointed Wuerl to serve as an interim leader until a successor, who has not yet been chosen, is found.
McCarrick’s expulsion from the priesthood serves as a testament to the church’s dedication to survivors, the archdiocese of Washington said in a statement Saturday.
“Our hope and prayer is that this decision serves to help the healing process for survivors of abuse, as well as those who have experienced disappointment or disillusionment because of what former Archbishop McCarrick has done,” the statement read. 
Referring to an upcoming summit called by the Pope to discuss sexual abuse, Anderson said the expulsion is a positive step that should motivate stricter policies by the Vatican against sexual abuse.
“Hopefully, more actions will come from the Vatican’s Summit this week to make sure this does not happen again,” Anderson wrote.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 19, 2019 by Cady Stanton Leave a Comment 
Paul Miller, commonly known as DJ Spooky, spoke about the influence multimedia has in reshaping identity and racial prejudice in public discourse Feb. 12.
Miller, a composer, multimedia artist and writer, is the director and producer of “Rebirth of a Nation,” a 2007 remake of the 1915 D.W. Griffith silent drama “Birth of a Nation.” 
Griffith’s “Birth of a Nation,” adapted from the novel and play “The Clansman” by Thomas Dixon Jr., tells a post-Civil War era story that heroicizes the Klu Klux Klan. The film sparked protests from the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People at the time of its release because of its racist depictions of black men as lazy, aggressive and lustful, according to The New Yorker.
Miller said that Griffith’s film shaped social perceptions at the time of its release, allowing for traditional and xenophobic attitudes on immigration and race to be absorbed by media and culture.
“In 1915, the world changed because we saw the rise of this notion that cinema and politics converged to create this kind of perfect storm of racial politics and the way politics would then influence the paradox of history, time, and above all, truth,” Miller said. “Birth of a Nation set the tone for 20th century media because it was the first film to establish itself as truth.”
Miller underscored the historical significance of “Birth of a Nation” as literature that gives a glimpse into racial tensions on phenomena beyond cultural perception, like politics.
In “Rebirth of a Nation,” Miller uses the approach of a DJ remix by reconstructing and paralleling a song to the film. The piece aims to expose the racist undertones of “Birth of a Nation” by applying the technology of turntable remix to a piece of historical literature. In screenings of the film, Miller manipulates video clips live on stage, often accompanied by an instrumental quartet, according to The Washington Post. 
While using a new approach to addressing racial histories in the United States, Miller said that remaking historical pieces can be a tool for rescripting current history just as the original pieces did in their time.
“Amusingly enough, to me at least, half the battle right now is looking at these kinds of histories and articulating history through this kind of remix culture,” Miller said.
Held in McNeir Hall, the event was part of the Racial Justice: Art(s) and Activism lecture series, which highlights the intersection of art, activism and racial justice by giving a platform to art that produces new forms of racial freedom. The discussion was sponsored by the Georgetown University Departments of African American Studies and Performing Arts and the Racial Justice Institute.
One of the biggest recent changes in media consumption is the reduction of intermediaries between producers and consumers, according to Miller.
“We’re looking at now disintermediation as we move further into the 21st century,” Miller said. “The phone actually becomes the portal of experience for most people.”
Miller’s previous projects as an artist and turntablist have been featured in the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago and the Museum Ludwig in Cologne, Germany. “Rebirth of a Nation” was commissioned in 2004 by the Lincoln Center Festival and has been screened in multiple cities, including at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, D.C.
A D.C. native, Miller also spoke about how the District is complex in terms of racial tensions as both a governmental center and as a city that contains a large black population.
“The fun part about living in D.C. is there’s sort of a paradox between the global and the federal issues of government,” Miller said. “And above all the paradox of the fact that it was not only an African-American city but also related to the federal government’s occupying force.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

