
February 28, 2019 by Alexandra Bowman Leave a Comment 
President Donald Trump’s actions have fractured diplomatic relationships that will take future executives many years to repair, said Susan Rice, U.S. national security adviser under former President Barack Obama. 
The United States should better communicate its dedication to allies, a facet of diplomacy that has been neglected by the Trump administration, according to Rice.
“We have to stabilize and invest further in our relationships,” Rice said. “We have been unsteady in recent years in terms of signaling our reliability, our staying power, our commitment.” 
Rice, who is also the former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, was joined at the Feb. 27 event by Stephen Hadley, U.S. national security adviser under former President George W. Bush. Hadley previously served as an assistant secretary of defense for global strategic affairs under former President George H.W. Bush.
The United States withdrew its signature from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a proposed trade agreement between 12 member countries, in January 2017. The remaining members negotiated a new agreement — the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership — in March 2018, disproving the predictions of many policymakers who thought that the trade deal would collapse without the participation of the United States.
Trump’s decision to exit global agreements like the TPP and the Paris climate agreement, an international effort to combat climate change signed by 194 states and the European Union, have delegitimized his leadership, Rice said.
“By withdrawing from the TPP, we created a vacuum,” Rice said. “These decisions have been weakening our strategic hand and weakening our global leadership.” 
The Trump administration has also withdrawn from the Iran nuclear deal, a 2014 agreement that limited the country’s nuclear activities and allowed international inspectors to monitor compliance.
The administration’s near-singular focus on the Iran nuclear deal has drawn attention away from other, more pressing threats that Iran poses to the United States, according to Rice. 
“We all agree that in an ideal world we would have addressed not only the nuclear threat from Iran, but all the threats from Iran,” Rice said. “I do want to point out that by pulling out of the Iran deal, we’re not focusing on those other threats now.”
Policymakers have criticized recent sanctions by the United States, including the 2017 Countering American Adversaries Through Sanctions Act, which imposed sanctions on Iran, North Korea and Russia, as vague and lacking specific policy outcomes, according to an October 2018 news release by the Center for Strategic and International Studies. 
The tendency of U.S. leaders to resort to sanctions as a means to influence other countries is ineffective, according to Hadley.
“Sanctions have become our favorite tool because they don’t have a cost and they put us on the record for having done something,” Hadley said. “Our allies are getting sick of it.”
The event was organized by the School of Foreign Service as a part of the Lloyd George Centennial Lectures, which launched in February 2018 to celebrate the upcoming SFS centennial. Charles Kupchan, Georgetown professor of international affairs, moderated the event, which was held in Gaston Hall.
Trump’s approach to foreign policy, which he defines as “America first,” has enabled Russia and China to assume positions of global leadership, according to Rice.
“We have ourselves not been as active and present in taking advantage of our leadership potential, diplomatic muscle,” Rice said. “We’ve backed up a bit, and China and Russia have taken advantage of the vacuum.”
The Trump administration has departed from previous administrations, which forged close ties with China, by using a more aggressive stance that has hurt the U.S.-China relationship, Rice said. 
“We are not posturing ourselves from a position of maximum strength to deal with the challenge that China poses,” Rice said. “Future administrations will need to do a lot of repair work and bridge-building.”
Trump held a second summit meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in Hanoi, Vietnam, this week. Trump’s more aggressive, assertive approach to diplomacy with North Korea has proven more effective than the approaches of previous administrations, according to Hadley. 
“There’s a lot of criticism of the Trump administration. He’s been right about some of the things that he did. I think he was right to be blustery when he came in,” Hadley said. “The three previous administrations who have tried to negotiate with North Korea haven’t been able to get them to uphold their agreement.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 28, 2019 by Charlie Goetzman Leave a Comment 
The culture of New Orleans has historically been shaped by the influence of its diverse inhabitants, said Jason Berry (CAS ’71), author and investigative reporter.
The Feb. 25 event featured Berry’s new book, which argues New Orleans’ culture is grounded in performance and display.
“When you grow up in a town where the adults wear masks and dance in the streets, it plants a certain optimism in the human experiment,” Berry said.
New Orleanian culture has cultivated a hopeful attitude for the city’s residents that has contrasted the racial tensions that have shaped the city’s society for centuries, according to Berry.
“The challenge of this book for me was to capture both that zest for life for which the city is so well known and the deeper history layered in violence, much of it racial,” Berry said.
A lifelong resident of New Orleans, Berry said he has long been interested in the culture of his hometown. In 1986, he wrote “Up From the Cradle of Jazz: New Orleans Music Since World War II.” The book focused on the city’s music scene but also analyzed the influence of immigrant communities on the city’s culture. 
Berry is also known for his reporting of clerical sexual abuse in the Catholic Church, which began well before the 2002 Boston Globe report on the abuse crisis. He drew national attention for his coverage of Gilbert Gauthe, a Catholic priest accused of abuse in Louisiana, in 1985, according to The Washington Post. 
He later published the books “Lead Us Not Into Temptation: Catholic Priests and the Sexual Abuse of Children” and “Vows of Silence,” which further explored allegations of sexual abuse against priests and the responses of the Church. 
The contributions of a diverse collection of cultures have formed the identity of New Orleans, according to Berry.
“This kind of melding of different peoples at this crossroads of America is what has given the town its personality and tone and temper,” Berry said.
The history of New Orleans is characterized by interactions among diverse groups that have inhabited the city. The land belonged to the Chitimacha, a Native American tribe based in Louisiana, until the French established the city as a port in 1718. Control of the city passed from the French to the Spanish and then back briefly to the French before the United States bought the land in the 1803 Louisiana Purchase.
Through the changing governance of the city, French, Spanish, Creole and black influences have contributed to the culture of New Orleans. However, institutionalized racial hierarchies that dictated the city’s society shaped the relationship between culture and law, according to Berry. 
“The argument of this book is that New Orleans’ beguiling personality stems from a long tension between a culture of spectacle, rooted in the dances of enslaved Africans in a public park known as Congo Square, and a city of laws that was anchored in white supremacy,” Berry said.
The event was hosted by the Georgetown University history department and the Georgetown University Alumni Association and was held in Arrupe Hall. 
Titled “City of a Million Dreams: A History of New Orleans at Year 300,” Berry’s latest book features insights from the diary of Benjamin Latrobe, the architect responsible for designing Washington, D.C., and a waterworks system in New Orleans in the early 1800s. 
Latrobe’s firsthand accounts capture the diversity of New Orleans, according to Berry. 
“The ship is in fog, and he hears the sounds of all these different languages, all these different tongues — a city of migrants,” Berry said.
But for all the celebration of different cultures that took place in the city, New Orleans was still marked by racial violence, which Berry explores through Latrobe’s descriptions.
“He’s appalled by the cruelty he sees — the beatings, the floggings,” Berry said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

