
October 3, 2019 by Yalda Zarrabi Leave a Comment 
The second semesterly Meal Swipe Drive this fall raised over twice as many meal swipes as the spring drive and allowed recipients to access swipes directly from their GOCards in an effort to increase participation and eliminate stigmatization for individuals facing food insecurity. 
The Meal Swipe Drive was held by Interhall Council and Swipe Out Hunger, the Georgetown chapter of the national initiative working to end food insecurity, on Sept. 26. This semester’s Meal Swipe Drive received 1,092 meal swipe donations, an increase from the 538 meal swipe donations during the first drive in the spring. 
Through the Meal Swipe Drive, students were able to donate meal swipes at all Hoya Hospitality locations, including Leo O’Donovan Dining Hall, Royal Jacket, Crop Chop, Chick-fil-A, Starbucks and Einstein Bros. Bagels.
Students were able to donate meal swipes either from their weekly allowance if they had a weekly meal plan, or from their total block meals if they had a block meal plan, according to Alandro Valdez (COL ’21), Vice President of Advocacy for Interhall Council. Students with unlimited meal swipes were also able to donate two swipes.
The first drive last spring required students to use paper vouchers to redeem donated meal swipes. This semester, students who apply for extra meal swipes will have the swipes directly loaded onto their GOCards, decreasing any hesitation that students may feel for using donated meal swipes, according to Swipe Out Hunger president Isabelle Ortiz (MSB ’20).     
“The paper vouchers create a lot of issues because people were embarrassed, and they shouldn’t have to feel embarrassed,” Ortiz said. “This semester is a lot more convenient because you would never know if someone was using it, as the swipes are directly uploaded onto the GOCards.”
The donated swipes will be redeemable at the buffet-style Fresh Food Company in Leo O’Donovan Dining Hall, according to Vice President for Auxiliary Enterprises Marc Fournier.
In the next few weeks, students will be able to apply for donated meal swipes on a first come, first served basis. Although the application format is still being determined, the questions will ask about what kind of food insecurity the student is facing and their current meal plan, according to Ortiz. Students can request blocks of five meal swipes using iPads located in the Hoya Hub, and possibly in Health Education Services and the Georgetown Scholars Program office if the locations are approved, according to Ortiz.
Swipe Out Hunger worked closely with the Hoya Hub, an on-campus food pantry, to promote the drive. The Meal Swipe Drive helps address the far-reaching problem of students living with food insecurity, according to Hoya Hub Student Advocacy Organization treasurer Samuel Dubke (SFS ’21). 
 “Food insecurity is defined as ‘the state of being without reliable access to a sufficient quantity of affordable, nutritious food,’” Dubke wrote in an email to The Hoya. “You can only skip a few meals a week and still be food insecure. The scope of the issue is quite broad.” 
Current meal plan options for students range from $1,600 to $3,407, with the standard meal plan including 14 swipes per week, or roughly two swipes per day, according to Interhall president Jordon DeGroote (SFS ’20). The Meal Swipe Drive aims to address the structural problems of meal plans as students are often left without a way of getting a third meal, forcing students to pay extra money, DeGroote said.
“People either have to skip a meal, or they have to find a meal by paying for it in cash, and people sometimes don’t have that dispensable income,” DeGroote said. “There are people who skip a meal a day and you may not think of them as traditionally food insecure but they absolutely do fit it.”
The Meal Swipe Drive creates an environment of collaboration and support at Georgetown, according to Fournier. 
“Programs such as the Swipe Out Hunger meal plan donation drives encourage Georgetown students to help support their classmates,” Fournier wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
This semester, students could donate a maximum of two meal swipes from their meal plans. In the future, the Meal Swipe Drive could be improved by increasing the number of allowed swipe donations and by increasing the scope of campus partnerships, according to Valdero.
This article was updated Oct. 3 to correct that students could donate meal swipes from their meal plan during the drive, not guest meal swipes.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 3, 2019 by Sarah Donofrio Leave a Comment 
Georgetown Cupcake co-owner Katherine Kallinis Berman became a United States citizen and celebrated by sharing cupcakes with the 449 other new citizens at the Oath of Allegiance Ceremony on Sept. 21. 
At her swearing in ceremony, which took place at the Hylton Performance Center in Manassas, Va., Berman was excited to celebrate her citizenship with the other immigrants who shared in her accomplishment. The process of becoming a U.S. citizen involves meeting specific criteria through a naturalization application, as well as an interview and civics test, according to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
The ceremony was a momentous occasion that served to celebrate both her citizenship and her journey as a female entrepreneur and immigrant, Berman said. 
“Being sworn in as an American citizen was such a powerful and moving experience and I was so happy to be able to share this special moment with 449 others from 83 different countries,” Berman wrote in an email to The Hoya. “As a female entrepreneur, I am grateful for all of the opportunities this country has given me to start and grow my business and realize the American dream.”
Berman, who grew up in Canada, opened the first Georgetown Cupcake location on Potomac Street in 2008 with her sister, Sophie Kallinis LaMontagne, after they both left corporate jobs to pursue a childhood passion for baking. Georgetown Cupcake gained popularity after a positive New York Times review, and the sisters soon opened a bigger location on M Street in December 2009.
The company has since expanded to Bethesda, Md., New York City, Boston, Los Angeles and Atlanta and has over 300 employees across the country. 
Berman’s success as an immigrant is an example of the positive impact of starting businesses in America, specifically businesses started by immigrants, she said.
“Starting a business from scratch is never easy, and starting Georgetown Cupcake was no exception,” Berman wrote. “Over the past ten years of navigating the growth of Georgetown Cupcake, I’ve learned that even if things are difficult, if you are willing to put in the dedication and hard work, anything is possible in this country.”
In 2010, the television channel TLC released a reality series titled “DC Cupcakes,” which documented Berman and LaMontagne’s experiences running Georgetown Cupcake. Though the show ended in 2013, the television series continues to draw attention to the Georgetown neighborhood, according to Nancy Miyahira, vice president of the Georgetown Business Improvement District.
“Georgetown Cupcake is a popular destination for visitors, especially those from around the country who may have followed their story on TLC’s DC Cupcakes show,” Miyahira wrote in an email to The Hoya. “As a neighborhood, their name has helped to increase awareness nationally for Georgetown’s commercial district as a stop while visiting Washington, D.C.”
The Georgetown community has enjoyed watching the growth of Georgetown Cupcake over the past 10 years, according to Miyahira.
“Georgetown’s business district continues to be a vibrant and energetic mixed-use neighborhood that has grown over the past ten years,” Miyahira wrote. “It’s been great to see Georgetown Cupcake grow from a small business start-up on Potomac Street to the national success story it is today, while continuing to give back to the communities it serves.”
In her time running Georgetown cupcake, Berman has also given back to the community that welcomed her and her business. Since 2018, every October, during National Bullying Prevention Month, Georgetown Cupcake offers special “Give a Little” cupcakes, with part of the proceeds benefiting the Love is Louder foundation, according to store associate Arden Fitzpatrick (COL ’20).
Georgetown Cupcake serves as a bustling business hub in Georgetown, Fitzpatrick said.
“I get to be on the pulse of the tourist scene in DC, so every shift people from all over the world are coming in and their excitement makes the store buzz with energy,” she wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I love talking to all of them and sharing my favorite flavors, and it doesn’t hurt that the store always smells like sugar.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

