
April 2, 2019 by Casey Ferrante Leave a Comment 
The sixth annual OWN IT Summit brought women from the public and private sectors to Georgetown University on Saturday to highlight leading women that not only broke barriers, but also used their influence to uplift other women.
Approximately 215 people attended this year’s OWN IT Summit, a conference aimed at bridging the gap between female leaders and their millennial admirers, to discuss how women can use their success to provide opportunities for others, according to Paige Taylor (COL ’19), co-chair of the 2019 OWN IT Summit.
“We wanted these conversations to highlight what happens when women take the lead and rise up, whether that’s working to secure venture capital funding for a new business venture or winning a heated Congressional race,” Taylor wrote in an email to The Hoya.  “So much of what we focus on at OWN IT is forward-thinking — women who are breaking down barriers, and who are disruptive in the best way possible.”
OWN IT was founded in 2014 by Helen Brosnan (COL ’16) and Kendall Ciesemier (COL ’15) to address the disproportionately low rates of women in leadership positions, both in the public and private sectors. The founders sought to provide young women with the chance to learn from and connect with women in leadership roles in a variety of fields, according to the OWN IT website.
“We’re shaking up the women’s leadership arena by producing events accessible to college-aged women of all demographics — not just those who can afford to pay their way,” the website reads.
The summit, which brought over 100 speakers to Georgetown’s campus, featured 31 break-out sessions that attendees could attend two of, two panel discussions and a mainstage conversation between award-winning historian Alexis Coe and Marcia Chatelain, associate professor of history and African American studies at Georgetown University and member of the OWN IT advisory board. 
OWN IT also presented the Gwendolyn Mikell Award for Women’s Empowerment, which aims to address the inequities and barriers to success faced by women, to Ghipsel Cibrian (COL ’16). The award is in collaboration with the Georgetown Social Innovation and Public Service Fund, which allocates annual grants to students and alumni to start their own social ventures.
Coe, the summit’s keynote speaker, and Chatelain discussed the challenges female historians face and historical narratives’ neglect of women’s experiences as well as ways to draw attention to the often unrecognized contributions women make. Coe has used her platform as a historian to highlight perspectives often ignored by male historians, Taylor wrote.
“She’s looked back at history and uplifted the stories of lesser-known women or women who have been misrepresented,” Taylor wrote.  “But Alexis has also brought new angles and perspectives to stories we all know. For example, she shared on the OWN IT stage that she’ll be the first female biographer to write a book about George Washington.”
The culture of idolizing predominantly famous and well-known women, most pronounced during celebrations of women’s achievements like Women’s History Month, can be harmful to female leadership and empowerment, Coe said at the event.
“There’s this impression of #BossLady where if you aren’t at the center of everything at a time where you really couldn’t be, you weren’t an influencer, you didn’t actually have a place where you could do anything,” Coe said.
Male historians have often excluded women from history, leading to historical narratives that emphasize the experiences of elite white men, according to Chatelain. 
“The assumption was that it wasn’t there because he didn’t think it was important,” Chatelain said in the conversation.
Though more diverse historians are elevating the narratives of women, female voices, such as Walt Whitman’s sister, are often relegated to the background of historical discussions and used to provide context for the famous men surrounding them, Coe said at the event. 
“For a long time, for women to be significant in the collective memory, they had to be considered what was known as ‘domestic witnesses,’” said Coe at the event. “Whitman’s sister, for example: Her journal is going to be read for what he ate, what he said, where he went, in a really narrow way so they don’t even look at what was this woman’s interior life.”
Female historians are also faced with gender expectations that reinforce institutional sexism, Coe said.
“For a long time, I was asked whose wife I was, whose research assistant I was,” Coe said.  “We’re told what we can and cannot do in explicit ways, but also in implicit ways, too.”
Additional speakers on mainstage panels included Berna Anat, creator of a financial literacy media series for young people called Hey Berna; Rep. Lori Trahan (D-Mass.); Stephanie Schriock, president of Emily’s List, which aims to help pro-choice Democratic women win election into public office; and Emma Gray, a senior reporter at HuffPost who focuses largely on women’s issues.
The morning panel, “By Women, For Women,” featured speakers in the business field and the afternoon panel, “Women’s Wave,” featured women in politics. The panelists shared their experiences to uplift young women wishing to pursue male-dominated careers.
This year’s conference comes after the 2018 midterm elections saw a record number of women elected to congress. Following the midterm elections, 102 women — including 35 newly elected women — now serve in the U.S. House of Representatives, and 25 women, including five new senators, now serve in the U.S. Senate.
Because of difficulties associated with entering male-dominated workspaces, refraining from entering jobs stereotypically paired with female entrepreneurship can be daunting, according to Nicole Corbett, a speaker on the “By Women, For Women” panel and founder of Worn, an entirely female-led agency that helps companies develop their branding.
“Listening to your own inner voice about what is right to do while everyone around you is telling you something else is very difficult,” Corbett said at the event.
Break-out sessions focused on female leaders in a variety of professions including journalism, cybersecurity and law. These sessions were designed to connect students with professional opportunities, according to Laurie-Maude Chenard (SFS ’19), director of speakers for OWN IT 2019.
“My hopes for the summit are to connect college-aged women with women who are experts in their fields and are paving the path for others like them, to create accessible spaces for women to talk about their experiences and the things that they’re passionate about, and to leave attendees feeling inspired, empowered, and supported,” Chenard wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 2, 2019 by Afua Nyantakyi Leave a Comment 
Washington, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) plans to distribute 76,000 kits of naloxone, a drug used to counter opioid overdoses, to police officers and community health organizations by Sept. 30.
The purchase of 76,000 naloxone kits marks an increase in the city’s efforts toward overdose death prevention, as only 2,396 kits were distributed over the last nine months of 2017, where overdose deaths were at their peak, according to The Washington Post. In 2018, D.C. saw more deaths from opioid-related overdoses than homicides.
The distribution plan is a part of Bowser’s “LIVE. LONG. DC” initiative, which was released in December and aims to cut opioid related deaths in D.C. in half by 2020. An updated version of LIVE. LONG. DC, released March 28, includes more detailed procedures for D.C. institutions to begin carrying out the initiative.
The update was released after complaints made by D.C. officials stated that the original document was too vague and lacked specific details such as timelines, according to The Washington Post. 
In addition to the distribution of naloxone, the update includes an April 30 deadline for the start of another program which allows recent overdose victims to be treated with buprenorphine, a medication that diminishes opioid cravings as part of long-term addiction treatment. MedStar Washington Hospital Center, United Medical Center and Howard University Hospital will implement the initiative first.
To receive input on the plan, the D.C. Council Judiciary and Public Safety and Health committees held a joint public oversight roundtable Jan. 28, where they received feedback from the public, the mayor’s office, the Department of Behavioral Health and the Metropolitan Police Department. The roundtable lasted for more than nine hours and covered topics such as street outreach to heroin users and the possibility of establishing government-supervised areas where residents can inject heroin, according to The Washington Post. 
Opioid use and overdose prevention policies must treat addiction as a health issue, according to Regina LaBelle, program director at the O’Neill Institute for National and Global Health Law. The O’Neill Institute, which is housed at the Georgetown University Law Center, seeks to develop solutions to national and international health concerns such as the opioid epidemic.
“Recognizing that addiction is a disease from which people can recover, our drug policies must be centered around compassion,” LaBelle wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Providing naloxone to community members and first responders is an important tool to save lives.”
LaBelle, who is also the former chief of staff of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy, responded to potential opposition to the initiative in a testimony presented at the roundtable. The number of opioid-involved overdose deaths in the District more than tripled from 2014 to 2017. The uptick in overdoses occurred despite emergency medical responders providing residents with prompt services, according to LaBelle.
“It continues to be important, therefore, to get naloxone into the hands of as many people as possible, including law enforcement and community groups such as syringe exchange programs,” LaBelle said during the testimony. 
The Metropolitan Police Department and Bowser’s office initially perceived the initiative as expensive. However, costs of naloxone can vary and manufacturers of the product have already put in place programs to make the drug more accessible for purchase by the government, according to US News. 
The cost of naloxone varies from $12 generic injectable doses to a $150 nasal spray containing two doses, according to LaBelle. Manufacturers of the most expensive naloxone product, the auto-injector, announced that by mid-2019, their product would be available for purchase to government agencies for $178, significantly less than the usual retail cost of $4,100.50, according to LaBelle. 
Other objections to the widespread distribution of naloxone among law enforcement and community healthcare centers included potential criminal liabilities. However, good samaritan laws and laws designed to protect healthcare professionals have been established in many states  to protect those who administer the drug, according to the United States Surgeon General Jerome Adams. 
Citizens can also play a role in administering the drug to prevent overdose deaths, according to to Adams. There are two FDA-approved naloxone products for community use that are available by prescription. 
Too few community members are aware of the drug’s accessibility, Adams wrote in a 2018 Naloxone Advisory Statement. 
“Expanding the awareness and availability of this medication is a key part of the public health response to the opioid epidemic” Adams wrote. “Therefore, increasing the availability and targeted distribution of naloxone is a critical component of our efforts to reduce opioid-related overdose deaths and, when combined with the availability of effective treatment, to ending the opioid epidemic.” 
Research suggests that an effective measure to decrease overdose deaths in a community is to provide naloxone and overdose education to its members, according to Adam’s statement. 
To further increase the drug’s accessibility, the FDA is currently developing an over-the-counter version of the drug, available for purchase by the public. People who are or who know someone at risk for opioid overdose can already go to a pharmacy or community-based program to receive naloxone and naloxone administration training without a patient-specific prescription, according to Adams. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

