
April 12, 2019 by Deepika Jonnalagadda 17 Comments 
Students voted overwhelmingly in favor of a referendum to establish a semesterly fee that would go toward a fund to benefit descendants of the GU272 on Thursday night with the highest turnout in recorded student government electoral history. The university is not obliged to enact the proposed fee.
With 66.1 percent of students voting “yes,” the $27.20 semesterly fee in student bills would be allocated to descendants of the GU272, the 272 enslaved people sold by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus in 1838 to financially sustain the university. Should Georgetown approve this policy, it would establish the first collegiate reconciliation fund in the country.
Since October, the GU272 Advocacy Team, an on-campus student group that raises awareness for descendants, has worked with the Georgetown University Student Association to push for this referendum. The team has led an outreach campaign to educate students and encourage them to vote, through events such as an April 3 town hall featuring a panel of students both for and against the referendum. 
Voter turnout in the election was 57.9 percent—beating the Feb. 2013 GUSA executive election which had 57 percent voter participation, according to GUSA archives. The high turnout will further the ongoing conversation surrounding descendant advocacy on campus, according to Shepard Thomas (COL ’20), a descendant and a member of the GU272 Advocacy Team.
“I’m definitely happy to see the response that we have, around 50 percent,” Thomas said. “I would just be happy to see this dialogue continue in the same direction.”
The university is not bound by the results of the April 11 referendum, according to university spokesperson Matt Hill. The university released a statement at 1 a.m. Friday acknowledging students’ voices but not specifying the university’s next steps.
“The university values the engagement of our students and appreciates that 3,845 students made their voices heard in yesterday’s election,” Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson wrote. “This student referendum provides valuable insight into student perspectives and will help guide our continued engagement with students, faculty and staff, members of the Descendant community, and the Society of Jesus.”
If approved by the university, the referendum would create a reconciliation fund, which would be presided over by a board of trustees including five students and five descendants. The reconciliation fund would then distribute funds toward purposes to the direct benefit of descendants of the 272, according to the Students for GU272 Facebook page. Proposed projects include funding K-12 education, establishing college scholarships and purchasing school supplies.
Lee Baker, a descendant of Nace and Biby Butler, a married couple among the 272 enslaved people sold in 1838, reaffirmed the importance of the students’ activism.
“The students remembered, recognized, and re-ignited awareness about Descendants who literally made it possible for today’s Georgetown University,” Baker wrote in an email to The Hoya early Thursday evening. “Regardless of what happens, we will know that Georgetown University students practiced solidarity and decided to ensure that such an historic injustice has a permanent lens for awareness, analysis and action.”
GUSA President Norman Francis Jr. (COL ’20) and GUSA Vice President Aleida Olvera (COL ’20) supported yesterday’s result, urging the implementation of the referendum.
“The measures advanced in this referendum would put Georgetown on the right side of history and constitute the first reparations policy in the nation,” Francis and Olvera wrote. “The students of Georgetown have indicated their clear support for the University to take reparative action in order to address the outstanding moral debt incurred by the University’s decision to engage in and profit off slavery.”
Other universities, such as Harvard, Yale and Columbia, have acknowledged their past ties to slavery, according to the Associated Press. However, Thursday’s referendum marked the first time a university has held a vote on the inclusion of a fee that would raise funds for descendants.
Though the vote has passed, it still must pass a vote of Georgetown’s board of directors, which is composed of 39 members who approve major university policy decisions. GUSA Senator Sam Dubke (SFS ’21) voted no in the Feb. 3 GUSA senate vote on whether or not to hold a referendum on a fee to benefit the descendants.
Dubke said though the vote has concluded, the debate about the proposed fee is ongoing. 
“This fight isn’t over, because I don’t think that this election is over,” Dubke said in an interview with The Hoya. “There are individuals that are going to bring suits who made numerous complaints to the election commission.”
The referendum shared a ballot with GUSA’s April 11 senate election. The GUSA senate voted in favor of holding the universitywide referendum with a 20-4 vote Feb. 3.
GUSA elections have suffered declining turnout over the past few years. Recent GUSA executive elections in February saw the lowest voter turnout since the 2007 executive election, with 32 percent of the undergraduate student body casting votes. Overall voter turnout in the last senate election in October was 20.9 percent, according to the GUSA election commission’s Twitter account.
Previous referenda have never received votes from the majority of undergraduate students. 
In February 2018, two referenda on a GUSA executive election ballot on senate restructuring and nondiscrimination saw a voter turnout of approximately 39 percent, according to GUSA archives. Voter turnout in a December 2016 referendum on establishing a smoke-free campus was 41 percent, and turnout in a February 2016 live registration referendum was 33 percent.
The university has not specified what actions it would take if the referendum were to pass.
“We’ll have to take that one step at a time,” University President John J. DeGioia said in a Thursday morning interview with The Hoya.
A Friday evening email from DeGioia to the university community acknowledged student support for the referendum, but also did not indicate if the university support the establishment of the reconciliation fee.
“With this strong indication from our students, I will engage key leaders in our Georgetown, Descendant, and Jesuit communities and our faculty, board, and student leadership to chart a path forward,” DeGioia wrote.
Despite yesterday’s historic vote, Georgetown will continue to grapple with its difficult legacy of slavery, according to Richard Cellini (COL ’84, LAW ’87). Cellini is the founder of the Georgetown Memory Project, an independent nonprofit that has located 8,298 direct descendants of the GU272 since 2015.
“Whether this referendum passes or not, the moral stain on Georgetown and Jesuit leadership can never be erased unless Georgetown gives restitution to these families,” Cellini said in an interview with The Hoya early Thursday afternoon. “Even if it takes 50 years, or a 100 years, these issues are not going to go away.”
This article was updated April 12. 

JJ says 
April 12, 2019 at 9:27 am
$27.20 per student per semester?  This is an embarrassment to Georgetown University.  A University with an endowment of $1.5 billion.  Tuition is in the range of $50k per year for undergrads.   So the undergraduate students believe a fee that amounts to less than 0.1% of their tuition makes a statement that they recognize the benefits they receive from the slaves that were sold?  The amount is so insignificant it sends the message that the damage to these families was minimal at most.  Dividing the approximate $135,000 per semester among the 8298 descendant of the 273 slave families would result in less than $20 per semester per descendant.   Does anyone really think that will help these people?  The amount needs to be a real amount, real to those paying it and real to those receiving it.  What percentage of Georgetown undergrads actually pay their own tuition anyway?

Gtown Alum says 
April 12, 2019 at 10:10 am
The definition of privilege and entitlement is spending other people’s money without their consent.  The student vote does exactly that and sends a message to the public that Georgetown seems to be filled with students who are happy to vote to spend their parents’ hard earned money and the money of the parents of future students’ parents in a similar manner.  Georgetown was leading by example to make amends.  This vote is a major step backwards for the reputation of the University and gave no consideration to those students (and their parents) who are financially challenged by attending Georgetown.  You’ve also failed to take into consideration the support that the Georgetown Alumni provide to the school, without which the University would not be sustainable.  You’ve created a tax without assessing what the actual need is and you have failed to provide a sound structure from which it can be administered with accountability.  Congratulations!  In trying to do something good, you have made Georgetown the poster child for White Privilege.

Diana O'Connor says 
April 12, 2019 at 10:17 am
If this gets approved… GU 272 will just ask for more and more money. And what exactly will they buy with it?

Sad Alum says 
April 12, 2019 at 11:05 am
Why burden students with further debt, or force parents who can pay to make even more sacrifice? I sure hope a wealthy alum – or groups of alums – open a trust rather than force extra cost to attend Georgetown.

Jay Bute says 
April 12, 2019 at 12:58 pm
From out here in Texas, GU272 seems liking kicking slave descendants while they are down and tossing some pocket change at them….$27 per semester where tuition is $27,000 per semester is vicioulsy trivial.

MARGARET CALHOUN HEMENWAY says 
April 12, 2019 at 6:12 pm
As a Georgetown alum, I’m amused by students voting to have parents spend more money than they’re already spending for bloated tuition costs. Why not poll those actually paying tuition?  Slavery was abolished in the 19th century.  There are no living slaves or children of slaves to which to provide reparations.  Moreover, once the “feel good” knee-jerk instinct is put aside– the issue is a Gordian knot.  During his ’08 primary, Obama noted he was “married to a black American who carries within her the blood of slaves and slave owners.” If your family had slave-owners, should you get reparations?  Consider this too:  According to Ancestry.com, the average African American is 29 percent European. Should blacks with 29% European blood get reparations?  What about whites with black blood?– should they be forced to pay reparations?  How does one define “white” or “black”?  Every Georgetown student should be made to read Keith Richburg’s superb book, “Out of America- a black man confronts Africa.”  Richburg was the WashingtonPost’s correspondent in Nairobi.  Anyone who’s been to Africa would realize that blacks here (however one defines the term) should be eternally grateful to be born American, even though their ancestors were brought here in chains. Blacks should ask themselves what country in Africa would they have liked their ancestors left behind in– some hellhole like Angola?  This unhealthy modern-day fixation on sins against distant ancestors needs to end.  Women in America won the right to vote only decades after black males gained that right.  Should we all get reparations too?  Rubbish!

Ty says 
April 13, 2019 at 8:53 am
If only you realized just how ignorant you sound. How dare you fix your face to assert that Blacks should basically be grateful to have been enslaved. It’s 2019 and it’s a shame that you and some others still walk around with the destructive, white-savior, mindset, like you did us a favor. Stop it. Were you against giving reparations to descendants of Japanese-Americans interned during WWII? What about the billions given to Native Americans? History cannot be undone, but amends can and should be made. Reparations is not just about slavery itself, it’s also about the lasting effects of it. The decades upon decades of discrimination, institutional racism, and disenfranchisement that followed.

Stefan Wenk says 
May 13, 2020 at 9:01 pm
Thank you Ty!

Ly says 
April 14, 2019 at 11:21 pm
If Margaret Calhoun Hemenway is the same person that criticizes gays, denounces Muslims, thinks Blacks are not as good as her, and a known Trump supporter, her comment is a non-factor. Please remove yourself and stay in your delusional corner.

Tony Eben '68 says 
April 15, 2019 at 11:47 am
Well said.

Tony Eben '68 says 
April 12, 2019 at 6:49 pm
What a joke!

Illuminated Alum says 
April 12, 2019 at 9:58 pm
Way to vote to spend other people’s money. I pity the future of Georgetown with future slums who vote for dumb things like this. I hope the university knows better to institute this.

Leon Speight says 
April 12, 2019 at 11:30 pm
$27.20. That’s not even a fancy meal for 1 in DC.
A price point that makes privileged white liberals feel oh so good about themselves but without material inconvenience. Heavens forbid they stick to the actual number of slaves (272) and multiply that fee by 10. No, at that point the virtue signaling is too expensive.

Leon Speight says 
April 12, 2019 at 11:34 pm
$27.20. That’s not even a nice meal for 1 in DC.
The perfect price point for an absorbed privileged white liberal on campus. Enough to feel good about oneself and virtue signal about it, but not enough to actually be inconvenienced. Heavens forbid they actually stuck to a fee that matched the slaves ($272).
Really a microcosm of what the Democratic party has sadly turned into. Pretending they care about the plight of minorities, doing everything they can to keep them on the figurative plantation.

guwinster says 
April 13, 2019 at 2:07 pm
57% turnout is certainly impressive and the margin suggests this referendum would’ve passed even with 100% turnout.
Nonetheless, I’d be interested in seeing some demographic info on who actually voted on this referendum. For example, did international students have lower turnout rates and were they more or less likely to support this referendum? What about kids on financial aid?
I know I never voted in any of the referendums or student Senate races during my four years on campus. There were certainly times when I didn’t even realize a vote was happening. Was that possible in this case?
I guess what I want to see going forward is an effort by DeGioia to ensure that all segments of the Georgetown community really support this restitution fund. This issue is too symbolically important, and potentially controversial to pursue without near unanimous support. Personally I don’t support it, but if the roughly 2/3 support rate this referendum found is consistant with the rate of support across the vast majority of GU’s sub-communities, then fine….go ahead with it.

Tony Eben '68 says 
April 13, 2019 at 7:47 pm
There are other schools Ty.

Eriya Andersen says 
April 16, 2019 at 7:58 am
That’s ridiculous! Thanks!
I want to hear your opinion about something I read today, it’s a coolessay review here: https://usessay-writers.com/coolessay-net-review/
Have you heard about this? I was so surprised.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 12, 2019 by Maya Gandhi 2 Comments 
As Georgetown reckons with its history of slavery, University President John J. DeGioia reflected on the university’s path forward in a wide-ranging interview with The Hoya on Thursday morning. The president also defended the university’s systems for handling sexual assault and reaffirmed Georgetown’s support for low-income, first-generation students amid the admissions bribery scandal.
GU 272
In fall 2015, DeGioia convened a Working Group on Slavery, Memory and Reconciliation to help confront the university’s history of slavery. The group’s report, released in summer 2016, included recommendations for public memorialization of Georgetown’s history of slavery and increased engagement with descendent communities, among many others.
Yesterday the undergraduate student body approved a referendum proposing the establishment of a reconciliation fee to support descendants of the 272 enslaved people sold by the Maryland Society of Jesus in 1838 to financially sustain the university.
The morning of the referendum, DeGioia recognized Georgetown’s efforts to fulfill the recommendations of the working group while acknowledging the work that remains.
“I’m aware of the scrutiny of our commitment to fulfill all of our obligations under, that we launched back in 2015. We’ve done several of the things — we had our formal liturgy of reconciliation, we renamed our buildings, we’re engaged in rather extensive conversation with descendants,” DeGioia said. “We know we still have some things to do and we are engaged in processes to do those things.”
The president also emphasized the importance of including descendent voices in Georgetown’s work and the long-term nature of those efforts.
“A key principle that we’ve tried to carry forward over the course of these last few years is: We’ve wanted to engage in work that is appropriate to work with descendants on, to engage with descendants on it,” DeGioia said. “That is work we continue with, and so when we talk about putting in a permanent memorialization, we want to do that together. So there’s some work that just will require — it’s on a longer-term time horizon.”
Georgetown can substantively grapple with its history by working to address the systemic issues created by slavery and its legacy, such as through work on health disparities and criminal justice reform, according to DeGioia.
“We never ameliorated the original set of issues and so we live today with the implications of that, and so the work that we engage in as a university needs to go to the heart of that,” DeGioia said. “There are a range of things that we as an institution, using our institutional agency, can be engaged in, in trying to address those underlying, enduring — the enduring presence of the legacy.”
Asked yesterday morning whether the university would support the establishment of the reconciliation fee, DeGioia said, “We’ll have to take that one step at a time.”
Title IX and Sexual Assault
DeGioia praised Georgetown’s framework for handling sexual assault, including a variety of resources to report and expanded bystander training that is integrated into campus life.
“It’s a comprehensive, holistic approach to addressing the challenge that acknowledges the complexity of the issue and ensures that we have appropriate and confidential ways to report; we’ve got a framework in which you can pursue a disciplinary action — comprehensive in terms of training of bystanders, of connecting it to day-to-day campus life,” DeGioia said. “I think the program is — I’m very proud of it. I think our folks have worked very, very hard over the course of nearly 30 years to have a program that is regarded by many as a model that you could look to for its elements.”
Georgetown implemented mandatory “Bringing in the Bystander” training for all first-year students after its 2016 Campus Climate Survey, which found that 31 percent of female undergraduates and about 10 percent of male undergraduates reported experiencing sexual assault at Georgetown. The university conducted its second Campus Climate Survey from February to March 2019 and expects to release the results in fall 2019.
The president defended the Title IX office, which has come under recent criticism from students in the absence of a full-time Title IX coordinator. Laura Cutway, who was hired as Georgetown’s first full-time Title IX coordinator in January 2016, left her position unexpectedly in June 2018. Amid the search to replace Cutway, Title IX investigator Samantha Berner has served in her own role and as interim Title IX coordinator.
“We’ve had an interim coordinator all year. She’s outstanding. She’s done great work. I would defend her against anybody who would have a criticism,” DeGioia said. “I don’t think that we could have been in better hands, and now we’re gonna bring a new member to the team; we’ll further strengthen the team.”
Identifying, interviewing and hiring qualified candidates for leadership roles at elite higher education institutions can take as long as a year, according to a university spokesperson. Ten months after Cutway’s departure, Georgetown’s full-time Title IX coordinator may be hired soon, according to DeGioia.
“We’re close to bringing closure to the search, expected that will be done imminently for the next full-time director,” DeGioia said.
Admissions Bribery Scheme
Georgetown has garnered national attention in recent weeks after being named among eight schools implicated in a nationwide admissions bribery scandal. Five Georgetown parents were named in the indictment, which charged former Georgetown tennis coach Gordon Ernst with accepting bribes from wealthy parents to secure their children’s college admission. For many in the Georgetown community, the bribery has also underscored the role of socio-economic status in college admissions. 
Still, the university has made strides in seeking out socio-economically diverse applicants to expand the accessibility of higher education, DeGioia said. 
“Over the course of our recent history — last half-century — we understood a deeper and deeper responsibility to ensure access and affordability [for] the most talented young people from across our nation, regardless of their socio-economic background. And 41 years ago we put in place our need-blind, full-need financial aid policy, which covers more than 40 percent of our student body,” DeGioia said. 
The president commended the university for its support of low-income and first-generation students, in particular citing the Community Scholars Program and the Georgetown Scholars Program, which provide resources for first-generation and low-income students, as well as the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access.
“Our Community Scholars Program, our GSP program, the work that CMEA has done over the course of more than a half-century — we see it right now with our graduation rates of our first-generation students, I mean, they’re among the best in the country. We’re regarded as having the strongest program to support them in the country.”
GSP has a 96.4 percent graduation rate for first-generation students, compared to the national average of 32 percent, according to HuffPost.
Despite suggestions stirred by national media coverage of pervasive elitism in the university, Georgetown’s culture is ultimately one of support, according to DeGioia.
“I recognize that the perception that this admissions scandal has created in our nation, but I do believe here at Georgetown, we have a deep, deep community and a deep culture of support to ensure the success for all of our students,” DeGioia said.
Three other schools involved in the admissions scheme — Yale University, the University of Southern California and Stanford University — have rescinded the admission of students implicated by the scandal. A petition for similar action by Georgetown had garnered almost 20,000 signatures as of April 11.
The university is committed to investigating its ties to the bribery scheme but has not yet taken action against students allegedly involved, according to DeGioia.
“We have a very, very exhaustive investigation that we’ve been undergoing. We treat each of the cases on a case-by-case basis and we’ve been meeting with individuals and families,” DeGioia said. “When we’ve completed our work, we’ll make clear what the outcomes are.”
Clerical Sexual Abuse Crisis
As a leading Catholic institution, Georgetown has also had to grapple with the sexual abuse crisis in the Catholic Church. In February, following mounting pressure from student activism, the university revoked the honorary degree of former Cardinal Theodore McCarrick after the Vatican removed him from the priesthood for accusations of sexual abuse.
The university has also organized seven events focusing on the clerical sexual abuse crisis since September 2018. Reacting to The Hoya’s investigation last month into 13 priests and one nun with credible accusations of sexual abuse and ties to Georgetown, DeGioia stressed the distance of the abuse from the campus community.
“We have found no case of anyone who was accused of anything involving a minor whenever they were affiliated with Georgetown,” DeGioia said. “It occurred at other times in their lives, which was small consolation, but nevertheless.”
A December 2018 report by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus recorded credible accusations of sexual abuse by Fr. William Walsh, S.J., over the course of four decades that overlapped in part with his time teaching at Georgetown during the 1966-67 academic year (“‘Sick Pleasure’: GU Jesuit Walsh Abused Nieces for Decades,” The Hoya, March 15, 2019, B7). There are no known credible accusations of sexual abuse on Georgetown’s campus, per The Hoya’s report.
The safety of the campus community remains the university’s priority in the wake of the clerical abuse crisis, according to DeGioia.
“The first and foremost concern that I bring involving abuse of any kind is to try to ensure the safety and security of the community,” DeGioia said. “So the most urgent matter always is: Is there a potential threat to the safety and security of the community? That’s where I always start.”
In grappling with the abuse crisis, the president also underscored Georgetown’s responsibility to protect marginalized and vulnerable communities.
“We need to go to the margins, we need to protect and respect the marginalized,” DeGioia said. “We need to play our role in transforming the culture to protect the most vulnerable.”   

Hoya Parent says 
April 12, 2019 at 8:59 pm
One big topic that wasn’t addressed is the dreadful state of the campus infrastructure. As the parent of one of the students evacuated from Alumni Square I’ve been following The Hoya’s excellent coverage of this issue.
Agree with the importance of the topics raised in this interview but I think many people believe that the state of the building stock has reached near crisis point and I’d have appreciated you raising this with President DeGioia.

Illuminated Alum says 
April 13, 2019 at 2:09 pm
DeGioia is a plain awful president for the university. Hired in a knee-jerk reaction almost 20 years ago with almost zero experience outside of Georgetown, he’s done very little but pander to special interests and meddle in mediocrity. He should have been relieved of his duties a long time ago. Here’s to hoping the board of directors shows him the door. It’s long overdue.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 12, 2019 by Cady Stanton Leave a Comment 
More than 57 percent of the student body voted in the Georgetown University Student Association senate elections Thursday. Eighteen senators, twelve of whom are serving for the first time, were elected in the GUSA senate elections April 11.
The senate election saw a record voter turnout, which two re-elected GUSA senators attribute to the election coinciding with a referendum on a semesterly fee to go toward a fund to benefit the descendants of the GU272. Six rising seniors, six rising juniors and six rising sophomores were elected in Thursday’s vote. 
Without the referendum, voter turnout would have not have reached this year’s record high, according to re-elected GUSA Senator Harrison Nugent (SFS ’20).
“No question it had to have been the referendum. I know we’ve had referendums in the past that have been used as a tool to get turnout to increase, but nothing like this election,” Nugent said. “Clearly the referendum surrounding reparations and the GU272 really inspired a lot of debate on campus and really brought people to the polls.”
The turnout breaks a previous record for the 2013 executive election’s 57 percent voter turnout, according to Justin Rich (SFS ’22), recently appointed chair of the GUSA Election Commission.
“We are pleased to see a high turnout this election season,” Rich said. “As you know, there was a lot of campaigning and campus media articles surrounding the referendum, so while we don’t definitively know the cause of the high turnout, there was a large presence surrounding the referendum both in the press and around campus.”
This year’s turnout for senate elections, the highest in GUSA history, was 57.9 percent and follows student activism around the GU272 referendum attached to the senate ballot. Students voted to approve a referendum creating a semesterly fee that would go toward a fund to benefit descendants of the GU272, the 272 enslaved individuals sold by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus in 1838 to financially sustain the university. A university statement in response to the referendum results did not clarify upcoming steps.
The elections also come after the formation of Abolish GUSA, a movement seeking to replace GUSA with a more efficient and inclusive system of student government. The group began distributing posters across campus Jan. 27 and has since created a Facebook page. Three senate candidates, Alexander Mazzeo (SFS ’22), Christopher Castaldi-Moller (SFS ’21) and Henry Dai (COL ’22) have publicly associated themselves with the Abolish GUSA campaign this election season, though none of them won their senate races.
Abolish GUSA has pointed out areas where GUSA can improve upon in terms of properly using its powers to properly represent students, Nugent said.
“I’ve seen a lot of candidates this year run on an Abolish GUSA platform,” Nugent said. “We’re not doing ourselves any favors with a lot of things we do. People see it sort of as a meaningless institution.”
The emergence of the Abolish GUSA initiative demonstrates the low trust of the student body in GUSA’s ability to make change, according to re-elected senator Leo John Arnett (SFS ’22).
“I think those Abolish GUSA campaigns just prove how low the perception of the organization has gotten in the last years,” Arnett said. “I believe that if anything, it proves that the new senate has to work that much harder to change that perception around for the better.”

The elections filled a seat vacated by Nicolo Ferretti (SFS ’21) who left to take the position of director of university affairs within the executive branch of GUSA.
Another seat that was filled in this election was Sam Appel’s (COL ’20), who resigned from both the senate and as a candidate for the executive race Jan. 28. Despite GUSA bylaws, which call for a special election following a senator’s resignation during a term, the GUSA election commission chose not to hold a special election for Appel’s seat due to tight timing between the resignation and this week’s spring senate elections.
This senate election is the second since the passage of a set of referenda in February 2018 which moved upperclassman senate elections from the fall of the year, in which the senators serve to the spring of the preceding year. The transition chair, transition vice chair and transition finance and appropriations committee liaison for the senate, three positions created by the referenda to serve for the transition period over the summer. In previous years, incoming senators have been appointed in the week following the election.
While the referenda moved the formal upperclassmen senate elections to the spring, the most recent senate elections occurred Sept. 30 to fill three vacant junior seats as well as scheduled freshmen and at-large seats.
The senators elected to represent the Class of 2020 include Juan Martinez (SFS ‘20), Harrison Nugent (SFS ‘20), Jessica Richards (COL ‘20), Matt Buckwald (COL ‘20), Peter Lee Hamilton (COL ‘20) and Miguel Zamudio (COL ‘20).
Elected senators for the Class of 2021 include Natalie Kim (SFS ‘21), Samantha Moreland (MSB ‘21), Sam Dubke (SFS ‘21), Mikail Husain (COL ‘21), Joshua Marin-Mora (SFS ‘21) and Leo Teixeira (COL ’21).
The rising sophomore class representatives include Daniella Sanchez (COL ‘22), Zev Burton (SFS ‘22), Layla Weiss (MSB ‘22), Leo John Arnett (SFS ‘22), Olivia Kleier (SFS ‘22) and Julia Moreno (SFS ’22).
Senators for the incoming class of 2023 will be elected in the fall.
This article has been updated to include the names of all senators voted in during this spring’s election.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 12, 2019 by Jaime Moore-Carrillo Leave a Comment 
Panelists praised attorneys of survivors Monday for holding the Catholic Church accountable for the clerical abuse crisis, while also acknowledging the role of lawyers in the Church’s efforts to cover up sexual misconduct.
Lawyers have played a critical role in confronting and publicizing the clergy sexual abuse crisis, according to John Carr, director of Georgetown’s Initiative on Catholic Social Thought and Public Life, who moderated the event.
“It would be fair to say without the action of lawyers, this crisis would still be hidden in many ways,” Carr said. “It was plaintiffs attorneys who sued the church and took on this crisis, and we owe them a lot.”
Plaintiffs, lawyers and attorneys general have spearheaded investigations into clergy misconduct across the country for years. The most recent, prominent example was a sweeping, two-year investigation conducted by the Pennsylvania Attorney General, who in August 2018 identified more than 300 priests across Pennsylvania’s six dioceses credibly accused of sexually assaulting thousands of minors.
In some cases, however, attorneys have also played an active role in silencing reports of abuse and preventing reform in the Church, according to Carr.
“There were attorneys who advised the church, some of whom said, ‘Don’t worry we’ll handle this, we can make this go away,” Carr said. “Don’t meet with victims, don’t apologize, don’t acknowledge.’ Other diocesan attorneys said, ‘Be a pastor. Do what’s right and we’ll handle it the rest of it.’”
The April 9 event, titled “How Law and Lawyers Help Hide and Uncover the Clergy Sexual Abuse Crisis,” was part of a month-long series of dialogues hosted by the Initiative on Catholic Social Thought and Public Life on the clerical sexual abuse crisis.
Carr moderated a four-person panel including Margaret Graf, the general legal counsel of the Archdiocese of Los Angeles since 2003; Tom Johnson, public advocate for sexual abuse victims in the St. Paul-Minneapolis archdiocese; Peter Steinfels, a former religion reporter for the New York Times; and Barbara Thorp, former director of the Office for Pastoral Support and Child Protection of the Archdiocese of Boston.
For decades, attorneys for survivors and the Church have played a large role in perpetuating the culture of secrecy surrounding sexual abuse, according to Johnson.
“Statutes that would require you report that abuse to law enforcement and take other actions are pretty much ignored,” Johnson said.
In January, the Council of the District of Columbia proposed a bill, currently under review, that would legally mandate pastors, rabbis and other clergy to report instances of child abuse or neglect. Under current D.C. law, teachers, school officials, medical professionals and daycare workers are mandated reporters, who are required to report incidents of abuse to the Metropolitan Police Department or to child protective services.
The Catholic Church used confidentiality agreements signed by victims pledging to remain in exchange for a small payoff to maintain this culture of secrecy, according to Johnson.
“Their silence was bought, and in the course of doing that, they actually became a player in a conspiracy to keep it silent,” Johnson said. “That damage to the victims was very significant.”
While civil law has provided an avenue for survivors to access support resources, canon law has yet to recognize to the same extent its responsibility to survivors of clerical abuse, according to Thorp.
“The canon law side of this is lagging far behind in terms of seeing itself as another opportunity to bring real healing and real confidence that the Church understands the depth of the harm and damage that’s done,” Thorp said. “The cases that have gone on appeal to the Vatican, there is no intention of resolving them.”
Collaboration between lawyers, clergy and survivors is imperative to finding legal solutions to the crisis, according to Graf.
“One of the big takeaways as we think about these issues and we talk today: we need to gather data, we need to consider best practices, but we need to look at it through the eyes of victim-survivors, not just through the eyes of the institutional church,” Graf said.
Lawyers for survivors have misused their influence by telling a story of the Church’s sexual abuse crisis that is at odds with reality, according to Steinfels. 
“Lawyers have also helped define and, I would argue, distort our understanding of the abuse scandal. We have a dominant storyline very much shaped by lawsuits, criminal cases, depositions and the media spiraling of lawyers,” Steinfels said
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

