
December 12, 2019 by Ashley Zhao Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University men’s basketball players Galen Alexander (COL ’21), Myron Gardner (COL ’23) and former forward Joshua LeBlanc (MSB ’22) resolved a complaint against them in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia on Dec. 9.
The civil complaint, which included allegations of burglary, sexual harassment and assault against a Georgetown student in an off-campus residence, was filed on Nov. 12. At the hearing, the defendants and the plaintiff agreed to a Consent Stay Away Order Without Admissions. This agreement, which will expire Dec. 9, 2020, states that Alexander, Gardner and LeBlanc cannot contact the plaintiff or her roommates in any manner and must stay at least 50 feet away from them and their home.
The agreement does not indicate any admission of guilt from the defendants, Gardner’s attorney Cynthia Goode Works said in an interview with The Washington Post. Alexander and LeBlanc chose to represent themselves in court, according to court documents.
Although the university cannot comment on specific student cases due to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, the university acknowledges the agreement, according to a university spokesperson.
“We are aware that four Georgetown students mutually agreed to sign a Consent Stay Away Order Without Admissions that will be in effect through Dec. 2020,” a university spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We understand that the judge specified that signing the order was not an admission of guilt from any party to the agreement.”
On Nov. 12, a student plaintiff filed a complaint against Gardner, alleging Gardner had sexually assaulted her at her home Sept. 15 and burglarized her home Sept. 16. The complaint also names Alexander and LeBlanc as participants in the burglary.
A Playstation 4, two controllers, a Nikon camera, a camera lens and a pair of shoes were reported stolen from the property, according to a Nov. 4 Metropolitan Police Report. 
The Nov. 12 complaint was one of two complaints filed against members of the men’s basketball team. A separate civil complaint filed Nov. 5 against Leblanc accuses him of burglary and of threatening physical harm against her and her roommate. The complaint names Alexander as an involved party in the burglary. 
On the same day, Nov. 5, the plaintiff applied for a temporary restraining order against Alexander and LeBlanc. The order was granted by the Superior Court of the District of Columbia on Nov. 14. 
The Dec. 9 complaint resolution comes after men’s basketball Head Coach Patrick Ewing (CAS ’85) announced Dec. 2 that LeBlanc and former player James Akinjo (COL ’22) would no longer play for the men’s basketball team for the remainder of the season. LeBlanc’s departure is separate from the allegations, which do not involve Akinjo, according to a Dec. 3 statement from Director of Intercollegiate Athletics Lee Reed.
Both Alexander and Gardner played in the Dec. 4 basketball game, assisting the Hoyas’ in their 81-74 victory at Oklahoma State University. The forwards also contributed to Georgetown’s 91-74 win at Southern Methodist University on Dec. 7. 
Alexander declined to comment about the resolved complaint. Gardner and LeBlanc did not respond to The Hoya’s requests for comment.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 12, 2019 by Kelly Anderson 1 Comment 
Georgetown University parent Karen Littlefair was the 53rd individual charged in the “Varsity Blues” college admissions scandal for conspiracy to commit wire fraud, according to a Dec. 9 news release from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts in Boston.
Court documents allege that Littlefair paid William “Rick” Singer’s for-profit college counseling business $9,000 to take online classes for Littlefair’s son James Littlefair (COL ’18) to satisfy his Georgetown graduation requirements. After his mother pleaded guilty, Littlefair resigned from his position as an advance staffer for Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, according to Politico. 
Karen Littlefair was charged with one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, which could result in a maximum of 20 years in prison, according to the news release. As part of Littlefair’s plea agreement, prosecutors recommended she receive four months in prison, one year of supervised release, a form of probation after Littlefair leaves prison, a fine of $9,500 and restitution in an amount to be determined by the court at sentencing, according to court documents. 
The U.S. Attorney’s office said Singer’s company completed four online classes for James Littlefair at Georgetown and elsewhere, according to the news release. Littlefair’s son used those credits to satisfy his Georgetown degree requirements and graduated from the university in May 2018.
The charges come as part of the ongoing “Varsity Blues” college scandal, a national college admissions investigation that has exposed alleged misconduct by parents who sought to improve their children’s college admissions chances. A March 12 Department of Justice indictment brought charges against five Georgetown parents and former Georgetown tennis coach Gordon Ernst in connection with the scheme. 
Georgetown reviewed the indictment to take appropriate action, former university spokesperson Matt Hill wrote in a March 18 email to The Hoya. The university discovered Littlefair’s misconduct through an internal investigation, according to university spokesperson Meghan Dubyak.
“During the University’s investigation of this matter following the March 2019 indictments, we learned of potential misconduct relating to one graduated student taking online courses,” Dubyak wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Our ongoing review process also informed several policy changes underway for online coursework at Georgetown.” 
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act prevents university officials from commenting on the specifics of any individual student’s case, and future actions the university may take against Littlefair’s son are unclear, according to Dubyak. However, when alumni are accused of Georgetown honor violations, the university Honor Council considers the case, she wrote. 
“When the University learns of a potential serious violation of the Honor System after a student has graduated, the Honor Council will investigate and adjudicate the case and may recommend sanctions up to and including the revocation of the student’s degree,” Dubyak wrote.
The college admissions scheme leader, Singer, pleaded guilty in March to multiple felony counts, including racketeering conspiracy March 12, according to the Boston Globe. His company helped other students gain admission to Georgetown, Stanford University and Yale University, among others. 
Georgetown previously dismissed two students whose parents were named in the March 12 indictment for their connection with the college admissions bribery scheme. The two were falsely designated to the Georgetown tennis team by Ernst. Ernst pleaded not guilty to racketeering conspiracy after allegedly accepting $2.7 million in bribes to designate 12 students to the tennis team to guarantee their admission to Georgetown. 
The Georgetown admissions office discovered irregularities in the athletic credentials of students when evaluating the applications of students being recruited to play tennis by Ernst. However, university officials were not aware of Ernst’s actions until they were contacted by the U.S. Attorney’s Office, according to Dubyak.
Four Georgetown parents accused of bribery and fraud changed their pleas from not guilty to guilty in a Boston federal court Oct. 21. 
The university has restructured or changed many policies surrounding online coursework offered at Georgetown, including online proctoring solutions and anti-plagiarism technologies, according to Dubyak.
“We have implemented or are in the process of implementing a number of additional measures to safeguard the security and [identity] of online course participants, including the development of a more robust learning management system that provides better access tools to prevent cheating, along with providing enhanced student learning data to help identify potentially inappropriate behavior,” Dubyak wrote.  
Both Littlefair’s attorney, Kenneth Julian, and a spokesperson for the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Boston declined to comment. 

LCHOYA says 
January 11, 2020 at 12:31 pm
A tennis scholarship… really?! Are any athletes actually paying tuition at Georgetown?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

