
April 4, 2019 by Harrison McBride Leave a Comment 
Bills proposing a new Smithsonian Institution museum that would highlight the contributions of women throughout U.S. history were introduced in both chambers of Congress on March 28. 
Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) introduced a bill in the U.S. Senate, and Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-N.Y.) introduced a bill in the U.S. House of Representatives.
Ten Republicans and 16 Democrats cosponsored the proposed legislation in the House, among them were Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R-Pa.), Rep. Brenda Lawrence (D-Mich.) and Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.). One senator, Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), cosponsored the upper chamber’s bill.
The establishment of the Smithsonian Women’s History Museum will bring to light the untold stories of women in U.S. history, Maloney wrote in a March 28 news release.
“The U.S. needs and deserves a comprehensive women’s history museum that will inspire men and women of all ages and for future generations,” Maloney wrote. “For too long, women who have made extraordinary contributions to our nation have been left out of the telling of our history.”
While the Smithsonian supports the idea of a women’s history museum, the institution does not currently have the necessary resources to create the museum, according to Linda St. Thomas, chief spokesperson for the Smithsonian.
“We support the idea behind it, which is to tell the stories of women in American history that have been sometimes overlooked or not brought out as much as we think it should be,” St. Thomas said in an interview with The Hoya. “However, as much as we agree with the ideas behind this new museum, we are not able to deal with new building right now.”
The Smithsonian is focused on two ongoing renovation plans, a $650 million project to overhaul the Air and Space Museum and an effort to remove mold and renovate the Smithsonian Institution Building, commonly known as the Smithsonian Castle, according to St. Thomas. The renovation project planned for the Air and Space Museum is set to be completed in the next six years and will also feature new exhibits.
Despite not having a separate museum on women’s history, the Smithsonian has developed exhibits and programs that are dedicated to the topic, St. Thomas said.
“You have exhibitions, programs, Votes for Women, a new exhibition that opened about suffrage at the Portrait Gallery and a book that’s coming out,” St. Thomas said. “So, we have a lot of programs and activities about women’s history and focused on women, but not a building.”
A legislative push for the museum comes after a bipartisan congressional commission was formed in December 2014 to determine the necessity, feasibility and potential content of the museum. The commission unanimously concluded that a women’s history museum was needed by the American people in a report to Congress in November 2016.
The national women’s history museum would recognize the past achievements of American women, Collins wrote in a March 29 news release.
“American women have made invaluable contributions to our country in every field, such as government, business, medicine, law, literature, sports, entertainment, the arts, and the military,” Collins wrote. “Telling the history of American women matters, and a museum recognizing these achievements and experiences is long overdue.”
Creation of the bipartisan commission followed similar legislative efforts in the 114th Congress led by Collins and Maloney along with former Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.) and then-Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.), who now serves as one of the senators for Tennessee.
The last museum created by the Smithsonian, the African American History Museum, was completed in 2016 after a 13-year process sparked by similar legislation proposed the museum’s construction.
Should the bill pass Congress and be signed by President Donald Trump, the museum would need new legislation to determine funding and appropriations for the museum. After the bill passes, the Smithsonian could then begin planning for the museum’s location and eventual construction, according to St. Thomas.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 4, 2019 by Erika Gebhardt Leave a Comment 
Income inequality and the influence of corporate lobbyists in politics have caused a societal decline in the United States, said Chris Hedges, a Pulitzer Prize winner and former New York Times reporter, Monday.
Hedges served as a foreign correspondent for The New York Times for 15 years, resigning after receiving a reprimand from The Times for publicly criticizing the Iraq war in 2003. In 2002, Hedges received a Pulitzer Prize for explanatory reporting as part of a Times reporting team that profiled global terrorism both before and after the September 11 terrorist attacks.
After leaving The Times, Hedges became a senior fellow at the Nation Institute, a nonprofit media organization, and a weekly columnist for online news website Truthdig. Hedges has also written 14 books since 2002.
The discussion on Monday focused on Hedge’s latest book, America: The Farewell Tour, which was published last August. The Farewell Tour explores the detrimental effects of corporate influence in politics and flawed democracy on society.
Increasing economic disparity between middle class Americans and the corporate elite has closed off opportunities for the middle class, according to Hedges.
“The old rules, imperfect and often untrue for poor people of color, nevertheless were not a complete fiction in the United States,” Hedges said. “They offered Americans, especially those from the white, working and middle class modest social and economic advancement.”
The wealthiest one percent held 66.7 percent of the wealth in the United States in 2016, compared to 54.6 percent in 1962, while the share held by the bottom 90 percent has dropped to 21.2 percent, according to Inequality.org, a project of the think tank Institute for Policy Studies.
The growing income inequality is one reason that leaders such as President Donald Trump gained popularity, though impeaching Trump would not resolve the disparity, Hedges said.
“Removing Trump from office without confronting the rulelessness that defines the lives of tens of millions of Americans would do nothing to restore our democracy,” Hedges said. “In fact, it would probably consolidate the power of a Christianized fascism that cloaks itself in a false morality.”
The war in former Yugoslavia, where demagogues pandered to the ethnic biases of an enraged population, was another example of decay of social order observed in his reporting, according to Hedges, who covered the war in former Yugoslavia while serving as the bureau chief of the Balkans from 1995 to 1998. 
“Demagogues, and I saw this in Yugoslavia, arise from failed democracies plagued by rulelessness,” Hedges said. “They tell an enraged population what it wants to hear and crudely, to the delight of the betrayed, ridicule the elites who sold them out.”
Held in the Intercultural Center Auditorium, the event was hosted by the Lecture Fund as the organization’s 11th annual Michael E. Jurist Memorial Lecture. The memorial lecture series is held every year to honor the legacy of the late Michael Jurist (SFS ’07), who worked as Lecture Fund chair from 2006 to 2007. Previous speakers in this series have included former White House photographer Pete Souza in 2018 and Ezra Klein, the CEO of U.S. news and opinion website Vox, in 2016.
Isabelle Hupez (SFS ’19), vice chair of finance for the Lecture Fund, highlighted Jurist’s commitment to promoting free speech in her introduction.
“As the chair of the organization, Michael shaped the mission of the Lecture Fund with his unwavering faith in the power of free speech and dialogue,” Hupez said. “That mission carries on today.”
Corporate lobbyists also exacerbate climate change and are unlikely to change their practices without pressure, according to Hedges. Hedges urged attendees to engage in nonviolent acts of civil disobedience to halt production in capital cities until the issue of climate change is addressed.
“We must, in wave after wave, carry out non-violent acts of civil disobedience to shut down the capital cities of major industrial countries, cripple commerce and transportation until the ruling elites are forced to publicly state the truth about climate catastrophe, implement radical measures to hold climate emissions by 2025, and empower citizens free of corporate control to terminate our binge on fossil fuels,” Hedges said.
Humanity has until 2030 to stop the irreparable effects of climate change that occur over 1.5 degrees celsius of warming, according to a report by the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change released in October. Despite this short timeframe, mitigating the effects may still be possible, according to Hedges.
“The more we free ourselves from the bondage of fear, to throw up barriers to the forced march towards ecocide, the more we will be evolved by a strange kind of euphoria, one I often felt as a war correspondent documenting horrific atrocities and suffering to shame the killers,” Hedges said. “We obliterate in the acts of our defiance, despair.”
This article was updated April 4 to correct Hupez’s position in the Lecture Fund.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 4, 2019 by Meredith Miller 1 Comment 
A new masters program in global infectious disease is set to launch in fall 2019. The program intends to bridge the gap between the science of infectious diseases and its public policy implications, according to the program’s website.
“Better integrating emerging infectious disease science concepts into political and social problem solving is a serious challenge that must be met,” the program website says. “Of equal importance is the growing appreciation that infectious disease scientists must become more ‘policy literate’ if they are to contribute more effectively.”
In 2016, infectious diseases were five of the top 10 causes of death in low-income countries and three out of the top 10 causes of death worldwide.
The program will be divided into two concentrations: science policy and infectious disease modeling. Prospective students apply directly to each concentration. Though the concentrations have different core curricula, they will both require a foundational knowledge of science and math and will overlap in coursework.
Interdisciplinary analysis is crucial to finding effective solutions to disease outbreaks, according to Steven Singer, a biology professor who will co-direct the program.
“Real solutions often arise out of bringing multidisciplinary perspective to a problem,” Singer said in an interview with The Hoya. “Understanding the biology and chemistry of the pathogen and the host interaction is important for developing the right interventions.”
Within the policy concentration, students will focus on on international, economic and security policy as they relate to infectious disease and global health.
The modeling concentration will focus on data analysis and effectively utilizing data. It will be the only masters-level program in the United States to deal specifically with infectious disease modeling, according to the program’s website.
The new program comes after the university board of directors approved the creation of a masters program in bioinformatics, another field of study that uses computational tools to tackle scientific questions, in February.
The Center for Global Health Science and Security, a research center dedicated to studying public health emergencies established in 2016, also currently offers a doctorate program in global infectious disease. The addition of a masters program will better prepare students from undergraduate programs in global health for the workforce and bridge the gap between undergraduate and doctoral studies, according to Singer.
The program specifically intends to cultivate an expertise directly applicable to students’ professional careers, according to Rebecca Katz, who will be co-director of the program and currently serves as director of the Center for Global Health Science and Security.
“This is master’s level training that will provide a discrete set of skills that can be taken into the work world,” Katz said in an interview published by Georgetown’s Global Health Initiative, which fosters collaboration between students and faculty members to help address health challenges in the world. 
The program plans to accept approximately 10 students in its inaugural class and intends to expand to an average class size of 30 to 40 graduate students, according to Singer.
Program Director Felice Apter said she is eager for the first class of students in the new masters program to arrive on campus in the fall, now that the first round of applications closed Monday.
“As the director of the program, I very much look forward to welcoming our inaugural students with a great set of orientation activities to introduce them to Georgetown and to encourage a close-knit student community,” Apter said in an interview published by the Global Health Initiative.

Fiona says 
July 14, 2020 at 8:25 am
I am interested in the epidemiology of infectious diseases. Should I apply to the Infectious Diseases or the Epidemiology/Biostatistics Program? And also let me know what is your minimum GRE score requirement?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

