
November 1, 2019 by Katrina Schmidt and Cady Stanton 1 Comment 
Georgetown University Student Association President Norman Francis Jr. (COL ’20) and Vice President Aleida Olvera (COL ’20) are hard-set on achieving their campaign promise of institutional reform, whether these goals come to fruition during or after their terms as executives.
Focusing on the transparency and accessibility of their administration, Francis and Olvera have worked toward fulfilling their campaign priorities laid out earlier this year. In their term, the executives have attempted to implement change within their positions while also focusing on laying a framework for the president and vice president to come after them. 
Francis and Olvera were elected in February with 51% of the vote in the final round of voting. The pair’s election cycle saw a voter turnout of 32%, or 2,185 students casting votes: the lowest voter turnout in a GUSA executive election since 2007, which saw 2,121 votes.
Halfway through their term as GUSA executives, Francis and Olvera sat down for an interview with The Hoya on Oct. 27 to reflect on their administration’s accomplishments, their expectations for the rest of their term and long-standing issues on campus, including the GU272 referendum.
Transparency and Accessibility 
During their campaign for the executive seats earlier this year, Francis and Olvera ran on a platform of “T.R.A.P.”: transparency, reform, accessibility and progress.
To increase the transparency and accessibility of the administration, the pair has implemented two new online platforms for the organization — bitly.com/gusa-library and bitly.com/gusa-comment — for the student body to use. 
The executives created the first online platform, which publishes all meeting notes and executive press releases, to distribute their administration’s work, while the second serves as a place to receive student feedback.
“That’s one of the big things that we launched that not a lot of people know about,” Olvera said. “We could probably do a better job of publicizing it. That’s something that we really, really wanted to focus on around transparency.”
Staying true to its campaign priorities throughout the rest of its term remains the goal of the administration, according to Olvera. 
“We haven’t lost touch with what we ran on, and I think it’s been really great that we’ve actually continued doing that same work we were doing when we were campaigning,” Olvera said.  
GU272 and Relationship With University Administration 
Since the outset of their term, Francis and Olvera have been outspoken supporters of the GU272 referendum, which was first designed and proposed to GUSA by the GU272 Advocacy Team, an on-campus student group that raises awareness for descendants. The student referendum, which passed in April, calls on Georgetown University to raise tuition by $27.20, a semesterly fee designated to benefit the descendents of the GU272, the 272 enslaved people sold by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus in 1838 to financially sustain the university.
The university announced a new reconciliation initiative Oct. 30 supporting community-based projects with GU272 descendants, including an advisory board designated to back new projects under the advisement of the descendant communities. The initiative will not implement the semesterly fee outlined in the student referendum.
The pair have set monthly meetings with Joseph Ferrara, university vice president and the point of contact for the university’s work on the referendum, according to Olvera. The executives have kept the GU272 Advocacy Team in the loop during these meetings and have invited them to send a representative to the discussions with Ferrara.
The executives support the university’s efforts toward reconciliation but voiced concerns that student perspectives will not be properly considered in this initiative, the pair wrote in an Oct. 31 statement to The Hoya.
“As undergraduate students, we voted to pay for this fund, and we were expecting to be able to have representatives from our body be a part of this fund and its allocation process,” the executives wrote in the statement. 
In meetings with administrators, Francis and Olvera have frequently brought the referendum to the attention of the board of directors with the hope that they will prioritize student perspectives on the topic, according to Francis.
“We’ve been very adamant, especially in our meetings with admin, about bringing this up as much as possible, since the students are overwhelmingly supporting this initiative,” Francis said. 
While grabbing administrators’ attention can be a challenge, the pair is looking for creative ways to encourage action on the part of the university’s administration by increasing the intensity of their requests, according to Olvera.
“The work that we’ve been doing for it has been, you know, taking advantage of the position that we’re in to bring it up to the people that matter the most,” Olvera said. “When we start yelling is usually the time that people will pay attention. Administration can be kind of a pain to work with, but what we’ve been doing is just yelling — yelling louder.”
Partnering With Student Groups
Francis and Olvera touted their outreach to a range of student groups, both to work on specific policy initiatives and to discuss how GUSA can help these organizations achieve their goals. 
The pair has met in an official capacity with 28 student organizations, including Students of Georgetown, Inc., commonly referred to as The Corp, Georgetown United Against Police Aggression and H*yas for Choice, according to Francis and Olvera. The pair recontacted groups with which they have not yet had the opportunity to meet this week after discussing the topic during their interview with The Hoya, according to Francis and Olvera. 
Francis and Olvera encourage their policy chairs and other team members to reach out to relevant student groups to collaborate on initiatives. Currently, their administration is working with Hoya Blue, a student group that promotes student athletics, on an initiative to light Healy Hall blue when Georgetown wins athletic events, as well as with The Corp on an effort to sell nicotine alternatives on campus. 
Working Across GUSA
While broad campus outreach to student groups has been a primary goal for Francis and Olvera, improving internal relationships — particularly between the GUSA executive and the senate — is another key aim. 
The senate and executive have previously had a sharp divide both professionally and personally, according to Francis and Olvera. The executive pair has worked to bridge that gap, attempting to collaborate on policy and planning social events for both bodies.
Recent discord between GUSA branches, however, has demonstrated that differences still exist. Last week, the senate voted to dissolve the GUSA Fund, an executive-nominated committee that historically distributed a small part of the GUSA budget on an as-needed basis to student groups. Francis and Olvera opposed the move, though they said they intend to sign the bill to honor the senate’s vote. 
“While we were really disappointed to see that the senate didn’t agree that [the GUSA Fund] would fall under us, one thing that we are really pushing forward is to see how we can continue the reform through the senate,” Olvera said. 
The senate and executive leadership teams have had a positive working relationship this year, according to Senate Speaker Juan Martinez (SFS ’20). But Martinez, who served as GUSA president for six months in the previous term, noted that he could not elaborate on other senators’ experiences. 
Martinez encouraged senators to be more engaged in their own policy projects this term, which may contribute to the senate’s independence this year. 
“I do not believe the blame for the lack of coordination falls on Norman, Aleida or myself, but rather on the structure of GUSA that currently exists,” Martinez wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
In recent months, students have voiced a general distrust and apathy with GUSA, and a student poll by The Hoya in February found that only 2% of respondents rated their trust in GUSA as strong. Francis and Olvera have made conscious steps for reform that they intend to pass on to the next executive, setting a framework for institutional change they see will outlast their term. 
While bureaucratic red tape, particularly from the university administration, often limits policy progress, Francis and Olvera hope the changes they have made to the executive’s accessibility and transparency are moving GUSA in the right direction. 
“We want student voices to be involved in the conversations that matter,” Francis said. 

1Vote Closer says 
November 9, 2022 at 8:27 pm
Thank you for sharing this interesting and informative essay. This is quite beneficial. I value your heartfelt written piece.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2019 by Myroslav 2 Comments 
Georgetown University will launch an initiative supporting community-based projects with GU272 descendants after a student referendum in April voted in favor of a reconciliation fund to benefit the descendants.
The initiative, which will include an advisory board composed of faculty, students, alumni staff and descendants, will support new projects focused on education, research and service under the advisement of the descendant communities, University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95) announced in a campuswide email Tuesday. However, the initiative will not incorporate the fee proposed by the April student referendum.
In addition to the primary projects of the initiative, the university will also form two additional advisory groups to continue the university’s academic and research initiatives and public history efforts, two university projects focused on expanding understanding and memorializing Georgetown’s history as it relates to slavery.
“This work will be grounded in our academic mission of education, research, and service; will provide opportunities for student leadership; and will be guided by extensive consultation and engagement with Descendants,” DeGioia wrote.
In April, 66.1% of students voted “yes” on the GU272 referendum, which called for Georgetown administrators to add a $27.20 semesterly fee to students’ tuition. The fee would establish a fund to benefit descendants of the GU272, the 272 enslaved people sold by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus in 1838 to financially sustain the university. The referendum had a 57.9% turnout — the highest turnout in recorded student government electoral history. 
The university plans to establish the initiative without implementing the semesterly fee, but funding for the new program will be comparable to or higher than the amount that would have been raised by the proposed fee, according to DeGioia. 
“The University will ensure that the initiative has resources commensurate with, or exceeding, the amount that would have been raised annually through the student fee proposed in the Referendum, with opportunities for every member of our community to contribute,” DeGioia wrote.
Before deciding on the details of the initiative, the university held conversations with Georgetown’s board of directors, the descendants, alumni, faculty, student leaders and staff on the ideas put forth in the referendum, according to the email. Projects will be funded beginning next fall, matching the timeline outlined in the April referendum.
The GU272 Advocacy Team, an on-campus student group that raises awareness for descendants and created the referendum, said the proposed initiative delegitimizes and undermines student effort.
“The decision outlined by President DeGioia, as detailed in the statement released, was made without student or descendant input and directly negates the wishes of the 2541 students who voted in favor of the referendum,” the group wrote in a Facebook statement. “The suggested action, including the proposed advisory group, contains no clear criteria, accountability measures, or transparency with regards to construction or implementation.”
The university’s announcement came as a surprise to Georgetown University Student Association President Norman Francis Jr. (COL ’20) and Vice President Aleida Olvera (COL ’20), who had both engaged in discussions with the Georgetown administration after the April referendum.
“Despite months of meetings and talks, this is the first that many of us are hearing about this advisory group and while we like the fact that action is being taken, we ultimately want the actions described in the referendum,” Francis and Olvera wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The fund should be mandatory and not voluntary because this is a debt that we need to repay and the undergraduate student body voted to pay for it.”
Earlier this month, students protested during on-campus meetings of Georgetown’s board of directors. The board held at least three meetings that week — both with and without student representatives — during which members discussed the referendum’s results but did not provide a concrete timeline regarding the next steps. 
The board held similar discussions at its June meeting, which also resulted in no concrete timeline. Georgetown is not obligated to enact the results of student referenda and thus is not bound to enact the fee.
The university has met some of the recommendations outlined in the 2016 report by the Working Group on Slavery, Memory and Reconciliation, which was formed in fall 2015 by the university to facilitate dialogue in the Georgetown community about the legacies of slavery. 
The advisory group and future efforts toward reconciliation will attempt to center descendant narratives as the project moves forward, according to DeGioia.
“All of these steps will be taken with the deepest respect and consideration of Descendant perspectives and while ensuring that the process of Dialogue underway continues to be supported and prioritized,” DeGioia wrote.
In September 2019, the university began a search for candidates to work as the librarian for Collections on Slavery, Memory and Reconciliation, started the effort to hire an archivist focusing on the Maryland Province of Jesuits and issued an apology for the sale of the 272 enslaved people in 2017.
The university’s decision to commit resources to the new initiative presents an opportunity for members of the Georgetown community to make a positive contribution, according to professor Adam Rothman, who served on the working group and is the curator of the Georgetown Slavery Archive.
“It will be exciting to see what develops and how students join into collaborations with the descendant community,” Rothman wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I think that faculty can play an important role by designing curriculum to foster learning, reflection, and action that draws from and is inspired by our history and that of the GU272 descendant community.”
This article was updated on Nov. 1 to include additional comments regarding the university’s announcement. 

Jim says 
October 30, 2019 at 10:55 pm
If there is no semesterly fee, where is the money coming from?

Mr. Brink says 
November 5, 2019 at 5:43 am
” Stupid is as stupid does”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2019 by Grace Buono Leave a Comment 
John Carroll Weekend, an annual alumni celebration set to take place April 16 to 19, 2020, will no longer be held in Hong Kong as a result of the city’s ongoing political unrest.
The Georgetown University Alumni Association announced its decision to move the four-day event in an Oct. 23 update on the JCW website. Though the celebration, which is open to all alumni, will no longer be held in Hong Kong, JCW is still set to take place the same weekend. The university has not yet announced the new location.
JCW typically features city tours, dozens of educational panels and social events. The weekend culminates with a banquet, celebrating the recipients of the John Carroll Award and Patrick Healy Award, which are awarded to alumni whose achievements exemplify the ideals of Georgetown and its founder, John Carroll. While JCW has been held across the United States and internationally in cities like Rome and Madrid, the event has never been hosted in Asia.
After a successful international alumni reunion in Hong Kong in 2015 and other regional Georgetown events, bringing JCW to Asia was the next step, according to Executive Director of the Alumni Association Julia Farr (CAS ’88). 
“We have been developing our relationship with our community in Asia for many years,” Farr said in an interview with The Hoya. “This is a great time where we can go and have a wider celebration.”
Joan Shang (SFS ’08), the president of the Hong Kong chapter of the Alumni Club, wrote that she was eager to share her city with fellow alumni. 
“I was quite happy for the opportunity to present my city to my fellow Hoyas from all over the world, though also quite aware of the logistical challenges of planning an event from halfway across the world,” Shang wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The Hong Kong weekend was expecting 1,200 alumni from across all of Georgetown’s nine graduate and undergraduate schools. But, over the past few months, alumni began notifying the Alumni Association that they would no longer attend the event given the ongoing political protests in Hong Kong, which have continued since June, according to Farr.
Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam introduced legislation in February that would allow criminal suspects to be extradited from Hong Kong to mainland China, igniting massive protests across the city. Lam has since withdrawn the bill, but protestors continue to call for institutional reforms in Hong Kong, such as addressing police brutality and increasing democratic freedom. 
Ultimately, the event was canceled because of the logistical challenges that the uncertain political environment posed for an event of this size, according to Farr.
“We don’t know what will be happening in April 2020,” Farr said. “With great hope that this subsides for their community, but without knowing how things were going to be one way or the other, again logistically, and knowing that very fact could be influencing our alumni not to be going — that is why we couldn’t go forward.”
First held in 1952, JCW has grown from a single regional awards dinner to a multiday international event. An event of this size takes up to two years of planning, according to Farr. The 2019 JCW in Boston included over 75 different programs for alumni to attend, including walking tours and panels led by esteemed university leaders and faculty. 
Given the ongoing protests, Shang understands the university’s decision. 
“As this is a global event we are expecting people to fly in from across the world, and while local residents are quite used to the inconveniences of the protest, it would be too much to expect international speakers and visitors to accommodate those inconveniences,” Shang wrote. 
The recent political turmoil in Hong Kong has also spurred discourse on Georgetown’s campus. In early September, anonymous writers left chalk messages supporting ongoing Hong Kong protests in Red Square, leading to a series of back-and-forth notes debating Hong Kong’s relationship with China. 
In the wake of the chalk debate, Hong Kong native and second-year doctoral student in the department of history Jeffrey Ngo advocated for continued public demonstrations at a Sept. 25 event hosted by the department of history.
The decision to relocate JCW did not come as a surprise, according to Shang, given the unrest and impact it has had on events planned in the city. 
“To be honest, all kinds of events have been cancelling left right and centre since mid July,” Shang wrote. “It has constantly been at the back of our minds that this might happen. However, there was always the faint hope that compromises might be made and things might calm down sooner rather than later, for the sake of our city, but so far this has sadly not been the case.”
JCW has taken place every year since the event’s creation in 1952. The Alumni Association plans to hold a future JCW in Hong Kong, according to the Oct. 23 online announcement regarding the weekend.
“We are grateful to the Georgetown community in Hong Kong, whose members have been enthusiastic and thoughtful partners from the moment we set our sights on the city as a John Carroll Weekend location,” the announcement read. “It remains our intention to hold John Carroll Weekend in Hong Kong in the future.”
Other alumni programming will continue to take place in Hong Kong throughout the year, Farr said. 
“We’re deeply committed to our alumni in Asia,” Farr said. “We’re going back. And when it’s the right time, we’ll plan for this again.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2019 by Jaime Moore-Carrillo 17 Comments 
Two prominent local government leaders recently penned letters opposing Call Your Mother’s planned opening at the corner of 35th and O streets, despite an earlier vote to allow the deli to operate in the residential neighborhood. 
Georgetown’s Advisory Neighborhood Commission 2E Commissioner Rick Murphy and Washington, D.C. Councilmember Jack Evans (D-Ward 2) wrote to the Board of Zoning Adjustment calling for the denial of a pending zoning application that would allow the deli’s opening. The BZA, which approves exceptions to zoning rules, was scheduled to hear the deli’s case Wednesday.
On Wednesday, the zoning board postponed its ruling to Dec. 4 to gather more information on how Call Your Mother, which already has a popular Petworth location, could address concerns, according to the deli’s founder and owner Andrew Dana. 
“Obviously we wished they had made a decision yesterday because we are paying rent on the space and have already hired some people for this,” Dana said in a Thursday interview with The Hoya. “We promise we’re going to be good neighbors, and this worst-case scenario that the neighbors are worried about is simply not going to happen.”  
Four residents who live near the intersection also wrote to the BZA in opposition to the deli’s opening. However, five supporters submitted letters expressing their approval of the project. 
The Georgetown ANC 2E voted 6-2 on Oct. 3 to allow Call Your Mother to open its second location two blocks from Georgetown University’s front gates. However, as a restaurant, Call Your Mother requires a zoning variance — an exception to the zoning guidelines — for the 3428 O Street NW location, which is considered to be in a residential neighborhood. 
Murphy and Joe Gibbons, who Murphy says supports his letter’s argument, were the two ANC commissioners who voted against recommending that the deli be issued its 10-year variance. The variance would allow the deli to operate in the R-20 residential zone, Georgetown’s protected residential and historical area, and must be ratified by the BZA.
The popular bagel deli had previously hoped to open its second storefront this October on the ground floor of a bright pink two-story building that formerly housed GreenWorks Florist. 
GreenWorks closed in late May, according to The Georgetowner. Though it still owns the building, GreenWorks has moved its inventory to other locations, according to a company spokesperson. 
Call Your Mother’s opening would degrade residential life in the neighborhood, Murphy wrote in his Oct. 22 letter. 
“The issuance of the requested variance would inevitably have a negative effect on the quality of life of the residents in the near vicinity,” Murphy wrote. 
He argued that the deli would fit best in a designated commercial zone.
“If Call Your Mother were planning to move to a location on or near Wisconsin Avenue or M Street that is zoned for commercial use, I would be leading a brass band to greet them,” Murphy wrote in an email to The Hoya. “As it is, Call Your Mother is asking to be permitted to open in a zone that was created ‘to retain the quiet residential character’ of the neighborhood.”
Murphy’s Oct. 22 letter came on the heels of a similar letter Oct. 17 from Evans, who represents Georgetown. 
The hit deli, recently listed on Bon Appetit’s top 50 nominees for best new restaurants nationwide, would attract unwanted disturbances, according to Evans. 
“Large crowds will mean that sidewalks will be blocked by customers. Large crowds will also mean there will be more trash which will inevitably attract rats,” Evans wrote. “This business requires frequent truck delivery of goods needed to keep the shop supplied. This, along with customers who drive to the location, will result in more traffic congestion.”
Evans also recommended that the restaurant be relocated to a commercial space, but Dana contends that locations on Wisconsin Avenue are unaffordable for the budget-friendly Call Your Mother, according to The Georgetowner. 
Other commissioners expressed excitement for the deli’s arrival to the neighborhood. Call Your Mother’s opening at the intended location would greatly benefit students in the area, according to Commissioner Matias Burdman (COL ’21).
“Call Your Mother bagels would provide a cheap, quick, and high quality dining alternative for students who otherwise struggle to find good and affordable food in the neighborhood,” Burdman wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Furthermore, I believe that although the concerns of the neighbors are valid, many of them can be mitigated by measures such as frequent trash collection and modified delivery hours (the owner of Call Your Mother expressed his willingness to do both).”
Call Your Mother will focus on minimizing the impact of noise and trash it generates on the community when it opens, according to Dana. 
“We are constantly thinking through how we can take and fulfill orders as fast as possible to cut down on any potential lines, and we will go above and beyond to ensure there are no noise, or trash impacts,” Dana wrote in a message to The Hoya. “All I can say is we hope to figure out a solution ASAP.”
This article was updated Nov. 1 to reflect the results of the Oct. 30 hearing.

Prof BC says 
October 29, 2019 at 9:27 pm
For one thing, we should do the opposite of whatever Jack Evans wants. Second, professors would like more food–and bagel!–options near campus!

SaxbysHasBagels says 
October 30, 2019 at 3:30 am
Hey lazy professor- Walk across the street to Saxby’s, which already sells bagels, if that’s what you want.
There is no need for this establishment!

Jack Hoya says 
November 1, 2019 at 11:41 am
Saxby’s bagels are not good.

WhySoRude says 
November 1, 2019 at 12:09 pm
Except Saxby’s bagels are not very good and Call Your Mother is both higher quality as well as better value. Why be so rude to call a stranger lazy?

Megan says 
October 30, 2019 at 8:17 am
Call your Mother will be a great addition to our neighborhood!! I wish them luck and hope they open their doors soon!!! Georgetown needs good businesses to keep our neighborhood thriving and safe!!

Prof AEL says 
October 30, 2019 at 8:20 am
As someone who lives in the neighborhood, I second Prof BC on both points.

JR says 
October 30, 2019 at 11:50 am
Lovely intersection of many GT traditions here – speaking as a property owner and longtime resident:
– The usual mostly elderly busybodies who complain about everything and want to live in a retirement home rather than an actual community. Historic preservation and keeping away bulldozer “development” is one thing, but rallying against a bagel shop?
– The unholy alliance of mega-sized commercial property landlords and national mega-corps (especially the f***ing banks) who’ve turned the Wisc. and M commercial zones into one giant 3D billboard, unaffordable for anyone who can’t borrow at negative rates in the bond market. So sure, let’s turn away an actual shop, maybe Chase can put in some ATMs instead – no crowds or rats!

Peter says 
October 31, 2019 at 3:06 pm
The last thing we need is one of these Millennial, “disruptive,” “fad of the moment” things in Georgetown.  Once the owners of the building realize the business is successful, they’ll try to jack the rent just like the Wisconsin Ave. owners have.  I’m not sure why you’re so confident they won’t.  Then it will be too late and with the variance already granted for the property, we’ll end up with a Five Guys or some other disgusting nonsense.  We already have Wawa and Seven-Eleven on Wisconsin.  It would be fun to believe, as some do, that this is a feel good DC-based local bagelry that we’re all supporting and, I’m sure, somehow also helping to save the planet.  The reality is rarely as rosy.  The neighborhood already has a serious rodent problem.  A new and readily available food source is unlikely to help abate that.  Not to mention the attendant congestion, traffic and safety issues.  And, for the record, I’m not an elderly busybody.  I’m a person with a family who bought a house on P Street in reliance on the fact that the area was zoned primarily for residential purposes with a bit of retail.  And, my house was priced accordingly.  So, be as dismissive as you want, but there are myriad legitimate reasons not to allow the bagel shop there.

Dave Clark says 
October 30, 2019 at 8:49 pm
As a resident of the neighborhood, I welcome Call Your Mother to the 35th Street location.  For starters, that whole block is objectively NOT composed of quiet residential streets.  It is full of students, tourists, and professionals, throughout the day, all of whom are hungry.  Second, the immediate residents live in the CITY, y’all.  The CITY has noises and smells.  You don’t like it, move to Potomac, imo.  Third, Georgetown has been losing the vibrancy that it has always been known for, dating back decades and decades.  “Rent too high” on Wisconsin Avenue killed it.  Call Your Mother would play its own small role in bringing back the life to the neighborhood that should never have left.  Fourth, good riddance, Jack Evans.

Peter says 
October 31, 2019 at 12:04 pm
This will be just as bad as, or worse than, the Georgetown cupcake people who loiter in the street and block traffic on 33d Street.  The substantial residential construction already creates rodent problems that we deal with incessantly.  This place will be a mess of pedestrians,cars and scooters.  Also, I’m from NY.  How good could their bagels really be?

Thomas says 
November 1, 2019 at 1:35 pm
Call Your Mother is in Park View, not Petworth.

DC Resident says 
November 1, 2019 at 5:14 pm
Georgetown NIMBYs are the most notorious NIMBYs in all of DC. Sad. Bring on the bagels and ignore Jack Evans!

DC Resident says 
November 1, 2019 at 5:15 pm
Ok, boomer.

Margaret (Peggy Sands) Orchowski says 
November 2, 2019 at 5:30 pm
The far South West side of Georgetown since its earliest days has been defined by the presence And dominance if  its 200 year old Trinity Catholic church and vibrant school, and by the globally famous historically significant extensive jesuit university campus  Georgetown. The “quaint residential neighborhood” described by homeowners opposing the bagel shop, is actually nestled in among America’s most pretugioys (and expensive) catholuc educational institutions. It is a college neighborhood no matter how quaint and quiet high end realtors hype the sales ads for the mostly attached  $1 M+ townhouses therein, few with garages snd only street parking in the hood.     Increasingly those town houses are owned and maintained (beautifully) by  GTUniversity, a fact which also ups the value of the neighborhoid.. No one who visits this part of Georgetown would ever consider it to be  a quiet residential neighborhood. Some honest realism is needed here as well as firm regulations and vigilence  that this wonderful collegei town not become a commercial zone w big box stores.

Kaye says 
November 6, 2019 at 8:57 am
Another Georgetown West Village property owner here and would love Call Your Mother in the neighborhood. 
Call Your Mother – please post information on how we can write letters, or sign a petition in support. Good luck!

LD says 
November 12, 2019 at 8:34 pm
Hi there! We wanted thank those of you for your support of CYM in DC, especially Georgetown!  Anyone wishing to send letters of support can do so by emailing: [email protected].
Thank you and we look forward to serving you soon!

Not a NIMBY says 
November 24, 2019 at 10:45 am
YOU can no longer send letters of support!  The file is supposed to be CLOSED, but once again Mr. Dana is out misrepresenting things
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2019 by Ella Hetfield Leave a Comment 
Former presidential candidate Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) emphasized the importance of diversifying political leaders and supporting legislation to ensure equality at an event in the Reiss Science Building on Oct. 30.
The event, titled “A Conversation with Senator Kirsten Gillibrand,” was presented by the department of women’s and gender studies, Georgetown University College Democrats, GU Women in Leadership and the GU Institute of Politics and Public Service. Donna Brazile, a political strategist who was the first African American woman to direct a major presidential campaign, and women’s and gender studies professor You-Me Park, moderated the event. 
Gillibrand dropped out of the 2020 Democratic presidential nominee race two months ago after she failed to qualify for the third debate. Gillibrand was optimistic as she reflected on her failed presidential campaign, noting the importance of unifying Americans.
“I was not able to win the nomination, but I learned a lot and what I learned is that there is far more that binds us than what divides us,” Gillibrand said. “I will be able to bring those ideas back to the U.S. Senate, bring people together, get things done.”
Throughout the event, Gillibrand emphasized the need for greater diversity in American politics, with a focus on women’s representation. In 2012, Gillibrand founded Off The Sidelines, a leadership PAC that works to recruit, mentor and finance women to run for political office. The national program has raised nearly $5 million to provide women candidates with the resources they need to win, according to the organization’s website.
The gap between the number of male and female politicians is that women are often more hesitant to enter the field, Gillibrand said. This disparity means encouraging women to run for office is incredibly important, according to Gillibrand.
“What I’ve learned over time is what it takes is asking women to run, telling them your ideas and your values and your priorities matter,” Gillibrand said.
Though some see holding political office and balancing family demands as a barrier to being in office, these demands have allowed her to become a better advocate for her constituents, according to Gillibrand.
“A lot of times I get really angry or emotional or compassionate about an issue because I imagine it happening to my kids,” Gillibrand said. “It strengthens me, it makes me a better legislator and I think it creates more common ground with people in my state so I can represent everyone’s family as if they were my own.”
Gillibrand, who has been a member of Congress since 2007, faced barriers and discrimination as one of the few female freshmen members of Congress. Many of her male colleagues made comments about her appearance, her pregnancy and her exercise habits, according to Gillibrand.
“Women are really penalized. Whether someone is commenting on you favorably or negatively, it undermines you,” Gillibrand said. “Because when your looks are being commented on, then your ideas, policies and statements aren’t.”
Gillibrand said her mother’s role as an attorney for members of the gay community in her hometown of Albany, N.Y., inspired her to advocate for legislation for LGBTQ equality. 
The senator worked heavily on repealing the military’s “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy, which was in place from 1994 through 2010 and barred openly gay individuals from serving in the armed forces but prevented discrimination against those who were closeted.
As one of the first statewide elected leaders in New York to support gay marriage, Gillibrand continues to fight for equality through her work on the Equality Act and the Violence Against Women Act. Both pieces of legislation have passed through the majority-Democrat House of Representatives but have been blocked in the Republican-controlled Senate. Gillibrand hopes to pass these bills by flipping the Senate to be majority Democrat in the 2020 election.
While Gillibrand has not endorsed a presidential candidate, Gillibrand plans to before the New York primary.
“I am very proud of my Democratic colleagues. I am very grateful that all of them feel that this is a mission and an urgency to run and to take on Trump,” Gillibrand said. “Obviously all of them are a billion times better than Trump, so whoever our nominee is, they will be someone I can support and help and really try to make sure they get elected.”
Gillibrand would strongly consider accepting a cabinet position if a Democrat wins the presidency, she said. 
“I want to make a difference in people’s lives, and if I’m asked to serve in a different capacity than I have before, I will always consider it,” Gillibrand said. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2019 by Rachel Friedman Leave a Comment 
The McDonough School of Business concluded the first iteration of a new certificate this week in Rome for senior-level church leaders that combines management education and Jesuit teachings to promote ethical leadership.
The certificate in discerning leadership aims to provide senior church officials with the tools to become ethical and effective leaders and to increase their capacity to implement positive change through their organizations, according to the announcement. The program was developed in partnership with the General Curia of the Society of Jesus, the headquarters of the Jesuits, and Le Moyne College, a Jesuit college in Syracuse, N.Y. 
During two weeklong sessions held from May to October, participants took courses that focused on areas such as teamwork, building trust in one’s leadership and handling challenging conversations, according to a university news release Oct. 25.
Through an interdisciplinary approach, the program strives to demonstrate how spiritual and ethical considerations are vital components of effective leadership, according to Graduate School of Arts and Sciences professor Jeanine Turner, who taught in the inaugural program. 
“We often compartmentalize our spiritual life from our everyday work life and this course shows the importance of integrating both,” Turner wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The certificate’s value-based approach to leadership and education is reflective of Dean Paul Almeida’s goals for the MSB, according to management professor Brooks Holtom, who also taught in this year’s program.
“This program is an example of Dean Paul Almeida’s vision for the MSB to be ‘the best in the world AND the best for the world,’” Holtom wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
The certificate was also developed to address a lack of formal leadership education among church officials, Holtom said. Many of the program’s participants had little training in financial management practices or human capital development, according to Holtom.
The core curriculum focused on strategy, adaptive leadership, communication and discernment, and the Jesuit principle of leaving space for God to lead. In addition to the core classes, participants selected courses based on the unique leadership challenges they face within their positions, according to the news release. 
The curriculum aligned closely with the Jesuit values that guide Georgetown, according to Almeida. These values are inherently conducive to effective and ethical business practices, Almeida wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
“Whether you are leading a Fortune 500 company or a province of the Jesuits, care for others, diversity of thought, and contemplation are important tools for leading in a way that benefits the common good,” Almeida wrote.
Almeida is optimistic that the program’s participants will be equipped to make a positive impact in their positions with the tools they gain from the certificate, he wrote.
“We are hopeful that these women and men can return to their organizations around the world as stronger leaders who are more confident and empowered to make a difference,” Almeida wrote. 
Leaders should have the confidence to combine management and leadership skills with the moral and ethical values found within church teachings, according to John Dardis, S.J., general counsellor for discernment and apostolic planning at the General Curia of the Jesuits.
“The Church has so much to offer, so much wisdom that can be broadly applied when paired with modern business skills,” Dardis said in the news release. “We want to positively impact current and future generations of global leaders. We want to play our part in building a hope-filled future.”
While the certificate is currently only offered to senior-level church officials, the program’s leadership hopes to, one day, make it available to leaders in the broader business world. 
The certificate will be offered again next year, once again in partnership with the Jesuit Curia and Le Moyne, according to Almeida. The program is also currently working with the Esade Business & Law School in Spain to create a curriculum for Spanish speakers to reach a more diverse community of leaders and have an even greater global impact. 
Almeida hopes that the program’s impact does not end with the conclusion of the two weeks of study in Rome and encourages future collaboration among its participants.  
“In addition to learning from the program, our aim is to unite a strong network of leaders — just as we do in the Georgetown alumni community — so that they can continue to learn and grow together,” Almeida wrote.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2019 by Clara Grudberg Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association senate passed a resolution urging Georgetown University to implement paper-free academic practices to improve sustainability and accessibility in an academic setting in a meeting Oct. 27.
The bill, introduced by senate sustainability chair Leo Rassieur (COL ’23), calls for professors to make it possible for students to access all readings and submit all assignments digitally with an option for students to print material, according to the resolution. The resolution permits printing when assignments are too lengthy for the professor to scan or when they are digitally unavailable.
The resolution, which the university is not bound to enact, aims to address inconsistent policies on the use of the learning management platform Canvas across academic departments, according to Rassieur. 
“There are some teachers who will do everything online,” Rassieur said. “They’ll use Canvas and email, and you can do the whole class without printing a single piece of paper. But then there are teachers who are the exact opposite, where you can only bring printed materials to class, for example, or you can only submit papers if you print them out.” 
The resolution was co-sponsored by senator Zahra Wakilzada (COL ’23) and senator Mikail Husain (COL ’21), as well as two campus environmental sustainability organizations, Georgetown University Fossil Free and the Georgetown Renewable Energy and Environmental Network.
The resolution was created in response to the wasteful accumulation of paper for submitted assignments and readings, according to Husain.
“I thought it was super wasteful that some classes would require paper submissions of assignments, readings or other school related things, especially when so many students would prefer to use electronic versions instead,” Husain wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
The resolution also seeks to remedy the financial obstacles created by printing policies, which can be a burden for some students in the cost of printing using university resources, according to GUSA executive sustainability chair Rowlie Flores (COL ’22).
“In my opinion, this is not just a sustainability issue,” Flores wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I don’t think all professors know that printing of class materials is not free and these costs accumulate throughout the semester.”
Forming and passing this resolution attests to the effectiveness of collaborations between sustainability-focused student organizations and GUSA, according to GUFF member and GREEN official liaison Victoria Boatwright (COL ’22). 
“It’s always good to pass resolutions like this, but I think that it’s also really important to have a whole network on campus of environmental groups; that’s one thing I found with this resolution that I’d never really seen before,” Boatwright said. 
GUSA’s sustainability policy team’s past projects include the Go Plastic-Free initiative, in which GUSA collaborated with the Office of Sustainability to host training sessions for student organization leaders to learn about plastic use reduction. 
Although the resolution focuses on creating a standardized, paper-free system, the resolution would maintain a printing option in cases where students are unable to access digital academic material for accessibility or financial reasons, according to Rassier. 
“Our goal is to create a more uniform system that would lean much more heavily to the paper-free side of things,” Rassieur said. “There are so many situations where that’s not going to be possible, someone might not have access to an electronic device or for accessibility reasons, they might not be able to use an electronic device.” 
Rassieur will meet with the provost’s committee Nov. 6 to discuss potential next steps in implementing paper-free academic practices, he said.
“We hope to continue the negotiating process with the faculty senate and with the Office of the Provost,” Rassieur said. “The resolution is sort of the launching pad for that.”
The resolution’s passage is a step toward implementing paper-free policies across all divisions of the university, and it showcases the demand for environmental accountability within the student body, according to Rassieur.
“This is one part of a really grand scheme to make the university paper-free,” Rassieur said. “The whole reason behind the resolution is that we can show, as students, that we care about sustainability and accessibility in the classroom.” 

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2019 by Callie DiModica Leave a Comment 
Residents in LXR Hall experienced intermittent hot water shortages over the course of the past two weeks until the Office of Planning and Facilities Management fully restored hot water access Oct. 26.
Students began noticing an insufficient volume of hot water beginning around Oct. 15, according to LXR residents Danny Livingston (SFS ’22) and Caroline Finn (COL ’22). Residents filed at least five work requests with facilities within the first week of the hot water disruption beginning Oct. 22. The total number of requests remains unknown.
While residents did not experience a full hot water outage, students endured consistently low water temperatures in recent weeks, according to LXR resident Tina Yin (SFS ’22).
“It wasn’t that there wasn’t hot water. The water just wasn’t hot enough for me to have a warm shower,” Yin said. “There was a day last week where I literally went to Yates to shower because for 48 hours, the water wasn’t hot enough.”
The hot water disruption also corresponded with the recent drop in temperatures, according to LXR resident Christina Luke (SFS ’22).
“I remember being really surprised when I took my first cold shower,” Luke said. “When the water went out again more recently I started to get really concerned because it is getting close to winter.”
This is the second time residents have dealt with a lack of access to hot water since moving into LXR in August. The first hot water outage took place in early October and lasted only a few days, according to Luke. 
While residents hoped this hot water disruption would also be quickly resolved, the more recent outage persisted and became more severe than the first instance, LXR resident Sheila Foley (COL ’22) said.
“I didn’t mind too much at first, but I started to get frustrated when each shower I took started to get colder,” Foley said. “Every shower was colder than the last.”  
Facilities investigated the water heaters in LXR on Oct. 24 after learning that water in the building was not reaching desired temperatures, according to Vice President for Planning and Facilities Management Benjamin Kuo.
Facilities workers made adjustments to the water heater and continued to work to troubleshoot the issue over the next few days. The issue was fully resolved Saturday morning, according to Kuo.
Georgetown University is continuing to work to improve its response time to reported issues, according to Kuo.
“We apologize for any inconvenience it may have caused,” Kuo wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We recognize the root of the issue and are working to put things in place to prevent such delay in the future.”
Students were frustrated by the lack of communication from maintenance or Residential Living about the hot water problem, Luke said.
“Last year I lived in VCW and whenever they worked on the plumbing or pipes they would notify us,” Luke said. “It would have been nice to have been communicated with when the hot water stopped working.”
The hot water issues in LXR come after several infrastructure-related issues during the past year, including an unexplained complete water outage across Darnall Hall, Arrupe Hall and Henle Village last February. More recently, two elevators in Harbin Hall malfunctioned, with one elevator falling one floor and trapping a student inside for nearly two hours.
Additionally, about 85 students were relocated from their top-floor apartments in Alumni Square in February because of structural issues concerning the ability of the apartment roofs to withstand heavy snow or strong winds.
Students deserve better dormitory conditions and clear communication from the university regarding facilities-related issues, Foley said. 
“As students who pay an expensive price for room and board, faster and more considerate communication from facilities should be expected,” Foley said. 
Hoya staff writer Amy Li contributed reporting. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2019 by Elizabeth Brenneman Leave a Comment 
A crash in visual processing can occur when the brain is overwhelmed with more information than it can handle and visual stimuli do not make the full journey to and from the front of the brain, according to a study published by Georgetown University neuroscientists Oct. 23. 
The study aimed to explain why humans sometimes forget images they just saw, a phenomenon the researchers dubbed a “crash in visual processing.” Georgetown neuroscience professor Maximilian Riesenhuber was the senior investigator who conducted the study along with investigators Patrick Cox (COL ’08, MED ’17), Clara Scholl (MED ’15) and lead author Jacob Martin, a Georgetown postdoctorate fellow.
The human brain can process up to 70 images per second, according to an Oct. 23 Georgetown University Medical Center news release. However, prior studies have shown that people are rather poor at detecting objects that appear close together in time, a contradiction the study sought to reconcile, according to Riesenhuber.
“Our study shows a specific limitation of the visual system and explains why our consciousness cannot keep up,” Riesenhuber said in a GUMC news release. “When someone tells you they didn’t see something that occurred in a chaotic situation, maybe they did, but they didn’t know that they did.”
The researchers displayed a series of 12 images per second and recorded the participants’ memory of the contents of the images using electroencephalography tests, which record electrical activity in the brain.
The study determined that visual crashes ultimately result from an interference of the feedback wave, otherwise known as the process of image recognition and understanding. 
When the human eye detects something, the visual signal travels along a pathway that starts at the back of the brain and moves towards the frontal cortex, according to the report. This is known as a feedforward wave.
After reaching the frontal cortex, the signal is sent back to the back of the brain, making the brain conscious of the processed stimulus. This is known as a feedback wave. However, if an individual sees another image before the signal processing is complete, a visual crash occurs.
Besides identifying where cognition can falter, the study’s findings also shed light on methods for improving cognition, according to the news release. 
“The researchers say their conclusions not only are relevant to how, when and where capacity limits in the brain’s processing abilities can arise, but also have ramifications that span consciousness to learning and attention,” the news release said.
Understanding how the feedforward and feedback signal loop work could ultimately help facilitate learning and cognitive processing. Changing the manner in which images are presented increases people’s ability to detect successive images by 73%, according to the report. 
This finding shows the possibility of improving the brain’s ability to process visual stimuli, according to Martin. 
“We were able to improve participants’ detection and categorization performance by presenting the animal images so that the feedback process of one avoided the feedforward process of the other,” Martin wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Taken together, the results paint a picture that describes human visual processing as a dynamic system in which multiple items (e.g. animals) can potentially coexist and intermingle together in different parts of the brain.”
Neurotechnology can be used to highlight the connection between neural processes and human consciousness and awareness, Riesenhuber wrote.
“We want to understand how the three pounds of fat between our ears do these amazing things that allow us to survive in a complex world, and to see how our brain function can be improved,” Riesenhuber wrote. “The study advances our understanding of how the brain relates to the mind.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2019 by Elizabeth Brenneman 2 Comments 
Early stages of Alzheimer’s disease weaken cognitive abilities to make responsible financial decisions before diagnosis, according to a new study released by the Georgetown University Medical Center on Oct. 24.
The study, published in the journal Health Economics, used data from Medicare claims between 1992 and 2014 and the National Institute on Aging’s health and retirement study to track changes in household finances prior to a diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease. 
Interim Dean of the School of Nursing and Health Studies Carole Roan Gresenz was the lead author of the study, which was co-authored by Jean Mitchell, James Marrone and Howard Federoff. 
The study’s results show that substantial financial losses occur in households in the time leading up to diagnosis and are particularly concerning given the financial strain of medical bills and caregiving that follows a diagnosis, according to Gresenz.
“Significant limitations and rapid declines in financial capacity — including the ability to manage money, invest wisely, pay bills on time, and control spending — are a hallmark of individuals with early stage Alzheimer’s Disease,” Gresenz wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Prior to diagnosis, these financial decision-making limitations may not be fully appreciated or recognized.”
Alzheimer’s disease and forms of dementia are often made visible through a change in a person’s financial decision making, so early diagnosis may be very effective when it comes to minimizing the financial fallout of early-stage Alzheimer’s disease, according to Gresenz. 
“A diagnosis can serve as a trigger for families or loved ones to institute checks and balances on an individual’s financial decision making,” Gresenz said. “Thus, earlier diagnosis may help avert adverse financial outcomes.”
Moving forward, Gresenz and her colleagues are working to match credit data with Medicare data to potentially develop a system that uses financial information to identify people in the early stages of Alzheimer’s disease. 
“I’m hopeful that there will be a simple way to screen for individuals who may fit into the potential pre-clinical [Alzheimer’s disease] category, to discern whether they have still the cognitive ability to make good financial decisions,” Federoff said in an interview with The Hoya. “This type of research, which heralds a previously unknown worry, should probably be put on the front-burner so people can understand it.” 
Alzheimer’s has been the focus of many recent studies, such as the Alzheimer’s Prevention Trials Webstudy, co-sponsored by the National Institute on Aging. The online study seeks healthy participants between the ages of 50 and 85 whose cognitive skills are tested every three months, using changes in performance to flag individuals who demonstrate a high risk of developing Alzheimer’s disease. 
Awareness of the Alzheimer’s Prevention Trials Webstudy could be raised by the concerning results of the financial study, which would aid the APT Webstudy in its mission, according to Brigid Reynolds, clinic coordinator and clinical trial nurse practitioner for the Memory Disorders Program at Georgetown. 
“Research such as this would improve enrollment in this web study,” Reynolds said in an interview with The Hoya. “My biggest wish is that research like this will just increase recognition for people about this as a problem and get people to come in earlier.”
While the research done on Alzheimer’s disease has not produced a cure or a definitive way to identify the early stages of the disease, Reynolds hopes that the progress made will have a positive effect on the way the disease is treated and identified going forward, he said.
“We hope to discover a disease-modifying treatment to halt or slow the rate of decline in Alzheimer’s disease and related disorders and hope to discover ways to improve quality of life for people with Alzheimer’s and their families and caregivers,” Reynolds said.

Meddco Health Care says 
December 6, 2019 at 2:55 am
It’s really a useful blog.
visit Meddco Healthcare: https://www.meddco.com/ for affordable healthcare packages
Thank you keep sharing.

amel sm says 
December 27, 2019 at 1:10 am
Merci pour l’article
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2019 by Ashley Zhao Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University Campus Ministry approved a proposal this month to create the Dharmalaya, the first consecrated multi-Dharmic space on a U.S. college campus, which is set to open by spring 2020.
The Dharmalaya will be dedicated to all Dharmic traditions, including Hindu, Buddhist, Jain and Sikh practices, according to Brahmachari Sharan, director of Dharmic Life and Hindu spiritual advisor. The new space will be established in the former location of the Muslim Prayer Room in the Copley Hall basement.
The Dharmalaya will be used for small student groups, classes, reading groups, meditations and traditional Dharmic observances, according to an email Dharmic Life sent to students in its newsletter Oct. 25. Fundraising for the new Dharmic space is still ongoing, and the Dharmalaya’s official opening is projected for the end of next semester, according to Sharan. 
The new designated space on campus will help the representation of Dharmic tradition at Georgetown while also benefiting the larger Georgetown community with individuals of all faiths able to utilize the space, according to Hindu Student Association President, Darshil Shah (MSB ’20).
“The fact that a space like this exists on a Jesuit campus serves a huge purpose to all students over here, especially those that identify as Hindu or Jain or Buddhist or Sikh,” Shah said. “I think it’s a good disconnection for the rest of campus as well. If you ever find you need a place where you want to go and just sit down, relax and be peaceful, I think that’s what this place is going to serve to do.”
Dharmic Life activities and services on campus are currently held in Makóm, the Jewish gathering space in the Leavey Center. Sunday night Āratī services, a Hindu practice featuring meditation, are Dharmic Life’s most popular services with around 70 community members attending each week, according to Shah. The Āratī services may continue to be held in Makóm, but other smaller religious functions will be designated for the Dharmalaya because of space limitations.
The creation of the Dharmalaya represents the Georgetown community’s focus on understanding other religions and cultures, Sharan said.
“I think it represents Georgetown’s earnest desire to understand more about the world, starting with understanding its students,” Sharan said in an interview with The Hoya. “I know that there are many things that the university could improve, and I hope that this is one step in the right direction.”
Although the Dharmalaya proposal was approved earlier this month, the Hindu Student Association has been advocating for the creation of a distinct space for Dharmic traditions since 2010, according to Sharan.
“They came up with the idea of a Dharma meditation room, in which shrines honoring Jain tradition, Buddhist tradition, Hindu tradition and Sikh tradition would be included,” Sharan said. “This part of the project has been more of a recent, final kind of finishing on it, but in terms of the desire for the room, it’s been something that’s been around since at least 2010.”
Last semester, the Campus Ministry group previously known as Hindu Life was renamed to Dharmic Life to be more inclusive of all Dharmic faiths, Sharan said. Since the creation of Dharmic Life, smaller Dharmic tradition student groups have had increased access to resources and have gained a larger presence on campus, according to Buddhist Student Association Co-President Anna Naiyapatana (SFS ’21).
“The Buddhist Student Association used to be very small and doesn’t have a chaplaincy to really assist them with their promotions or their activities in the same way that bigger groups have access to,” Naiyapatana said. “By creating this Dharmic Life community, now kids who belong to other religious minorities who fall under this category also have a voice and support.”
Aside from offering a safe and sacred place for members of the Dharmic Life community, the space will also serve as an educational resource for all members of the Georgetown community, according to Sharan.
“The spiritual traditions of the Dharmic traditions, they are only ever going to be meaningfully accessible if there is an authentic representation on campus,” Sharan said.

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2019 by Sana Rahman 11 Comments 
Barry Wolfe, co-director of the Ph.D. program in pharmacology and physiology and director of M.S. graduate studies, died last weekend. Wolfe was 74. 
Wolfe served as the vice chair of the department of pharmacology and physiology and was the longest serving director of the interdisciplinary program for neuroscience in the Georgetown University Medical Center. Wolfe was also the founding director of the master program in pharmacology.
Wolfe is survived by his wife Jacqueline Crawley, an internationally-known behavioral neuroscientist at the University of California, Davis, his son Andy Wolfe and daughter-in-law Melinda Diver, who are both also biomedical scientists. Barry Wolfe’s first grandchild was born in March. 
Wolfe’s caring, astute and kind personality resonated with both students and faculty, Department of Pharmacology and Physiology Chair Ken Kellar said. 
“He was an insightful, very smart, but gentle, colleague who treated everyone very nicely,” Kellar said. “People flocked to him, just a wonderful person.”
Among faculty, Wolfe motivated others to push boundaries though their teaching and inspired them to think creatively in research, according to Co-Director of the Ph.D program in Pharmacology and Physiology Patrick Forcelli. 
“We all respected him immensely as a teacher, but also a leader,” Forcelli said. “He pushed us to be our absolute best in terms of our teaching and our graduate training. But also, he had a sort of curiosity. He was the kind of person you wanted to go to when you had a grant you were trying to work on and you needed some advice.”
As a teacher, Wolfe was a mentor who was always available to discuss with students about their research, academic experiences and personal lives, according to Hannah Hathaway (GRD ’14), Wolfe’s former Ph.D student. 
“Barry always had his door open. He spent hours talking with me about experiments, graduate school, statistics, life … everything,” Hathaway wrote in an email to The Hoya. “He was supportive and at the same time pushed students to be their best. He was an amazing mentor.”
Wolfe was the “social glue” of the department, according to Kellar and Forcelli. Wolfe planned Friday night movies for students and faculty, and would sample cheeses at Trader Joe’s to serve alongside the classic movies he enjoyed. 
Wolfe organized barbecues on the medical center podium a few times each year and the annual department retreat, where he would prepare food — including barbecue — for the group. 
Wolfe’s personal interests were broad, including astronomy, sailing, snorkeling and ceramics, according to Kellar. 
“We enjoyed science together, we enjoyed research together, but he was so much more than that,” Keller said. “He was an amateur astronomer, he built his own telescopes. He had many hobbies, including pottery, which he was very good at.”
Wolfe went every Thursday night to an arts center in Bethesda, Md., to craft his pottery. He enjoyed crafting small bowls and coffee cups, which he would gift to his friends. 
Astronomy was Wolfe’s nonpharmacological scientific passion. Wolfe regularly went to the darkest locales throughout West Virginia and Virginia to stargaze, and he traveled internationally for the best astronomical experiences, according to Kellar. 
“He would make arrangements to travel to places where the eclipse would best be seen,” Kellar said. “Five or ten years ago he went to Chile because that was going to be the best place to see the eclipse. He was a man of many talents.”
Prior to joining Georgetown University’s faculty in 1989, Wolfe served as a faculty member at the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Colorado Boulder, according to an email sent by Medical Center Executive Dean Edward B. Healton. Wolfe attended the University of California, Los Angeles for his bachelor’s degree in chemistry, California State-Northridge University for his master of science in chemistry and the University of California, Santa Barbara for his doctorate in philosophy in chemistry, according to the email. 
In his renowned research, Wolfe focused on the regulation of neurotransmitter receptors and signal transduction mechanisms, publishing around 150 research papers, according to Kellar. Wolfe was a trained cellular and molecular neuropharmacologist who worked to develop antibodies for certain receptors to help identify receptor types and locations in the brain, Kellar said. 
The field studying neurotransmitter receptors is only about 40 years old, and Wolfe was a pioneer in his field and laid the groundwork for much of today’s research, according to Kellar. 
Wolfe’s clear teaching style helped students learn complex material and helped make the content easier to understand, Forcelli said.
“Students, the first thing they probably noticed about him was that he was an exceptional teacher,” Forcelli said. “He is one of the best teachers I have ever met. He had a way of taking very complicated material and made it digestible and approachable for students.”
The department of pharmacology and physiology will honor Wolfe’s legacy by continuing to focus on the sense of community that Wolfe created within the department, according to Forcelli.
“I think that one of the things that I think he really cared very deeply about was maintaining the sense of community and collegiality and friendship in our programs between students and faculty,” Forcelli said. “I think that’s something that has had a permanent impact on the way we work here and I think that we will keep those going.”
This article was updated Nov. 3 to reflect Barry Wolfe’s role as the founding director of the master program in pharmacology and Ken Kellar’s position as the Department of Pharmacology and Physiology Chair.  The article was also updated to reflect Hannah Hathaway’s doctoral degree and  Wolfe’s legacy.

David Epstein says 
November 2, 2019 at 8:57 am
The ceramics arts center in Bethesda the article refers to is Glen Echo Pottery. We at the pottery can all attest to Barry’s wonderful gentle personality and his deep interest in pressing the boundaries of his art.

Harsimrat says 
November 6, 2019 at 11:45 pm
You will be deeply missed dr Wolfe:-( RIP..

Lan Duong says 
November 3, 2019 at 6:24 am
What an irreplaceable loss to the pharmacology department and to the university.  So rare are those professors who truly inspire their students and colleagues alike.

Martha I Davila-Garcia says 
November 13, 2019 at 2:32 pm
He was one of the nicest, caring and generous professor and mentor one could have.  
Martha

Karen Lithgow says 
November 17, 2019 at 9:51 pm
Barry was on my snorkeling trip in Raja Ampat and in Palau. We had the same type of camera we were trying out for the first time and had fun figuring out how to use it best. He was a wonderful conversationalist, an intelligent and kind man.  He will be missed.
Karen

Dr. Kwame M. Brown says 
November 19, 2019 at 9:38 pm
I will miss you Barry. I am a better scientist and a better man because of you.

Jonathan Bein says 
December 20, 2019 at 11:26 am
For Barry,
Today the sky is leaden gray and the rain has poured down
It has been a day of tears but I have not shed them for you
I’m crying for us, for those who love you and have been left behind
We are the grieved, the ones who won’t have you to share a night under the stars, a simple meal, good conversation, glass of wine, or just the good feeling of having you around.
We are the ones who have lost you and are saddened beyond compare.
Today I want to shake each passerby and yell in their ear, “Don’t you know?” because the world has changed for all of us and they seem so unaware.
The days and nights bring endless reminders of my love for you and it seems as if it will be forever so.
I pour my morning coffee into the mug that you made, and add sugar from the bowl you gave me.
How can I look at the sky and not think of you?
But from now on I will only have the memory of your voice, your laugh, your embrace.
The gift of you was generous beyond compare and I’m crushed by the loss. I’m sure that with time the pain will subside, but the gratitude for the gift of your friendship will never leave.

Rachelle Toman, MD, PhD says 
December 28, 2019 at 8:34 am
Barry role modeled the person I aspire to become – kind and supportive with uncompromising standards. He pushed us all to reach new heights while providing a safe landing when it was needed.

Stephen J Wall MD PhD says 
August 22, 2020 at 1:51 pm
My mentor in training three decades ago, but an influence in how I try to conduct myself always.  A man who embraced life and lived for others.

Sarra Djemil, PhD says 
October 20, 2020 at 9:56 pm
It’s been almost a year since you passed, but you are as present as always in the lives of those who were lucky enough to know you. I still drink coffee in the mugs you made and sit in your office and think of the rich conversations we had over the years.
May you rest in peace my dear mentor and friend

Eric W Johnson says 
August 4, 2021 at 4:28 pm
You often think about the people who made a difference in your life when its too late to thank them.  COVID has not helped. I was planning to spend a few days in DC and thought I’d track Barry down, touch base, and catch up. After all its only been a decade.  A beautiful soul.
I had no idea he was a fellow Umbraphile. I should have liked to chase an eclipse or two with him. Farewell my friend and clear skys.
THE OLD ASTRONOMER. Sarah Williams
REACH me down my Tycho Brahé,—I would know him when we meet,
When I share my later science, sitting humbly at his feet;
He may know the law of all things, yet be ignorant of how
We are working to completion, working on from then till now.
Pray, remember, that I leave you all my theory complete,
Lacking only certain data, for your adding, as is meet;
And remember, men will scorn it, ’tis original and true,
And the obloquy of newness may fall bitterly on you.
But, my pupil, as my pupil you have learnt the worth of scorn;
You have laughed with me at pity, we have joyed to be forlorn;
What, for us, are all distractions of men’s fellowship and smiles?
What, for us, the goddess Pleasure, with her meretricious wiles?
You may tell that German college that their honour comes too late.
But they must not waste repentance on the grizzly savant’s fate;
Though my soul may set in darkness, it will rise in perfect light;
I have loved the stars too truly to be fearful of the night.
What, my boy, you are not weeping? You should save your eyes for sight;
You will need them, mine observer, yet for many another night.
I leave none but you, my pupil, unto whom my plans are known.
You “have none but me,” you murmur, and I “leave you quite alone”?
Well then, kiss me,—since my mother left her blessing on my brow,
There has been a something wanting in my nature until now;
I can dimly comprehend it,—that I might have been more kind,
Might have cherished you more wisely, as the one I leave behind.
I “have never failed in kindness”? No, we lived too high for strife,—
Calmest coldness was the error which has crept into our life;
But your spirit is untainted, I can dedicate you still
To the service of our science: you will further it? you will!
There are certain calculations I should like to make with you,
To be sure that your deductions will be logical and true;
And remember, “Patience, Patience,” is the watchword of a sage,
Not to-day nor yet to-morrow can complete a perfect age.
I have sown, like Tycho Brahé, that a greater man may reap;
But if none should do my reaping, ’twill disturb me in my sleep.
So be careful and be faithful, though, like me, you leave no name;
See, my boy, that nothing turn you to the mere pursuit of fame.
I must say Good-bye, my pupil, for I cannot longer speak;
Draw the curtain back for Venus, ere my vision grows too weak:
It is strange the pearly planet should look red as fiery Mars,—
God will mercifully guide me on my way amongst the stars.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2019 by Hansen Lian Leave a Comment 
Holy Rood Cemetery, which was one of the nation’s largest burial places for enslaved black people, is undergoing extensive renovations to restore its historic grounds. 
Georgetown University and Holy Trinity Catholic Church have partnered to oversee the restorations at Holy Rood announced in November 2018. The first stage of initial renovations is set to be completed in early 2020 with more work to come later in the year.
Holy Rood, located on Wisconsin Avenue, was established in 1832 by Holy Trinity Catholic Church. The people buried at the 186-year-old cemetery include up to 1,000 freed and enslaved black people, Revolutionary War veterans, priests and members of the Georgetown community. 
Georgetown has managed the maintenance of Holy Rood since 1942. The university has drawn criticism from neighbors, students and other community members for its management of Holy Rood. The cemetery has fallen into disrepair since at least 2009, marred by vandalism, litter and decay, according to The Georgetown Metropolitan. 
In 2018, Georgetown and Holy Trinity announced extensive plans to restore the cemetery, including plans for a 645-niche columbarium, a building used to display funeral urns, and the establishment of a Perpetual Care Endowment to fund future maintenance projects. 
Construction on a new columbarium is already complete. Sales of niches for funeral urns in the columbarium will help sustain maintenance going forward, according to university spokesperson Ruth McBain.
“A portion of the proceeds from columbarium niche sales helps fund a Perpetual Care Endowment for the cemetery,” McBain wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
Georgetown and Holy Trinity are financially committed to improving and maintaining Holy Rood in the future, according to Grace Bateman, a leader of the restoration effort and Holy Trinity parishioner. Georgetown agreed to fund up to $500,000 in deferred maintenance at Holy Rood, and Holy Trinity agreed to fund up to $250,000 in landscaping and other improvements, according to Bateman. 
“All of these investments, plus, income from the Perpetual Care Endowment that has been established, will insure that the work now underway at Holy Rood won’t be a ‘one-time fix,’” Bateman wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
The university’s faltering maintenance of the cemetery has been met with reproval for decades. In 1984, then University President Timothy Healy, S.J., proposed that Georgetown remove the graves and develop the property for different purposes in the future. Healy faced accusations of disrespecting the dead and dropped the idea, according to The Washington Post. 
The university has made consistent efforts, however, to improve Holy Rood, according to McBain.
“In 2002, the University rebuilt the stone retaining wall. In 2010, Georgetown and Holy Trinity Church began a joint effort to restore and improve the cemetery grounds,” McBain wrote. “Since the work began, Georgetown has erected a gate and plaque, and the Holy Trinity Church’s work includes the installation of ornamental iron fencing and enhancing the entrance hardscape and landscaping.”
Although Georgetown and Holy Trinity could have done more to maintain the cemetery, both institutions have played a critical role in its upkeep since its founding, according to Bateman. 
“Holy Trinity’s funds for maintaining the cemetery became scarce, especially during the hardship of the Depression. Fortunately, Georgetown University, which still held title to the cemetery, stepped in to provide basic maintenance,” Bateman wrote. “Both Holy Trinity and the University could have done a better job maintaining the Holy Rood during past times, but the partnership between the two institutions actually saved the cemetery from further decay.”
The restoration’s success is evidence that, despite Holy Rood’s complicated history, Holy Trinity and Georgetown are working in the cemetery’s best interests, according to Bateman.
“The fruits of the long-standing partnership between Holy Trinity Catholic Church and Georgetown University are already evident at Holy Rood Cemetery,” Bateman wrote. “Not only the improvements to the physical environment that are beginning to emerge, but reconnecting current and future parishioners and members of the University community with this beautiful and sacred space.”
The renovations are a welcome sight after years of disrepair, according to Carlton Fletcher, who has been a Glover Park resident for over 45 years.
“I was delighted to hear of Georgetown University and Holy Trinity’s project, and I look forward to seeing it come to fruition,” Fletcher wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I think that I am like many others who have passed Holy Rood over the years and wondered why it appeared to be in such a sorry state.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2019 by Giulia Testa Leave a Comment 
A team of students, faculty and staff is applying for a designation this fall that would recognize Georgetown University’s commitment to protecting pollinators by making it the first “Bee Campus” in Washington, D.C.
The designation is granted by the Xerces Society, an international organization that focuses on the conservation of organisms essential to biological diversity and the well-being of ecosystems. If given the designation, Georgetown will join more than 80 other educational institutions as a Bee Campus, which requires the university to make seven commitments in support of bees and other pollinating insects.
To become a Bee Campus, Georgetown must establish a committee of students, faculty and staff as well as host awareness events, sponsor student service-learning projects, offer pollinator-focused workshops, post signage to educate the campus, maintain a website and apply annually for a renewal, according to Bee City USA.
Science, Technology and International Affairs Professor William Hahn, who is the Bee Campus project lead, stressed the significance of Georgetown becoming D.C.’s first Bee Campus by being dedicated to conservation efforts. 
“Washington DC is already a Xerces Society Bee City so it is natural to have Georgetown as a Bee Campus,” Hahn wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Being first in the area shows leadership and commitment to environmental action.”
As a top university, Georgetown has the responsibility to support environmental conservation efforts, according to Allyse Smith (NHS ’21), a member of Hoya Hive, Georgetown’s beekeeping organization.
“Georgetown is recognized as a leading institution in many ways so it is important that the campus supports a healthy ecosystem,” Smith wrote in an email to The Hoya. “By becoming an established Bee Campus, it is a commitment to protecting pollinators and local plants.” 
Hoya Hive, which is a part of the Georgetown Renewable Energy and Environmental Network, maintains two bee hives on campus near the Observatory. The current hives were installed in May 2018. 
Through the Xerces Society’s Bee Campus program, the university hopes to protect native pollinators and increase awareness regarding conservation issues, according to Hahn.
“We are using this framework to coordinate existing activities at Georgetown (gardens, the student beekeeping club Hoya Hive, ecology and other courses, etc.) to further develop the campus as an environmental education resource,” Hahn wrote.
The Bee Campus program places a particular value on education, according to Pharmacology and Physiology Professor Adriane Fugh-Berman, who is on the Bee Campus committee.
“Many urban students know little about plants and pollinators, so this is a wonderful opportunity for teaching and learning about native bees, other pollinators, and how important they are to the future of food,” Fugh-Berman wrote in an email to The Hoya.  
The project will offer students more application-based learning in the classroom that will give them real-world experience, Hahn wrote.
“As we develop our project students will be able to participate in courses and other activities centered on pollinator biology, hands-on beekeeping, biodiversity studies, urban sustainability, and food/agriculture,” Hahn wrote.
One course, “Conflict and Coexistence: At the Interface of Humans and Nature,” allows students to connect material learned in class to real problems happening in the world, according to STIA Professor Cynthia Wei.
“This campus pollinator project (of which Bee Campus USA is a part) has provided a nice opportunity for students in my course to contribute to an ongoing conservation project on campus, and to connect what they are learning in class to a real-world problem,” Wei wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
The overall project is a rewarding experience because it integrates student interests with what they are learning in classes, according to Smith. 
Elizabeth Nguyen (SFS ’21), president of Hoya Hive, said the initiative aligns perfectly with what she is currently studying and will help her achieve her goals for conservation beyond Georgetown.
“In the future, I hope to work on the intersection of sustainability and development so being a part of the Bee Campus project gives me insight into how we can best implement strategies benefitting both ecosystems and human needs through increased pollination for crops and the ecosystem services the natural world provides,” Nguyen wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The Laudato Si’ Fund, a $300,000 fund that supports sustainability projects and programs that create a healthier and more biologically diverse local ecosystem, has been used to achieve the Bee Campus initative’s goals. The Bee Campus project received a grant of $26,153, according to Hahn.
The grant has allowed the initiative to develop a program website, which is expected to be launched by the end of the semester, and cultivate gardens in different locations, including under the Leavey Esplanade and on the medical campus podium. The funding was also used to develop new beekeeping courses and include students in activities like beekeeping, native plant gardening, honey harvesting and community outreach, according to Hahn.
Additionally, receiving the Laudato Si’ grant further publicized Georgetown’s pollinator protection efforts, according to Nyugen.
“The publicity has also been great for both the club and the overall initiative,” Nguyen wrote. “The goals of Bee Campus are really to reach as many people as possible in order to protect our native pollinators and the Laudato Si’ fund has provided us with the resources to impact more people and thus more pollinators as well.”
Georgetown plans to submit its full request to become a Bee Campus to the Xerces Society this semester and hopes the conservation project will continue in subsequent years.
“We will continue to develop our activities and the full request to Xerces for Bee Campus recognition will be sent in this Fall,” Hahn wrote. “The overall project (gardens, courses, etc.) will hopefully continue for many years.” 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 1, 2019 by Harrison McBride Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association senate voted in favor of an amended bill that would include student body members on the GUSA ethics and oversight committee, which aims to improve the internal accountability of the senate and GUSA’s executive branch.
Ethics Committee Chair Zev Burton (SFS ’22) and Vice Chair Chris Ziac (COL ’22) introduced the initial bill at the meeting, citing the necessity of third party students in enforcing the accountability of GUSA members. While the first iteration of the bill, which was also introduced at the Oct. 27 meeting, altered the GUSA bylaws to include more student body members than senate members on the committee, senators voiced concerns about representation of senate members in the new structure.
Senator Peter Hamilton (COL ’20) introduced the “5-5 Compromise Amendment,” named after a proposed split of five senators and five nonsenators on the committee, to address these concerns. After the introduction and passage of Hamilton’s amendment, the final bill passed the Senate in a 25-2 vote after over an hour and a half of debate. Hamilton’s amendment also altered the bill to allow the two executive liaisons voting privileges on the committee. 
The amendment served to balance the voting power of senators and the student body committee members on the committee from the original bill, according to Hamilton.
“The reason I introduced the amendment was because it was very clear to me that the way the bill was in its current iteration wasn’t gonna get that many votes,” Hamilton said in an interview with The Hoya. “The senate has more important things to be focusing on than to spend an hour and a half debating the structure of one ethics and oversight committee.”
Under the new structure, the committee will consist of six senators, including the chair of the committee, two executive liaisons and three student body representatives. Each committee member will have the ability to vote, and the committee chair’s vote will be used as a tiebreaker when needed. 
The new framework diverges from the previous committee structure, which consisted of five voting senators, including the chair and vice chair of the committee as well as the vice chairs of the other major senate committees. While executive liaisons to the committee have always existed, they did not possess the ability to vote on measures. 
Two senators, Harrison Nugent (SFS ’20) and Eric Bazail-Eimil (SFS ’23), voted against the bill. Bazail-Eimil is preparing to challenge the legislation in the coming weeks with the GUSA constitutional council, the body of GUSA that determines whether legislation adheres to the GUSA constitution.
Giving executive liaisons the right to vote on the committee effectively gives the power of impeachment to the executive branch, which would be unethical since members of the executive branch should not have the power to oversee impeachment proceedings within the same area of GUSA, according to Bazail-Eimil.
Despite planning to bring the measure to the constitutional council, Bazail-Eimil still supports general reform efforts to the ethics and oversights committee.
“I’m very supportive of chairman Burton’s efforts to crack down on a lot of the other failures of the ethics committee,” Bazail-Eimil said in an interview with The Hoya. “My issue is with whether the committee as a structural body can be constituted like that.”
The senate ethics and oversight committee was originally created in October 2018 to monitor potential conflicts of interest and track senators’ attendance records at meetings. During the transition senate, transition ethics and oversight committee chair Leo Teixeira (COL ’21) led a working group to assess and provide recommendations on ways to improve the committee. 
Burton, along with Ziac, who served on the working group before being elected to an at-large senate seat this fall, incorporated the working group’s recommendations in the original bill that was introduced Sunday, according to Ziac.
Burton hopes to confirm the executive liaisons to the committee within the coming weeks and complete an application process for the student representative positions, he said.
“Hopefully by, if not this Friday, but the next ethics and oversight meeting next Friday, we will have a full, functioning and honest committee,” Burton said.
As the committee’s vice chair, Ziac believes the legislation’s changes will benefit students across campus with the implementation of new student representatives.
“For one thing, it provides another opportunity for students interested in GUSA to get involved with GUSA through being student reps.,” Ziac said in an interview with The Hoya. “I think that by having this committee more standardized and more representative of GUSA and the student body, hopefully we can cut down any drama and make sure these processes seem free, clear, open.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

