
September 26, 2019 by Harrison McBride Leave a Comment 
Students voted to elect 12 senators to the Georgetown University Student Association senate Sept. 26 with platforms centered on improving facilities and providing more resources for survivors of sexual assault.
The election filled seven freshman seats and four at-large seats, available for students from all years, as well as a seat left vacant for the Class of 2020 by the resignation of Matthew Buckwald (COL ’20) on Aug. 30 amid his accumulation of three unexcused absences.
The new freshman senators include Leo Rassieur (COL ’23), Eric Bazail Eimil (SFS ’23), Zumanah Mahmud (MSB ’23), Eric Lipka (COL ’23), Zach Volpe (SFS ’23), Zahra Wakilzada (COL ’23) and Eddie Galvan (MSB ’23). Alexandra Mucher (COL ’22), Henry Dai (SFS ’22), Chris Ziac (COL ’22) and Charlie Wang (SFS ’22) won the four at-large senate seats, and Juliana Arias (SFS ’20) ran unopposed and won the vacant seat for the Class of 2020. 
While the list of candidates released last week was mostly comprised of male students, many female students successfully petitioned to join the ballot late last week. Although last year’s freshman class did not elect any female senators, the Class of 2023 elected both Mahmud and Wakilzada this year. 
Overall voter turnout for this year’s election was 19.2%, according to the GUSA election commission’s Twitter account. Turnout was low at the beginning of the polling period, with only 14% participation at the halfway mark. At the close of the polls, turnout for the freshman class elections was 40.5% while turnout was 12.5% for the at-large seats and 8% for the senior seat, according to Justin Rich (SFS ’22), chair of the GUSA election commission. 
Turnout for this year’s election marks a decrease in participation compared to last year’s fall election, which saw an overall turnout of 21%. The turnout percentage continues a downward trend in turnout since the fall 2017 elections, during which turnout reached a historic high of 30%.
As senator, Eimil hopes to focus on improving sustainable infrastructure, enhancing disability access and increasing resources for sexual assault survivors, he wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
The diversity of the freshman class of senators this year will enable the legislative body to better serve the student body, according to newly elected Eimil. 
“We have one of the most diverse slates of senators in history, representing so many communities on campus and so many perspectives, and I hope this enables us to advance real progressive changes,” Eimil wrote. 
Wang, one of the newly elected at-large senators, is optimistic that important dialogues held throughout the election process will continue in the senate, he wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
“I ran on the platform of initiating more dialogues between organizations and groups with different opinions, and I hope GUSA senate will be the platform and the initiator for more dialogues and conversations,” Wang wrote. “I am honored and humbled to have the opportunity to serve the student body. I will not let the student body down, and I will fight for making their lives better on and off campus.”
The election process ran smoothly and was easy to navigate according to many senators, including Ziac, who is aiming to improve facilities and federal work study programs with his at-large senate seat. 
“Throughout the whole campaign I felt the process was very smooth and accessible,” he wrote in an email to The Hoya.  
Wednesday’s election comes after a candidate town hall on Monday, at which 26 of the 28 prospective senators shared their vision for the Georgetown community and took questions from voters. 
Lipka, one of the new freshman senators, expressed wariness of the senate’s ability to enact significant measures for the student body; however, she emphasized the possibility to overcome that wariness through cooperation.
“It’s clear that GUSA is flawed to say the least, but I believe through cooperation and diligence, we can move forward and improve our Georgetown community one small step at a time,” Lipka wrote in an email to The Hoya, “I look forward to working with the current administration to advance the rights of all members of our community and hopefully restore trust in our governing institutions here on campus.”
Hoya Staff Writer Riley Rogerson contributed to this reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 26, 2019 by Connor Brandi Leave a Comment 
In the first congressional hearing on Washington, D.C. statehood in 26 years, the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Reform heard testimony about H.R. 51, the D.C. Admission Act, on Sept. 19. 
Members of the House heard testimony from both D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) and Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.) in favor of the bill. Norton introduced the legislation earlier this year and garnered a record 155 original cosponsors, including Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), and set the record for cosponsors on a bill introduced on the first day of Congress. Next, the bill will be marked up and go to the House floor for the first time since 1993. The House turned down the proposal for statehood that year by an overwhelming majority, according to The Washington Post.
Regardless of the demographics or political views of D.C. residents, the District’s statehood should be a matter of bipartisan agreement, Bowser said at the hearing.
“Yes, it is true that we are more brown and more liberal than some of you,” she said. “It should not matter what your politics are.”
H.R. 51 calls for D.C. to be admitted as the 51st state of the union, referred to as the State of Washington, Douglass Commonwealth, after abolitionist and writer Frederick Douglass. The commonwealth would be composed of the entire district, except for federal land like the White House, the Capitol Building and the Supreme Court Building. If passed, the bill would grant the District voting representation in Congress.
University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95) added his name to the list of H.R. 51 supporters in a Sept. 9 letter to Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.) and Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio.), who head the House Oversight Committee.
The university, alongside the city of Washington, would benefit from a voting representative if H.R. 51 passes, according to DeGioia.
“While we as a nation are engaged in promoting the strengthening of democracy around the world, the full democratic rights of the residents of the District of Columbia have not been provided,” he wrote. “Ironically, nations around the world who have modeled their own systems of government on our U.S. Constitution have provided voting representation in their national legislative bodies for residents of their capital cities.”
With just over 700,000 residents, D.C. is more populous than two current U.S. states, Wyoming and Vermont. The current lack of representation for District residents is an unjust and dated phenomenon that should be updated, according to university spokesperson Meghan Dubyak.
“Many of our students and alumni who have lived in the nation’s capital believe the lack of voting representation for more than 700,000 residents is a long-standing injustice that should be remedied,” Dubyak wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Many nations around the world who have modeled their own systems on the U.S. Constitution have provided voting representation in their legislative bodies for the residents of their capital cities.”
The hearing dispelled concerns about the constitutionality of statehood, according to Norton.
“The testimony presented today from District officials and expert witnesses leaves no doubt that the Washington, D.C. Admission Act is constitutional and that the state would meet all of its financial, economic and other obligations,” Norton said in a news release. “The next step is again historic – H.R. 51 will be marked up to move to the House floor.”
Proponents of statehood use the rallying cry “taxation without representation,” which references how District residents are subject to federal taxes like any other American citizen, but lack the same voting representation in the House and Senate. Voting representation affects D.C.’s influence over representatives in Congress and in cases like the confirmation of a Supreme Court justice or declaration of war.
The act has been met with opposition from some Republicans, and a Republican-controlled Senate and a President Donald Trump administration will make passing any legislation difficult, according to The Washington Post.
Students should take interest in issues facing their neighbors in D.C., according to Gracey Owen (MSB ’22), vice president of the National Committee of the Rotaract Club of Georgetown, which engages in community service locally, nationally and sometimes internationally.
“I support statehood because D.C. is being federally taxed without congressional representation,” Owen wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I look forward to working on more projects that empower D.C. residents in the future.”
 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 26, 2019 by Grace Buono Leave a Comment 
Twenty-six candidates who ran for the Georgetown University Student Association senate delivered their proposals concerning improved minority representation and mental health resource accessibility at a Sept. 23 town hall. 
In addition to the 21 candidates who launched their senate campaigns last Wednesday, seven more freshmen successfully petitioned to join the race last week by collecting 100 student signatures on campus. Twenty-six of the 28 total candidates who ran attended the event; each gave a 45-second speech and answering audience questions at the town hall Monday. Candidates Brandon Yusef (MSB ’23) and Juliana Arias (SFS ’20) were absent from the town hall.  
When petition candidate Paula Guerra (COL ’23) initially saw the list of prospective senators seeking freshmen seats, the lack of diversity among the candidates motivated her to collect signatures to join the ballot, she said. 
“Aside from wanting to be the diversity token, I felt like there just needed to be more representation of women in general and women of color,” Guerra said in an interview with The Hoya. 
Zumanah Mahmud (MSB ’23) was one of the few female students who announced her candidacy for the freshman senate seats by the initial Sept. 17 deadline and thus did not have to petition in order to join the ballot. 
Mahmud’s platform, which included developing and mandating club diversity and consent training on campus, also intends to expand resources for minority groups on campus, she said.
“My priority would be to break down barriers for marginalized groups and get people access to opportunities and benefits,” Mahmud said. 
Last year’s fall GUSA senate elections saw a significant gender imbalance as male students won all seven seats for the Class of 2022 and one female student, Hayley Grande (COL ’21), won one of four at-large seats.
Ingrid Wilder (COL ’23), another petition candidate, decided to join the ballot because of concerns she had with the inaccessibility of certain student resources such as the university’s Counseling and Psychiatric Services, she said. 
“It just really frustrates me when we were being treated like customers and not people,” Wilder said in an interview with The Hoya. 
Lack of engagement with GUSA was also a popular issue among the candidates. Expanding student participation and activism in GUSA on relevant campus topics was at the heart of Kelvin Doe’s (COL ’23) campaign plan, he said. 
“My platform is entirely focused on the people,” Doe said in an interview with The Hoya. “There’s no aspects of my own advocacy in there because I feel before we can fix anything else about GUSA, we have to work on getting people together and mobilizing on issues.”
In his campaign, Doe hoped to inform students about what GUSA’s role on campus is in an effort to make the organization’s operations more transparent, he said.
“As I’ve been running for GUSA senate, the number one response I’ve gotten is this: ‘What’s GUSA?”’ Doe said. “That’s the problem with GUSA. Even though we represent you, the student, you, the student, you don’t even know who we are and it’s not your fault.”
Candidate Kwan Hopkins (COL ’23) was surprised at how few students attended the town hall.
“I thought this would be an event where the constituents would ask us questions; it wasn’t promoted as such, so that’s my mistake,” Hopkins said in an interview with The Hoya. 
Despite some candidates’ dissatisfaction with turnout, others were pleased to be granted the opportunity to share their vision for the Georgetown community. The teamwork fostered at this town hall was encouraging, according to Henry Dai (SFS ’22), who ran for an at-large seat. 
“I think tonight was a great opportunity to kind of spell out our vision. I enjoyed listening to a lot of candidates today,” Dai said in an interview with The Hoya. “I hope to foster a culture of teamwork where we get working on these issues.”
Strong ideas shared at the event gave freshman petition candidate Annie Taber (SFS ’23) hope for the future of GUSA, she said. 
“It just reaffirmed that whoever gets it — I think we’re all going to be very happy for each other,” Taber said in an interview with The Hoya. “I think we all agree on a lot of baseline things.”
Freshman candidates who joined the race through petition include Sofia Negrete-Retamales (COL ’23), Zahra Wakilzada (COL ’23), Sonia Soto Cruz (COL ’23), Alisa Colon (COL ’23), Guerra, Taber and Wilder, according the GUSA election commission Twitter. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

