
October 17, 2019 by Moira Ritter Leave a Comment 
Supporting youth sports is crucial for overcoming gender inequity in athletics, U.S. Women’s National Team player Mallory Pugh said at a Lecture Fund event Oct. 9.
The event, “Women In Sports: With Mallory Pugh and Christine Brennan,” also featured USA Today sports columnist Christine Brennan, who joined Pugh to discuss the state of gender equality in professional sports leagues. The Caravel, Georgetown University Women in Leadership and Hoya Blue co-sponsored the event in Copley Formal Lounge. 
The event was moderated by Catherine Hill, executive director of the Women’s Legislators of Maryland, a bipartisan caucus that advocates for women’s issues. 
Remedying gender inequity in the sports world begins with supporting developing athletes, according to Pugh, who also plays for the Washington Spirit. 
“We’ve got to invest in the youth to build into this pro environment,” Pugh said. “I think the more you invest in us, the more you’re going to see and get results.” 
Brennan agreed that encouraging girls’ and young women’s participation in sports is essential to promoting gender equity in the future.
“It is about growing your gain. It is about bringing young children into the sport,” Brennan said. “And, frankly, it is about making sure the underserved gender is given even more incentive than ever to join that sport.”
In March, members of the U.S. Women’s National Soccer Team filed a federal class-action lawsuit against the U.S. Soccer Federation alleging they are consistently paid less than the men’s team despite a much stronger performance record.
If both the men’s and women’s soccer teams played 20 exhibition games in a year, a top-tier women’s national team player would earn $164,320 less than a men’s national team player, according to the lawsuit. 
Such pay inequity expands to sports beyond soccer, according to Hill. 
“In the athletic world, the gaps are enormous,” Hill said. “They’re not a question of percentage. They’re a question of how many times more.” 
The world’s 100 highest-paid athletes are all male. Within certain sports, there are vast discrepancies in pay for men and women: the top Women’s National Basketball Association salary was $117,500 last season, compared with the top salary of $37.4 million in the National Basketball Association, according to Forbes.
Women’s professional sports leagues historically have trailed behind their male counterparts in viewership, which has led to lower wages for players and fewer opportunities for premier female athletes to grow, Brennan said. 
“That is an issue, I think, of pure capitalism. The NBA is a for-profit league. The WNBA is for-profit,” Brennan said. “I think everyone would like to see them make more money, but there is an issue there of what the market wants.”
In recent years, however, there has been a strong trend showing rising interest in women’s sports content, according to a 2018 Nielsen study on women’s sports engagement.
Brennan was the first woman sports writer at The Miami Herald in 1981 and the first woman to cover Washington, D.C.’s NFL team as a staff writer at The Washington Post in 1985, according to her website.
Women should not be dissuaded from pursuing a career in traditionally male-dominated fields, Brennan said.
“No one was going to stop me from doing what I loved,” Brennan said. “That is my number one piece of advice for each and every one of you.”
Although there is still progress to be made, the strides that the United States has made toward gender equality in athletics over the past generation and a half should be celebrated, according to Brennan.
“This has happened really in the blink of an eye in our nation’s history, and we should celebrate this,” Brennan said. “It’s an extraordinary change. Things don’t usually happen this fast.”

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 17, 2019 by Giulia Testa Leave a Comment 
Michael Kahn, former artistic director of the Shakespeare Theater Company, stressed the importance of diverse perspectives in the arts in his acceptance speech at a university honorary degree ceremony Tuesday. 
Kahn served as the artistic director of the Shakespeare Theatre Company in Washington, D.C., from 1986 to 2019. Kahn received the honorary degree from University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95), who recognized Kahn’s wide-ranging contributions to the theater world throughout his career. In 2000, Kahn founded The Shakespeare Theatre Academy for Classical Acting, a 12-month program where actors could intensively study Shakespeare and other classical dramatic texts. 
Kahn’s work both at the theater company and in his other artistic endeavors highlights the life-changing influence of acting and production, DeGioia said at the ceremony.
“As an artistic director, as a teacher, as a director, as a mentor, Michael Kahn invites us and enables us to experience the transformative power of theater,” DeGioia said. “Over the course of his career, Michael Kahn has made it possible for thousands and thousands to engage in this process of transformation.”
In his acceptance speech, Kahn drew attention to the historic lack of diversity in the structure of the American theater 60 years ago, reading aloud the names of many playwrights from that time period.
“The writers I mentioned were all white males, as was the basic power structure of the American theater,” Kahn said.
The theater has since evolved to include a much more diverse cohort of artists, according to Kahn.
“The American theater is experiencing another golden age of playwrights,” Kahn said. “These are the voices of women, of people of color, of African Americans, Caribbean Americans, Asian Americans, of people who identify as LGBTQ or non-binary, children of immigrants or immigrants themselves, who have chosen to be heard in the theater of today.”
During his tenure as artistic director of the Shakespeare Theatre Company, Kahn also served as head of the drama division of the Juilliard School, a prestigious performing arts conservatory in New York City, from 1992 to 2006. 
“I hope I earned whatever success, let me not leave out the many failures, and position of leadership in the Amerian theater through hard work, energy, thought, talent and yes, some vision,” Kahn said. “But I can see how my own white privilege gave me a pretty big leg up.”
While his work ethic and passion contributed to his accomplishments as an artistic director and educator, Kahn acknowledged the advantages he was afforded as a white man in the theater industry.
Participating in the arts contributes to human development in challenging people with different points of view and giving them the opportunity to reflect on the human condition, according to a 2019 Brookings study. Increases in arts learning can have a positive effect on the engagement of students in school and development of empathy with their peers, according to the study.
American theater will benefit from discussions that consider diversity in the context of the arts, Kahn said.
“These questions and conversations are essential to the continued health of the American theater,” Kahn said.
Beyond conversations about diversity, society should also address the troubling lack of art programs in schools, according to Kahn. 
“There is a longer, and perhaps more important factor that needs to be recognized: the decades-long diminution and eventual elimination of the presence of art in education in our schools,” Kahn said.
Although activities such as sports can offer many of the same benefits as the arts as extracurriculars, the arts offer a distinct experience, according to Kahn. 
“If you were in a play, and I love to be in a play, you have the chance to explore the lives of people from different backgrounds from yourself, with different problems and experiences than yours, and most important of all, to play someone other than yourself,” Kahn said. 
The implementation of more art programs in schools not only will allow creativity to flourish among the younger generations, but also will help create a more equitable society, according to Kahn.
“To stand into others’ shoes, to be them, you had to dig deeper into the core of their circumstances and life choices, and in doing so you develop empathy, a quality much missing in our world,” Kahn said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 17, 2019 by Ella Hetfield 5 Comments 
Recent Georgetown University graduates Mark Keffer (COL ’19), 22, and Maya Robinson (COL ’19), 22, died Oct. 11 from injuries sustained from a flash flood while traveling in Puerto Rico.
The young alumni actively engaged with the campus community while at Georgetown. Keffer graduated with bachelor’s degrees in psychology and art and art history and participated in the peer-to-peer support group Project Lighthouse, according to emails the university sent to the Georgetown community this week. Robinson, who graduated with a bachelor’s degree in mathematics and computer science, was a member of the Georgetown University Alumni and Student Federal Credit Union. 
Keffer, originally from Houston, Texas, was an exceptional artist, according to Georgetown art professor B.G. Muhn. 
“Mark was an unusually and extraordinarily talented student and created pieces with such an innovative vision that I can sincerely say that he was one of the most brilliant, gifted students I have worked with during my past thirty some years teaching at Georgetown,” Muhn wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
Robinson, from Concord, Mass., attended high school at Phillips Exeter Academy in New Hampshire before coming to Georgetown in 2015. 
Robinson was known for her warmth toward peers and professors, according to computer science professor Mark Maloof. 
“She was always friendly and smiling,” Maloof wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I saw her on campus a few times in the spring. She always said hello before I could.”
Keffer and Robinson, who were dating, were also members of The Capitol G’s, a Georgetown a capella group, for which Keffer served as musical director and Robinson as business director.
Keffer’s and Robinson’s personalities complemented each other during their work together at the Capitol G’s, according to President Marie Merveilleux du Vignaux. 
“His strong and energetic leadership, paired with her calm and thoughtful insights, crafted beautiful music and a tight-knit community here in the Gs,” Merveilleux du Vignaux wrote in an email to The Hoya. “As a group, we feel that their memories remind us of the people we should aspire to be.”
Keffer and Robinson met during New Student Orientation their freshman year at Georgetown in the elevator on their way to sing in the convocation choir and began dating shortly thereafter, according to Merveilleux du Vignaux. 
The pair spent significant time together throughout their lives at Georgetown, art history professor Elizabeth Prelinger said. 
“Where one was, the other was,” Prelinger said in an interview with The Hoya. “They were inseparable.” 
After graduation, Keffer and Robinson both moved to New York City. Robinson began a job at BlackRock, a global investment management corporation, as a portfolio analyst in July, according to her LinkedIn page. Keffer was planning to continue his artistic ventures and hoped to pursue a doctoral degree in a psychology-related field, according to Prelinger. 
Computer science professor Jami Montgomery, who interacted with Robinson many times, was impressed by her kind heart and general goodwill, Montgomery wrote in a university email. 
“Maya was smart, stubborn and full of tenacity,” Montgomery wrote. “I was truly grateful to know her and am sorry that others will never get to know Maya’s kindness and rich spirit.”
Keffer and Robinson were remembered at a Chaplains’ Tea on Tuesday and in all religious services on campus this week. The university will also host a memorial service in Dahlgren Chapel of the Sacred Heart, according to a university email. The time has not yet been announced. 
Prelinger will remember Keffer for his oil paintings and distinct eye for art, often depicting scenes of nature in conflict with urbanization and urbanized environments, she said. 
“He had things that he needed to say about his observations of the natural world and human existence, but the pictures also spoke for themselves as objects of beauty and fascination and imagination,” Prelinger said. “He was so deeply imaginative, and I think that this also has something to do in his interest in psychology.” 
Prelinger was so impressed with Keffer’s artistic style that one of his paintings, “Urban Infection,” now hangs in her dining room, she said.
“I cherish his painting, but it now carries all sorts of different feelings with it: delight in its beauty and grief in his loss,” Prelinger said. 
Keffer wrote about the importance of acknowledging people’s worth and individuality in psychology professor Jennifer Woolard’s class in 2017. 
“There is always a story behind every person,” Keffer wrote in the reflection shared with The Hoya. “It is important to recognize that each and every person is significant and worthy of fair treatment in this world.” 


Ellen C Giangiordano says 
October 17, 2019 at 5:10 pm
May Mark and Maya rest in peace.  May the Blessed Mother comfort their parents, family members and friends.
May all those who loved Mark and Maya know that many, many people are praying at this time, all over the world, for the repose of their souls and the healing of their families.

Lisa Coleman says 
October 18, 2019 at 4:08 pm
What a beautiful, talented & loving couple.  As tragic as their passing was, it seems, given their closeness, fitting that they passed away together. And no less – in the River of the Holy Spirit.  May their souls rest in joyous peace forever with Christ Our LORD.

Sheila L SweeneyNikolov says 
October 19, 2019 at 1:11 am
My condolences to Mark & Maya’s Families & to the Georgetown University Community.  The Good News is that You Will See Them Again in the Name of Jesus Thru the Blood of the Lamb.  Amen!

Paul Pentifallo says 
October 22, 2019 at 2:34 pm
While I personally did not know this couple, I know his father through The Hill School community (John).
My heartfelt condolences for their loss go out to their family and friends. Everything I have read above speaks highly to this young couple and their endeavors. May their legacy live on and be of some comfort to their friends and family.

Kimmie Barbera says 
October 24, 2019 at 12:49 am
I heard about this tragedy when happened had no idea it was a loss so close to home my friends niece. This is very tough for the family. Sending prayers to each and every family member, who lost a loved one. May God comfort their hearts.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

