
May 23, 2019 by Sana Rahman Leave a Comment 
In the context of the School of Foreign Service’s centennial this year, Georgetown University professor and former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright told graduates that our society must remain committed to democracy, global engagement and international leadership at the school’s May 18 commencement ceremony.
The SFS, first founded in 1919, graduated its 99th cohort with the Class of 2019 this week. The school graduated 323 undergraduate and 423 graduate students in its commencement ceremony on Healy lawn Saturday evening. 
With the return of extremism and border conflicts, reflecting on the last hundred years of the SFS in the context of its founding after World War I has become relevant for current graduates, according to Albright. 
“In many ways this is the same reality that confronts you, the Class of 2019,” Albright said. “In the short history of this century we have seen technology and globalization once again redraw the borders of the world. We have seen a resurgence of extreme nationalism and a global retreat from democratic values.”
Albright rebuked the idea that the United States’ foreign policy has succeeded in the past out of luck, citing the U.S. leadership that occurred following World War II and the Cold War as one of the true characteristics of American foreign policy success.
“It was the rejection of terror, not luck, that liberated millions from concentration camps and created institutions to prevent a third major conflict,” Albright said. “It was leadership, not luck, that helped America bring nations together after the Cold War on core principles of democracy, free enterprise, human rights and rule of law.”
Albright served as the 20th U.S. ambassador to the United Nations from 1993 to 1997 and as the first female secretary of state from 1997 to 2001 under former President Bill Clinton (SFS ’68). Since 2016, Albright has served as the Michael and Virginia Mortara distinguished professor of diplomacy as part of the SFS’ Mortara Center for International Studies. She received the J. Raymond “Jit” Trainor Award for Excellence in the Conduct of Diplomacy from the university for her commitment to diplomacy and policy advocacy in a ceremony in February 2018.
The SFS has prepared graduating students to defend the basic principles of freedom and international cooperation in light of today’s global challenges, Albright said.
“These are not partisan questions, they speak to the fundamental values of this school and it is your fidelity to those values, not luck, that will shape the future, for we face a slew of threats from climate change to terrorism to weapons proliferation that cannot be addressed without cooperation among countries,” Albright said. 
The future actions and choices of graduating students will determine the legacy of democracy, Albright said. 
“Today I want to urge you to keep looking outward and to treat this as another clarifying moment in our history because a decade or two from now you can be known as neo-isolationists who allowed tyranny and lawlessness to rise again, or those who solidified the global triumph of democratic principles,” Albright said.
The SFS graduates must remember the school’s commitment to improve the world by taking action to protect the American people and building a stronger global community for future generations, according to Albright. 
“You must remember that there is not a page of this institution’s hundred-year history of which we were proud of that was authorized by a chronic complainer — we are doers,” Albright said. “We have a responsibility to shape history, to build with others a global network of purpose and law that will protect our citizens, defend our interests and bequeath future generations a legacy as proud as one we celebrate today.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 23, 2019 by Amy Li Leave a Comment 
Humanitarian Joan Rosenhauer emphasized the importance of holding true to personal values and morals when pursuing a career serving others when addressing the Georgetown University School of Nursing and Health Studies graduates at the school’s commencement Saturday.
Rosenhauer is the first female executive director of the Jesuit Refugee Service, a humanitarian organization dedicated to supporting and advocating on behalf of refugees and displaced individuals around the globe. Rosenhauer spoke about how her lifelong dedication to promoting the dignity and well-being of marginalized people has shaped some of the most rewarding experiences throughout her career.
Many individuals in today’s society have forgotten their basic commitments to serving others and to help the people in greatest need, according to Rosenhauer.
“Today the values of helping those who are suffering and being kind to those you meet are not always prioritized in our culture,” Rosenhauer said. “The idea of servant leadership, that is seeing our resources and skills and power as opportunities to serve others, has been lost.”
The NHS graduated 112 students who earned bachelor’s degrees in global health, health care management and policy, human science and nursing from its undergraduate school at the commencement Saturday, according to the Georgetown website; Saturday’s ceremony also saw the graduation of 343 students receiving master’s degrees in health systems administration and nursing, as well as seven students who graduated as doctors of nursing practice. Rosenhauer received an honorary doctor of humane letters at the ceremony.
Rosenhauer said the NHS’ highest achievement is its clear commitment to Jesuit values which have fallen in line with service work that have informed students’ experiences. Going forward in their various career paths, graduates should continue to abide by these values, according to Rosenhauer.
“You have been formed in a school committed to caring for the whole person, to promoting diversity, to striving for excellence, to respecting all people and to advancing social justice,” Rosenhauer said. “These values have shaped what is now your past and they can also and they should also shape your future.”
After receiving her master’s degree in public management from the University of Maryland, Rosenhauer spent nearly nine years as executive vice president for U.S. operations at Catholic Relief Services, an organization dedicated to breaking the cycle of poverty and to assisting those affected by humanitarian crises in the spirit of Catholic social teaching. 
Rosenhauer worked with the CRS in Rwanda, where she met two survivors of the Rwandan genocide, one of whom had lost her husband and parents during the genocide and the other was the man who had killed them. The two met through a reconciliation program which allowed the woman to forgive the man who had harmed her family.
This experience reaffirmed her conviction that small acts working towards peace can aid even those people who have suffered and been wronged the most, Rosenhauer said in her address.
“In a world of constant cruelty and violence, building peace is possible,” Rosenhauer said. “Global challenges do not have to be overwhelming, and promoting loving one’s neighbor can work.”
A week before she came to Georgetown for the NHS commencement, Rosenhauer was working in a refugee camp in eastern Chad, where she met Sudanese nursing students. The drive she saw in the Sudanese refugees she met mirrored the one that can be found within many NHS students, which is a commitment to serving others, according to Rosenhauer.
“When I asked them what motivated them to work so hard to become nurses and lab technicians and other health professionals, one of them immediately answered, ‘Because the need is so great among my people and I want to be a person who helps and saves lives.’”
Graduates must always examine how their values shape their actions and attitudes toward others in their career paths in service, according to Rosenhauer.
“Always remember the values that motivated you to be here today and please never be the kind of person who doesn’t know how your values shape who you are and what you do,” Rosenhauer said. “I hope and pray that you will find great joy in a life always committed to serving others.”
This article was updated on May 24 to include information on NHS graduate students.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

