
February 21, 2019 by Rachel Friedman Leave a Comment 
A group based at the Georgetown University Law Center filed an amicus brief Feb. 11 contesting a push by the U.S. Department of Commerce to add a question to the 2020 census regarding citizenship status.
The addition of a citizenship question would cause an estimated 630,000 households to not complete the 2020 census, according to a U.S. Census Bureau memo issued Jan. 19. Households may interpret the citizenship question as an effort to use the census to find immigrants without documentation or target ethnic groups, according to a 2018 study commissioned by the Census Bureau. 
The brief, filed by the Institution for Constitutional Advocacy and Protection, was submitted on behalf of the U.S. House of Representatives. ICAP contends that the citizenship question would decrease the census’ accuracy, according to Joshua Geltzer, ICAP executive director and visiting professor at the Law Center.
“Adding it would thwart the constitutionally mandated goal of the decennial census, which is to determine an actual and accurate count of everyone present in the United States,” Geltzer wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Judge Jesse Furman of the U.S. District Court in Manhattan blocked the Commerce Department’s attempt to add a citizenship question last month, citing a faulty decision-making process led by Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross Jr. that included cherry-picked facts, manipulated evidence and hidden deliberations, according to The New York Times. 
The Supreme Court decided Feb. 15 to hear the case. Given that the 2020 census forms must be printed in June, the Supreme Court has fast-tracked the case, which is set to appear before the court in the second week of the April argument session. 
Furman’s ruling is a key concern of the brief, according to Geltzer. In 1996, the Supreme Court held that Congress is responsible for conducting an accurate count of people living in each state, including noncitizens, to determine House representation. The brief argues that this decision means the Census Bureau, while it has authority over the mechanics of census data collection,  cannot add a citizenship question to the census.
“Congress, through federal law, has made clear the importance of certain forms of oversight and certain constraints in delegating authority to the Census Bureau to carry out the decennial census; and a federal judge in New York correctly found the Census Bureau’s efforts to add this question to violate Congress’s clear direction,” Geltzer wrote.
Launched at the Law Center in August 2017, ICAP uses litigation to defend rights granted by the U.S. Constitution. By bringing forth original constitutional challenges, filing briefs and supporting the litigation efforts of its partners, ICAP aims to protect the rights and values laid out in the constitution, according to Geltzer. 
“Our work at ICAP has included a number of efforts to defend voting rights by protecting the census process, including by articulating concerns about the Census Bureau’s leadership and calling attention to cybersecurity concerns regarding America’s first electronic census in 2020, so weighing in on this important case was a natural fit for our mission,” Geltzer wrote. 
The ultimate goal of the brief is to aid in the reinforcement of the district court’s ruling, Geltzer wrote. 
“We look forward to seeing the Court’s decision, which we hope will be an affirmance of the district court’s thorough and well-reasoned decision,” Geltzer wrote. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2019 by Ashley Zhao Leave a Comment 
Andrew Yang, 2020 Democratic presidential candidate, advocated for the introduction of guaranteed social security payments for all U.S. citizens over the age of 18 Tuesday. 
Yang’s main pillar in his campaign platform is his basic income plan, which would give every adult citizen $12,000 per year through a series of monthly payments. 
The government-sponsored payment program would help ease an economic burden on citizens, enabling them to tackle other pressing political issues, according to Yang.
“It would replace that mindset of scarcity with a mindset of relative abundance, and allow us to take on challenges like climate change in a more real way,” Yang said. “That is the great challenge of this era, to take the giant capital and market we are all subject to and rewrite the rules.”
Basic income plans have been experimentally implemented in multiple countries including India, where the state of Sikkim plans to establish a basic income for all citizens by 2022. In the United States, the guaranteed income proposal has previously received support from activists like Reverend Martin Luther King Jr., who called it a tangible program for combating poverty in the past, according to The Atlantic.
Yang believes that an income floor, along with his plan to forgive a significant portion of student loan debt if elected, would enable more students to pursue careers and interests that they are passionate about.
“We need to make it so that you all can actually live out the ambitions you came to Georgetown with,” Yang said. “If we fail in that, then we have failed you, and we have failed everyone. Because what you do will actually be very very important in the future of this country over the years to come.”
Yang is the first Asian-American man to run for the Democratic nomination for president. He is the founder of Venture for America, a nonprofit that trains recent college graduates and young professionals in entrepreneurship by placing them in various startups across the country. Yang served as CEO of Manhattan Prep, a test preparation company, until 2011.
The event, titled “Entrepreneurship and Elections,” was hosted in Lohrfink Auditorium by the Georgetown University Lecture Fund. 
The need for an income floor has become more pressing in light of the rate of technological advancement and the automatization of jobs in manufacturing, retail, fast food and other industries, according to Yang.
“Unfortunately, what half of Americans do is called repetitive cognitive work or repetitive manual work, and those jobs are going to get automated away in very large numbers,” Yang said.
Automation would negatively affect 83 percent of jobs with a wage under $20, or 81 million jobs, according to a December 2016 White House report. Yang said the relationship between the increasing automatization of jobs and widespread job insecurity among U.S. citizens is the main reason President Donald Trump was elected into office in 2016.
While Trump’s popularity can be attributed to his emphasis on relevant problems in the U.S. economy, his proposed solutions are the opposite of what the country needs, according to Yang. Yang said Trump’s lack of tangible solutions to the problems facing the United States motivated him to run for president.
“[Trump] said we’re going to build a wall, we’re going to freeze time, we’re going to turn the clock backwards,” Yang said. “And I want to do the opposite of all those things. I want to accelerate our society and our government. I want us to see ourselves as having value independent of what the market says.”
Tuesday’s event was co-sponsored by the Beeck Center for Social Impact and Innovation, Georgetown University College Democrats, the School of Foreign Service’s global business program and the Baker Center for Leadership and Governance. 
Through his presidential campaign Yang hopes to introduce new policies and ideas to revitalize the many outdated aspects of the American government and economy.
“We actually have to start trying to update the operating system of our government for this era,” Yang said. “We have to try and galvanize the American people, reclaim our democracy in a meaningful way and then make moves that we can agree on.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

