
May 14, 2019 by Sana Rahman Leave a Comment 
Eleven projects, including at least two Georgetown student-led initiatives, will receive a total of $300,000 in university grants to aid their work addressing local and global sustainability problems for the upcoming school year.
The grants, which are funded by donations, were awarded to the projects in the Georgetown community in a range of $10,000 to $50,000. The Georgetown Office of Sustainability first announced the creation of the Laudato Si’ Fund, named after Pope Francis’ 2015 encyclical on environmental justice sent to Roman Catholic bishops, to help the Georgetown community collaborate on projects that combat sustainability challenges Jan. 29.  
While the university had previously collaborated with student groups on similar initiatives before, the fund allows for a formal, centralized process for submitting sustainability-related proposals to be aided by the school.
These projects were chosen for grants out of 60 projects total because of their focus on creating an environmentally conscious future through working with various community members, according to Office of Sustainability Director Audrey Stewart.
“Awarded proposals additionally demonstrate the potential to catalyze future positive sustainability impact and show strong evidence of collaboration with internal and external partners to increase the reach and impact of their project,” Stewart wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Among the grant recipients are Noelle Gignoux (SFS ’22) and Hannah Funk (SFS ’20), who received funding for the Georgetown Renewable Energy and Environmental Network’s residential composting pilot program they co-head. The funding will allow the program to partner with Compost Cab, a local compost company, to provide 50 townhouses five-gallon buckets for their compost, according to Gignoux.
Since the initiative is a pilot program, the project will first focus only on those living in a few areas of campus, including individuals residing in Nevils, Alumni Square, university-owned townhouses and non-university owned townhouses. The residents participating in the program will drop off composting buckets from their housing at a centralized drop-off location for Compost Cab to collect. 
Gignoux and Funk will test a pilot composting program using the grant in order to discover any initial issues before creating a more established initiative, according to Gignoux. 
“Hopefully this can turn into a more regular program,” Gignoux said. “We are using this as a pilot to see how it works so we can work out all the kinks, before we get university funding for it.” 
Elizabeth Nguyen (SFS ’21), the head of Hoya Hive, Georgetown’s beekeeping organization, also received a grant in partnership with professors William Hahn and Cynthia Wei to create a bee campus, a national initiative to make an overall safe environment for pollinators, at Georgetown. They plan to use the funds to expand their bee hives, invest in research and increase campus awareness of the issue through more formal certifications for interested community members.
The Laudato Si’ grant provides project members adequate funding to effectively carry out their projects without the background concern of financial need, according to Nguyen.
“The Laudato Si’ Fund gives us a lot of flexibility,” Nguyen said. “Having this established fund support a really diverse and broad range of projects really helps us to not have to worry about the financial cost and just focus on the environmental impact we can make on the campus and community.”
Laudato Si’ furthers efforts on campus to make Georgetown more environmentally friendly through emphasizing sustainability in academic courses and student-led initiatives. The university aimed to decrease greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2020, a goal it achieved six years early in 2014.
Francis, the first Jesuit pope, has also recently encouraged Jesuit universities and other Catholic communities to take on the issue of environmentalism. Laudato Si’ calls upon community members to take action against the problems addressed in Francis’s 2015 letter, where he critiqued the degradation of the earth’s resources and urged for unified action against climate change and environmental exploitation.
The Office of Sustainability plans to publicize the names and goals of all 11 projects as well as promote their missions in the fall, according to Sustainability Program and Metric Manager Giulia Manno. In the upcoming year, the Office of Sustainability wants to see how each recipient carries out their project, Manno wrote in an email to The Hoya.
“We look forward to the recipients implementing their proposals and engaging the campus community in their exciting, tangible sustainability solutions and research,” Manno wrote.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 14, 2019 by Connor Thomas Leave a Comment 
Sixty-four seniors graduated from the School of Foreign Service in Qatar in front of family, friends, faculty, Qatari officials and international diplomats in the campus’s 11th commencement ceremony May 9.
GU-Q held the ceremony at its campus in Education City, Doha, Qatar, where graduates received a Bachelor of Science in Foreign Service, the same degree given to School of Foreign Service graduates on the university’s main campus. This year, the graduating class was made up of 49 women and 15 men. Including the class of 2019, 566 students have now graduated from the campus since it opened nine years ago.
Permanent Representative of the State of Qatar to the United Nations, Her Excellency Ambassador Sheikha Alya bint Ahmed bin Saif Al-Thani delivered the commencement speech for graduates and attendees. 
Al-Thani commended the university for its scholastic achievements and praised the school’s work with the Qatar Foundation, a nonprofit dedicated to developing educational opportunities in Qatar, in her address.
“Today’s GU-Q graduates carry on a legacy of academic excellence, strength through diversity and an unwavering commitment to work for the common good,” Al-Thani said. “Through dedicated scholarship in the field of humanities and social sciences, their academic work has contributed to the development mission of Qatar Foundation, and the ambitions and optimism of tomorrow’s leaders inspire us all to envision a better future.”
The Qatar Foundation supports GU-Q in partnership with the main university to offer specialized international affairs courses in Education City, where Georgetown and eight other schools have campuses. Georgetown is one of four U.S. universities in the area just outside of Doha, Qatar’s capital, in addition to campuses from Northwestern University, Cornell University and Texas A&M University.
Visiting from Georgetown’s campus in Washington, Provost Robert Groves and SFS Dean Joel Hellman presented the graduates with their degrees. University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95) also gave closing remarks in person at the event.
When it was first founded in 2005, GU-Q contained only 25 students in its student body, but has since expanded to graduate more than 500 alumni total. The campus graduated two more students in this year’s ceremonies than it did last year. 
In celebration of the research and academic publications of its community this year, the campus also held “GU-Q 100: A Celebration of Knowledge,” an event celebrating over 100 published volumes by the school’s faculty and staff. The school held a celebratory gala on campus in the spring. 
GU-Q also gained attention this year when it ranked poorly among other U.S. colleges in terms of free speech. FIRE, a nonprofit dedicated to protecting the civil rights of university students and faculty, gave GU-Q the ranking as one of 10 U.S. colleges with the most restrictive censorship practices in the nation. 
The ranking came after the school canceled an event in October organized by a GU-Q Debating Union called “Pardon the Interruption.” The issue the group planned to debate was whether or not major religions should portray God as a woman.
GU-Q Dean Ahmad Dallal introduced Al-Thani and also gave the opening speech. GU-Q graduates have hopeful futures because of the opportunities afforded to them through the university, according to Dallal.
“With the guidance and support of our dedicated academic community, they have acquired the critical skills required by our ever changing world, and their stories and diligence will continue to inspire the next generation of students following in their footsteps,” Dallal said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

