
December 14, 2019 by Riley Rogerson 9 Comments 
Georgetown University men’s basketball forwards Galen Alexander (COL ’21) and Myron Gardner (COL ’23), who were recently named in a civil complaint, announced plans to transfer from the university Dec. 13. 
The complaint, which also named former teammate Joshua LeBlanc (MSB ’22), included allegations of burglary, sexual harassment and assault against a Georgetown student in an off-campus residence. It was filed Nov. 12 in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. 
The players signed a Consent Stay Away Order Without Admissions, which states that Alexander, Gardner and LeBlanc cannot contact the plaintiff or her roommates in any manner and must stay at least 50 feet away from them and their home, on Dec. 9. The mutually agreed upon order does not carry any admission of guilt and expires Dec. 9, 2020. Another outstanding civil complaint filed against LeBlanc on Nov. 5 named Alexander as an involved party in the burglary. 
Since media outlets reported on the accusations, Alexander has been threatened and has received no support from the university, according to his Dec. 13 tweet in which he also announced his plans to transfer.
“I have been falsely accused and targeted by the media and my peers of crimes I did not commit,” Alexander wrote. “In light of the situation, the University has allowed me to become a target and subjected to unfair treatment, with little or no support.” 
Gardner announced his decision to transfer through a statement released by his attorney, Cynthia Goode Works, to The Washington Post on Dec. 13. 
“After consultation with my family, I have decided that it is in my best interest to enter into the transfer portal,” Gardner wrote. “I want to thank Coach Patrick Ewing, Coach Louis Orr, the staff and the entire Georgetown University community for their support of my success.”
Alexander and Gardner are the third and fourth men’s basketball players to make transfer announcements this month. Effective Dec. 2, LeBlanc and guard James Akinjo (COL ’22) were no longer members of the men’s basketball team, Head Coach Patrick Ewing (CAS ’85) announced in a Georgetown University Athletics news release. 
The announcement was made after LeBlanc and Akinjo expressed interest in transferring from the university separately of allegations against three members on the team, according to a Dec. 3 statement from Athletic Director Lee Reed. The allegations do not involve Akinjo. 
Alexander and Gardner both played in a Dec. 4 basketball game at Oklahoma State University and a Dec. 7 game at Southern Methodist University. 
Ewing confirmed Alexander’s and Gardner’s plans to transfer in a Dec. 13 university news release. 
“Men’s basketball players Galen Alexander and Myron Gardner have expressed an interest in transferring from Georgetown University and to no longer be on the team,” the release said. 
Alexander and Gardner did not play in the 89-79 win against Syracuse University on Dec. 14 at Capital One Arena. 
Alexander could not be reached for comment. Gardner did not respond to a request for comment. 
This is a developing story. This post will be updated as more information becomes available.
Hoya Staff Writer Ashley Zhao contributed to this reporting. 

Pro Basketball says 
May 4, 2020 at 12:01 am
Its very bad, i don’t think  Civil Complaint is normal thing in basketball. Most of the player don’t do anything wrong but they still face some problem during his basketball carrier.

Sammy Dickson says 
July 25, 2020 at 4:34 pm
Hello Riley, thanks for writing article on basketball players . It’s very bad to hear the  someone cliam allegations .

jame says 
July 29, 2020 at 1:15 am
Hey, Thank you for this great article on basketball players. Really informative for me and some points are new to me. Thanks again.

Basketball Guard says 
November 20, 2020 at 10:06 am
Good luck to both!

James S. Garcia says 
December 3, 2020 at 7:41 am
very nicely explained, some basketball players doing good in game and very well played, but this type of allegation sometime will hurt in future.

basketball scan says 
December 29, 2020 at 9:57 am
Its terrible, I don’t think Civil Complaint is typical thing in b-ball. A large portion of the player don’t do anything incorrectly yet they actually face some issue during his b-ball transporter.

Eral says 
January 2, 2021 at 3:00 am
its very bad to hereabout these civil complaint because all five fingers are not same.. but except all of these some good players are also faced a lot of problems in their carrier that not good for them.. it should have to stop.. because besides of all of this there are some players that are really go through some tough situations but they never say anything..

Erica says 
January 13, 2021 at 4:32 am
This is really hard to hear about all the allegations on the players of basketball.. its really an informative and aware message for all who do negative comments about players..

Isabella says 
August 12, 2021 at 6:24 am
it’s really bad to hereabout these civil complaints because all five fingers are not the same. but except all of these some good players are also faced a lot of problems in their carrier that are not good for them.
Most of the player don’t do anything wrong but they still face some problem during his basketball carrier.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

