
May 26, 2019 by Connor Thomas Leave a Comment 
To ease the stress created by the modern “age of hurry,” it is necessary to care for others and avoid extreme individualism, award-winning author Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie told Georgetown University College graduates May 18.
Adichie addressed the audience gathered on Healy Lawn after receiving her own honorary degree. Adichie is the best-selling author of “Americanah,” and most recently, “Dear Ijeawele, or A Feminist Manifesto in Fifteen Suggestions,” and has also delivered two widely viewed Ted Talks, “The Danger of a Single Story” and “We Should All Be Feminists.” 
Inviting the hurried graduates to exhale, she asked them to stop and enjoy the day rather than stress about the future. Addressing the audience in Igbo, her native language, Adichie demonstrated how pausing is also integral to love.
“In Igbo, the word for love is ihu n’anya, and its literal translation is ‘to see.’ So, to say I love you in Igbo, ahuru m gi n’anya, is ‘I see you,’” Adichie, who is from Nigeria, said. “And so ihu n’anya seems to me to capture a certain subtlety, a pause, a presence, a fullness — things we lose when we’re in a hurry.”
For Adichie, hurry also begets worry, so she advised the graduates to pace themselves to control the gratuitous self-imposed pressure that she has observed to frequently plague Georgetown students.
“It seems to me that a consequence of our modern, fast lives that happiness is increasingly a condition we recognize only in retrospect,” she said. “So please, be happy when you are happy.”
The College graduated almost 800 students at commencement, representing over half of undergraduates receiving degrees this year. The Class of 2019 is 852 students, and some students graduated in December 2018 or will graduate in August 2019. 
In her address, Adichie drew a distinction between what makes us happy as individuals and what the world ascribes false value to, including individualism and money. Moving away from self centeredness and toward altruism is key to personal success, according to Adichie. 
“Extreme individualism will not save you and will not serve you well no matter what course your life takes,” she said. “Caring about the rights of others is important because in doing so you preserve a system that protects your own rights.”
Genuine care for others loses priority in a fast-paced and money-driven society, Adichie said. While she commended Georgetown students for endorsing a reconciliation fee to benefit the descendants of the 272 enslaved people sold by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus to financially sustain Georgetown in 1838, Adichie, who often writes about race and cultural identity, also noted how Americans can value money too much. 
Adichie advised graduates that the cultural importance given to money in the individualistic United States propagates the idea that money should valued above all else — but it does not have to be this way.
“Money is important in a capitalist world,” Adichie said. “Money is what keeps places like Georgetown being Georgetown.”
Money is not a perfect substitute for anything, least of all love, according to Adichie. Activism like the student referendum that ultimately supported the reconciliation fee should keep this in mind, she said. 
“There was too much value, it seemed to me, given to the idea of money as a kind of stand-in for justice. Money as panacea for loss, for pain, for emotion,” she said. “Of course people who are harmed should get money, but the arc of the story should be the pain they endured, the losses that they will continue to live with for the rest of their lives.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 26, 2019 by Riley Rogerson Leave a Comment 
New York Solicitor General Barbara Underwood (LAW ’69) challenged graduates to empower new and diverse perspectives in moving along their career paths at the Georgetown University Law Center commencement May 19.
Underwood, who graduated first in her class from the Georgetown Law Center, became the first acting female U.S. solicitor general, a position that directly reports to the attorney general within the Department of Justice, in 2001. In 2007, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D) appointed Underwood the first female New York solicitor general. Underwood served in this capacity until becoming New York’s first female attorney general for eight months in 2018 before returning to her previous role as New York solicitor general in 2019. 
Women taking on historically male positions of leadership are critical to diversifying decision-making because women share a history of marginalization, Underwood said. 
“I would like to say something about why all that pioneering, all those firsts, are important,” Underwood said. “It is not that there is a single woman’s view that will change outcomes. Instead, it is that women, like other outsiders, have some important life experiences in common and those experiences can matter in decision-making.”
While reflecting on her achievements and those of other women, Underwood recalled an old New Yorker cartoon that demonstrates that there still exist areas where women can trailblaze their own paths, according to Underwood. 
“One little girl says to another, ‘I’m afraid by the time we grow up it will be too late to be the first woman anything.’ Those little girls are grown up now and some of their daughters are, too, and remarkably it is still not too late to be the first woman anything,” Underwood said.
Although women have not yet reached top positions in a variety of industries, the empowerment of their viewpoints is essential to having a representative conversation that brings together different groups, according to Underwood. 
“That is one of the most important challenges of our times, to bring to courts and to the law firms, to the boardrooms and executive suites, in business and in government, the academy and all the institutions of society, many different perspectives so that we can have the tools to build the bridges that are needed to unite rather than divide,” Underwood said.
Despite the obstacles women continue to face in law, they have made strides since Arabella Mansfield passed the Iowa bar exam and became the first female attorney in 1869, according to Underwood. 
“Now there are so many women lawyers and so many women in this class that it may be hard to believe how widespread the notion once was that women are unsuited to the practice of law,” Underwood said. 
Underwood and Washington, D.C. District Judge Emmet Sullivan, who did not give an address, received honorary degrees from the Law Center. Sullivan was the first person in Washington, D.C., to be appointed by three U.S. presidents to three judicial positions. After years in private practice, he served as associate judge of the Superior Court of D.C. and associate judge of the D.C. Court of Appeals. In 1994, President Bill Clinton (SFS ’68) appointed Sullivan to serve as U.S. district judge for D.C.
The class of 2019 law graduates should contribute their individual points of view in their future endeavors, Underwood said as she concluded her commencement speech. 
“When you go out into the world and into the legal profession, try to make it a better place. Try to make your distinctive voice heard and listen to as many different voices as you can,” Underwood said. “Don’t be afraid to be a pioneer — it turns out to be a pretty rewarding thing to do.”  
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

