
April 23, 2019 by Max Levine Leave a Comment 
Creating jobs for younger Americans is crucial to the successful future of the economy, former Chair of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Janet Yellen said April 15.
Yellen emphasized developing appropriate monetary policy and ensuring a stable financial system in the wake of the crisis-inducing economic downturn as chair following the 2007 to 2009 Great Recession, she said at the Tanous Family Endowed Lecture. The fund for the annual lecture, which was established by Peter Tanous (CAS ’60) in 2010 to commemorate the 40th anniversary of Lauinger Library, organized the Lohrfink auditorium event.
Serving as chair from 2014 to 2018, Yellen advocated for a focus on job creation as the economy recovered from the global financial crisis, she said at the event. 
“The financial crisis took a huge toll on the American economy. Unemployment reached 10 percent in 2009, which is close to the post-Second World War high, and nine million jobs were destroyed,” Yellen said. “With respect to monetary policy, my focus, first and foremost throughout my entire tenure, was on jobs.”
Although a significant upturn in the economy has been seen since the financial crisis, the low number of Americans from ages 25 to 54 who are in the labor force is concerning, according to Yellen. Developing technologies and globalization have caused a lack of low-skill jobs in the United States, impacting the unemployment rate of people in their peak working years. 
“Prime-age labor force participation plummeted after the financial crisis,” Yellen said. “It’s still about half a percentage point below its precrisis level. It’s hard to note how much further it will rise because it’s been on a downward trend for about two decades, reflecting the disappearance of jobs for less-skilled workers due to technological change and globalization.”
This generational disparity, however, is not the only challenge facing the labor market, according to Yellen. Yellen highlighted the racial inequality of unemployment rates in the United States, both before and during the recession.
“The African-American unemployment rate stood at a not-very-low 8.3 percent in 2006; it rose to a horrifying 16 percent in 2009,” Yellen said.
At the time of her historic appointment as the first female chair in February 2014, Yellen said she was eager to reinstate prerecession policies to spur economic growth as the American economy improved.
“I hoped and expected that with the economy recovering from the financial crisis, it would prove appropriate to normalize monetary policy,” Yellen said. “Namely, to gradually scale back the enormous monetary policy measures that were put in place after the financial crisis.”
Yellen was appointed as chair of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the central banking system of the United States, by President Obama in 2014 after years of experience working for the system. 
Yellen served as a member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System beginning in 1994 under President Bill Clinton (SFS ’68), as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco beginning in 2004 and as the vice chair from 2010 until her appointment as chair in 2014.
In addition to serving in highly experiential economic policy positions, Yellen also has a background in academia and research. She is a faculty member at the University of California, Berkeley, and a Distinguished Fellow in Residence for economics at the Brookings Institution’s Hutchins Center on Fiscal and Monetary Policy.
Looking forward, Yellen sees international cooperation as critical to increasing and enhancing large-scale economic growth. She coordinated with other countries through global finance organizations as chair to work to avoid the globalization of future crises. 
“We coordinated efforts here with those of other countries through the Basel Committee [on Banking Supervision], the Financial Stability Board, and the Group of 20 to ensure that efforts in one country to tighten standards will not be undermined through shifting of risky activities abroad,” Yellen said.
The Fed is taking these measures and others to ensure financial markets can respond more swiftly and comprehensively to future economic declines to avoid global crises like the Great Recession, Yellen said.
“One of the most important concerns now facing the Fed is how monetary policy can respond to a future downturn,” Yellen said. “It is something you will likely hear more about in the next few years.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 23, 2019 by Afua Nyantakyi Leave a Comment 
A campaign to preserve the tidal basin launched April 3, as the National Trust for Historic Preservation and the Trust for the National Mall plan to collaborate in response to rising sea levels and heavy foot traffic that threaten the basin’s longevity. 
The campaign, “Save the Tidal Basin,” invites proposals for new initiatives to improve the basin’s condition. The campaign is establishing the National Mall Tidal Basin Ideas Lab, a platform for architectural and landscape design firms to present their plans to protect the basin. 
The tidal basin, an inlet between the Potomac River and Washington Channel, was initially built in 1887 as a means of harnessing the tides to flush sediment from the channel and maintain water levels in the Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool, according to the Library of Congress. Increased tourism in D.C. and climate change-connected flooding threaten its future, though, according to the campaign.
American Express, a financial services company, sponsored the $750,000 brainstorming campaign that has been in progress for the past three years. It asks for design firms to propose solutions to five specific challenges facing the site: security, circulation, hydrology, cultural landscape and visitor experience.
Despite rapid city development in Washington, D.C., the sea wall surrounding the basin has undergone few renovations since its construction, according to CBS News. In light of climate change, however, officials are looking beyond simple maintenance for long-term, sustainable solutions.
During high tide, flood waters rise over the sidewalks surrounding the tidal basin. Over time, this compromises the roots of the cherry trees planted along its banks, creating muddy and uneven walking conditions that pose safety and accessibility challenges to visitors, according to CBS News. Despite being man-made, the tidal basin is connected to the Potomac, making it as susceptible to changes in sea levels as natural bodies of water. This flooding is currently a daily occurrence and is expected to increase in frequency as sea levels continue to rise, according to the National Trust for Historic Places.
D.C. residents and visitors should understand the potential impact of climate change, both on water sources and the economy, according to Shelby Gresch (SFS ’22), head of recycling for the Georgetown Renewable Energy Environmental Network.
“Rising (and warming) seas cause upstream salinization in deltas and tidal basins, create uninhabitable conditions for many aquatic species, increase magnitude and frequency of natural disasters, and consequently harm the economy,” Gresch wrote in an email.
The area around the basin is suffering further damage from increased foot traffic, as its walkways are too narrow for visitors, according to The Washington Post. Consequently, visitors tread on the roots of cherry trees — which already face harm from brackish flood water.
The tidal basin, home to thousands of the District’s iconic cherry trees, is visited by 36 million people each year — it is the most-visited national park —  and development projects could total up to $500 million, according to the Trust for the National Mall. Officials say it is too early, however, to estimate the cost or say what departments will pay, according to The Washington Post.
Underfunding of the National Park Service’s annual maintenance budget worsens the effects of climate change, according to the NTHP. The park service requested $393,469 for facility maintenance for fiscal year 2020, $18,153 less than in fiscal year 2019. 
In addition to underfunding, previous efforts to address the park service’s $11.9 billion maintenance backlog have not been successful. This included an attempt during the 115th Congress to pass legislation to raise maintenance funds, according to National Parks Traveler, but Congress adjourned without a final decision. Although similar bills have been presented in the current Congress, no funds have been dedicated to maintenance. 
Without definitive action, private philanthropy continues to provide the majority of support for initiatives like the Ideas Lab, according to the National Parks Traveler.
Restoring the tidal basin, which is 107 acres and 10-feet deep, may be the largest-scale project the Trust for the National Mall has ever taken on, according to the National Parks Traveler. The Trust for the National Mall has led several past restoration projects, including a 2014 campaign to restore Constitution Gardens, a 2018 initiative to replace the Lincoln Memorial Roof and recent work to refurbish the Washington Monument and the historic lockkeeper’s house.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

