
April 5, 2019 by Moira Ritter 6 Comments 
Undergraduate students are set to vote next Thursday on a referendum to create a semesterly fee that would go toward a fund to benefit descendants of the GU272.
Students will vote on whether to include a $27.20 fee in student bills every semester. These funds would be allocated to descendants of the GU272, the 272 enslaved individuals Georgetown sold by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus in 1838 to financially sustain the university.
In 2001, the Georgetown University Student Association proposed the addition of a semesterly student activities fee. The proposal was approved by a student referendum and Georgetown’s board of directors, which is comprised of 39 members selected by the university. The board, which approves major policy changes and advises University President John J. DeGioia on university decisions, passed a tuition increase that removes a mandatory Yates membership fee for undergraduate students in January.
The university is not obligated to enact policy based on the results of the April 11 referendum, according to university spokesperson Matt Hill.
“Any student referendum provides a sense of the student body’s views on an issue,” Hill wrote. “Student referendums help to express important student perspectives but do not create university policy and are not binding on the university.”
Other universities, such as Harvard, Yale and Columbia, have acknowledged their past ties to slavery, according to the Associated Press. However, Thursday’s referendum marks the first time a university has held a vote regarding the inclusion of a fee that would raise funds for descendants.
The GU272 Advocacy Team, an on-campus group of students that advocates for descendants, has hosted events to educate students and encourage them to vote in the weeks leading up to the referendum.
Students for GU272, the Advocacy Team’s social media presence, hosted a discussion Monday for students to ask questions and share their thoughts on the referendum. On Wednesday, the group hosted a town hall to encourage discussion about the referendum. The town hall featured a panel of students that included supporters and opponents of the referendum. 
Students who are privileged to attend Georgetown should vote, according to Advocacy Team member Mélisande Short-Colomb (COL ’21), who is a descendant of the GU272.
“You have come here to get an education that you will take out into the world, and for $27.20 for eight semesters, you can invest in something while you’re here that makes it better or presents opportunities for people who do not have the same opportunity you have — and that was to come to Georgetown University,” Short-Colomb said at the Monday discussion. “If you don’t want to give $27.20 to another thing in your whole life, you don’t have to, but while students are here at Georgetown, this is what we’re going to do.”
The GU272 referendum does not require a minimum participation rate among students to pass. However, Georgetown students’ voter participation can ensure that advocacy for the descendants is a priority among the Georgetown community, according to Elliot Mack (SFS ’22), who plans to vote in favor of the referendum.
“If we really want to prove that this is something of essence in our community, we need to be able to get huge participation,” Mack said. “I hope to prove that this is a priority of our community and of the student body. If we want this to be a successful first step, a step which allows us to take many more, this needs to be a big statement. We need the whole community to come out and express their opinion.”
The referendum is set to coincide with GUSA’s April 11 senate election. Overall voter turnout at the last senate election in October was 20.9 percent, according to the GUSA Election Commission’s Twitter account. The relatively low turnout marked a downturn since the April 2018 senate elections, when turnout reached 23 percent.
Recent elections for GUSA president and vice president in February saw the lowest voter turnout since the 2007 executive election, with 32 percent of the student body casting votes.
The university plans to create opportunities for informed dialogue on the history of slavery at Georgetown regardless of next Thursday’s results, according to Hill.
“We remain committed to working with students – regardless of the outcome of the referendum – to develop education and programming that will enable all students to meaningfully engage with Georgetown’s history of slavery and support opportunities for collaboration between students and Descendants,” Hill wrote.
GUSA Senator Sam Dubke (SFS ’21) voted no in the Feb. 3 GUSA Senate vote on whether or not to hold a referendum to benefit the descendants, many of whom live in Maringouin, La. Dubke said that though he believes Georgetown should be held accountable for its past actions, the injustices were committed by the university itself, and thus the university should be responsible for repaying the descendants.
“It is my belief that Georgetown University committed the heinous crime that was the sale of 272 slaves, that Georgetown University made a commitment to repay the descendants of those slaves,” Dubke said at the townhall. “Therefore it is Georgetown University’s responsibility financially to contribute financially to that community of descendants in and around Maringouin. Students should not be required to pay.”
If passed by students and approved by the university, the referendum would establish a reconciliation fund, which will be presided over by a board of trustees composed of students and descendants. The reconciliation fund would then allocate funds toward purposes to the direct benefit of descendants of the 272, according to the Students for GU272 Facebook page. Some proposed projects include funding K-12 education, creating college scholarships and buying school supplies.
GUSA Senator Hayley Grande (COL ’21), who also opposes the addition of a reconciliation fee and who sat on Wednesday’s panel, said voters should consider the financial burden of the fee on low-income students.
“We can’t treat the student body as it stands today and in the future as a monolith,” Grande said at the townhall. “Everyone really brings a different voice to this community, and going across the board and requiring everyone to pay more to come to this prohibitively costly and expensive university is unjust.”
The financial aid office has indicated students receiving financial aid from the university would not have to pay the fee, according to former GUSA senator Sam Appel (COL ’20), who originally sponsored the resolution proposing the referendum. 
However, the Advocacy Team has not been able to make a concrete guarantee that low-income students would receive a waiver for the fee, according to a February op-ed in The Hoya by Dubke and Grande.
The referendum lacks empirical reasoning behind the designated $27.20 fee and fails to specify how the money will be utilized for the descendants, Dubke said at Wednesday’s town hall.
“The amount $27.20 per student is symbolic but not grounded in data; only undergraduates are feed, even though everyone at Georgetown, as most on this panel argue, benefits from the sale of these slaves,” Dubke said. “There are no concrete plans for where this money should go and why.”
The GU272 Advocacy Team first started considering the proposal of the referendum at the beginning of last semester. The GUSA senate voted in favor of holding the universitywide referendum with a 20-4 vote Feb. 3.
Of 615 students who responded to a Feb. 6 door-to-door poll conducted by The Hoya, 34.8 percent said they approved of the fee, 34.7 percent said they were indifferent or unsure, 16.3 percent said they do not support the fee and 13.4 percent said they did not plan to vote.
Passing the GU272 referendum would be an important step not only in addressing injustices of the past, but also in helping Georgetown University set a historical precedent, according to Mack.
“Many other elite universities and institutions are in the same situation as us, and none have acted,” Mack said. “I want this to be a statement from the student body to the administration, to the board of trustees, to other institutions in this country, to the country on a national level that this is an issue that we care about and this is an issue that our community is pushing for.”
Hoya Staff Writer Amy Li contributed reporting.
This article was updated April 5 to include a university statement and correct the role of Georgetown’s board of directors in past referendums. This article was updated April 6 to correct the minimum participation rate of the referendum.

Concerned alumnus says 
April 5, 2019 at 9:06 am
Utter nonsense devoid of logic and full of pc notions. Nothing needs to be done. The whole concept of reparations is baseless and silly.  Several generations have passed….great great great grandchildren…lol. No one is guilty of the proverbial sins of their fathers. Otherwise, the french owe me reparations for Napoleon (from a fairly similar time period). Lets stretch it back further…italy owes me tax money bc of julius ceasar. As an alumnus i fear for the future. Children will stay children i guess.

Illuminated Alum says 
April 5, 2019 at 10:17 am
Support but with similar cuts to other mandatory fees. You can’t keep milking students and their parents for more and more and more without considering how to be mot efficient to support meaningful investments.

Hoyalum says 
April 5, 2019 at 11:13 am
Will students who will be exempt from paying still get to vote on whether other students will have to pay this fee?  
Would exemptions based on race or economic ability to pay?   
Shouldn’t these answers be known before voting?

Bill Hoya says 
April 5, 2019 at 6:57 pm
If students & their parents are not paying the full tuition out of pocket, they should not be allowed to vote. Only students whose parents are sacrificing the full $70k for a Hoya education should be given weight in this discussion. Those who get aid funded by scholarships should not be counted in this referendum, it’s hypocritical.

Sad Alum says 
April 7, 2019 at 9:30 pm
…and off the socialist, identity politics deep end goes the Georgetown student body. Sad, sad, sad. Agreed that only those who are responsible for their full room and board should have a say in this. If this passes, where does one draw the line?

Another Hoya says 
April 8, 2019 at 1:07 pm
Participation in democracy doesn’t and shouldn’t depend on income. It’s a despicable and classist idea that only the wealthiest students at Georgetown get to decide how Georgetown reconciles with slavery, or vote at all.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2019 by Taylor Kahn-Perry Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University’s undergraduate acceptance rate dropped to 14 percent this admissions season, the lowest in the university’s history, marking the third consecutive year of record-low acceptance rates for Georgetown.
A total of 3,202 applicants were admitted to the Class of 2023 from a pool of 22,788 in hopes of meeting an enrollment target of 1,600 first-year students, according to Dean of Undergraduate Admissions Charles Deacon (CAS ’64, GRD ’69).
“This is the lowest April 1 admit rate,” Deacon wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Although the pool was virtually unchanged from last year’s record number, we did offer 130 fewer acceptances because the yield (those saying yes) has increased and last year we enrolled 1621 with a goal of 1600.”
This year marks a slight decrease in the size of the applicant pool compared to last year’s record-breaking high of 22,897 applicants, which followed the previous record of 21,459 applicants for the Class of 2021.
The School of Nursing and Health Studies saw a 12 percent rise in applicants since last year’s admissions cycle, with a total of 1,682 applications compared to last year’s 1,500. This year, 222 students were admitted to the NHS with an acceptance rate of 13.2 percent, the lowest acceptance rate of the four undergraduate schools.
Outside of the NHS, each undergraduate school saw a decline in the size of its application pool since last year, resulting in a lower number of applicants overall compared to the Class of 2022.
The College received 13,704 applications with an acceptance rate of 13.6 percent; the School of Foreign Service accepted 14.5 percent of its 4,109 applicants; and the McDonough School of Business had a pool of 3,322 applications, accepting 15.9 percent.
Twenty-two percent of students admitted to Georgetown’s Class of 2023 are Asian-American, 12 percent are Latinx, 11 percent are black and 1 percent are Native American. Eight percent of admitted students are international. 
First-generation students represent 12 percent of the class, up slightly from last year’s 11 percent. The admissions office cites programs like the Community Scholars Program and the Georgetown Scholars Program that provide support for first-generation and low-income Georgetown undergraduates as part of Georgetown’s initiative to admit a more socio-economically and racially diverse class of students, including first-generation college students.
The median family income of a student at Georgetown, as of 2017, was $229,100, with 74 percent of students coming from the top 20 percent, while 3.1 percent of students’ family incomes fall in the bottom 20 percent, according to a 2017 report by The New York Times.
Georgetown remains need-blind when reviewing applications and guarantees to meet demonstrated need for all accepted students, according to Deacon. The policy has been in place since the late 1970s.
Legacy students make up 8.7 percent of the admitted class of 2023, according to Deacon.
“Of the 3202 total admits, just 2.5% received a legacy tip since most legacy admits are competitive on their own merits,” Deacon wrote.
This admissions cycle comes amid a March 12 indictment by the Department of Justice in which a former Georgetown tennis coach was charged with accepting bribes from parents in exchange for their children’s admission to the university. The coach left the university in December 2017 after an internal investigation.
Student athletes are admitted to the university through a recruitment process spearheaded by university coaches, according to Deacon.
“Coaches recruit talented student athletes and have been allowed to support the admission of a limited number of these athletes,” Deacon wrote. “The role of admissions is to verify the academic talent of those recommended.”
Georgetown admitted students from all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Admitted students to the Class of 2023 also came from 77 foreign countries, slightly lower than last year’s representation of 81 foreign countries.
This admissions cycle, the university received the highest number of applicants from California — 2,632 — followed by 2,527 applications from countries outside the United States and 2,177 applications from students in the state of New York.
New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, Massachusetts, Florida, Texas and Pennsylvania completed the list of the top 10 regional sources of applicants.
Overall, admitted students ranked within the top six percent of their high school class. The median score range for the SAT was between 710 and 790 for the math section and between 710 and 770 for the verbal section. The median score range for the ACT was between 32 and 35.
Georgetown holds a no “score choice” policy, meaning students must submit their scores from all standardized tests they have taken rather than sending only their highest scores. Georgetown also differs from most universities by using its own application rather than allowing students to apply via the Common Application or Coalition Application. 
Georgetown’s separate application limits its applicant pool to those who are seriously interested in the university, allowing most applicants to interview with an alumnus and personalizing Georgetown’s admissions process, according to Deacon.
“We have never deviated from the belief that a student centered admissions policy begins with the relationship established between the student and college through the application process,” Deacon wrote.
This article was updated on April 6 to clarify the age of the median income data.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2019 by Alexandra Bowman Leave a Comment 
Archbishop of Atlanta Wilton Gregory is set to become the first black archbishop of Washington, D.C., on May 21, the Vatican announced Thursday.
Gregory’s appointment follows the ongoing clerical sexual abuse scandal within the church, which has implicated the last two archbishops of D.C. The D.C. archdiocese has looked to fill the position for almost six months since former Archbishop of Washington Cardinal Donald Wuerl resigned in October following reports he mishandled sexual abuse cases.
Gregory, the only living black archbishop in the United States, has led the archdiocese of Atlanta since 2005. He pledged to move forward past the history of sexual abuse in the church at a Thursday press conference
“I cannot undo the past, but I sincerely believe that together, we will not only address the moments where we’ve fallen short or failed outright, but we will model for all the life and teaching of our Lord Jesus Christ and we will reclaim the future,” Gregory said at the press conference.
Former Cardinal Theodore McCarrick, who served as D.C. archbishop before Wuerl, was expelled from the priesthood for sexually abusing minors and soliciting sex from adults during confession at the conclusion of a canonical trial Feb. 16. McCarrick became one of the highest-ranking Americans to be formally dismissed from the clergy.
Shortly after McCarrick was removed from public ministry June 20, Wuerl was implicated in a Pennsylvania grand jury report last August for covering up sexual abuse. Pope Francis accepted Wuerl’s resignation as archbishop of Washington on Oct. 12.
McCarrick and Wuerl had both been awarded honorary degrees from Georgetown. McCarrick’s degree was revoked by the university days after he was expelled from the priesthood following months of student advocacy. This marked the first time the university has ever revoked an honorary degree.
Gregory recognized the need to address the issue of sexual abuse during his time as archbishop.
“This is obviously a moment fraught with challenges, throughout our entire Catholic Church certainly, but nowhere more so than this local faith community,” Gregory said at the press conference. “I would be naive not to acknowledge the unique task that awaits us.”
Despite public outcry following revelations of Wuerl’s involvement in covering up clerical abuse, Wuerl sits on the Congregation for Bishops at the Vatican, which recommends candidates for bishop positions to be selected by Francis, according to the National Catholic Reporter.
Wuerl, who previously worked with Gregory on a number of church initiatives, welcomed Gregory to the D.C. archdiocese in an April 4 news release. 
“As the Church of Washington opens a new chapter and looks to the future, we can all, with great confidence and enthusiasm, welcome our new shepherd,” Wuerl wrote.
Gregory’s appointment was announced in D.C. by Archbishop Christophe Pierre, apostolic nuncio to the United States. Gregory served a term as president of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops from 2001 to 2004, when he led the U.S. Catholic hierarchy through the fallout of the Boston Globe’s 2002 investigation into the cover-up of clerical abuse in the church.
During his term, Gregory oversaw the formation and implementation of the Dallas Charter, or the Charter for the Protection of Children and Young People, a comprehensive set of procedures established by the USCCB in 2002 to address allegations of sexual abuse of minors by Catholic clergy. 
Following his tenure as president of USCCB, Gregory continued to work with Cardinal Timothy Dolan and Archbishop Joseph Kurtz to examine and develop proposed reforms for increasing episcopal accountability regarding the sexual abuse of minors by clergy while serving as archbishop of Atlanta. 
Gregory may only serve as archbishop of Washington for a short amount of time. At 71, Gregory will have to submit his resignation when he reaches 75, the age when every bishop must submit his resignation according to canon law. The sitting pope has the authority to decide whether or not to accept the resignation.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2019 by Rachel Friedman 1 Comment 
Unexcused absences by senators at Georgetown University Student Association senate meetings have more than quadrupled from last year’s legislative season despite the introduction of a committee this fall intended to track senators’ attendance records.
GUSA senate meetings over the last year have seen 43 unexcused absences without proxies from senate meetings, compared to last year’s nine. Conversely, this year the senate witnessed 15 excused absences without proxies from its meetings compared to last year’s 39 excused absences within the same time frame, according to GUSA’s attendance records.
At the latest senate meeting Sunday, 10 out of 27 senators were absent without an excuse. Of the 43 unexcused absences, 42 have occurred this semester.
Senators are required to attend all senate and committee meetings or report absences to the speaker. Three unexcused absences from either form of meeting is considered grounds for removal from office, according to GUSA bylaws. Under these standards, at least five current GUSA senators qualify for removal. These senators’ absences account for 18 of the 43 recorded.
GUSA senate committees did not consistently publicize their attendance records, but at least an additional five absences were marked among the records that were made publicly available.
Impeachment is the only binding punishment available to the committee, which ethics and oversight committee chair Dylan Hughes (COL ’19) said the committee is unlikely to resort to given the short amount of time to schedule a special election before the legislative season ends in late April.
GUSA established an ethics and oversight committee within the senate last October to track senators’ attendance records, ensure accountability and monitor conflicts of interest.
Ensuring better attendance this year was one reason for the creation of the committee, Sam Dubke (SFS ’21) one of the senators who helped draft the legislation that established the committee, said to The Hoya last October.
“A lot of senators would just not come to meetings that they felt were unnecessary, and there was functionally no enforcement mechanism,” Dubke said.
GUSA Senate Speaker Eliza Lafferty (COL ’21) and Vice Speaker Patrick Walsh (SFS ’21) declined to provide their own comment to The Hoya. The pair, instead deferred to Hughes’ statement as a comment from senate leadership.
While the committee plays a role in shedding light on the attendance problem, it is up to the senators to deliver on their duties in GUSA, according to Hughes.
“Each Senator takes an oath to the student body, and they have to show up to fulfill that oath,” Hughes wrote in an email to The Hoya. “That said, the Committee does have a role in reminding and incentivizing good attendance.”
GUSA’s bylaws allow absent senators to appoint proxies twice during the legislative season in an effort to provide more opportunities for senators to vote at any given meeting. Proxies are rarely used, however, with only 22 proxies appointed this year relative to the 58 total absences.
Low attendance might be evidence of dissatisfaction among senators with their legislative power, according to Senator Thomas Teravainen (COL ’22).
“There tends to be a lack of substantial impact that our policies actually make,” Teravainen wrote in a message to The Hoya. “We still need permission from University administration in order to pass anything and they are able to overrule anything that we do pass.”
This dissatisfaction may be because of the limited role GUSA plays relative to other campus organizations, according to Teravainen. 
“GUSA’s actions and policies often overlap with many other groups on campus, and at times our efforts may undermine the projects that others have already been working on,” Teravainen wrote.
Hughes also noted a lack of consensus within GUSA leadership on the proxy policy.
“Limiting proxies encourages Senators to show up themselves to all meetings,” Hughes wrote. “Yet, hypothetically this could cause a Senator to not have any representation after having already expended their proxy limit.”
Hughes also said the attendance record reveals some positive insights. Although two meetings, including one near President’s Day, marked large absences, these meetings were not necessarily indicative of the number of absences at the average senate meeting, according to Hughes.
“On a brighter note, I hope future Senate leadership can continue the trend of improved median attendance and take steps to avoid outlier bad attendance days perhaps by rescheduling meetings near major holidays,” Hughes wrote.
The last time a GUSA senate meeting did not suffer any unexcused absences was Dec. 2. The average number of absences across the nine meetings in the spring semester was around four. Three meetings accounted for 27 of the 43 absences.
GUSA President Norman Francis (COL ’20) and Vice President Aleida Olvera (COL ’20) hope the senate takes steps to remediate the rising unexcused absences, according to GUSA executive chief communications officer Winston Ardoin (SFS ’21).
“Norman and Aleida are concerned with the absences and hope that there are actions taken in the senate to mitigate this. We believe that in order to have a strong GUSA that supports its students, individuals must be able to attend open meetings in order to provide transparency,” Ardoin wrote in a message to The Hoya.

Dick Pointer says 
April 11, 2019 at 2:45 pm
The Senate should have real power, not the exec
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2019 by Riley Rogerson and Myroslav Leave a Comment 
The Woodstock Theological Center moved into Old Ryan, now known as Ida Ryan Hall, in 1978. Over the next several decades, three priests credibly accused of sexual misconduct would work at Woodstock, a Jesuit-run research institution housed on Georgetown’s campus. All three lived in the Woodstock Theological Residence, two blocks away from the university’s front gates. 
Nineteen years after the center’s opening, Woodstock hired Fr. William J. Walsh, S.J., who was later found to have committed sexual abuse in at least four locations, according to a December 2018 report issued by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus. Walsh sexually abused five of his nieces hundreds of times while they were between 5 and 14 years old.
The Maryland Province moved Walsh to Woodstock from ministry in China after his nieces reported his abuse to the province in 1996. He worked there until his nieces went public with their abuse in April 1998, when he moved to Ferdinand Wheeler House, a Jesuit residence in Baltimore.
Fr. Jack Kennington worked at Woodstock from 1981 to 1983. He went on to abuse two children from 1984 to 1987 in New York City, and the church settled a lawsuit brought by the survivors in 1994.
Fr. Thomas Gannon, S.J., came to Woodstock as its director in 1983 after sexually abusing a minor at a church in Highland, Ind., that same year and abusing two adults in the 1970s while he worked as chair of the sociology department at Loyola University Chicago. He served as director of the center for three years and taught Georgetown University undergraduates as a sociology professor at the same time. 
Woodstock, which closed in 2013, is one of several spaces on Georgetown’s campus where Jesuits — including perpetrators of clerical sexual abuse — worked, lived and rest in peace. The university has maintained that the Jesuit order independently manages these spaces, but archival material and interviews with clerical abuse experts suggest close administrative links between Georgetown and spaces on campus that housed some abusers — who may have interacted with students.
Working at Woodstock
Woodstock first came to Georgetown in May 1975, when it was located in the first floor of Car Barn. Three years later, the center moved to the Georgetown Jesuit Residence in Ryan Hall.
Woodstock was moved to Ryan Hall following a need for a central location with a larger space for discussion and research, according to Fr. Robert Mitchell, S.J., the Woodstock director from 1976 to 1979. 
The Georgetown Jesuit community offered Woodstock a discount of $4,300 per year on the rent, according to “Woodstock at Georgetown: The Creation of a Library, a Center, a Community” by journalist and author Patricia Markun. The Georgetown Jesuit community constitutes Jesuits at the university, Georgetown Preparatory School and Holy Trinity Catholic Church, according to a university spokesperson.
 
The New York and Maryland Provinces financed and managed Woodstock. The center was a reincarnation of Woodstock College, a Jesuit seminary that operated from 1869 to 1974 outside Baltimore. The Maryland Province also owned and operated Georgetown until 1968, when the university became an independent institution.
Fr. Clarence L Stankiewicz, S.J., rector of the Georgetown Jesuit community from 1973 to 1979, developed the guidelines for Woodstock’s operation in 1975, following the provinces’ desire to formalize the center’s relationship with the Georgetown Jesuit community, according to “Woodstock at Georgetown.”
Woodstock has always operated independently of Georgetown, according to a university spokesperson. 
“The Woodstock Theological Center has always been an independent, Jesuit-sponsored research institute staffed, operated, and funded through the Maryland Province,” the university spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Woodstock fellows were encouraged to teach at Georgetown and other universities, however, according to a 1976 letter by Fr. Joseph Panuska, S.J., who served as a trustee for Woodstock from 1974 to 1979.
“Your relationship to the University is something which is important both to you and to the University community,” Panuska wrote in the letter to the Woodstock Community. “I can understand how some slight teaching might be both intellectually stimulating and even psychologically helpful—in addition to serving real teaching needs.”
Jesuits typically came to Woodstock in order to pursue scholarly research, according to Fr. John Langan, S.J., acting director of the Woodstock Theological Center from 1986 until 1987 and a senior fellow at the center from 1976 until 1995. 
“It is not a particularly mysterious or remote process,” Langan said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “It was more like ordinary academic recruitment. That is, people came to work there because they had projects they wanted to pursue or because they had areas of expertise in areas that we were interested in working on.”
Before 2002, when the Boston Globe’s Spotlight report exposed the Catholic Church’s sexual abuse cover-up, Woodstock did not commonly track sexual misconduct allegations during the hiring process, according to Langan.
“Woodstock is a research institution, and so it doesn’t have a well-defined clientele of students or faculty,” Langan said. “There is not the kind of direct pastoral responsibility or the likelihood of situations that are focused on the discussions of the abuse of children. I think most of the time we didn’t think much about that.”
The clerical sexual abuse crisis, however, was publicly uncovered decades before 2002, when reporter Jason Berry (CAS ’71) uncovered patterns of clerical sexual abuse in New Orleans, according to Tom Doyle, a former Catholic priest and canon lawyer.
“This all exploded in the fall of 1984 in Louisiana,” Doyle said in an interview with The Hoya. “And the media, all of a sudden, changed its tune. Now they could — they weren’t afraid of the church.”
Living and Dying 
Members of Woodstock worked in Ryan Hall, but they also lived just off campus in the Woodstock Theological Residence, two blocks from Georgetown’s front gates.
Walsh, whose history of abuse was known to the Maryland Province, arrived at the second floor of Ryan Hall each day and worked alongside Georgetown students, according to Fr. Leon Hooper, S.J., current acting director of the Woodstock Theological Library, who worked with Walsh from 1996 to 1998.
“We did have some student workers there,” Hooper said in an interview with The Hoya. “You know, there was almost a little commune they had up there. The place would be open at nights, and you know the students. It was their study hall. It was their community.”
No students lived in Ryan Hall when it housed the Woodstock Center, and the center’s director conducted all hiring, according to a university spokesperson. 
Even when sexually abusive priests are reassigned to research or administrative roles without direct access to children and young adults, perpetrators can never be fully isolated, according to Doyle.
“The myth has always been: ‘We’ve got father so-and-so and he’s perpetrated a couple of times, so we’re gonna give him an assignment where he is not near young people,’” Doyle said. “The only place that you could do that is send him to Antarctica, because if you put them in a convent or a hospital, all you’ve got to do is walk outside.”
Beyond their presence on and off campus, Jesuit priests are also buried on Georgetown’s campus. 
The Jesuit cemetery on Georgetown’s campus near Harbin Hall serves as a resting place for over 320 Jesuits with ties to the Georgetown community. Among the Jesuits buried in the cemetery is longtime Georgetown administrator Fr. Martin J. Casey, S.J., who worked at Georgetown from 1973 until his death in 2006. 
Casey faced an accusation of sexual abuse of a minor from 1959, deemed plausible by the Maryland Province in a December 2018 report.
As the current superior of the Georgetown Jesuit community, Fr. Ronald Anton, S.J., handles burials in the cemetery. Before a burial can take place in the cemetery, Jesuits at Georgetown must be consulted, according to archival records and an article from the Georgetown Independent. 
“The Georgetown Jesuit Community superior and the Maryland Province determine burial decisions, which includes burying Jesuits who were a part of the Georgetown Jesuit Community,” a university spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Jesuits, including credibly accused perpetrators like Casey and Fr. Daniel O’Connell, S.J., who was stripped of his emeritus title in March 2019 in response to inquiries from The Hoya, can request where they would want to be buried upon death, a request that is usually honored, according to Fr. Brian McDermott, S.J., special assistant to University President John J. DeGioia.
“I think if you died and you’ve asked to be buried there and you served at Georgetown, especially if you die while serving at Georgetown, you go there,” McDermott said in an interview with The Hoya.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2019 by Cady Stanton 1 Comment 
A petition for the exoneration of Eric Riddick, a Pennsylvania inmate who was sentenced to life in prison in 1992 for first degree murder, has received over 2,780 signatures since three Georgetown University students created it March 29.
The petition, addressed to Philadelphia’s District Attorney Larry Krasner, cites the fact that the lone witness in the case, Shawn Stevenson, recanted his statement in 1999 as reason for Eric Riddick’s release. Ballistic evidence also contradicts Stevenson’s testimony and provides evidence that two shooters were involved.
Alexander Buffone (COL ’20), Kendell Long (COL ’19) and Taylor Riddick (COL ’19), students in Professor Marc Howard’s “Prison Reform Project” class, created the petition as part of the Georgetown’s Prisons and Justice Initiative’s “Making an Exoneree” project.
Taylor Riddick, who is not related to Eric Riddick, said they created the petition to draw attention to the evidence discovered by “Making an Exoneree.”
“At its core, the petition is meant to raise awareness about the case,” Taylor Riddick wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The thousands of supporters Eric has received prove that this case is not one that can be easily swept under the rug. There is clear evidence proving that he has not committed the crime, judges have even stated that he is likely innocent.”
Family members and friends of Eric Riddick have been active in maintaining his innocence, creating a website, Facebook page and a pamphlet outlining the details of the case. Eric Riddick has also received the support of a city councilman in Philadelphia and public appeals by rapper and friend Meek Mill, who brought national attention in the spring to the criminal justice movement as the focus of the #FreeMeekMill movement.
Drawing attention to the injustice surrounding his incarceration is an important step toward Eric Riddick’s exoneration, Buffone wrote.
“One of the biggest problems facing wrongfully convicted individuals is lack of awareness,” Buffone wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Change comes from the masses – the more people we can educate about this issue the better. The creation of this petition is beginning to shine light on this issue.”
Eric Riddick has appealed his sentence multiple times using the evidence collected around his innocence, but has been denied due to Pennsylvania’s Post-Conviction Release Act, which requires a petition for appeal be filed within one year of sentencing. 
Howard is the founding director of Georgetown’s Prisons and Justice Initiative, which studies and seeks to combat the issue of mass incarceration.
“Prison Reform Project” allows students to work on six cases of men and women who are likely wrongfully convicted by interviewing witnesses, attorneys, family members and other key individuals, according to the program’s website. “Making an Exoneree” is the continued theme from last spring’s class.
Howard met Eric Riddick in prison in February, and his students have since discovered new evidence supporting Eric Riddick’s exoneration, Howard wrote in an email to The Hoya.
“He made a strong impression upon me, and I left with the overwhelming desire to do everything possible to help expose the injustice that has kept him in prison for almost three decades,” Howard wrote.
Eric Riddick’s case was first brought to the program’s attention when Meek Mill spoke at Georgetown in November, according to Howard. Mill learned at the event that Howard’s program had exonerated wrongfully convicted inmates in the past including Valentino Dixon, who spent 26 years in prison after being found guilty of murder. After the event, Howard followed up with Mill’s lawyers, who put him in touch with Eric Riddick’s wife, and the Initiative assembled a legal team devoted to Eric Riddick’s case.
The Initiative also partnered with the D.C. Department of Corrections to create the Prison Scholars Program, which launched in January 2018 and provides incarcerated individuals in the D.C. jail to enroll in Georgetown courses. Halim Flowers, a participant in the Prison Scholars program who was imprisoned at 17, was released early from jail March 21 after 22 years in prison based on his demonstration of personal growth while incarcerated.
Though the petition has received significant support, the progress made towards Eric Riddick’s exoneration has been a collaborative effort dependent on the work of activists who have long been advocating for him, according to Buffone.
“Who knew that three undergraduate Georgetown students with little to no previous law experience could make an impact on a judicial case like this one,” Buffone wrote. “With that being said, we would not be where we are today without the amazing help of his mother, his wife, his uncle, his lawyer, and his private investigator. Everyone has played a crucial role in this case throughout these four months, and I believe that exoneration is on the horizon.”

M L Glasco-Brown says 
April 5, 2019 at 3:00 pm
This situation is one of the things that bothers me most about judicial system. Even when presented clear evidence in a wrongful conviction; they refuse to do right and correct their wrong.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2019 by Amy Li and Riley Rogerson Leave a Comment 
McDonough Alliance, a student group that seeks to bridge the gap between queer students and professional opportunities, has changed its name to Georgetown LGBTQ+ Mentors and Resources and expanded events beyond career guidance to promote broader student involvement.
Changing the McDonough Alliance’s name to GLMR affirms the organization’s commitment to Georgetown LGBTQ students across all four undergraduate schools, GLMR President Tanner Daggy (MSB ’20) said.
“Our mission is to provide queer students at Georgetown with professional mentorship and information about career opportunities that they might not otherwise have access to,” Daggy said. “We are rebranding to reinforce the McDonough Alliance’s commitment to serving all students, not just those in the MSB.”
The name McDonough Alliance was misleading for students at the annual Council of Advisory Boards fair because it seemed limited to students in the McDonough School of Business, according to GLMR board member Colin Maloney (SFS ’20).
“The number one question I get at CAB fair when I table for it is, ‘Do I have to be in the MSB?’ And I’m like, ‘No, I’m on the board and in the School of Foreign Service,’” Maloney said. “I think it’s a good marketing change. It’s really just to emphasize our commitment to all students, not just those in the MSB.”
GLMR is set to host a resume and cover letter review workshop in Red Square on Friday as a kick-off event for the rebranding, according to GLMR’s Facebook page. GLMR plans to begin hosting events for HIV/AIDS testing and events supporting LGBTQ homelessness in Washington, D.C., according to Daggy.
Among its services, GLMR offers mentorship, targeted recruiting and social events to Georgetown undergraduates. Students are welcome to attend GLMR programming whether they are pursuing careers in finance, government, advocacy, medicine or any other field.
GLMR has also worked with other student groups on campus to promote LGBTQ advocacy, including GU Pride, which works to provide a welcoming space for LGBTQ students, and GU Queer People of Color, which seeks to create an environment cognizant of the intersections between race, gender and sexuality and conducive to constructive conversations.
The organization currently seeks to expand its presence among underclassmen as well, considering students may begin pursuing jobs early in their Georgetown career, according to Maloney.
“We want to be there every step along the way of finding a career, whether you know what you want to do yet or whether you’re interviewing for that job after senior year,” Maloney said. 
The GLMR board also aims to adjust its leadership strategy to encourage more underclassmen input, Daggy said.
“McDonough Alliance has always been pretty ‘board-centric,’ meaning that we put on events for other people,” Daggy said. “But we hope that going forward, it’s more of a grassroots thing where the underclassmen tell us what they need from us, and we’re listening to them and giving them what they want.”
The group has also collaborated with the on-campus LGBTQ Resource Center, which celebrated its 10th anniversary with OUTober, an annual monthlong programming series honoring the LGBTQ community, in October 2018.
Many LGBTQ students have unanswered questions when applying to jobs, including whether or not to put information about their identity and sexual orientation on their resume, according to Daggy. GLMR provides these students with a resource that can answer their questions and reaffirm the value of their identities, according to Daggy.
“It wasn’t until I got to college and it wasn’t until I joined McDonough Alliance that I realized what an asset being queer in the job application process is,” Daggy said. “Companies really are looking for different backgrounds, different experiences.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2019 by Chelsea Hafer Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University’s chapter of Students for Justice in Palestine erected an artistic representation of the 400 mile wall in the West Bank on campus as part of its 15th annual Israeli Apartheid Week to raise awareness about the Israeli state policies against Palestinian citizens.
Israeli Apartheid Week, which began April 1, is an international campaign across college campuses that strives to raise public support for the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement. This year’s theme is “Stop Arming Colonialism.” Over 200 cities worldwide participate in IAW, according to its website.
The Palestinian-led BDS movement encourages the boycott of and divestment from Israeli businesses, cultural and academic institutions, and sanctions on the Israeli government. 
Georgetown’s SJP hosted events throughout the week to support the BDS movement and raise awareness of the plight of Palestinians in Israel, according to SJP. 
“We hope students understand how Israel’s separation wall, occupation of the West Bank, and illegal settlements therein are a manifestation of apartheid,” SJP wrote in a statement to The Hoya. “These policies have divided families, expropriated land, and violated the civil liberties and human rights of Palestinians.”
Israel built a 400-mile wall intended to bolster security along the West Bank in 2002 during the Second Palestinian Intifada, or uprising, after a series of attacks killed 130 Israelis, according to The New York Times. With the violence along the West Bank having declined, the wall violates international law and the rights of self-determination, according to a 2004 advisory opinion of the International Criminal Court.
Students gathered to create a mock wall of art Monday, April 1, and it has been displayed in the Intercultural Center Galleria throughout the week. The construction aimed to represent the Israel barrier in the West Bank, according to SJP president Ahmad Al-Husseini (NHS ’20).
SJP hosted Former Syrian Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Affairs, Abdallah Al Dardari, on Tuesday, who spoke on the historical context of the Palestinian occupation and its impact on Syria, according to Al-Husseini. 
“He came and spoke about the occupation in Golan Heights and the relationship between Syria and Palestine and the intrinsic special bond that is there,” Al-Husseini said.
The event follows President Trump’s recent official acknowledgment of Israel’s sovereignty over the Golan Heights, a region controlled by Syria until 1967. Israel annexed the Golan Heights in 1981, a move recognized by no other country until Trump’s announcement on March 21, according to The Washington Post. The United States is now the only state to officially recognize Israeli authority over this contested region.
SJP also held a panel Wednesday about the BDS movement, which featured speakers that included BDS leader Andrew Kadi and SJP activist Moath Elhady.
The international community has the responsibility to ensure the rights of Palestinians are protected, Kadi said at an event held by the Washington Report on Middle East Affairs in May 2018. 
“To me, BDS is a movement that is more about the international community. It’s a solidarity movement in the sense that we’re the ones who are complicit,” Kadi said. 
SJP hosted a charity dinner Thursday in McShain Lounge to raise money for Helping Hand for Relief and Development, an emergency and humanitarian aid organization, according to the HHRD website. At the dinner, students read poetry and celebrated Palestinian culture. 
The events of the week show the power of student organizing and collective action, Sonya Fares (COL ’22), an attendee of the charity dinner, said. 
“The topic is a highly contentious one that raises much debate, but I think any instance where students come together to share their perspective and spread their message is really great to see,” Fares said. 
The philanthropic dinner was an opportunity to celebrate Palestinian culture, according to Munir Pavez (SFS ’20), co-president of Georgetown University Arab Society, who performed at the event. 
“I’m glad SJP this year was able to hold a philanthropic event that focused on Palestinian culture, art, and solidarity,” Pavez wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I helped lead dabke, a traditional Levantine line dance that, for Palestinians, has symbolized cooperation, determination and love for their heritage.” 
The IAW does not encourage dialogue and only tells one side of the Israeli-Palestinian issue, the Georgetown Israel Alliance wrote in an April 2 statement on Facebook.
“We are disappointed that this week’s events discourage dialogue and reject the Jewish connection to Israel in favor of a divisive, one-sided narrative,” GIA wrote. “To further our goal of dialogue, we will be tabling this week in Red Square so that members of the Georgetown community can engage with us on their views.”
Some of the week’s events have led to misunderstandings of SJP’s mission, according to Tara Nouri (SFS ’22), an SJP board member.
“We’ve had a lot of great interactions over this past week and a lot of bad interactions where people have not quite understood what our mission is here,” Nouri said. “We are interested in the uplifting of the Palestinian people for their equal treatment in the occupied territories.”
To conclude IAW, SJP will host a screening of the documentary “The Lobby,” which is about the influence of the Israel lobby in U.S. politics, on Friday.
Last year during IAW, a Palestinian flag hung in Red Square on April 1 was removed by unknown individuals April 3 and April 6. SJP filed two bias incident reports with university administration. 
GIA also reported five separate incidents regarding its Israeli flag, which was also hung in Red Square, during last year’s IAW. GIA filed bias reports with the administration after the Israeli flag was removed April 3, 4 and 6. The individual who removed the Israeli flag April 6 was apprehended by the Georgetown University Police Department.
This article was updated April 5 to correct the incidents of flag removal which occurred during IAW last year.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2019 by Afua Nyantakyi Leave a Comment 
The medieval studies program was renamed the global medieval studies program as it diversifies its curriculum by including countries outside Western Europe, director Sarah McNamer announced in a March 28 email.
The change was partially inspired by an overall shift in academia away from perspectives centered on Western Europe to one that more accurately reflects a global approach to medieval studies, according to McNamer.
“In the past couple of years, it’s partly been a nationwide change where people are thinking very much about expanding the borders of what we think of as medieval,” McNamer said in an interview with The Hoya.
The name change comes after the theology and religious studies department updated its name in February 2019. The new name reflects the curriculum’s courses outside Christianity, which are often not referred to as theology, according to program administrators.
The name change is an important step toward addressing the university’s Euro-centric curriculum, according to Nabil Kapasi, who wrote a viewpoint in 2017 accusing the university of failing to fulfill its dedication to a global perspective. (Full disclosure: Kapasi is a former member of The Ho
“I wasn’t aware of the change in Medieval Studies program, but I think making the focus global is a great step to take,” Kapasi wrote in a message to The Hoya. “It’s awesome to see Georgetown recognizing and fixing existing biases in its curriculum.”
The program’s wider focus challenges misconceptions of the medieval world that have been prolonged because of the program’s limited scope in the past, according to to Michelle Wang, director of undergraduate studies in art history.
“Our emphasis on the ‘global’ also pushes back against simplistic and erroneous narratives that paint the medieval world as purely Eurocentric,” Wang wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The goal of the expansion is to provide students with an interdisciplinary curriculum that examines the Middle Ages outside Europe and specifically in Asia and Africa.
Broadening the program was a logical step for Georgetown as an internationally-minded institution, according to Timothy Newfield, assistant professor in the department of history.
“It only made sense to go global,” Newfield wrote in an email to The Hoya. “‘Middle Ages’ is a periodization used originally in Europe and for European history, but in recent decades scholars working on the premodern history of Central, East, South, Southeast and West Asia, as well as North and Sub-Saharan Africa have adopted the concept.”
In place of a foundation course focused on Western Europe, the program enforced a new requirement in the fall semester: Students of the major and minor need to take at least one class focusing on a geographic area outside of Europe and one class focusing on Europe.
The program is also developing a senior seminar for fall 2019 that aims to help students write their thesis on a broader range of topics, according to McNamer.
“With exposure to cultures that they may not have considered before, students are more likely to write theses that incorporate a global perspective in some way” McNamer wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The program is also working to establish a global medieval studies minor in the School of Foreign Service to continue the school’s effort to replace certificates with minors.
The honors track for majors, which previously required students to be proficient in Latin, or in recent years Arabic or Hebrew, now accepts proficiency in any language that facilitates research in global medieval studies.
The department also developed study abroad opportunities outside Europe to further its efforts to expand the discipline, according to Wang.
“It was exciting to read about the students’ research experiences in Zambia and the Middle East and for the faculty, it affirmed the necessity of being in the field in order to truly experience and understand the medieval world, both past and present,” Wang wrote. “This is important for faculty and students alike.” 
Cross-cultural understanding, particularly for Western students, is critical to a successful curriculum, according to McNamer.
“Where it’s really interesting, important and sort of urgent is understanding other cultures beyond Western Europe,” McNamer said. “Also, students seem to really be interested in that.” 
Though the changes are a welcomed development, the terminology of “medieval” still centers the program around European history, according to Kapasi.
“This might be appropriate for European history as it refers to the time between Rome and the Renaissance, but for the rest of the world it was not a ‘Middle Age,’” Kapasi wrote.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 5, 2019 by Erika Gebhardt Leave a Comment 
Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D­-D.C.) urged the Senate to address the growing number of vacancies in Washington, D.C. courts and introduced legislation to allow nominees for local D.C. court positions to be seated without a vote of approval from the Senate March 28. 
Nominees to D.C. court positions must receive affirmative approval by the U.S. Senate in order to assume their nominated positions. There are currently 10 vacancies in the D.C. Superior Court and two vacancies on the D.C. Court of Appeals. These vacancies pose a threat to the District’s judicial system, according to a March 28 news release by Norton’s office. 
“The current process is so badly broken that it is doing harm to the administration of justice in the nation’s capital.” Norton said. “These vacancies are leading to a potential crisis for the criminal and civil justice systems in the District.”
Three of the Superior Court seats have been vacant since 2016, and one seat in the Court of Appeals has been vacant since 2013.
Because local D.C. judge confirmations require affirmative Senate approval, these confirmations are often delayed as nominations for federal courts receive top priority. Under Norton’s 30-day congressional review proposal, the nominee would automatically receive approval as long as Senators do not enact resolutions of disapproval during the review period, bypassing the Senate approval.
D.C. local courts uniquely require their judges to receive Senate confirmation because it is not a state.
The bill comes after D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) met with President Donald Trump to discuss the backlog of judges in district courts March 13.
Calls for increased independence of the District’s judicial system have long identified the prevalence of vacancies for D.C. court judges for the necessity of allowing nominations to move forward without explicit Senate approval. Norton already proposed this bill before in May 2018, and Irvin Nathan, former attorney general and president of Council for Court Excellence, wrote to senators regarding the consequences of these vacancies.
The CCE, a nonprofit organization that aims to improve the District’s courts, found that delays in Senate confirmations were the primary responsibility for the vacancies, which had deleterious effects on the District’s judicial system by causing judges to take on extra work, Nathan wrote in the letter.
“Not only does this affect sitting judges, it impedes due process for all litigants involved,” the letter reads. “The result of these increased burdensome and time-consuming demands is the postponement of justice for all parties.”
The proposed legislation follows a series of bills introduced by Norton to grant D.C. more autonomy. Her proposals include eliminating the congressional review period of the District’s laws and establishing a local prosecutor.
In January, Norton introduced H.R. 1, a bill that includes language to grant D.C. statehood. The bill would give D.C. full congressional representation and self­-governance in accordance to the other 50 U.S. states. The first endorsement of D.C. statehood passed in the House of Representatives with a 234 to 193 vote March 8. 
Presidential candidate Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) tweeted that the D.C. residents are disproportionately underrepresented in Congress in a Jan. 28 tweet and voiced her support for H.R. 1.
Sen. Tom Carper (D-Del.), another longtime supporter of D.C. statehood, introduced another bill, H.R. 51, which would moves beyond endorsing to officially grant D.C. statehood, Feb. 28. The bill has 32 cosponsors.
Though the push would grant the District greater autonomy over its judicial system, it still does not grant D.C. judicial independence from the Senate. Norton does not expect the Senate to relinquish its control of nominations to the courts in the absence of D.C. statehood, she said in the news release.
“Pending statehood, when D.C. would have full control over the appointment of its local judges, the Senate may not be willing to give up complete control over D.C. judges,” Norton said.
Hoya Staff Writer Will Cassou contributed reporting.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

