
December 18, 2019 by Riley Rogerson 1 Comment 
The Metropolitan Police Department has closed two cases involving former Georgetown University men’s basketball team members Galen Alexander (COL ’21) and Joshua LeBlanc (MSB ’22) and made no arrests, a MPD spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya on Dec. 18. 
The two MPD police reports filed Nov. 4 describe a burglary, harassment and assault against Georgetown students. The cases’ corresponding public incident report numbers were listed as ongoing cases involving the plaintiff and defendant when a Georgetown student filed a motion for a temporary restraining order against Leblanc and Alexander on Nov. 5. The motion alleged that LeBlanc burglarized the plaintiff’s home and threatened bodily harm against her if she reported the incident. The motion additionally named Alexander as an involved party. The Superior Court of the District of Columbia granted the plaintiff’s motion Nov. 14. 
The two cases listed by the plaintiff in the motion have been closed, an MPD spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
A suspect in one of the closed cases showed his erect, clothed penis to a victim Sept. 9, according to one of the police reports. A second report said that three male suspects stole a Playstation 4, two controllers, a Nikon camera, a camera lens and a pair of shoes from an off-campus residence Sept. 16. One of the burglary suspects also verbally threatened one of the victims on Facetime, the report said. 
The plaintiff’s roommate also filed a civil complaint against LeBlanc, Alexander and former forward Myron Gardner (COL ’23) on Nov. 12. The complaint included allegations of burglary, sexual harassment and assault at the same off-campus residence. 
Days before the cases were closed, LeBlanc, Alexander and Gardner resolved the complaint by signing a Consent Stay Away Order Without Admissions on Dec. 9. The agreement, which does not include an admission or finding of guilt, states that Alexander, LeBlanc and Gardner cannot contact the plaintiff or her roommates in any manner and must stay at least 50 feet away from them and their home. 
A complaint filed by the first plaintiff Nov. 5 against LeBlanc and Alexander has not been resolved. 
Alexander filed a complaint against one of the original plaintiffs Dec. 13. The complaint alleges that the first plaintiff made false allegations against him with the intention of getting him arrested. He also filed a motion for a temporary restraining order against her, which will be addressed in a hearing scheduled for Dec. 19. 
Alexander and Gardner announced plans to transfer from the university Dec. 13. Since media outlets began reporting on the accusations, Alexander has been threatened and has received no support from the university, he wrote in a Dec. 13 tweet. 
Former teammates LeBlanc and Akinjo (COL ’22) expressed interest in transferring from the university separately of allegations against three members on the team, which do not involve Akinjo, according to a Dec. 3 statement from Athletic Director Lee Reed. 
Alexander and LeBlanc could not be reached for comment. Gardner and the plaintiff who filed the motion for a temporary restraining order against LeBlanc on Nov. 5 declined to comment. 

reggie 21 says 
January 13, 2020 at 5:54 pm
how georgetown and the metro police department treats athletes (with total impunity) is why this world still remains unfair
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

