
June 11, 2020 by Liana Hardy Leave a Comment 
A large number of Georgetown University students requiring special academic assistance have reported difficulties accessing these accommodations after the university transitioned to online learning in March. 
The Georgetown Disability Alliance, a student group that advocates for Georgetown’s disabled community, has received numerous complaints from students about the inaccessibility of traditional accommodations, including inadequate time provided for tests and issues with the visual enlargement of materials. Additionally, because of the COVID-19 pandemic, a new category of issues concerning COVID-19-related accommodations has emerged. Such accommodations include not requiring the use of webcams during class recordings and having transcriptions of classes that are recorded, among other resources, according to a GDA board member. 
Some students who spoke directly with The Hoya said the university’s Academic Resource Center, which offers extra academic support for disabled students, failed to respond to student concerns and provide adequate support during the transition to online learning. 
These accessibility challenges persisted through the end of final examinations May 9, causing additional stress and difficulty for students who requested additional support for finals. One student who spoke with The Hoya, referred to here as Doe to protect their privacy, was unable to use necessary extra time on exams because of the confusing circumstances. 
“Throughout my distance learning experience the ARC was basically absent,” Doe wrote in a message to The Hoya. “For my finals there were times I opted not to take my extra time because there were little instructions about how to request it and how it would be implemented.” 
During a standard in-person semester, the ARC proctors separate testing sessions during final exams for students who need extra time or other accommodations. ARC officials coordinate with professors to acquire the necessary exam materials and advocate on behalf of students who may be struggling to get a professor or department to implement certain accommodations. 
In place of official support from the ARC, students were pushed to rely on their professors, according to Doe. 
“I believe that I only received one email from the ARC throughout this entire situation, encouraging students to directly reach out to professors about accommodations instead of going through the center,” Doe wrote. 
Ari, another student who sought accommodations and wishes to remain anonymous, also spoke to the ARC’s absence during online learning. Ari is typically granted extra time on exams and must take timed assessments on paper because of an eye condition that prevents them from processing images clearly, especially those on a computer screen.
Many of their professors were flexible and able to accommodate their needs, Ari said. However, the ARC’s absence proved consequential when professors or departments were not accommodating. 
“Everyone had to figure it ourselves on a case-by-case basis. That’s what the ARC told us to do,” Ari said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “It was fine for classes that were already accommodating, but the ones that were already accommodating aren’t the ones you need the ARC for.”
With unclear guidance from the ARC and uncertainty about online exam accommodations, Ari struggled to coordinate accommodations for final exams. Ultimately, they felt compelled to take any class that required an exam as satisfactory, unsatisfactory or no-credit for fear their needs would not be met. 
“These are classes that I could have done well in given the appropriate circumstances and actual support. I wouldn’t have had to pass-fail,” Ari said. “But I just wasn’t willing to risk it.”   
Ari also encountered difficulties with online learning before final exams rolled around. During live online lectures, during which they could not take breaks, Ari had to sit through hours of physically taxing sensory overload because of the screen’s light. When choosing classes for the fall semester, Ari chose to avoid small, discussion-based courses for fear they might have to deal with similar circumstances. 
“I shouldn’t have to base my next semester schedule off the fact that I’m worried about how my accommodations are going to be met in an online environment.” 
While many students have confronted challenges following the transition to virtual learning, students with accessibility concerns are faced with additional anxiety, according to GDA Advocacy Co-Chair Andrew Bialek (COL ’22).
“Students have faced a myriad of problems relating to accessibility, access, and accommodations,” Bialek wrote in an email to The Hoya. “While most students across the university have encountered some sort of access issue during the transition to online/virtual learning, individuals who require accommodations from the University have had a tremendous amount of additional stress and burden placed upon them.”
These accommodation issues stemmed from the university’s unpreparedness to transition to a virtual environment and an overall lack of attention paid to issues of disability, Bialek added.
“These additional burdens emanate from both the unpreparedness of society (for the University cannot really be blamed for having to transition online) to handle a crisis such as this, and a pre-existing ambivalence to disability needs by institutions for higher education,” Bialek wrote.
In a brief message sent out to the Georgetown community April 6, Vice Provost for Education Randall Bass and Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson urged professors to check in with their students and introduced a slate of resources available to professors to assist their students. The university also established the Academic Accommodations Steering Group to fix the accessibility problems, according to Bialek. The group, which is composed of staff from the ARC, the Center for New Designs in Learning & Scholarship, University Information Services, the Office of Student Equity and Inclusion and the GDA, was created by Bass shortly after the transition to virtual learning. 
The Academic Accommodations Steering Group worked to address accessibility issues during finals week and will continue to ensure students have full access to accommodations during the summer term, according to Joseph Fisher, executive director of the ARC.
“During finals, the Academic Resource Center worked extensively with faculty, CNDLS, and representative deans from across the campus to ensure that student accommodations were met and honored during the exam period,” Fisher wrote in an email sent to The Hoya. “We take the concern that students didn’t receive accommodations seriously, and urge all students who feel this to contact the Academic Resource Center. As we move into online summer courses we will continue to work to ensure our students are given all appropriate accommodations.”
The university’s efforts, however, did not adequately address the needs of students, and administrators did not convey that these resources were understood and utilized by professors, according to Ari. 
“They never expressed to us that they were reiterating to their teachers that students’ needs might change transitioning to an online classroom,” Ari said. “All of my immediate friends who also test [in the ARC] have experienced various problems. It’s all been in the realm of professors being unwilling to transition and then reaching out to the ARC for support and just not getting an adequate response from the ARC.” 
The GDA has renewed its push for support in light of the complaints, hoping to secure better procedures for the fall semester. The organization has met with student government officials and continued its advocacy with the university. In March and April, the group hosted general body meetings via Zoom to discuss accommodation problems, as well as issues regarding medical housing, a lack of resource accessibility and challenges faced by the faculty. 
Doe hopes the university will learn from its mistakes and pursue meaningful changes to support students in need. 
“The transition to a completely online learning experience was tricky as a student with ADHD, and I’ve heard similar sentiments echoed by peers with all kinds of learning differences,” Doe wrote. “I really wish the ARC had been more active on this front, and had reached out with resources, or even just encouragement for the students they work with.”
Hoya Staff Writer Jaime Moore-Carrillo contributed reporting. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


June 11, 2020 by Kelly Anderson Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association Senate passed a resolution calling for Georgetown University to reduce its contracts with the Metropolitan Police Department. 
The June 7 vote follows more than a week of demonstrations across the country in response to the murder of George Floyd on May 25. Floyd’s death, a recent incident in a long history of police abuse against the Black community, has reinvigorated calls for policing reforms.  
The resolution, approved by a 14-5 vote count with one abstention, was introduced by GUSA Senator Leo Teixeira (COL ’21). Teixeira told the senate he hopes the proposal will encourage university administrators to prioritize the safety and well-being of Black students and other at-risk groups in the wake of murders committed by police officers against Black people. 
“There are likely individuals in every single one of our constituencies to whom having MPD on campus patrolling our university and space is a danger, and it makes them feel unsafe, and it doesn’t make them feel comfortable on campus,” Teixeira said during the meeting.
The university must join other communities across the country in reevaluating budgetary priorities surrounding policing and community protection, according to Abdulrahman Gabriel (COL ’22), a member of the Black Leadership Forum who spoke at the meeting.
“While police forces across the country are receiving more funds and higher budgets every single year, every other aspect for improving social welfare and prosperity is being defunded,” Gabriel said. “I think that right there is the critical figure.”
The legislation was drafted in response to violent actions taken by MPD during protests in Washington, D.C., after the murder of George Floyd, according to Teixeira. Federal law enforcement officers drew criticism last week as they responded to massive protests near the White House with tear gas and rubber bullets. 
“While this is a problem everywhere in the country, we especially have a sense of the police department that contracts with our university taking a very kind of violent approach and response to these protests and a lot of peaceful protestors,” Teixeira said at the meeting.
In response to these recent accounts of police brutality, proposals for Georgetown to cut ties with external police departments have gained widespread support among students. An online petition pushing the university to cease all relationships with any police department has received more than 6,000 signatures as of June 11. 
The GUSA resolution calls for a reduction, not a termination, of cooperation with MPD and allows for certain instances of cooperation with city police to continue. 
GUSA’s decision to request a reduction of police contracts rather than a complete termination was mainly because of uncertainty over specifics of the university’s contracts with MPD. Without a deeper understanding of the contracts, a total end to relations between MPD and the Georgetown University Police Department could damage relations with MPD, according to GUSA Senator Lucy Sonsalla (SFS ’23), who pushed to change the resolution’s focus from cutting ties to reducing them. 
Georgetown is largely supervised by its own police force. GUPD is a special police force commissioned by the city to police university property. GUPD works closely with MPD, and GUPD officers sometimes collaborate with MPD on criminal investigations and other police services. The university may also employ MPD officers to help police off-campus neighborhoods and minimize noise through the Reimbursable Detail Subsidy Program, according to university officials.
The senate also passed a resolution to establish a GUPD oversight student advisory committee, a group of students tasked with monitoring misconduct and issuing recommendations on how to best reform the department. GUPD has faced many accusations of biased policing and racial profiling in the past. Details about the committee will be fleshed out in the coming weeks. 
Additionally, GUSA Senator Lily McGrail (COL ’21) believes the university’s relationship with MPD plays an important role in providing resources to help survivors of sexual assault. Sonsalla voted in favor of the resolution while McGrail abstained. 
“If we cut all ties with MPD, survivors would be significantly disenfranchised and they would face a lot of obstacles if they ever wanted to do something,” McGrail said. “I know that we want to make people of color feel safe on our campus, and I am all for reducing the amount of MPD presence on campus — I think that is so important — but at the same time, we can’t forget survivors.”
Senator Amaan Chaudhry (MSB ’21), who voted against the resolution, said he opposed a formal reduction in ties with MPD because doing so would not solve larger structural issues with campus-police relations. 
“I don’t think it solves the problem. I think it just pushes it outside the front gates, maybe a block or two off-campus,” Chaudhry said during the meeting. “I think the reality is we still live in D.C., so MPD is gonna continue to be a reality that students face. And the other part to that is cutting ties to MPD doesn’t really support students that live off-campus, especially students of color who live off-campus.”
GUSA’s effort to only reduce relations with MPD represented an incomplete step toward addressing police brutality on campus and in D.C., according to Gabriel. Simply reducing federal police presence on campus will not effectively ensure the security of Black students, he said. 
“Let’s not forget that this was a called resolution, specifically for Black students and the Black community here at Georgetown,” Gabriel told the senate. “I think we need simple and real action to make Black folks on this campus feel safer. There are 6,000 voices that have spoken up, and I’m quite certain there are more.”
The resolution represents a positive first step, but the reforms must not stop there, Gabriel added. 
“Obviously, the resolution is only a first step to the process so I would not say it fulfills that purpose yet,” Gabriel wrote in a follow-up email to The Hoya. “However, it is the aim of the resolution and we are focusing on going further in order to ensure that Black students on campus are safer.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

