
July 3, 2020 by Kelly Anderson Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association Senate passed a resolution urging Georgetown University to increase the number of employment opportunities available to students with Federal Work-Study awards during the upcoming fall semester.
The senate resolution aims to help low-income and first-generation students receiving financial aid through the Federal Work-Study Program find jobs despite the reduction in employment opportunities caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Common Georgetown work-study employers, such as the Student Guard Office and Residence Hall Offices, have substantially reduced hiring for the summer sessions, according to the resolution. 
Work-study positions are critical for students on financial aid, according to GUSA Senator Rowlie John Flores (COL ’22).
“These Federal Work-Study positions are not only a source of income but also a source of relevant work experience for a lot of low-income people, especially those who can’t really afford to have an unpaid internship outside of campus,” Flores said during the meeting.
The legislation asks the university to expand the number of remote job offerings to students and ensure a wide range of shifts and hours is available for students located in different time zones. Additional digital and remote employment opportunities would help students who rely on the Federal Work-Study Program, according to GUSA Senator Joseph Yacovone (COL ’22), who proposed the resolution.
“Most jobs that are currently listed or have been listed in past years have been in person, but given that this is a very unique situation, I think the university should either consider expanding this so that more people who do need this to go and pay for college as part of their financial aid package can have the money to go do that without having to worry about whether it’s getting sick or putting yourself at risk from this virus,” Yacovone said during the meeting.
Approximately 40% of Georgetown students receive some form of financial aid, and 10% to 12% of undergraduates are first-generation college students, according to the resolution.
The resolution also urges administrators to secure additional hazard pay for students with on-campus work-study jobs during the fall semester to compensate them for working through the pandemic.
The senate also evaluated its internal diversity. Varsha Menon (SFS ’21), vice chair of the GUSA Election Commission, presented new data about demographics of the summer’s GUSA Senate. Data about senators’ race, ethnicity, gender, sexuality, religion and ability were collected from anonymous surveys sent to the legislative body. 
According to submitted responses from 21 of the 22 senators, 45.5% of senators are white, 27.3% are Asian and 22.7% identify as “other,” according to the data. In terms of ethnic identity, 31.8% of senators identified as Hispanic or Latino. GUSA demographic data published in January revealed 31% of GUSA senators identified their ethnicity as white, 31% as Latino, 24% as Asian and 14% as Black. 
The most recent data collected show 63.6% of senators identify as cisgender males, while 31.8% identify as cisgender females, and 4.5% did not respond to the question. The majority of senators — 54.5% — identify as straight, while 22.7% identify as gay, 9.1% as bisexual and 4.5% as pansexual; 9.1% of respondents declined to answer. 
The majority of respondents declined to provide information about ability status. When asked to identify their disability by type, 86.4% of senators declined to respond, and the 13.6% of senators who did respond said they experience mental illness. 
In terms of socioeconomic status, 9.1% of senators receive a full scholarship, including room and board fees, while 40.9% receive a full-tuition scholarship. 
According to seven respondents to a question about additional identities, the body also includes two senators who are domestic non-citizens, four first-generation students, two international students and two Community Scholars Program members.
GUSA had difficulties gauging how well the senate represents the student body because the university provides little data about diversity on campus, according to Menon.
“The school does a really bad job of reporting student demographics, to be quite honest,” Menon said at the meeting. “They really didn’t provide any information on how many students are on aid and what kind of aid students are receiving. They also did not give any sort of breakdown on sexuality. Again, their gender breakdown was pretty horrible; they didn’t have anything in terms of gender breakdown on cisgender, transgender, nonbinary folks.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


July 3, 2020 by Moira Ritter 3 Comments 
Georgetown University graduate Kuran Malhotra (MSB ’20) stepped down from his position as a graduate representative after facing mounting pressure from students, graduates and former co-workers. 
University administrators, fearing a lawsuit from Malhotra, pressured Georgetown University Student Association officials to remove his name from a resolution calling for his dismissal. 
In a June 23 open letter drafted by three sophomores, which garnered more than 100 signatures before his resignation, students and graduates called for Malhotra’s removal as a class ambassador because of past allegations of inappropriate conduct brought against him during his time as a member of student groups.
Malhotra resigned to avoid complicating affairs in the class ambassador program, he wrote in a statement shared with The Hoya. He denies all allegations against him. 
“To avoid any interference with the important work performed by the Class Ambassador Program, I have decided to resign my position as a Class Ambassador for the Class of 2020.  I expressly deny engaging in any inappropriate conduct while I was a student at Georgetown University,” Malhotra wrote. “I had no disciplinary history while I was a student at Georgetown and have met all expectations required of a Class Ambassador during my brief time as an alumnus. In resigning, I have decided that it is more important to put the interests of the Georgetown’s alumni community before my own.”
Class ambassadors are responsible for maintaining connections among graduates of their respective year and encouraging them to support the university financially. Graduates interested in participating in the program must complete a one-question interest form and discuss the position with a staff liaison.
Class ambassador positions are open to all graduates as a volunteer position, according to a university spokesperson. However, graduates can apply for leadership positions on the class ambassador committee, which oversees graduate affairs of a particular class. Students interested in pursuing these leadership positions must be elected by members of their class. Malhotra applied to be the New York regional chair and fundraising co-chair for the Class of 2020 committee, but he was not granted either position, Class Co-Chair Josh Sirois (SFS ’20) told The Hoya.  
Volunteers are expected to uphold the Georgetown University Code of Student Conduct during their service as a class ambassador, the spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. The spokesperson also said Malhotra graduated with no official complaints against him. 
Malhotra was suspended from his position as CEO of the Georgetown University Alumni and Student Federal Credit Union on Oct. 3 and placed on leave from his position as chief financial officer of the Hilltop Microfinance Initiative on Oct 4. Co-workers accused Malhotra of fostering a toxic workplace environment and engaging in instances of inappropriate touching in social settings, The Hoya reported in October. Malhotra voluntarily resigned from his position as a class ambassador June 29. 
The Hoya does not have evidence of a Title IX claim against Malhotra, who graduated in May.
Signatories of the letter believe Malhotra does not meet the criteria to be a class ambassador.
“If becoming a Class Ambassador is a volunteer-based position, it falls upon Georgetown’s administration to ensure that volunteers with such records are removed from consideration, and that no accepted volunteer demonstrates or has demonstrated the inappropriate behavior that Mr. Malhotra has been known for,” the letter reads. “Georgetown needs to be proactive in ensuring that leaders and representatives of the university have not contributed to toxic environments that put students’ wellbeing at risk.”
The Class of 2020 committee did not have bylaws to evaluate membership or facilitate the removal of members, according to Sirois.
“Thankfully, Kuran’s decision to resign from the alumni committee lessened the level of immediacy in terms of enacting such bylaws,” Sirois wrote in an email to The Hoya. “This is especially positive, as though the Office of Advancement entertained this concept [of bylaws] to a minor degree, it stated this process would be long and require a significant restructuring from how class committees have operated historically.”
Moving forward, the committee will suggest revisions to its hiring process, according to Sirois.
“We cannot assuredly state that changes to the application/volunteer sign-up process will come from this situation, as those changes would be made at the discretion of the Office of Advancement, but we certainly believe the process can be improved and will continue to communicate our guidance to the Office,” Sirois wrote. 
In response to the open letter, GUSA Senators Eric Bazail Eimil (SFS ’23), Lucy Sonsalla (SFS ’23) and Lily McGrail (COL ’21) introduced a resolution calling for Malhotra’s removal at a meeting June 28. 
The senate bill, which passed unanimously, explicitly named Malhotra, according to meeting documents. The senate, however, called an emergency meeting the following day to revise the legislation, removing any explicit mention of Malhotra. 
University administrators pushed GUSA senators to remove Malhotra’s name to avoid instigating a lawsuit, according to GUSA officials. 
“We explicitly included a name and so the [university] legal counsel has advised against explicitly using the name or including the name because the individual could potentially sue GUSA,” Senate Speaker Daniella Sanchez (COL ’22) said during the meeting. “GUSA would experience the ramifications of the situation if we were sued in any capacity and so I, as a speaker, do not want to put any authors of the bill, GUSA leadership or the entirety of the association at any possible risk.”
The university did not offer a comment by the time of publication. 
The amendment to remove Malhotra’s name passed with three abstentions and no votes against. 
Though administrators did not explicitly order the senate to revise the bill, GUSA senators felt they had no choice in the matter, according to McGrail.
“They essentially said that we had to do it. They didn’t demand that we do it but they said we had to do it or else we’d get sued,” McGrail said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “We weren’t really given a choice. It was a very pressured situation.” 
The morning after the bill passed, GUSA’s faculty advisor notified senate leaders that university legal counsel wanted the senate to revise the bill, according to McGrail. McGrail recalled high-level administrators surveying the bill’s Google Document the day after the meeting. McGrail has never experienced such university interference in GUSA matters during her time as a senator.  
By pressuring GUSA to rewrite the legislation without Malhotra’s name, the university hindered student government operations and displayed a lack of sympathy for survivors of misconduct, McGrail added.
“If they spent that same time and effort talking to survivors and addressing their needs, then the university would be doing a lot better than it is right now in dealing with survivors,” McGrail said.  
Hoya Staff Writers Kiera Geraghty, Jaime Moore-Carrillo and Connor Thomas contributed reporting. 

'16 Alum says 
July 3, 2020 at 11:12 pm
Don’t know this guy but seems kinda f’ed to blow his life up if he never was the subject of disciplinary action or a Title IX complaint. There are official processes for adjudicating complaints for a reason.
He should’ve known better than to run for a position like this though.

Saxa Alum says 
July 6, 2020 at 5:37 pm
seems pretty messed up of The Hoya to not provide accurate reporting or amend the article to show that Kuran was actually reinstated by HMFI after a review found that he did nothing wrong. Makes you wonder what else they left out.

SaxAlum says 
July 14, 2020 at 11:21 pm
The fact that the hoya asked my friends to lie for their previous piece on this is ridiculous and downright dishonest. This is a lie folks. Don’t believe the Hoya they refuse to expose the racists that pressured him out of these roles!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


July 3, 2020 by Jaime Moore-Carrillo Leave a Comment 
More than 800 Georgetown University affiliates have signed a petition demanding the university reduce tuition and extend the deferral deadline for the fall semester. 
The petition comes amid ongoing uncertainty about the university’s fall plans. University officials have yet to disclose any concrete information about reopening campus. Administrators said they were considering four possible reopening options for the fall semester, according to official slides obtained by The Hoya. Three of the plans entail bringing some students back to campus; however, campus life and classroom learning will transform dramatically as the university plans on enforcing strict health guidelines. However, administrators have since scrapped those plans, according to notes from a July 1 meeting between administrators and student leaders. 
University officials announced a 3.5% hike in tuition for undergraduates in January, driving up costs to $28,692 per semester. Regardless of the plan the university chooses, the quality of the education students will receive will be considerably less than education received during a normal semester, according to the petition.
“For $28,000 a semester, we the students and customers expect to receive a world-class education supported by in-class debates, healthy discussions outside the classroom, field trips to engage with primary source material, and extra-curricular enrichment, among a number of other factors,” the petition reads. “A Zoom education taken either in your dorm room or your parents’ basement is objectively not worth a $28,000 per semester commitment.”
Georgetown has a moral obligation to freeze tuition increases or reduce tuition for the fall semester, according to Jackson Butler (MSB ’21), who drafted the petition.  
“I think it borders on unethical that Georgetown doesn’t freeze the 3.5% increase of tuition that it implemented in January now that there’s an unprecedented global pandemic,” Butler said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “I think tuition should be reduced by at least 20% to reflect the diminished educational experience from these imposed restrictions on the academic and extracurricular discourse.” 
Georgetown and other universities came under fire this spring for not refunding tuition after transitioning to online learning. Georgetown refunded room and board fees for the latter half of the second semester but did not refund any tuition. 
In May, a Georgetown graduate student in the McDonough School of Business filed a class-action lawsuit against the university, alleging that the school unjustly withheld tuition fees even though the university stopped providing in-person classes. The lawsuit was dismissed by a judge because the plaintiff inappropriately filed the claim under a pseudonym. 
The petition also demands that university administrators extend the May deadline to defer admission for the fall amid ongoing uncertainty about what shape the fall semester will take. 
Some students have raised concerns about the proposal to cut tuition costs. Slashing tuition could have an adverse impact on some of the school’s most vulnerable students, according to Georgetown University Student Association Senator Eric Bazail Eimil (SFS ’23). 
“Because of the way tuition is structured, it allows for socioeconomically disadvantaged students to be able to financially afford Georgetown. There are so many measures that come through tuition that level the playing field for first-generation, low-income students,” Bazail Eimil said in an interview with The Hoya. “If you cut tuition, you’re going to affect students in the CSP and GSP, students who depend on the CMEA, the resource center for women and LGBT students and so on and so forth.”
Butler said the university should restructure its financial aid system to assist students who may be adversely impacted by the economic shutdown but should still seek to reduce tuition.
GUSA senators plan on introducing legislation at a meeting Sunday urging the university to disclose information about fall semester financial aid packages and supporting Butler’s petition, according to a copy of the resolution shared with The Hoya. 
Though the tuition issue presents no simple solution, administrators must communicate clearly with students about fall plans and consider the needs of the most vulnerable students, according to Bazail Eimil. 
“They just need to step up right now, that’s the underlying message of it all,” Bazail Eimil said. “They need to step up.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

