
June 10, 2020 by Grace Buono 5 Comments 
Our list is still incomplete. Know a business we missed? Let us know at [email protected].
Amid protests focusing the nation’s attention on systemic racism, Black-owned small businesses will have to weather what could be the worst economic downturn in recent memory caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.
The pandemic has only aggravated existing inequities. In March, Congress passed the CARES Act, which included the U.S. Small Business Administration’s Paycheck Protection Program.
Policymakers intended for the PPP to protect at-risk small businesses with loans, but only 12% of Black and Latino business owners who applied for the PPP received the full aid they requested, according to Forbes. Because it is more difficult for small business owners from minority communities to secure PPP loans, the pandemic will hurt them more than their white counterparts.
Listed below are Black-owned shops and restaurants you can help support, as well as organizations working to fight systemic racism and its effects. Two businesses, Everard’s Clothing and Georgetown Butcher, are in the Georgetown neighborhood. It is by no means an exhaustive list. 
Black-Owned Restaurants in Washington, D.C. 
Black-Owned Shops in D.C. 
D.C. Organizations Supporting Protests and Black Businesses: 
Further Resources

Shealia Tyson says 
June 22, 2020 at 10:12 am
Here’s The Scoop located in Parkview not Columbia Heights.  Please stop changing neighborhoods name simply to satisfy gentrifiers.  As native Washingtonian and Charter Member of Native Washingtonian Club we want to preserve history accurately.  This business has awesome ice cream and sherbet.

Robin Strickler says 
June 25, 2020 at 1:52 pm
Hi – very good folks and printing job at Global Print Master, 2004 Rhode Island Ave NE (Brookland). globalprintmaster.com
Also, Habeebah’s Herbals has heavenly organic natural oils and body butters that have an amazing variety of scents. Very reasonably priced
https://www.habeebahsherbals.com/

Janet Riessman says 
June 27, 2020 at 4:10 pm
Seeking a black owned eyeglass small business in DC. Thanks in advance for recommendations.
Janet

Darrin Cook says 
May 6, 2021 at 8:32 am
Hi! Thank you so much for all of the helpful information you write!

ECfromDC says 
May 25, 2021 at 4:43 pm
Beauty supply stores, nail techs, florists and spas too please!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

