
February 5, 2020 by Riley Rogerson Leave a Comment 
Ahead of the 2020 Georgetown University Student Association executive election, students expressed support for ticket Nicolo Ferretti (SFS ’21) and Bryce Badger (MSB ’21) as well as referenda calling for Georgetown’s divestment from fossil fuels and a Blue Campus designation in a Feb. 4 poll conducted by The Hoya. 
Students will vote for the three referenda as well as the 2020-21 GUSA president and vice president Feb. 6. Of 407 undergraduate respondents, 66% of students polled support for the GU Fossil Free referendum, which calls for Georgetown to divest from fossil fuel companies by 2024. 66.8% of respondents plan to vote “yes” in the Blue Campus referendum, which would affirm the university’s commitment to ocean preservation and other sustainable practices. 
Students will also vote on the Student Empowerment Fund referendum in the upcoming election. If passed, the referendum would enact a fund to reallocate a part of the Student Activity Fee to help finance large student-directed projects. 43.7% of respondents indicated support for the referendum, while 33.7% were indifferent or unsure. 
Non-constitutional referenda require a simple majority to pass, according to Election Commissioner Kareeda Kabir (COL ’20). The referenda do not have to meet a voter turnout threshold to pass. 
GUSA presidential candidates Ferretti, Arisaid Gonzalez Porras (COL ’21) and Joshua Marin-Mora (SFS ’21) each announced support for the three referenda at the Feb. 3 presidential debates. 
Many respondents ranked Ferretti and his running mate Badger as their top choice for the GUSA executive, with 44.7% indicating support for the ticket. Gonzalez Porras and vice presidential candidate Anahi Figueroa-Flores (COL ’21) trailed with 15.7% of students choosing them as their first choice in the poll. 6.4% selected Marin-Mora as their first choice. 
Marin-Mora is running for GUSA president without a vice presidential candidate after his former running mate, Isbel Deleon (COL ’21), removed her name from the executive ballot Feb. 3.
Students will vote Thursday using a ranked-choice electoral system in which voters will rank their first, second and third choice tickets. If no ticket initially wins over 50% of first-choice votes, the campaign with the fewest first-choice votes is eliminated and has its votes redistributed according to the second choices indicated on those ballots. This process continues until one ticket wins a simple majority support. 
When choosing their second-preference ticket, 31.7% of respondents selected the Gonzalez Porras-Figueroa-Flores campaign, 18.7% chose the Ferretti-Badger ticket and 10.1% listed Marin-Mora. 
When considering the candidates, 19.9% of students indicated that sexual assault policy is the most relevant issue in the 2020 election. Sustainability, affordability, and diversity and inclusion were selected as other relevant issues that each received at least 10% selection. No matter which issue students ranked as the most relevant, respondents selected the Ferretti-Badger ticket as their top choice.  
Last year’s GUSA executive election saw the lowest voter turnout since 2007 with 32% of undergraduate students voting. Of students polled this year, 60.7% identified themselves as likely voters.
In addition to low voter turnout, low trust in GUSA has been a recurring issue. In 2019, 2% of respondents in The Hoya’s poll expressed strong trust in GUSA. This year trust in GUSA saw an increase with 5.9% indicating strong trust. 24.6% listed their trust as medium and 29.7% listed their trust as weak, according to the most recent poll.
Students can vote in the Feb 6. executive election and the three referenda online using HoyaLink. 
The Hoya conducted a campuswide, door-to-door poll of Georgetown students Tuesday night in advance of the GUSA Executive election Feb. 4.
Though the polling method is not infallible, it was designed to reduce sample bias and provide transparency for demographics.
More than 20 Hoya staff members administered the anonymous survey Tuesday  evening in campus dormitories and apartment buildings. Polling began at 7 p.m. and was completed by 9 p.m. The schedule and locations for polling were not announced beforehand.
A total of 407 Georgetown students completed the survey, which asked students about their views on the current election, including their vote choice, GUSA’s relevance and the performance of the current GUSA executives; a series of demographic questions; questions gauging opinions on the three upcoming referenda; a question asking respondents to identify the current GUSA president; and a question to gauge the main issues students want their next GUSA executives to address. Respondents were also asked whether they planned to vote in Thursday’s election. 
These measures limited readership bias, prevented respondents from being polled twice and sought to present a sample representative of the student body. However, as was the case in previous years, respondents to the poll were mostly underclassmen, likely because of the relative inaccessibility of junior and senior housing.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 5, 2020 by Hansen Lian and Jaime Moore-Carrillo 2 Comments 
Georgetown University Student Association vice presidential candidates Bryce Badger (MSB ’21) and Anahi Figueroa-Flores (COL ’21) highlighted the importance of inclusion and accessibility in student government at the GUSA vice presidential debate Feb. 4. 
The debate, which comes just two days before the election, was moderated by Kareeda Kabir (COL ’20), chair of the 2020 GUSA Election Commission. Only two vice presidential hopefuls debated Tuesday after presidential candidate Joshua Marin-Mora’s (SFS ’21) running mate Isbel Deleon (COL ’21) announced her withdrawal from the race Feb. 3. Gabby Elliott Brault (SFS ’21) and Julio Salmeron-Perla’s (SFS ’22) ticket also dropped out of the race.
Figueroa-Flores, an undocumented woman and first-generation college student, decided to run for office because of her desire to empower students like herself who have traditionally been on the fringes of campus affairs, she said at the debate.
“I’m actually very surprised that I’m even standing here or that I even made it this far,” Figueroa-Flores said. “However, I’m proud that I’m here because if I can do it others can do it too. I want to make Georgetown unafraid. I want to empower and amplify students’ voices on campus.”
Badger expressed a similar desire to break down barriers for marginalized students across campus. 
“When I got here, and people told me I couldn’t join GUSA because I was a person of color, I ran for senate. And then, on top of that, I came in first place. When I say I’ve never backed down from a fight, I mean it,” Badger said. 
Badger, who has years of GUSA experience across different roles and administrations, touted his previous experience in GUSA as important to working with the administration and reengaging the Georgetown student community.
“Regardless of whoever’s elected I know the leaders are going to be passionate and hardworking people, but I think experience is also crucial in that things get pushed through. People don’t wanna just come to meetings or come to these debates if they don’t think GUSA actually has a way to make change on this campus,” Badger said. “Our platform, Nico and I, we’re ready to push things forward, we’re ready to deliver results.”
Badger currently works as the chief of staff for the Francis and Olvera administration. He previously served as the student engagement director for former GUSA president Sahil Nair (SFS ’19), who resigned amid allegations of sexual misconduct; Badger and nine other members of the executive team resigned to pressure Nair into resignation.  
While Figueroa-Flores and her running-mate Arisaid Gonzalez Porras (COL ’21) have no prior GUSA experience, the team will learn the necessary rules and structure to effectively represent the interests of the student body, Figueroa-Flores told attendees at the debate.
“While I have no experience in GUSA I am committed to learning everything there is,” Figueroa-Flores said. “We will begin by bridging the gap between GUSA and students. I may not have experience but I know for a fact that we are driven and passionate about creating change on campus.”
Figueroa-Flores serves as vice-president of Hoyas For Immigrant Rights, a student activism organization, alongside Gonzalez Porras. In November, they helped organize a walkout to the Supreme Court with 157 attendees.  
The pair’s history in activism and civil disobedience will help them advocate for student interests, Figueroa-Flores added.
“Our whole platform has to do with being unafraid. So I think when it comes to pushing the administration and holding them accountable, we will make sure we’ll hold them accountable,” Figueroa-Flores said. “So if that means that we have to do sit ins, we have to do protests, we have to mobilize walkouts, we will have to do that, because administration is not hearing the issues that students have.”
Should they win office, Gonzalez Porras and Figueroa-Flores will strive to continue the advocacy that has defined their campaign, Figueroa-Flores said during closing remarks. 
“Our campaign is about amplifying students voices here on campus, so that’s why we decided to run for GUSA,” Figueroa-Flores said. “We want to create spaces we want to expand those spaces we want to give resources to the students who are not heard, to students who feel out of place here. It’s all about making Georgetown unafraid.”
Badger and Ferretti also hope to cultivate a diverse, skilled policy team that will help their administration effectively advocate for different student interests, Badger said in his closing statement.
“Our campaign slogan is ‘your voice, your vote, your Georgetown’ because this campaign is catering to so many different people, and just making sure that everyone feels like they have a  voice in GUSA, that’s the reason our banner in Red Square isn’t just Nico and I,” Badger said. “It’s a whole bunch of people. Because this campaign, what we stand for, what we believe in, isn’t just the two of us, it’s all of Georgetown.”

Concerned Hoya says 
February 6, 2020 at 1:29 am
A note on Anahi Figueroa-Flores (COL ’21), the running mate of Arisaid Gonzalez Porras (COL ’21).
From The Voice’s “Trump Official Forced To Leave Immigration Event” (https://georgetownvoice.com/2019/10/11/trump-official-forced-to-leave-immigration-event/)
In an email to the Voice, President of Hoyas for Immigrant Rights Arisaid Gonzalez Porras (COL ’21) gave the protesters her “unconditional support” and called the freedom of speech claim “tiring.” In response to those believing McAleenan should have been allowed to speak, Gonzalez Porras questioned if the same principles were also applied to everyone involved. 
“Where is the freedom of speech for people that are locked up that came to seek asylum?,” she wrote. “Where is the freedom of speech for people that are constantly oppressed?”
—–
Freedom of speech is tiring?  Can’t be bothered by people defending the FIRST Amendment, which is first for a reason, a reason that is self-evident in today’s hyper-PC and hyper-sensitive discourse?  That’s not tiring; it’s terrifying.  Gonzalez Porras supports the (dangerous precedent of) limiting dissenting viewpoints, especially right-leaning ones.  Where is the freedom of speech for the hundreds (if not thousands) of conservatives on Georgetown’s campus who are beaten and intimidated into silence by people like Gonzalez Porras?

Roller banner says 
February 7, 2020 at 5:19 pm
This Article is very Helpfull.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

