
June 27, 2020 by Jemima Denham Leave a Comment 
As protests and calls for racial justice consumed Washington, D.C., local artist and educator Keyonna Jones received a call from a friend about a secret city project. 
“One of the artists that was part of the project called me Thursday at six and said there was this kind of secret project that the city was doing. They had a budget — which sent my spine senses tingling — and then she thought I would be perfect for the job,” Jones said in an interview with The Hoya.
City officials had enlisted local artists and volunteers to paint a mural to celebrate the Black Lives Matter movement. 
Work on the project commenced before the crack of dawn as Jones and other volunteers coated the asphalt with bright yellow paint for eight hours straight. 
“We got on the call at 8, which was where it was laid out — what we were gonna be doing, how grand-scale it was gonna be and that we needed to be there at 3 o’clock the following morning,” Jones said. “So we got there around 3:30 a.m. and we finished probably close to 11 o’clock.”
The final product — “Black Lives Matter” painted in street-wide yellow letters just blocks from the White House — has become one of the defining images of international protests against racial injustice sparked by the police murder of George Floyd in late May. 
The artwork, commissioned by D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D), was unveiled the morning of June 5. The mural runs down Black Lives Matter Plaza, a stretch of road leading to the White House and Lafayette Park. 
Black Lives Matter Plaza, the recently renamed portion of 16th Street NW, has been a flashpoint of ongoing demonstrations against racial injustice in the District. The street captured the national spotlight after President Donald Trump ordered police forces to forcibly remove protesters from the area surrounding the White House and St. John’s Episcopal Church for a photo-op June 1. Protesters were shot with rubber bullets, tear-gassed and beaten as police and military personnel cleared a path for the president. 
Soon after the incident, city officials and local activists worked to immortalize the stretch of road as a space commemorating the fight against racism in the United States. The banner-like mural extends across approximately 2½ blocks, and its width spans a two-lane street, making it an eye-catching installment even for aerial cameras — the mural can be seen from space. Taking just under nine consecutive hours to complete, volunteers ranging from professional artists to passersby helped bring the monumental project to life.
Jones, a D.C. native, was a leading artist behind the “Black Lives Matter” mural. After finishing a master’s in science management at the University of Maryland, Jones established the Congress Heights Art and Culture Center, an arts and education nonprofit dedicated to sharing and exploring art of the African diaspora.
The demonstrative mural she had helped create quickly grabbed national headlines. The publicity the mural attracted shattered Jones’ expectations. 
“I really didn’t expect it. I think I was working out of a space of shock, especially once I realized what the gig was, and then once I realized what it was, leading it being a Black woman, thinking, ‘Wow, this is pretty huge,’” Jones said. 
However, the mural also received unexpected criticism, according to Jones. 
“I definitely wasn’t expecting for people to call it performative or not think it was enough,” Jones said. 
Some demonstrators spray-painted messages on the mural, criticizing it for shallow symbolism and calling for policy changes. On the most intense day of protests and only a day after Bowser unveiled the massive “Black Lives Matter” mural, activists painted “Defund The Police” beside the original artwork. 
The trend of protest-inspired street art spread to the Georgetown neighborhood, where colorful anti-racist and “Black Lives Matter” murals have been painted on boarded-up storefronts and alleyways. 
Neighborhood leaders have collaborated with local artists to sponsor art projects, according to Rachel Shank, executive director of Georgetown Main Street, a nonprofit that supports local small businesses.
“We reached out to a couple of local artists’ collectives: the Capital Artists Collective, a D.C.-based collective, and the Congress Heights Arts and Cultural Center,” Shank said in an interview with The Hoya. “We wanted to try and keep it hyper-local but also open the opportunity for artists throughout D.C., and one of the artists was actually from Baltimore.” 
Jones hopes the city’s protest art will catalyze change and inspire continued fights against injustice.
“I don’t think any of us went down there and were rolling paintbrushes like, ‘Okay, when we’ve finished this mural, we are done and racism has ended.’ Like, that’s not it,” Jones said. “I think that’s the beauty of art: It’s a catalyst for change, and it speaks to the phases of healing.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


June 27, 2020 by Clara Grudberg Leave a Comment 
The U.S. House of Representatives voted to grant statehood to Washington, D.C., marking the first time that either chamber of Congress has voted to make the District a state.
The bill, H.R. 51, was introduced by nonvoting Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.), and passed 232 to 180 June 26. The measure was voted for by every Democratic member of the House with the exception of Rep. Collin Peterson (D-Minn.) and received no votes from Republicans. Holmes Norton has introduced statehood legislation in every session since joining Congress in 1991, but H.R. 51 is the first piece to be voted on since 1993. 
Despite a lack of Republican support and slim odds of the legislation passing the Senate, the vote is historic and encouraging, according to Holmes Norton. 
“We are undaunted by the lack of support in the Republican-controlled Senate, and the White House. We are certainly not discouraged by President Trump’s outspoken opposition to home rule and his attempts to control the District of Columbia and the city’s police force in acts of brazen presidential irresponsibility,” Holmes Norton said in a June 26 press release. “Far from underestimating the work to come, however, our strategy is in place for full speed ahead. That strategy will soon become apparent, but today we celebrate.”
D.C., which has a larger population than Vermont and Wyoming, has no voting representation on the federal level of government. Though D.C. residents pay federal taxes, they cannot elect members of Congress. 
Advocates for D.C. statehood claim this arrangement contradicts principles of taxation without representation and deprives D.C. residents of their constitutional rights. 
Holmes Norton’s efforts and the successful vote are a positive step forward for the District, according to Georgetown University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95), who wrote a letter to congressional leadership endorsing H.R. 51 in September 2019. 
“We are thankful for the efforts and advocacy that helped to make this historic vote possible and will continue to support and advocate alongside Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton and our city leaders to achieve full representation for Washington, D.C.,” DeGioia wrote in a statement to The Hoya. “I wish to express my deepest appreciation to Congresswoman Norton for her vision, leadership, and persistence in advancing this important issue of representation for our city and for our nation.” 
Should the bill become law, the District would receive two seats in the Senate and one voting seat in the House of Representatives. The bill would also rename the “District of Columbia” — a name inspired by Christopher Columbus — to “Douglass Commonwealth,” in honor of writer and abolitionist Frederick Douglass. 
The mayor of D.C. would become the governor, and the Council of the District of Columbia would transform into the state legislature. The city would still designate federal government spaces as capital territory. 
D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) marked the passage of H.R. 51 by invoking the words of Douglass and calling for the total enfranchisement of the District’s population, a large portion of which is Black and Indigenous people of color. 
“More than 160 years ago, Washingtonian Frederick Douglass told us: Power concedes nothing without a demand. As Washingtonians and as taxpaying American citizens, we are demanding what is owed to us — the rights guaranteed to us by the U.S. Constitution,” Bowser said in a June 26 press release. “It is true that DC is more brown and more liberal than many other states. But the issue of taxation without representation was settled more than 200 years ago through the Declaration of Independence, and disenfranchising more than 700,000 taxpaying Americans is wrong no matter our politics or demographics.” 
Republican lawmakers and President Donald Trump have expressed intense opposition to the bill, fearing that granting D.C. statehood would grant Democrats a significant political boost in Congress. The District has voted for a Democratic presidential nominee every election cycle since 1964.  
Regardless of opposition, the success of H.R. 51 proves statehood is on the horizon, and people who supported the effort will be looked upon kindly by history, according to Bowser. 
“I was born without representation, but I swear — I will not die without representation,” Bowser said. “Together, we will achieve DC statehood, and when we do, we will look back on this day and remember all who stood with us on the right side of history.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

