
February 14, 2020 by Margie Cullen Leave a Comment 
In her first public appearance since testifying in the impeachment hearings of President Donald Trump in November, former Ambassador to Ukraine Marie Yovanovitch received an award for diplomatic excellence and called on young people to join the foreign service at a ceremony Wednesday.
Yovanovitch received the 2020 J. Raymond “Jit” Trainor Award for Excellence in the Conduct of Diplomacy at the Feb. 12 event in Gaston Hall. Yovanovitch, who served as U.S. ambassador to Ukraine from 2016 to 2019, testified at the impeachment hearing Oct. 11 that Trump targeted her for removal.
Yovanovitch said she was removed as part of an organized attempt to persuade Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to investigate the family of Trump’s political opponent former Vice President Joe Biden. Biden’s son Hunter served on the board of the Ukrainian gas company Burisma from 2014 until the beginning of 2019.
The House of Representatives voted to impeach Trump on Dec. 18, charging him with abuse of power and with obstruction of Congress. On Feb. 6, the Senate voted to acquit the president on abuse of power and on obstruction of Congress.
On Feb. 13, Trump admitted that he asked his personal attorney Rudy Giuliani to travel to Ukraine to gather damaging information about his political rivals, which he had repeatedly denied during the impeachment inquiry, according to CNN.
Despite the divisiveness of the impeachment process, it has brought renewed attention to Ukrainian foreign policy, which Yovanovitch hopes will be beneficial for both nations.
“There is one more silver lining with all the focus on Ukraine. I’m not one of those people that think that all news is good news, but with all the focus on Ukraine, it has meant that there is continuous bipartisan support for a strong Ukrainian policy,” Yovanovitch said. “I think that is important for Ukraine, and for us.”
Although Yovanovitch briefly mentioned her impeachment testimony, she urged young people to join the foreign service and called for state department reform for most of her address.
Political leaders must reform global institutions, but they should adhere to their founding tenets of service and truth to survive, according to Yovanovitch.
“Without a doubt, our international institutions need a reboot, but they don’t need the boot. We need to reform them, to accommodate the challenges,” Yovanovitch said. “But the principles upon which they were established remain our true north: rule of law, generosity of spirit, an understanding that we are stronger together, and a commitment to bring us resources on the line together for others, to make the world a more democratic, more prosperous, more secure place.”
Yovanovitch gained experience in diplomacy outside of her Ukrainian ambassadorship. During her career in the foreign service, she worked as the ambassador to the Republic of Armenia from 2008 to 2011 and as the ambassador to the Kyrgyz Republic from 2005 to 2008. At the event, she encouraged young Americans to join the foreign service.
Building international relationships through diplomacy is one of the most valuable techniques for conducting foreign policy, Yovanovitch said.
“The quiet work of diplomacy can be more effective, and less resource intensive, then just about any other tool in the governmental toolkit,” Yovanovitch said. “It sounds so old fashioned in our high-tech world, but diplomacy is that human interaction, and creating relationships of trust is more important than ever. It’s not as exciting as sending in the marines, but it’s cheaper and usually more effective.”
The ceremony was hosted by the Trustees of the Tainor Endowment and the Institute for the Study of Diplomacy, a program in the School of Foreign Service that offers a certificate in diplomatic studies. Yovanovitch joined the ISD as a senior state department fellow after she left her ambassadorship in 2019.
Yovanovitch’s decision to enter the national spotlight after deciding to testify as part of the house impeachment inquiry displays courage under pressure and political opposition, according to Tom Pickering, chair of the ISD and an introductory speaker at the event.
“This was never easy, and now in this particularly tense and fraught time of a clear schism in the American political life, she made the choice of her oath,” Pickering said. “In that regard, her courage in coming forward, her being the first to testify in the house, her dignity on the platform through long periods of stressful questioning was a remarkable example of bravery, not just intellectually but physically.”
All foreign service officials should strive to embody Yovanovitch’s bravery and commitment to her country, according to former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, whose prepared introductory remarks were read by ISD Director Barbara Bodine.
“At a difficult moment in our country’s history, Ambassador Yovanovitch was called upon to speak the truth. In doing so, she demonstrated to the American people and the world the finest quality one can hope for in a foreign service officer: courage, honesty, and a deep devotion to the constitution,” Albright wrote. “Ambassador Yovanovitch has inspired me, but more importantly, she has inspired a new generation, including the students at the School of Foreign Service, and at Georgetown University, to follow the example of public service she has set.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 14, 2020 by Curran Stockton and Harrison McBride 4 Comments 
Study abroad programs in Australia and Ireland for students in Georgetown University’s Nursing & Health Studies Department of Professional Nursing Practice were put on indefinite hold for the fall 2020 semester, marking the third wave of study abroad complications in four months.
University officials decided to cancel the Australian Catholic University School of Nursing, Midwifery and Paramedicine program after curriculum changes at the host university were deemed no longer compatible with the NHS curriculum, according to an email obtained by The Hoya. Study abroad programs must meet specific guidelines of course material, fieldwork and observation, to be approved by the Office of Global Education.
The University College Dublin College of Nursing, Midwifery and Health Systems program in Ireland was also canceled after increasing domestic applications prevented international students from participating in the program. 
Scheduling changes in the Australian program would leave nursing students unprepared for future coursework, according to Kelley Miller Wilson, the bachelor of science in nursing program director.
“The Australia Nursing Study Abroad program was also put on hold due to curriculum and clinical placement changes that would no longer give NHS nursing students the necessary curricula and clinical experience to allow them to continue their studies without additional coursework upon their return to the Georgetown Main campus,” Wilson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The program curriculum for Georgetown nursing students was especially designed in collaboration with ACU’s School of Nursing, Midwifery and Paramedicine and included opportunities for students to participate in fieldwork, a key component of nursing requirements.
Geraldine Sackey (NHS ’22), who had hoped to study abroad at ACU in fall 2020, said she was disappointed to learn the program would not run, after meeting the Jan. 17 application deadline for NHS students.
“We had to do so much just to apply, and we finally got the program and told our families, and then it just got canceled,” Sackey said in an interview with The Hoya, “This program aligned with my goals. I told my family members and then they just canceled it.”
Since September, an unprecedented fire season in Australia has killed at least 33 people and destroyed 3,000 homes, according to The New York Times. The fires present no imminent danger to ACU students. The fires did, however, also prompt concern for Georgetown administrators, according to the email sent to nursing students. 
For the nursing programs in Ireland, increased domestic demand prompted UCD to refuse all foreign applicants to their nursing programs for the first time, according to Wilson.
“Administrators learned that UCD in Dublin is no longer able to provide any clinical placements for foreign nursing students due to the increasing demands of their homeland students,” Wilson wrote. “While this has not been the case in the past, it has effects on the fall 2020 program.”
The program holds come after Georgetown canceled programs in Hong Kong and China in the last three months. In January, the university announced the cancellation of all study abroad programs in China because of concerns about the spread of the coronavirus after national advisories. In November 2019, the university also suspended study abroad programs in Hong Kong after widespread protests in the city.
Students in the Chinese programs are working with the university to formulate alternative plans for the current spring semester after news of the cancellations. 
The university also plans to provide alternatives for the fall semester for the NHS students affected by the latest cancellations, according to a university spokesperson.
“The NHS, in collaboration with the Office of Global Education, will continue to explore possible alternatives to allow NHS nursing students to study abroad during their time at Georgetown,” a university spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The alternative plans organized by the university, however, are not sufficient for nursing students who require specially scheduled clinical experience, Rhiannon Leonardo (NHS ’22), an applicant to the ACU program, said in an interview with The Hoya.
“Those are for non-nursing and that just doesn’t work with the nursing schedule because we have to be in clinical classes, so any other program that the university offers just wouldn’t work for us,” Leonardo said.

Uttam sharma says 
March 15, 2021 at 8:13 am
No where mentioned about these things thanks you saved me from fraud agents.

stenbok says 
April 29, 2021 at 3:57 pm
Outstanding.. your outlook on this is amazing

woostudy says 
April 29, 2021 at 5:22 pm
Such a great information. This is really very helpful for bloggers

EBC WORLDWIDE says 
August 12, 2021 at 3:19 am
Fabulous..such good service.” Thank you… I have never had such good service.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 14, 2020 by Harrison McBride and Jaime Moore-Carrillo 1 Comment 
This article directly references content that is potentially upsetting. Please refer to the end of the article for on- and off-campus resources.
Georgetown University Graduate Student Government Vice President Heerak Kim filed an official complaint with the university Feb. 10 accusing two GradGov officials of discrimination and harassment based on his religious and political leanings. 
Kim submitted a complaint to the Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity & Affirmative Action against GradGov President Lewis May and GradGov supervisor Owen Agho the day after GradGov scheduled Kim’s impeachment hearing. GradGov decided to pursue impeachment after tweets from Kim containing Islamophobic, racist, antisemitic and homophobic language surfaced in January, according to a GradGov Executive Board statement. 
GradGov unfairly punished Kim for voicing his Christian and conservative beliefs, Kim wrote in his email to IDEAA. 
“It is wrong that I am discriminated against by GradGov and the Office of Graduate Enrichment of The Graduate School, based on my RELIGION (conservative evangelical Christianity) and my POLITICAL AFFILIATION (Republican Party),” Kim wrote in his email obtained by The Hoya. “It is wrong that I was treated with violence (physical assault) because of my religion and political affiliation.  The physical assault by Mr. Lewis May represents Hate Crime against me.”
At a Jan. 30 GradGov Senate meeting, May reportedly confronted Kim outside of the room at the start of the meeting, according to Kim’s IDEAA complaint. Kim alleges that Agho ordered May to prevent Kim from entering and that May physically assaulted him during the confrontation. When Kim reported the physical altercation to Agho the next day, Agho ignored the charge, Kim wrote. 
Kim’s description mischaracterizes the severity of the interaction, according to May. 
“Apparently at one point in the conversation I, like, booped him in the chest, sort of for emphasis, and he was like, ‘Oh, you physically assaulted me,’ and then called for my resignation,” May said in an interview with The Hoya on Feb. 4.
May denies all of Kim’s accusations, Joseph Scrofano, May’s lawyer, wrote on behalf of his client.
“We have no comment at this time other than to say Mr. Kim’s allegations are completely false. Mr. Kim is abusing the legal process,” Scrofano wrote in an email to The Hoya. “An associate judge in the District of Columbia Superior Court denied his frivolous motion for a temporary restraining order this morning.”
Agho serves as the associate director of graduate student affairs in the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences. Agho was out of the office at the time of publication and could not be reached for comment. 
GradGov’s calls for Kim’s resignation represented a coordinated attempt to punish him for his opinions, he wrote. 
“On Saturday, February 1, 2020, Mr. Lewis May emailed me a demand to resign from my post from Vice PResident of GradGov.  This represents retaliation for my having reported his physical assault the day before,” Kim wrote in his message. “Mr. Lewis May acted with support and endorsement of Mr. Owen Agho, the Supervisor of GradGov.  Thus, Mr. Owen Agho participated in retaliation against me for filing report of physical assault motivated by discrimination against me for my RELIGION and POLITICAL AFFILIATION.”
Once an IDEAA complaint has been submitted, IDEAA staff members assess the complaint and determine necessary action. Staff members can decide to mediate between the involved parties or pursue further investigation into the complaint, according to the IDEAA Grievance Procedures to Investigate Allegations of Discrimination and Harassment. 
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act prevents IDEAA from commenting on an ongoing investigation, according to the IDEAA Grievance Procedures.
Before initiating impeachment, the GradGov Executive Board denounced Kim’s tweets and called for his immediate resignation in a letter Feb. 1. After Kim declined to resign, GradGov circulated a petition among GradGov senators to initiate impeachment proceedings Feb. 3. 
The petition to proceed with the impeachment process met the 60-signature threshold Feb. 9, according to GradGov Director of Advocacy Henry Watson, who was appointed by May to oversee the impeachment process. An impeachment vote is scheduled for the GradGov Senate meeting Feb. 20, Watson wrote in an email to The Hoya  
At the Feb. 20 meeting, Kim will have the opportunity to speak to the senate to refute the claims, according to the GradGov Constitution. A majority vote of senators present is then needed to remove Kim.
A graduate student contacted GradGov on Jan. 18, notifying them of inappropriate tweets posted on Kim’s public Twitter account, such as the following Jan. 2 and Jan. 17 tweets.
“Do you think Iowa’s farmers will experience adverse Acts of God if they support Pete Buttieg, who pushes Transgenderism and gay rights in America as his top priority? No Rain? Harsh weather? Locusts? Look at what Act of God is doing in Australia,” a Jan. 2 tweet reads. 
“Is the National Republican Party going to become a SLAVE of the JEWS and go after every Republican leaders whom the Jews call “anti-Semitic”? Jesus is anti-Semitic because Jesus Christ called Jews “Children of the Devil” in the Gospel of John! Will you oust Jesus from America?” a Jan. 17 tweet reads.
Kim has served as GradGov vice president since he was elected in 2019 after running unopposed. Kim, a second-year master’s student in the School of Nursing & Health Studies, is also running for Congress in Virginia’s 8th District as a Republican candidate. 
The location of the impeachment hearing, scheduled for 5 p.m. on Feb. 20, has not yet been confirmed, according to Watson. The meeting will be open to all graduate students. 
Resources: On-campus resources include Health Education Services (202-687-8949), Counseling and Psychiatric Services (202-687-6985) and the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access (202-687-4054). Additional off-campus resources include The Trevor Project, a national 24-hour, toll free confidential suicide hotline for LGBTQ youth (866-488-7386).

Vaughn says 
February 14, 2020 at 2:51 pm
Ideological diversity isn’t real when your ideology actively supports harm against Muslim, Jewish, and LGBTQ+ folks on campus. Mr. Kim is clearly at no position to win a bias complaint against anyone in this case.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 14, 2020 by Yasmine Salam 4 Comments 
Lisa Burgoa (SFS ’19) always had a gift with words. Whether she was comforting a friend during a difficult time, teaching English to her mentees at D.C. Schools Project or writing a story that sent shockwaves across campus, Lisa was thoughtful and generous with her language. “She always knew the right combination of words to pick me up when I was feeling down,” Sara Burgoa (COL ’21), Lisa’s younger sister, said.  
On Jan. 27, at 22 years old, Lisa died. Affectionately called “Leezy” by her close friends, she was a loving sister and daughter, intimate friend, talented co-worker and wise mentor to innumerable people around her. 
“She truly embodied unconditional love. She was the kindest person I’ve ever met — and that’s no exaggeration,” Shannon Theobald (COL ’19), one of Lisa’s closest friends, said. 
At Georgetown University, Lisa was known as a devoted friend, passionate reporter for The Hoya and dedicated tutor with DCSP. 
Celine Calpo (COL ’19), Lisa’s best friend, lived with Lisa in Darnall Hall 410 as part of the Explore D.C. Living Learning Community. Calpo said their inseparable bond began when she unpacked a Vampire Weekend poster, which was one of Lisa’s favorite bands. The duo lived together all four years at Georgetown. 
Their time living together revealed Lisa’s quirks, like an intense love for ketchup, Calpo recounted. 
“She’s going to hate me for this — but one time she toasted a waffle and put ketchup on it. She ate ketchup with almost everything: She ate it on toast, she ate it with chicken, French fries,” Calpo said. “I just think the waffle thing was the most incriminating instance — it’s just so great. She was a Heinz fan.”
Reminiscing on what Lisa meant to her, Theobald remembered her infectious laugh and witty sense of humor. She also noted her passion for food, music and deep chats. 
“Lisa is eating too much dark chocolate and dancing around the living room. Lisa is late night, raw, honest conversations,” Theobald wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Driven by Justice 
Lisa’s love of language began young as she grew up speaking Polish with her mother and Spanish with her Bolivian father, she explained in her college essay, published by HuffPost in 2015. Born in Utah, Lisa spent her early years in Santiago, Chile, before moving to Texas, Oklahoma and finally south Florida, where she attended high school. 
Throughout her childhood, Lisa embraced her rich cultural heritage, which remained central to her identity throughout college. Even before attending Georgetown, Lisa relished the opportunity to explore her background.
“I found myself persisted by the same questions that shadow all immigrants – preservation versus assimilation, English versus the language of my ancestors,”  Lisa wrote in her essay. “I traced the dual-ethnic features of my face, the green eyes reminiscent of the toothless old women in flowered babushkas I met in Poland, the long, flat nose and sun-kissed tan skin recalling my Incan ancestors in Bolivia. My heart, I realized, beat the one word that was the same in any language: Lisa. Lisa. Lisa.”
At Georgetown, Lisa cultivated her intellectual curiosity by studying international development, inequality and labor issues. She was driven by a commitment to social justice, according to Calpo. 
Beginning freshman year, Lisa spent every Saturday morning tutoring for DCSP, a mentoring and advocacy program that allows students to tutor English language learners across Washington, D.C. Lisa was inspired by her Bolivian heritage and immigrant background to give back to her new community. 
“Tutors came and went every semester, but Lisa was a constant rock of the program for years,” fellow DCSP tutor and close friend Bethania Michael (SFS ’19) said. 
Lisa’s generosity inspired others around her to follow her lead in attempting to alleviate social inequality.
“It was through Lisa that I got involved with the DC Schools Project — she encouraged me to tutor and later even coordinate the program she tutored in. I can say with a lot of confidence that Lisa was one of the best tutors DCSP has ever had,” Ruby Vega (SFS ’20), Lisa’s Darnall neighbor and close friend, wrote.
Social issues also permeated Lisa’s passion for story-telling. As a writer, she gravitated to stories that unearthed silenced topics.
“Lisa told a lot of stories that needed to be told that no one else was willing to tell,” Maya Gandhi (SFS ’19), former editor-in-chief of The Hoya who worked with Lisa as a deputy editor, said in a phone interview. “She was both an incredibly bold investigator but also really willing to uplift stories that no one else was paying attention to.”
Writing From the Heart
At The Hoya, Lisa was admired as a talented writer, diligent editor and inspiring mentor. Throughout her three years in the newsroom, she moved from working on the neighborhood beat and city news in the News section to running the Opinion section and then developing an in-depth Features unit. She was seen as a legend and caring mentor in the newsroom. 
Lisa’s impact at the newspaper was immeasurable. From serving as an integral part of The Hoya’s GU272 investigative reporting team in Maringouin, La., to curating an internal newsletter that uplifted stories of staffers from diverse corners of the paper, Lisa was essential to improving The Hoya’s content and culture. 
“These newsletters were a work of art in themselves — detailed, insightful, human, always with a funny title. A lot of times our work was thankless and full of stress, but Lisa used these newsletters to publicly shine a light on the people who were doing the work,” former Senior News Editor Aly Pachter (COL ’19) wrote in a message to The Hoya.
Former Editor-in-Chief Ian Scoville (COL ’19), who joined The Hoya at the same time as Lisa and saw her produce and edit countless stories, remembers her raw talent and skill. 
“My predecessor as Editor in Chief used to always say that Lisa should have his job, as well as everybody else’s,” Scoville wrote. “Lisa was not only the most talented writer, but the most humble, down to earth, and nurturing leader.”
Former Chair of the board Marina Tian (NHS ’19) echoed Scoville when remembering her first impressions of Lisa through a comment by former Editor-in-Chief Toby Hung (COL ’18).  
“My earliest memory of Lisa is from a production night during my time as Guide Editor, when Toby mentioned to the room in passing that Lisa was going to win a Pulitzer one day,” Tian wrote. 
One of Lisa’s many legacies at the paper will be her conviction that The Hoya’s work had an impact. She taught staffers how to use their stories to spotlight injustice and report on silenced topics. Her personal work is a reflection of this ethos, which ranged from investigating remains of enslaved people found under Arrupe Hall to interviewing students involved in sex work.
Yet for Lisa, writing was not just a way to deliver the news but an essential art form, which Pachter described as “beautiful, haunting and never-quite-finished.”
“I think what I learnt from her is to try to make my writing have a purpose and be beautiful and artistic. Not just journalism for the sake of reporting, but journalism for the sake of writing,” former Executive Editor Christian Paz (COL ’19) said. 
Lisa dreamed of being a writer despite her time spent on a campus with a decided pre-professional bent, according to Hoya colleague and friend William Zhu (COL ’19). 
“The quality of her work was stunning. Her skill at prose was incredible,” Zhu said. “She wanted to write fiction books eventually. I am just sad I won’t get to read any.” 
Lisa firmly believed that excellent writers had to be avid readers. She was attached to her Kindle, and among her favorite things to read were Jewish folklore, true crime novels and magazine profiles. She was also a huge NPR fan and known to give customized book recommendations to her closest friends as gifts for the holidays. 
“She cared about literature – God, she was always reading. She cared about stories – I think that’s why she loved journalism. She cared about finding different sides of the truth,” Theobald wrote.
Lisa continued her passion for writing after graduating from Georgetown. She joined the speech writing firm West Wing Writers as an associate, where she wrote speeches for high-profile politicians.
“There for me when I needed someone the most”
For everything that Lisa can be remembered for, the loyalty and comfort she gave so many of her friends and family will be missed the most. 
She inspired all her friends to be kinder people through her actions, according to Hanh Nguyen-Le (SFS ’19), one of Lisa’s first friends at Georgetown.
“Lisa taught me to be kind to people,” Nguyen-Le wrote. “She cared about others through sharing chocolates, gifting books and sending articles. Her bed was always available for others to crash on and her room was always available for people to come in, even just to find a safe space or use her mirror.” 
Calpo and Lisa were like songbirds — they would constantly sing Vampire Weekend and Cat Stevens lyrics back to each other while studying and routinely say her trademark greeting “Morning beaut!” while setting her alarm on snooze for five more minutes. 
“Lisa made me really soft,” Calpo said. “She always told me she loved me and I would never hesitate to say I love you back.”
Julia Friedmann (SFS ’19), who worked with Lisa in a honey and tea shop in Eastern Market, acknowledged Lisa’s humility and tenderness.
“I think Lisa embodied so many qualities that most of us wish we could have,” Friedmann wrote. “She was there for me when I needed someone the most. She always lifted me up, and so many others around her, and it’s going to be hard to move through life without someone as truly good and creative and smart and kind as Lisa.”
As Sara Burgoa reflected on her sister’s special character, she noted that Lisa’s memory will carry her forward. 
“The world lost a really brilliant and thoughtful person and those of us whose lives were graced by her friendship, love, and kindness should feel grateful to have known her,” Sara Burgoa wrote. “Though it feels really painful that I’ll never get to see her again, I’ll think of her whenever I read a good book, listen to a beautiful song, or hear a funny joke. Lisa inspired me to be the best version of myself that I can be.”
On her flight to D.C. after she learned about Lisa’s death, Theobald saw the most radiant rainbow that reminded her of Lisa’s shining spirit and the lessons she imparted to her.
“More than anything I want to embody her kindness. Her thoughtfulness. Her love. Lisa never hesitated to say I love you. Lisa taught me that family is chosen, and she will always be mine,” Theobald wrote. “Her last lesson to all of us is to take care of ourselves – to tell all the people we care about how much we love them. I love you, Leezy.”

Barbara Valencia says 
February 14, 2020 at 6:41 pm
She will never be forgotten. I will love her the rest of my days. A loss I’ll never reconcile, yet a love I’ll keep spreading in her honor.
She is everything.

Alum says 
February 14, 2020 at 6:53 pm
I’m so sorry you had to write it, but this is incredibly well done.

Natasha Samagond says 
February 27, 2020 at 8:11 pm
Lisa, I will miss you deeply. Your shy smile, your brilliance, your effervescence…you will always be special…

RICHARD COLLAR says 
June 6, 2021 at 7:25 pm
I Richard Collar, went to dry tortugas yesterday… I felt the presence of a woman and I was drawn to a certain location of the fort… when I climbed up to that section.  I saw a black rock with the Lisa Burgao 1997_
-2020… I will say it was a peaceful connection… the rock was left untouched.  But I did film the rock with respect and didn’t touch it… I would like to meet the person whom left that rock at the dry tortuga fort..
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 14, 2020 by Yalda Zarrabi 3 Comments 
The U.S. government needs to increase its efforts to reduce the national debt, former Rep. Mark Sanford (R-S.C.) said at a forum event Wednesday.
In September 2019, Sanford launched a since-suspended presidential campaign for the 2020 Republican Party nomination, challenging the incumbent President Donald Trump, former Massachusetts Gov. Bill Weld (R), former Rep. Joe Walsh (R-Ill.) and businessman Rocky De La Fuente. 
The event, titled “Reflections on Running: Mark Sanford (R-S.C.),” was hosted by the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service, Georgetown University College Republicans and Georgetown Bipartisan Coalition. The forum was moderated by Mo Elleithee (SFS ’94), the executive director of GU Politics and former communications director and chief spokesman for the Democratic National Committee. 
Sanford centered his campaign, which he ended in November 2019, on working toward reducing the national debt, something Sanford believes to be a pressing issue that will impact future generations.
“We are at a much more precarious spot than people realize, and we are indeed at a tipping point,” Sanford said. “I would say it was the debt and the spending that got me fired up, and it’s what’s driven my interest in politics.”
The United States currently faces a record-high $22 trillion public debt projected to rise to $28.7 trillion by 2029, according to NPR. Despite current positive economic growth and relatively low unemployment, the magnitude of the deficit matches deficits in times of recession or war, according to NPR.
The American people need to recognize the gravity of the increasing national debt before it turns into a more significant crisis, according to Sanford. 
“What I am discouraged by is the degree of pander that is now in politics. People are not dumb, and if they are left in the choice between more versus more, they’ll choose more,” Sanford said. “I fear that the only thing that may wake us up is a real economic stalling.”
Sanford first became involved in national politics when he served as the U.S. representative for South Carolina from 1995 to 2001 and later served as governor from 2003 to 2011. 
Sanford made national headlines when he reportedly disappeared in 2009 after claiming to be hiking along the Appalachian Trail. Instead, Sanford was in Argentina with a mistress. Sanford then resigned as chair of the Republican Governors Association and did not run for a second term. 
Sanford later served as a U.S. representative for South Carolina from 2013 to 2019. His decision to return to the political arena stemmed from a desire to impact public policy and restore his political career, according to Sanford.
“I felt something with regard to the trajectory of our country and the trajectory of our civilization, and I wanted to say something,” Sanford said. “I also didn’t want the end of my political resume just to be a disgraced former governor. I wanted something beyond that.” 
Sanford lost his primary bid in his 2018 reelection race to Katie Arrington. Trump backed Arrington in a tweet that also described Sanford as unhelpful to the president’s reelection bid. Arrington went on to lose the general election to current Rep. Joe Cunningham (D-S.C.). 
Trump, of whom Sanford is frequently critical, is dangerous to the political stability of the United States in many ways, according to Sanford.
“I’m not a fan of the president. I’ve been very transparent about that,” Sanford said. “I mean I think he’s disastrous on many different levels for our country and for our civilization.” 
Authenticity and adherence to one’s principles and beliefs in the realm of politics are essential to good governance, according to Sanford.
“You got to be you in the world of politics,” Sanford said. “If not, you become a skeleton of a human being, and you’re walking around not really believing stuff you’re talking about.”

Reggie 2021 says 
February 14, 2020 at 2:47 am
This dude is a literal prone-to-do-fraud person. Flying in a business class seat to Argentina on taxpayer funds when 1/5 of Charleston and Columbia residents are living in poverty? And then he mouths off against the POTUS under whom a record number of Americans are working? SHAME!

Scoopie says 
February 15, 2020 at 4:06 pm
Chill Reggie. He paid back everything spent beyond his official duties.

godenich says 
February 14, 2020 at 4:03 am
Spending trillions of dollars for defending the petrodollar[1,2] is costly and has diminishing returns[3]. The main drivers of national debt and inflation are guns & butter spending. We’re dishing out $1.25 trillion per year on national security[4] and over $1 trillion per year on welfare[5]. The Pentagon and HUD haven’t passed an audit in decades so the public does not know where these trillions of dollars have gone[6].
Social Security & Medicare Insurance is funded separately as part of the Federal Insurance Contribution Act. If you eliminated the 15.3% FICA payroll withholding to help the current generation, today, it will not help our current fiscal condition one iota. It’s a zero-sum gain. It will, however, devastate today’s senior citizens and deprive the current and future generation of social security benefits in their old age, tomorrow[7]. Monetary expansion is increasing COLA increases. QE/ZIRP and FED Repos are diminishing returns for the SS Trust fund and bond portfolios in retirement accounts to prop up the stock market and the central government. The financialization of our economy is an underlying cause[8,9]
To lower debt/gdp, consider transitioning to a decentralized form of Edgar Feige’s 0.3%  APT tax[10,11] on dollar liquidity flows[12,13], where tax proceeds are apportioned to local governments and bubble up to State and Federal levels after local fiscal issues are addressed (including price inflation from monetary expansion). Besides saving $800 billion/year, it raises net profits, raises net wages, lowers prices and unilaterally addresses tax havens[14,15].  This enables local governments to lower property taxes, lower education taxes and limits excessive state and federal spending of our tax dollars. That’s the economic check we need on Federal and State spending. That’s the stimulus we need for business and job creation in our local communities, along with less red tape to start and operate those going concerns.
[1] Petrodollar Warfare: Oil, Iraq and the Future of the Dollar | William R Clark | 2005
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F1Drj7-YeoY
[2] America’s War for the Greater Middle East | Bacevich | 2016
[3] Path to Hydrogen Competitiveness-A cost perspective | Hydrogen Council | 2020
https://hydrogencouncil.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/Path-to-Hydrogen-Competitiveness_Full-Study-1.pdf
[4] Making Sense of the $1.25 Trillion National Security State Budget| POGO | 2019
[5] CRS Report: Welfare Spending The Largest Item In The Federal Budget | Sessions | 2012­
[6] Dr. Mark Skidmore – $21 Trillion Missing from US Federal Budget | Youtube
[7] Research: Military Veterans and Social Security | SSA
[8] The Finance Curse | Shaxson | 2018
[9] Other Peoples Money | John Kay | 2016
[10] Alternative Proposals Reform, May 11 2005 | Video | C-SPAN
[11] Taxation for the 21ST Century: Automated Payment Transaction (APT) Tax | SSRN
[12] Intraday Liquidity Flows | FRBNY
[13] Worldwide Currency Usage & Trends | SWIFT
[14] The Spider’s Web – Britain’s Second Empire | Youtube
[15] [PDF] The Treasure Islands | Nicholas Shaxson
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 14, 2020 by Liana Hardy Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association Senate swore in its newest member, Julio Salmeron-Perla (SFS ’22), Feb. 9 after the former executive candidate and senator won a write-in election Feb. 6.
Salmeron-Perla will fill the vacant seat previously held by Zev Burton (SFS ’22), who resigned from his post Nov. 11 citing concerns surrounding institutional reform and GUSA culture. No student ran an official campaign for the empty seat, leaving room for a write-in candidate to win the election. 
Salmeron-Perla previously served as a senator in the 2018-19 GUSA Senate and lost his reelection campaign in spring 2019. Salmeron-Perla had previously run for the position of GUSA president alongside his vice presidential candidate Gabby Elliott Brault (SFS ’21) after they petitioned to join the executive election ballot Jan. 24. However, Elliott Brault withdrew from the race Feb. 1 and Salmeron-Perla suspended his campaign two days later. 
Salmeron-Perla expressed surprise at his recent senate win in an interview with The Hoya shortly after his confirmation.
“I feel a bit in awe because I wasn’t really campaigning for senate,” Salmeron-Perla said. “I guess after we withdrew from the executive race, some of my friends thought that I could still do some work in GUSA for the things that my campaign was for.”
During their executive election campaign, Salmeron-Perla and Elliott Brault emphasized the need for reform within GUSA. A large part of their platform involved implementing new policies on sexual misconduct, mental health resources and inclusivity. With a focus on helping survivors, Salmeron-Perla and Elliott Brault specifically wanted to increase trust in GUSA by providing students with a safe space and support from specially trained GUSA members who could assist survivors through the Title IX process.
The pair also pushed for more communication, transparency and efficiency within GUSA running with the slogan: “GUSA is broken, let’s fix it together.” Salmeron-Perla hopes to continue to promote his platform by collaborating with others in the senate, including Speaker Juan Martinez (SFS ’20), he said.
“I especially look forward to working with Speaker Juan on continuing to promote transparency in the senate and in the administration,” Salmeron-Perla said.
Salmeron-Perla will be up for reelection to join the 2020-21 GUSA Senate in April, according to Martinez. In the meantime, the speaker hopes to work with Salmeron-Perla on his proposals for the student body, he wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
“I believe the 14th Senate would be willing to collaborate with Senator Julio Salmeron-Perla on his vision for GUSA,” Martinez wrote. “Unfortunately, the timeliness of this special Senate election means that Senator Salmeron-Perla will be up for re-election in April. Regardless, I welcome any and all legislation that he believes will work to benefit the student body.”
Since Salmeron-Perla enters the senate so late this academic year, he has limited options to join committees and less time to propose legislation, according to Policy and Advocacy Committee Chair Daniella Sanchez (COL ’22). Because Salmeron-Perla did not officially run for the senate seat and now has little time to enact policy, GUSA should rethink the purpose of some write-in elections, according to Sanchez.
“In the future, there is no need for write-in elections to be held if no one ran for the vacant position, especially considering there is such limited time in our terms,” Sanchez wrote in an email to The Hoya. “For now, we will continue our dedication to projects and advocating for the student body as effectively as possible regardless of the vacancies or elections.” 
As a former GUSA senator during his freshman year, Salmeron-Perla has experience working with the senate and hopes to adjust to the changes that have been made in the past year, he said. 
“I’ve been out of the senate for a year, and I’ve seen that there have been a lot of structural changes, so I’ve got to get myself acquainted with the different organisms in the senate and meet with the senators,” Salmeron-Perla said. 
Two more senate seats remain vacant after the resignation of Alexandra Mucher (COL ’22) and Zumanah Mahmud (MSB ’23). The seats are set to be filled in a special election later this semester. 
Hoya Staff Writer Jaime Moore-Carrillo contributed reporting. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 14, 2020 by Ashley Zhao 2 Comments 
Black student affinity groups and Georgetown University have scheduled almost 50 events celebrating Black history and culture, nearly double the number of events held last year, in observation of Black History Month this February.
The schedule of events was organized by the Black Leadership Forum, a coalition of student organizations that plan events that impact Black students on campus. The docket of activities this year includes speaker and discussion events, student reflections, office hours with administrators and social gatherings, among other programming.
Several of the events are collaborations between different student groups, which demonstrates Black History Month’s emphasis on unity, according to Georgetown University Women of Color Treasurer Jameela Sylla (MSB ’20).
“The overarching goal behind celebrating Black History Month is to further foster empathy, unity, and compassion within the Black community at Georgetown,” Sylla wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Considering our community is small but spread throughout multiple cultures, it is empowering to see us dedicate ourselves to supporting and uplifting each other.”
The events for this month are sponsored by a variety of groups across campus, including pre-professional organizations, residential communities, affinity groups, performance clubs and university programs, among others. Some events will also be co-hosted with other Washington, D.C. universities.
Many clubs, including GUWoC, are hosting new events for this month. The increase in events being held by student groups on campus shows the consistent progress student groups have made in engaging the Georgetown community in celebrations of Black history and culture, according to Sylla.
“From my perspective, each year’s Black History Month is better than the last,” Sylla wrote. “Each year, our organizations find bigger and better ways to further engage our community, and unify us all.”
The Ella Jo Baker Distinguished Lecture represents one of the most significant events. The event, which will feature University of Chicago professor of political science Cathy Cohen, who studies post-civil rights black politics and social movements, will be held in Lohrfink Auditorium on Feb. 20.
Black History Month also serves as an important reminder of the contributions of Black people throughout history, which can often be overlooked at predominantly white institutions like Georgetown, according to Whitney Maddox, assistant director of student leadership and racial justice initiatives at the Center for Social Justice Research, Teaching and Service.
“It is so easy and convenient for predominantly White institutions like Georgetown to have classes where Black authors are not on the syllabus, to have speaker events with not one Black person on the stage, and departments with no Black professors,” Maddox wrote in an email to The Hoya. “For so many, Black History Month serves as a reminder that Black people literally built the infrastructure of this country and contributed so much to its fabric.”
While some may question the existence of Black History Month when not all communities have similar heritage months, such a month is necessary as Black voices continue to be marginalized, according to Maddox.
“I have heard many people question why Black people get a month when other identities do not, but ask yourself what are you doing to ensure that Black people never have to advocate to be seen, heard or valued on this campus and in this world,” Maddox wrote. “When White supremacy is dismantled, then we can talk about doing away with Black History Month.”
While the events being hosted this month are important celebrations of Black history and culture, the Georgetown community should remember to foster an ongoing appreciation of Black culture throughout the year, the BLF wrote in a Feb. 10 email to the student body sharing the schedule of events.
“Throughout the month, we will actively appreciate the service, art, literature, innovations, and resiliency of Black people across the globe,” the BLF wrote. “It is important to remember that Black history is not just limited to the month of February, because the celebration of Black history and Black peoples’ contribution to the world is endless, immeasurable, and ongoing.”

Sharon says 
July 24, 2020 at 12:06 pm
Your blog is very informative and interesting to read! Thanks for writing it!

Keisha Gibson says 
April 14, 2021 at 5:36 pm
This is such great information about Black History Month. Usually, I like to read history. This is my favorite topic I do research on the internet. IT seems like Apartheid is also here. Beautifully explained Thanks for sharing!!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 14, 2020 by Giulia Testa 1 Comment 
Marianne Lyons, associate dean for student academic affairs at the School of Nursing & Health Studies, died Feb. 7 after a battle with pancreatic cancer.
Lyons had been a member of the Georgetown University community since the mid-1970s and had served as a nurse and administrator at the hospital, as well as as a senior administrator at the NHS, according to a university-wide email sent by Carole Roan Gresenz, interim dean at the NHS on Feb. 7. 
Lyons encouraged the best from her colleagues and students and embodied Georgetown’s Jesuit values, according to Patricia Cloonan, former dean at the NHS.
“She believed that each of us has different gifts, and she worked to shine a light on the myriad talents of our students, staff and faculty,” Cloonan wrote in an email to The Hoya. “She embodied Georgetown’s ideals of ‘men and women for others’ and we were blessed to have her as a friend and colleague.”
Lyons encapsulated the university’s mission every day by academically advising students and educating the Georgetown community, according to Brian Floyd, assistant dean of academic affairs at the NHS.
“Dean Lyons was a shining example of the meaning of cura personalis and always stressed to us the importance of caring for the whole person through our student advising efforts while also developing our students in service for others,” Floyd wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Lyons received a master’s degree from the Maryland School of Nursing in Nursing Education in 1981 and began working at Georgetown in 2008. As an associate dean of enrollment management, Lyons supervised the administrative marketing and admissions teams to develop campus and online programming. She also worked with faculty who provided undergraduate and graduate NHS students academic advising, according to Lyons’ LinkedIn.
Lyons worked hard to make every member of the Georgetown community feel welcome at events and create a sense of community, according to Gresenz.
“She was an ever-present leader at school events, making sure that alumni, parents and families, students and faculty, and friends of the school felt genuinely welcome at commencements, family weekends, GAAP weekends, and reunions,” Gresenz wrote in a school-wide email. “Within St. Mary’s Hall, she tirelessly worked to nurture a strong sense of community.”
Lyons was always an advocate for her students and supported them with her kindness and compassion, according to Allan Angerio, associate dean at the NHS. 
“It was an honor to work with Dean Lyons who would always say ‘ we are here for the students,’” Angerio wrote in an email to The Hoya. “She touched all of our students with her wisdom and love, as she did each of us.”
Lyons’ kindness and compassion towards everyone around her will be remembered by each person she worked with, according to Jennifer Ericson, assistant dean of academic affairs.
“Marianne was more full of goodness than anyone I’ve ever known,” Ericson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “She was a wonderful colleague, mentor, and friend. I will miss her every day but will continue to carry out our work with gratitude and love, in her memory.”
While at Georgetown, Lyons led the NHS to launch Georgetown’s first online degree program in 2011. She also supported fundraising efforts for St. Aloysius Gonzaga, a Jesuit high school in Nairobi for students who have lost parents to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, after traveling on a university sponsored trip to Kenya, according to the university-wide email. 
Lyons’ career dedicated to service has left a lasting impact on all who worked with Lyons, according to Floyd. 
“Because of the life Dean Lyons lived, the public service she rendered to our community, and kindness and compassion she provided for our students, staff and faculty that was the mark of her distinguished career, for which we all have a richer understanding of who we are as Americans and our journey as a people,” Floyd wrote. “Dean Lyons will be deeply missed, but her legacy is one that will surely endure.” 
Lyons’s courage, leadership and commitment to the common good inspired Floyd throughout the 10 years he worked with her, he wrote.
“I was inspired daily by her dedication to the integration of learning, faith and service to those in our community,” Floyd wrote. “Her values were infectious and she will always remain a positive reminder to me of why I do what I do.”
NHS Communications Director Bill Cessato worked alongside Lyons for 13 years and will miss her positive and inspirational presence in St. Mary’s, he said. 
“Stories brought tears to our eyes and smiles to our faces,” Cessato wrote in an email to The Hoya. “It is clear Marianne meant so much to each of us, and it is very difficult to imagine St. Mary’s Hall without her.”
Lyons is survived by her four sons Matthew, John, Daniel and Michael, as well as her mother, three brothers and three grandchildren. Donations may be made to St. Aloysius Gonzaga instead of flowers to the family, according to Legacy.com. 
This article has been updated to clarify the duration of Lyons’s tenure at Georgetown.

Myrtle Mc Culloch says 
February 19, 2020 at 2:19 pm
Hearing of Maryann’s passing was the saddest news ever. I loved that lady. She was compassionate and very respectful of her faculty’s needs and requirements. I could talk to her about students, schedules or personal issues and could be sure of her confidence and assurances. I have known this amazing lady for more than 25 years.
I pray for her family.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 14, 2020 by Elizabeth Brenneman Leave a Comment 
Former Georgetown University parent Douglas Hodge was sentenced Feb. 7 for conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud, receiving the longest prison term of any parent who has been sentenced for money laundering in the college admissions scandal. 
Hodge, the former CEO of investment company Pimco, was sentenced to nine months in prison, two years of court supervision, 500 hours of community service as well as ordered to pay a $750,000 fine. Hodge pleaded guilty to bribing athletic coaches to get two of his children into Georgetown and two into the University of Southern California. 
Hodge carried out the bribery with the help of Rick Singer, the ringleader of the national college admissions scandal. Hodge claims not to have known the full extent of the corruption, believing that he was making donations to the schools, according to an Feb. 9 op-ed he wrote for the Wall Street Journal. 
“I unfortunately made payments that facilitated Mr. Singer’s scheme, believing that I was supporting the university while also helping my children,” Hodge wrote. “But I also knew that Mr. Singer was providing my children with a false athletic brand. I believed that Mr. Singer was directing my payments to underfunded athletic programs.”
The charges come as part of the “Varsity Blues” college scandal, a national college admissions investigation that has exposed alleged misconduct by parents who sought to improve their children’s college admissions chances. Hodge is among four other Georgetown parents charged in the scandal.
Hodge has since realized that his actions had undesired and unintended consequences, according to his op-ed.
“I deeply regret my conduct, and I am sorry for the shame I have brought upon myself, my wife and my children, who did nothing to deserve the consequences they have suffered as a result of my actions,” Hodge wrote. “I also understand that a larger circle of students and families have been affected, and I regret the harm I’ve caused.”
Hodge paid $325,000 to former Georgetown tennis coach Gordon Ernst for the admission of two of his children as tennis recruits, according to court documents. Hodge later spent $525,000 to get two other children into USC as soccer and football recruits, and then tried to bribe a fifth child into Loyola Marymount University but was unsuccessful. 
Georgetown learned of Ernst’s misconduct in 2017 and took appropriate measures to ensure the integrity of future athletic recruitment, according to a university spokesperson. 
“In 2017, Georgetown’s Admissions Office discovered irregularities in the athletic credentials of two students who were being recruited to play tennis. Neither student was admitted,” the university spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Georgetown immediately put former coach Gordon Ernst on leave, initiated an internal investigation, established a new policy concerning the recruitment of student athletes, implemented audits to check whether recruited student athletes are on team rosters, and asked Mr. Ernst to resign.”
Georgetown implemented the Office of Admissions and Departments of Athletics Policy on Recruitment of Student-Athletes in Nov. 2018. The Department of Athletics and Office of Admissions will perform periodic audits to check if recruited student-athletes are not on the roster of the sport for which they were recruited at Georgetown. For any students identified, the head coach of that team must provide a written explanation as to why the student is not on the team, according to the policy.
The admissions scandal became public knowledge in March 2019 after prosecutors in Boston charged 50 parents for various actions of admissions fraud. The university dismissed two students in May in connection with the scheme. Hodge is the second Georgetown parent formally sentenced in the admissions scandal. Stephen Semprevivo was sentenced in Sept. 2019 after bribing Ernst to fraudulently place his son Adam Semprevivo onto the university tennis team. (Full disclosure: Semprevivo previously served as a cartoonist for The Hoya.)
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 14, 2020 by Clara Grudberg Leave a Comment 
The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority has announced a more detailed set of plans to merge and cancel bus routes that serve the Georgetown neighborhood, triggering backlash from students and community members.
The service changes come as a part of WMATA’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2021 and will affect three bus routes servicing the Georgetown area. Route D1 (Glover Park-Franklin Square Line) will be eliminated under the new plans. Route G2 (P Street-LeDroit Park Line), which stops directly outside Georgetown’s front gates and Route D2 (Glover Park-DuPont Circle Line) will be consolidated, shifting the closest stop from the front gates of campus to 35th and Q Streets.
Removing the campus Route G2 stop will discourage students from commuting to work and traveling beyond the Georgetown neighborhood, according to Advisory Neighborhood 2E Commissioner Kishan Putta, who is running to represent Ward 2 on the Council of the District of Columbia.
“Right now the G2 is a really popular way for people to get across our city and Georgetown students in particular,” Putta said in an interview with The Hoya. “It’s always been there for Georgetown, for decades, and I fear that a lot fewer students will take the G2 now, it has been a convenient way for students to get to DuPont Circle and beyond.”
Students and workers who live off-campus in Petworth will face longer commutes under the bus reroutes including more transfers and walks, according to Jordan Brown (COL ’21), who commutes to campus.
“These cancellations will make my commute much more difficult. The G2 is the only WMATA bus that goes directly to Georgetown’s campus, which makes our campus accessible to the rest of the city,” Brown wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
The Georgetown administration does not support WMATA’s proposal and are organizing a response, according to Vice President for Government Relations and Community Engagement Christopher Murphy. 
“The university is deeply concerned about WMATA’s proposal and is working with community and student leaders to ensure our voices are heard on this important issue,” Murphy wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
Without making route changes, WMATA may have to raise fares for 94% of bus riders instead of establishing a $2 weekend flat fare on Metrorail and eliminating transfer fees for 66,000 trips per day, according to Ian Jannetta, a WMATA spokesperson. Despite criticism, mergers like that of Route G2 and Route D2 will increase efficacy and cut costs to encourage more riders, Jannetta wrote. 
“Most of the proposed changes include restructuring of routes to improve efficiencies and eliminate redundancies, as is the case with the proposed combination of the G2 and D2 routes,” Jannetta wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Minimal access public transportation in Georgetown has long frustrated students and neighborhood residents. The university is a transit desert, or an area where the demand for public transportation is greater than the supply because most students do not have personal vehicles or the financial means to frequently use ride-sharing services such as Uber or Lyft.
Georgetown does provide its own free transportation service for students that runs routes from campus to Metro stations at Rosslyn and Dupont Circle as well as the Georgetown University Law Center, the U.S. House of Representatives, university offices on Wisconsin Avenue and stops in Arlington, Virginia.
The G2 route, however, offers more consistent weekend service is more accessible than Georgetown’s transportations shuttles, according to Advisory Neighborhood 2A Commissioner Patrick Kennedy, who is also a candidate in the Ward 2 Council race. 
“Although Georgetown University operates its own shuttle service, the G2 serves a distinct need, operates reliably year-round with no drop-off in service outside the academic year, and uses newer, low-floor buses that are more reliably ADA accessible,” Kennedy wrote in a message posted to the online Georgetown Forum message board. 
The reroutes will especially impact low-income students and staff, who do not have the means to use more expensive modes of transportations like rideshares, according to Brown. 
“Route G2 is the only WMATA bus that goes directly to Georgetown’s campus. Georgetown is already notoriously inaccessible and set apart from the rest of the city and these cancellations and reroutes would only make it worse,” Brown wrote. “Lower-income students who rely on public transportation to travel the city and the workers who keep our campus running would be the hardest hit by these changes.”
WMATA has not been responsive to residents’ concerns, according to Putta, who has testified with groups of community members at hearings considering the proposal. 
“Either they’re not thinking about these people, or they don’t care to reassure them,” Putta said. “We went down to testify in December, we went down to testify in January, everytime telling them, ‘people are scared,’ and you’re not doing anything to reassure them.” 
WMATA will not come to an affirmative decision until after residents can express their opinions on the service changes, according to Jannetta. 
“Metro has begun an extensive, multi-week public outreach period where customers can make their voices heard,” Jannetta wrote. “No decisions will be made until all public comments have been delivered to the Metro Board for their consideration.” 

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 14, 2020 by Jimmy O’Meara 1 Comment 
Jennifer Crewalk was named the associate director for undocumented students as part of the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access in a Feb. 6 university news release, after the former director stepped down Jan. 31.
Crewalk previously served as co-director of Casa Hispanica, a living-learning community at the University of Pennsylvania that seeks to cultivate Spanish language immersion and cultural exposure. In her new position at Georgetown, Crewalk will provide support for students and coordinate legal information and resources for the undocumented community.
Crewalk will work in the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access as well as serve as director of group initiatives in the university’ Division of Student Affairs. Building advocacy and awareness for the undocumented community are top priorities for Crewalk, she wrote in an email to The Hoya.
“I’m looking forward to focusing on community healing, the present needs of our students, but also ask all of us to be visionaries for what is possible for the near future,” Crewalk wrote. “Our undocumented students are the freedom fighters of this moment and time, and they are helping to awaken people to how important it is for our communities to be conscious.”
The CMEA seeks to support students of color in a variety of ways with someone to talk to about personal issues or concerns, affordable options for textbooks, printing or summer housing and community building. The first associate director for undocumented students Arelis Palacios left her position Jan. 31 to pursue a doctoral degree at the University of Texas at Austin. Palacios announced her departure in October 2019, after being appointed to the position in 2017. 
Crewalk’s appointment in the CMEA will help the university to fulfill its commitment to undocumented students, according to Charlene Brown-McKenzie, director of the center. 
“Georgetown provides Undocumented Student Resources to ensure the dignity and care of all members of the university community,” Brown-McKenzie wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Jennifer brings a wealth of experiences that will further bolster this support for undocumented students across Georgetown’s campuses.”
In addition to CMEA programming and efforts, student groups on campus have led advocacy efforts for undocumented students. In November 2019, Hoyas For Immigrant Rights launched the #HomeIsHere Walkout co-sponsored by over 40 student organizations on campus. 
Crewalk’s appointment will help expand efforts already in place by groups such as HFIR including upcoming undocuweek programming from April 3 to April 7, according to HFIR President Arisaid Gonzalez (COL ’21) and Vice President Anahi Figueroa (COL ’21).
“We would like to welcome the new director for undocumented students, Jennifer Crenwalk to Georgetown,” Gonzalez and Figueroa wrote in an email to The Hoya. “As HFIR, we hope to work with Jennifer to foster community and advocacy within our communities, as well as continuing to support UndocuHoyas at Georgetown.”
Crewalk, who earned her master’s degree in intercultural communications from the University of Pennsylvania and her bachelor’s degree in psychology from Rutgers University, is currently completing doctoral work in educational psychology at George Mason University.
As part of her doctoral work, Crewalk is researching the risk, resilience and resistance associated with being a trainer for an undocumented student ally program, according to Brown-McKenzie.
“Jennifer comes to Georgetown with experience and passion that will serve her well as the new Director for Undocumented Students,” Brown-McKenzie wrote. 
The university has also undertaken recent initiatives to support the undocumented student community on campus, including signing on to an October 2019 amicus brief to the U.S. Supreme Court calling for the continuation of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program.
The university has additionally held conversations with other universities around ways to protect undocumented students on college campuses throughout the country. By building awareness for of undocumented students on campus and encouraging other communities to recognize their privilege, Crewalk hopes to build a larger advocacy base on Georgetown’s campus, she wrote.
“Building a conscious community can educate and move people toward awareness of their own privilege,” Crewalk wrote. “When people acknowledge their own privileges, they can better advocate for others.”

Hoyas Against the Bureaucracy says 
February 14, 2020 at 5:06 pm
This is a disgrace and a joke; this madness needs to stop.  The bureaucracy at Georgetown is far too big and far too expensive.  Tuition is being raised 3.5% for the upcoming school year (despite inflation being just 2.5%), and why is that?  It’s so Georgetown can continue to enlarge the bureaucracy.  The university does not have consent of the governed, but they do have a captive audience, an audience whose bill fluctuates according to a few virtue-signaling career bureaucrats sitting in a board room, trying to impress the public with cringeworthy wokeness.  Where is the logic or justice in charging everybody for the benefit of the vast minority (in this instance, and in other cases bureaucratic expansions for ultra-niche purposes)?  I encourage everyone reading this article to look at the Lauinger Library online (or in-person) archives, which contain itemized bills from throughout Georgetown’s history.  It is astounding how much money everyone could save if we pruned the bureaucracy.  And yes, I accounted for inflation–you could even take a page from the school’s book and throw in an extra percent for fun, and my argument still stands. 🙂
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 14, 2020 by Samantha Sinutko Leave a Comment 
Editors-in-chief of the top 16 law school journals — for the first time all women — convened Feb. 3 to acknowledge women’s advancement in law in honor of the 100th anniversary of women’s suffrage.
The event, hosted by Duke Law at the Duke University in Washington, D.C. offices, brought together top legal scholars, university deans and all but one of the editors-in-chief of the top journals to celebrate the changing role of women in the law with speakers including Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. 
The cohort of entirely female editors is a momentous moment, especially since it coincides the 100th anniversary of the ratification of 19th Amendment, which granted women the right to vote, according to Georgetown University Law Center Dean William Treanor.
“I participated in a symposium with all of the women editors in chief, which was a very powerful way to celebrate the centennial of the 19th Amendment. I was proud that the Georgetown Law community was so well represented,” Treanor wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Women have been historically less inclined to apply to leadership positions than men. However, the sight of 16 female editors-in-chief together will hopefully encourage women to pursue law in the future, according to Wake Forest Law School Dean and former GULC law professor Jane Aiken.
“The fact that women took over the top 16 journals is a message to everyone out there: act, move forward, put your name in. Those are really important messages that we need to get to women,” Aiken said in an interview with The Hoya. “It’s pretty remarkable that this happened. I mean, it’s one thing when you have a majority of the top 16. But what are the chances that you would get all 16?”
This phenomenon of all-female leadership, however, can be considered a statistical anomaly, as the majority of the top-16 editor-in-chief positions will return to male students next year, according to Aiken. 
At the event, the editors distributed the joint issue “Women and the Law,” a collaborative publication in which each law review sponsored an essay about female experiences in law.
Duke Law Journal Editor-in-Chief Farrah Bara launched the “Women and the Law” publication began, according to the former editor-in-chief of the Georgetown Law Journal Grace Paras (LAW ’20). While the top law journal editors-in-chief have collaborated in the past, this is the first year that they have ever published together, according to Paras.
“The fact that we came together and did that is the most significant part of it,” Paras said. “It just shows the strength of women in leadership. And it’s a little stereotypical, but I think in a good way it shows how collaborative of a leadership style it can be.” 
In 2018, women made up more than a third of lawyers in the United States, but men were still the highest earners, according to the U.S. Census. While the gender gap is closing in entry-level legal positions, there is still a lack of gender equality in the top positions when considering roles of partners at large firms, according to statistics from the American Bar Association. 
Despite the gender gap in law across the nation, women make up the majority of law students at GULC, according to Toni Deane (LAW ’21). She succeeds Paras as editor-in-chief, marking the first time a woman of color has held the position, according to Treanor. 
“Though the percentage of women in the law is continuing to grow, it’s shocking how few female partners are in big law firms. I hope this role further proves why women should not, and cannot, be inhibited from pursuing what we put our minds to,” Deane wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Though progress is evident here at GULC, we clearly need to do more to impact the greater legal community.”
The all-female slate of law journal editors-in-chief will potentially spark a change in gender dynamics of the legal field, according to Paras.
“I hope that this kind of brief happy moment when we are all women can be maybe a sign of a spark of women, who not only get into law school or get into law review, but then who achieve the top positions,” Paras said.

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 14, 2020 by Maddie Berry Leave a Comment 
Undergraduate students began internships this January as part of the 2020 cohort of the Georgetown University MBA Venture Fellows Program, after the initiative expanded to include undergraduate students for the first time in fall 2019.
Through the program, which was founded in 2015, student fellows intern at a local venture capital firm part time during the spring, full time during the summer and part time in the fall. The current 2020 cohort of fellows consists of ten MBA students and five undergraduate students, according to Eric Young assistant dean at the MBA Career Center.
The decision to expand the program to undergraduate students comes after David Wilson (MBA ’19), a past fellow and principal at Franklin Advisory, worked with Estelle Spanneut (MSB ’21), a current 2020 fellow, to pitch the idea to Jeff Reid, the founder of Georgetown Entrepreneurship Initiative, and Ben Zimmerman, chief operating officer and associate director of Georgetown Entrepreneurship.
The program provides students the chance to gain experience in a field with high barriers to entry  and allows students to make meaningful connections, according to Young.
“The inspiration behind the program was to provide an onramp for MBA students into the very competitive, selective and hard-to-access world of VC,” Young wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The Venture Fellows Program was designed to be a win-win for students and employers.”
The program not only benefits undergraduates, but also gives firms the chance to recruit young talent, according to Wilson.
“I knew this would be a great opportunity for the venture firms in the area (knowing how great the McDonough undergrads are) as well as for the undergrads to get plugged into VC,” Wilson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The initiative is managed by the Georgetown MBA program as part of Georgetown Entrepreneurship, and includes a network of faculty, advisors and representatives from local venture capital firms. In total, eight local firms offer internships as part of the program.
Students must go through an application process as well as multiple interviews to gain acceptance into the program, according to the Georgetown Entrepreneurship website. Local venture capital firms ultimately make the decision as to whether to accept or reject a candidate.
The opportunity to work for venture capital firms is valuable for Georgetown students, according to Spanneut, who helped expand the program to undergraduate students.
“Venture Capital is typically an industry that is relatively inaccessible to undergraduates, but through the Venture Fellows program and other programs like VCIC, Georgetown Entrepreneurship has really facilitated our exposure to the startup investment world,” Spanneut wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The program provides more support from advisors and peers than a typical program, and gives students the chance to learn news skills during the internship, according to Christine Steele (MBA ’20), a 2019 fellow.
“Being part of the venture fellow program gave me the opportunity to connect with my classmates who were also participating in the program” Steele wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We shared our experiences at our respective firms and gave each other feedback and advice on how to approach our internships.”
The move to include undergraduate students in the program is important to expanding the popular fellowship that sets the MSB apart from peer business schools, according to Young.
“It’s been incredible to see the success of many of the past Venture Fellows who graduate and land jobs in venture capital,” Young wrote. “Some have come back to campus to hire Venture Fellows of their own. It’s a testimony to the hard work of students, the generosity and investment by employers, and the spirit of Hoyas helping Hoyas.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 14, 2020 by Grace Buono Leave a Comment 
The Office of the Provost recognized five members of Georgetown University’s faculty as distinguished associate professors in a Feb. 5 announcement by Provost Robert Groves on his blog.
Three of the recipients, history professor Kathryn de Luna, psychology professor Adam Green and chemistry professor Kaveh Jorabchi, are faculty members in the College. Finance professor Alberto Rossi in the McDonough School of Business and professor of energy and environment and Director of the Science, Technology and International Affairs Program at the School of Foreign Service Joanna Lewis also received the distinction.
Recipients of the provost’s distinguished associate professor award for accomplishments in education, created in 2016, are first nominated by department chairs and unit heads before being reviewed by a committee of senior faculty. The committee then forwards selections to the provost for approval, according to the Office of the Provost’s official web portal.
The award recognizes the achievements in research and teaching by Georgetown faculty members across the different schools, according to Vice Provost Reena Aggarwal, who serves as the chair of the review committee for the award.
“The Committee recognizes faculty who are at the frontier of pushing knowledge in their fields,” Aggarwal wrote in an email to The Hoya. “They are not only doing amazing scholarship, they are also excellent teachers, offering cutting edge courses and/or mentoring students. We want to recognize and reward ‘rising stars’ who perform at an extraordinary level, and are contributing to Georgetown, their profession, and the broader community.”
The strong sense of community present at Georgetown creates an environment conducive to the kind of research and academic work that the award recognizes, according to winner Jorabchi.
“The supportive environment at GU has been an important factor in the development of my work,” Jorabchi wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I connect with the student-centered philosophy of GU and am inspired by the community spirit of the university.”
Jorabchi, whose lab regularly works with undergraduate and high school students in addition to graduate students, focuses on improving methods of detecting and quantifying chemically complex samples of trace substances through his research. In the last few years, he has received grants totaling $1.5 million from organizations including the National Science Foundation and the National Institute of General Medical Sciences.
While the award itself is only granted to certain associate professors, it serves as a recognition of the cooperative work and research conducted by all members of the Georgetown academic community, according to de Luna.
“This award appears to honor a few individuals but it is actually a recognition of our wider intellectual networks; faculty are constantly learning from colleagues, from collaborators and co-authors, from graduate students and undergraduate students,” de Luna wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
De Luna, who specializes in the histories of eastern, central and southern Africa before the 20th century, has conducted fieldwork among fifteen societies in five countries in eastern and south-central Africa. Her 2017 book “Collecting Food, Cultivating People: Subsistence and Society in Central Africa” received the Henry A. Wallace Award from the Agricultural History Society in 2017 and the CHOICE Outstanding Academic Title award in 2018.
The third winner from the College, Green, a cognitive neuroscientist whose work is helping to form a new discipline known as the Neuroscience of Creativity, is seeking to combine behavioral, neural and genetic analyses to better understand how the brain learns and makes connections between ideas and events.
The award is indicative of the great support Georgetown offers for research and academic pursuits across all fields, according to Green.
“We get to chase knowledge, ask these big questions that we’ve been wanting to ask since we were five years old and that we’re supported in that sort of search for knowledge without kind of the direct forcibility of a more applied form of materials, research or something like that or something that you would have in the industry if you were doing research,” Green said in an interview with The Hoya.
Rossi, the winning professor from the MSB, serves as an associate editor for the Journal of Financial Econometrics, the Journal of Empirical Finance and the International Journal of Financial Engineering. Rossi is currently researching machine learning, financial technology, empirical asset pricing and household finance and has been a keynote speaker at finance conferences around the world, according to his website. 
Lewis, the fifth winner, has worked on energy and climate issues in China for about 20 years and has consulted for foundations and governmental, nongovernmental and international organizations on similar projects, according to her university biography. She also heads Georgetown’s U.S.-China Climate Research Dialogue and the U.S.-China Energy and Climate Working Group, among other projects. Her 2014 book “Green Innovation in China” won the 2014 Harold and Margaret Sprout Award from the International Studies Association.
The recognition granted by this award, as well as the continued support of the Georgetown community, will enable recipients to further develop their research and connections, according to Jorabchi.
“Scientific discussions with students and popping into the lab to participate in experiments are the most joyful parts of my day. Discussions with my colleagues in the Chemistry department have also influenced my teaching and research,” Jorabchi wrote. “I hope to further grow this integrated network of people and activities that influence all aspects of professional life at GU.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 14, 2020 by Anna Ferrazzi and Clara Grudberg Leave a Comment 
Advisory Neighborhood Commission 2E passed a resolution urging District of Columbia government agencies to prioritize student access to Duke Ellington Recreational Field on Feb. 3.  
The resolution comes after the District of Columbia Department of Parks and Recreation announced it would take over management of the field from District of Columbia Public Schools in July. The plan sparked concerns that community members and public school students could be excluded from using the field. 
The resolution, which passed unanimously, establishes three principles that those managing the field should follow, regardless of which agency eventually manages the field. ANC 2E Commissioner Kishan Putta, whose district includes Ellington Field, introduced the resolution. 
First, field access should be primarily reserved for students, according to the resolution, which was read aloud at the Feb. 3 meeting by ANC 2E Chair Rick Murphy.
“Public School students and in particular, students of, in no particular order, Hardy Middle School, School Without Walls, Duke Ellington and Hyde-Addison Elementary School should have first priority access to the field,” the resolution reads. “Specifically, no agreements should be entered into with any non-public organization that would deny or reduce access to the field to DCPS students for school related activities.”
The second principle calls on the Washington, D.C. government to allocate adequate funds for general field upkeep. Additionally, the resolution asks officials to draw up a usage plan for public review. 
Lastly, the plan should address local concerns that the field transfer would bring increased traffic and new lighting fixtures to the neighborhood, according to the resolution. 
“Before any significant decisions concerning the management and future use of Ellington Field are made, there should be a proposed usage plan available for public review, including traffic, environmental and light studies and active outreach to and discussions with residents and schools who may be impacted by the usage plan and the residents and schools used should be given great way,” the resolution reads. 
Georgetown University holds a contract that grants the varsity track and field team access to Ellington Field and has been coordinating with local government agencies to address the transfer, according to Christopher Murphy, vice president for Government Relations and Community Engagement. 
“The university’s track and field program has a non-exclusive right to use the track at Ellington Field for certain hours,” Christopher Murphy wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The university is working closely on the matter with ANC 2E, the Burleith Citizens Association, and DPR. We are hopeful that neighborhood and city leaders can negotiate a solution that is acceptable to both the community and DPR. And we are working with both to ensure that whatever is decided our right to use the track is honored.”
In September, DPR granted the Maret School, a private day school in Northwest D.C., exclusive access to Jelleff Field, a recreational space in the Georgetown area. The field allocations drew similar concerns that public school students’ field use would be limited. Residents fear the Ellington field transfer may exclude some community members from using the space if DPR grants exclusive usage rights. 
Sparse communication from the D.C. government has left students, parents and community members confused how field access will change with the potential transfer, according to Valerie Jablow, a parent of a student at Duke Ellington and a member of the school’s PTO. 
“Because DPR and DME have refused to release the terms of the agreement of the transfer to the public before the transfer occurs, the public is expected to simply hope and pray that the rights of DCPS students [with respect to] *their own field* are preserved and that whatever use the community has enjoyed for decades there will, maybe, somehow, continue,” Jablow wrote in an email to The Hoya. “That’s not exactly democratically heartwarming.”

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 14, 2020 by Jemima Denham Leave a Comment 
The Office of Planning and Facilities Management initiated an investigation into the cause of a fire that occurred in a Henle Village apartment Feb. 8.
All five residents were in the apartment when the fire began early Saturday morning but none were harmed. The cause of the fire is currently unknown and a commissioned team is investigating the fire, according to a university spokesperson.
The fire had already generated smoke before the residents were able to evacuate the building, according to Conor Nicholson (MSB ’22), one of the residents of the apartment where the fire started.
“I couldn’t see past three feet in front of me there was so much smoke,” Nicholson said. “I didn’t really think — I just ran outside.”
D.C. Fire and Emergency Services Department and Georgetown University Police Department evacuated some students living in Henle in response to the fire alarm. Most students were able to return to their apartments by 5:20 a.m., and residents of impacted apartments were relocated to area hotels, according to the spokesperson.
Matteo Palacardo (MSB ’22), one of the residents in the affected apartment, was relieved he and his roommates were able to evacuate in time.
“It was a terrifying experience, and I’m just really glad we managed to get everyone out safe,” Palacardo wrote in a statement to The Hoya.
Commissioners are currently working to repair the fire-damaged apartments, according to a university spokesperson.
“A fire response team of internal services and external consultants are working to investigate the cause of the fire and remedy any impacts to the affected apartments,” the spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Last spring students living on campus were relocated to the Georgetown University Hotel and Conference Center following structural roof issues due to moisture buildup. Eighty-five students living in Alumni Square last spring semester were moved to the facility for the remainder of the semester.
The Office of Facilities Operations in conjunction with GUPD instituted a fire watch starting Feb. 12 in light of the recent fire and concerns about student safety in Henle, according to a Feb. 12 email sent to all Henle residents from Director of Residential Services Bill Huff.
“GU police officers will be walking around Henle Village checking stairwells and exterior of the buildings for fire or smoke throughout the evening,” Huff wrote in the email. “The fire watch has been instituted to ensure that all residential units within Henle Village are providing the highest level of safety and protection.”
The watch comes after other campus fires this year, such as the recent fire in Healy Hall on Jan. 5. The Office of Planning and Facilities Management investigated the fire, which broke out in a private office in the Kennedy Institute of Ethics in Healy Hall and was extinguished by the building’s sprinkler system.
Smoke from a mechanical failure triggered a fire alarm in Healy in February 2019. The alarm led to a complete evacuation of the building. D.C. Fire and EMS determined the smoke resulted from a defective fan belt on a heating, ventilation and air conditioning unit instead of from a fire.
In addition to the fire watch, the Office of Facilities Operations will test fire alarms to ensure that the system is functioning properly, according to Huff.
“This precaution is not a cause for concern; the fire alarm system is going through a testing process to be certain it is operating at full efficiency,” Huff wrote. “Beginning this evening, Facilities Operations and Siemens staff is testing each of the smoke detection devices within the units to be certain of their operation.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 14, 2020 by Clara Grudberg Leave a Comment 
The skeletal remains of four humans were found in the foundation of a Q Street home on Feb. 4, launching a police response and an archaeological investigation. 
The discovery was made during a minor basement renovation at 3317 Q St NW. The home lies in an area formerly occupied by cemeteries, leading to previous discoveries of human remains over the past several decades, according to NBC4 Washington. 
The block of Q Street where the discovery was made is across the street from Volta Park, a recreation center which occupies the land of the Old Presbyterian Burial Ground, a cemetery for prominent D.C. figures until its demolition in 1909. 
The area where the remains were found used to serve as a black cemetery during the 19th century, raising suspicion that some of the remains may belong to Yarrow Mamout, a formerly enslaved man who lived on Dent Place, adjacent to Q Street, who became a renowned businessman in the Georgetown area who died in 1823, according to Jerry McCoy, a special collections librarian at the D.C. Public Library. The location of his remains is currently unknown. 
“He was an educated individual. He read and spoke Arabic. He had been kidnapped in West Africa and brought to Maryland,” McCoy said to NBC4 Washington. ‘[It] would be an incredible discovery if that was able to be determined through DNA.” 
The project developer notified Advisory Neighborhood 2E02 Commissioner Joe Gibbons of the skeletal remains shortly after the discovery. Gibbons then instructed those in the house to call the Metropolitan Police Department to determine if the bones were a part of a crime, he said.
“He said ‘Joe, I found some skeletal remains, or what appears to be skeletal remains, what should I do?’ because it’s not a common occurrence for a developer,” Gibbons said in an interview with The Hoya. “I said, ‘Well, I know what you should do, you need to stop, get the workers around, and call MPD,’ because MPD has to ascertain whether it’s a grave or whether it’s a recent crime scene.” 
After some initial police work, district officials called in the city archeologist for the District of Columbia Ruth Trocolli. The skeletons appeared to be from the 1830s, Trocolli told the Georgetowner. However, the investigation has not concluded. 
The forensic process includes documentation and comparison with other remains from the premises, according to Andrew Trueblood, director of the D.C. Office of Planning.
“The District of Columbia’s Archaeologist is documenting and removing human remains discovered in an unrecorded 19th century burial ground spanning properties on the 3300 block of Q St., NW,” Trueblood wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The remains will be loaned to the Smithsonian’s National Museum of Natural History Anthropology Department and analyzed against other remains found at this burial ground.”
Since human remains had been discovered on the 3300 block before, during the renovation project to add new stairs on the ground level, the homeowners took special precautions, according to Gibbons. 
“They did a dig about three or four years ago, but unfortunately one of the previous owners put a swimming pool back there without permission and pushed all the archeological remains all over the place,” Gibbons said. “That’s why there was some sensitivity to it, not that there would be anything there, but you never know.” 
In a similar occurrence, human thigh bone remains were unearthed at Georgetown University in 2014 during the construction of Pedro Arrupe, S.J. Residence Hall. 
Although the university was aware of the potential discovery before breaking ground on the dormitory, Georgetown did not publicly disclose the bone. The land had been a mid 19th century segregated burial site, intended exclusively for black people, including slaves.
Discoveries of this nature should not be taken as a surprise considering the Georgetown neighborhood’s long history, according to Gibbons. 
“There is history all around us and beneath our feet here in Georgetown, so I wouldn’t really wanna dig too far on your campus either,” Gibbons said. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 14, 2020 by Harrison Lee Leave a Comment 
Rapid evolutions in cyberwarfare and the advent of climate change require new, sustainable methods for delivering aid to vulnerable populations, Head of Policy and Humanitarian Diplomacy of the International Committee of the Red Cross Hugo Slim said at an event Tuesday.
The Institute for the Study of International Migration, a Georgetown University research center, held the event titled “War and Humanitarian Action in the 2020s” in McGhee Library in the Intercultural Center on Feb. 11. During his talk, Slim discussed the implications of modern warfare and the evolving aid practices in his role at the ICRC. 
The ICRC organizes numerous assistance programs to support vulnerable populations affected by conflicts, according to its website. The ICRC has recently committed to integrating economic, social and environmental sustainability into their aid projects.
Developments in cybertechnology have led aid organizations like the Red Cross to reevaluate their traditional wartime policies, according to Slim. 
“I think one other thing that’s worrying us at the ICRC is, if so much warfare is going to happen in virtual space — in cyber attacks through computer systems — how can we embody and make present in that space humanitarian norms, humanitarian regulations?” Slim said. “How can we sort of flag and put a Red Cross or a Red Cross Crescent on a hospital in cyberspace?”
The anonymous nature of cyberweapons has complicated battlefield dynamics and raised concerns about accountability, according to Slim.
“We’ve always had false flags and covert operations — hidden operations — in warfare,” Slim said during the event. “Cyber seems to particularly require anonymity because you don’t want the other person knowing how you’re in or that you’re in or who’s in that system.” 
The increase in self-operating weapons has generated human desire to control the deadly technology, according to Slim. 
“We are saying that, for us, human control means that at any time, when these very sophisticated weapons are in operation across a battle space, semi-autonomously or whatever, many at the same time, there must still be the ability for human command to set the scope of their activities,” Slim said. 
Over 30 countries have defensive supervised autonomous weapons, according to The New York Times. A well-known example of the autonomous weapons, the Israel Aerospace Industries Harpy, is designed to crash into the sources of enemy radar signals without a direct human command. Such weapons can destroy their targets before a human-directed counter strike can be deployed.
Prior to joining the ICRC in 2015, Slim served as a senior research fellow at the University of Oxford, researching humanitarian ethics and civilian protection. He has also authored several books, with his most recent, “Humanitarian Ethics: A Guide to the Morality of Aid in War and Disaster,” being released in 2015.
Worsening global climate trends also necessitate a transformation in humanitarian policy, Slim said. Humanitarian organizations must pivot toward better long-term aid practices.
“We’re asked to do it in a sustainable way. We’ve got to keep that system continuity going as well so it’s not just someone giving somebody a glass of water anymore,” Slim said. “We’re gonna make things that you can go on using. This is not a ‘truck-and-chuck’ operation. We’re gonna try and create systems of water, food, health, whatever, that continue. And of course the last one is we have to adapt to climate change and green our own organization. It’s a new ethic for us, to green the ICRC.”
In the face of cyber warfare proliferation, personal interactions between war victims and aid workers must remain a central focus of humanitarian work, according to Slim. 
“What really changes what we are to one another is contact, that face-to-face contact,” Slim said. “We know from decades of humanitarian advocacy that it is the face, not the numbers, that make the difference.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

