
March 23, 2020 by Annalise Myre Leave a Comment 
Tackling the COVID-19 pandemic requires decisive and coordinated leadership, a panel of public health and political experts said during a virtual Zoom forum March 19.
COVID-19, a respiratory disease caused by a new coronavirus strain, originated in Wuhan, China, in November 2019 and was first reported by the Chinese government in December. Since then, there have been over 300,000 cases in 188 countries and territories around the world, with the highest mortality rate in Italy. As of press time, there have been 31,289 confirmed cases in the United States and 395 deaths, more than double the amount reported just last week, according to CNN.
Given the rapid spread of the virus, world leaders must organize and communicate effective plans of actions to their people, according to panelist Ron Klain (CAS ’83), who served as the U.S. Ebola response coordinator for the Obama administration.
“We need transparency, we need candor, we need science-led leadership,” Klain said. “That’s the kind of communication that’s going to reassure people and going to tell people we have a plan in place to fight this thing effectively.”
Many people have criticized President Donald Trump for his administration’s response to the pandemic so far, with over half of those surveyed ranking the response of the U.S. federal government as “poor” or “very poor,” according to a U.S. News & World Report survey. The United States has lagged behind in testing especially, only performing over 71,000 tests so far, while South Korea, which has around 9,000 reported cases, has tested over 270,000 people to date, according to NPR.
Although Trump placed travel restrictions on foreign nationals who had traveled to China in the last 14 days as of Jan. 31, the restrictions only temporarily stalled the larger crisis without setting proper contingency plans to limit the spread of the virus in the United States, according to Klain.
“Those travel restrictions slowed the spread of the disease, but they bought us time, not protection,” Klain said. “With that time, the Trump administration squandered the opportunity. They did not prepare us for testing. We have fallen behind every other developed country in the world for testing its people for this virus.”
In response to growing concerns around the COVID-19 outbreak, Georgetown University pivoted to online learning and announced that all students must move out of university-owned housing by March 22. With most students off campus, the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service and the Georgetown Global Health Initiative hosted the forum event using Zoom, a remote conferencing software. 
The event, titled “Leadership During Crisis: Combating the Coronavirus,” was the first ever GU Politics virtual forum. Georgetown students, faculty and staff were asked to provide their Georgetown email address when responding interested to the event, so that GU Politics could then send out the link to join the Zoom conference, according to the event’s Facebook page.
Other panelists at the event included Chair of the National Advisory Committee on Rural Health and Human Services Jeff Colyer (CAS ’81), Director of Georgetown’s Center for Global Health Science and Security Rebecca Katz and Former Assistant Secretary of Treasury for the Trump Administration Tony Sayegh.
Policymakers must collaborate to provide necessary financial assistance to citizens as the pandemic continues to hurt the U.S. economy, Sayegh said.
“We’re all in this together and I really feel very strongly that one of the essence of the American DNA is we fight together and we win together,” Sayegh said. “And that’s where I feel we are starting to emerge, especially on the economic side with Congress working in such a bipartisan and bicameral way to provide direct relief to the American people.”
A major concern surrounding the pandemic is its projected effect on the global economy. Many economists are predicting a global recession, as the economies of major countries such as the United States and China come to a halt. Economists predict the U.S. economy will shrink 8% between April and June, according to CNN Business.
The biggest concern regarding the spread of the virus, however, is the potential for hospitals to be overrun with patients, which is a likely consequence of the U.S. government’s failure to enact timely protective measures, according to Klain.
“We are seeing this disease spread quickly in the country,” Klain said. “We didn’t do the testing right, we didn’t do the contact tracing, we didn’t get the hospitals ready, we don’t have the equipment where it needs to be and we are going to see the consequences of that in the days ahead.”
The urgency of the situation creates a need for quick and concise decision-making from political leaders, according to Coyler.
“You really have to have a leader that’s out there communicating every single day,” Colyer said. “People haven’t experienced this kind of war. This is a war that is on our shores right now so we’re in an entirely different environment and different political and decision-making environment.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 23, 2020 by Moira Ritter Leave a Comment 
Politicians representing the Georgetown neighborhood call for augmented resources and better support for Washington, D.C. hospitals amid the COVID-19 global pandemic. 
The D.C. Department of Health announced the first COVID-19 related death March 20. Seventy-one coronavirus patients have tested positive in the District as of Thursday evening. The D.C. government has taken precautions in line with the rest of the nation to prevent the spread of COVID-19, including social distancing mandates and expanded food access. Colleges in the city, including Georgetown University, have also transitioned to online learning. 
D.C. government officials have worked hard to provide resources to residents during the pandemic but should increase services in the Georgetown neighborhood, according to Advisory Neighborhood 2E Commissioner Kishan Putta, who represents the Georgetown neighborhood and is currently running to represent Ward 2 on the D.C. Council.
“They set up food centers at schools and rec centers across the city; however, I was disappointed that there is not one in Ward 2,” Putta said in an interview with The Hoya. “I have been pushing for Ward 2 to have one because there are a lot of children who live with their relatives who live in the Ward 2 area. There’s a lot of need. Maybe not as much as others, but we should have a food center as well.”
Additionally, city officials should provide more grant and loan options to keep small businesses afloat during closures, according to Putta. 
“For the small business community they do have some loans that they’ve rolled out, but I think they could do more,” Putta said. “I think that we should provide grants especially for the smallest businesses, so they can continue to pay their employees.” 
This week, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) announced new social distancing precautions, including the D.C. government functioning with modified operating status with many government officials working remotely until April 27, according to a March 20 press release. Bowser also extended the prohibition on mass gatherings until April 25 and the D.C. public schools distance learning protocol until April 24. 
The D.C. Council also unanimously passed an emergency COVID-19 response bill March 17. Among its measures, the bill establishes extended unemployment compensation to those out of work because of the pandemic, limits on price gouging and stockpiling, prohibitions for utilities shut off because of non-payment and allows virtual council meetings. The bill, which became law once signed by Bowser, will remain in effect for 90 days.
The D.C. government has additionally set up a website to provide residents with access to information on recovery, data about COVID-19 in D.C., meal sites and health care providers. 
Though the District has effectively promoted social distancing measures, government officials  must mount a greater effort to aid hospital preparedness, according to ANC 2E Commissioner Matias Burdman (COL ’21), who represents Georgetown. (Full disclosure: Burdman previously served on the editorial board of The Hoya.)
“The worst of the pandemic is still to come and as of now, no measures have been taken to increase the number of hospital beds in the District. This is despite the fact that a report by Harvard/ProPublica has found that, with the current number of beds, even in the best of cases DC’s hospitals will be overwhelmed,” Burdman wrote in an email to The Hoya. “As of now, their research shows that in the worst case scenario, DC has less than a fourth of the hospital beds that will be needed during the epidemic.”
Around the nation and the District, residents are upset about lack of access to COVID-19 testing as hospitals have too few tests and the wealthy and famous have been prioritized. Currently, D.C. hospitals including Medstar Georgetown University Hospital and The George Washington University Hospital are administering tests. Five hundred and seventy-three people have been tested in the District as of March 19. D.C. doctors do not think they have enough tests to effectively combat COVID-19, according to WAMU. 
COVID-19 testing is available with limitations at local hospitals, but the District government must take rapid action to increase accessibility, according to Burdman. 
“I believe expanding it is crucial to fighting the epidemic. Maryland, for instance, has announced plans to quickly ramp up testing across the state,” Burdman wrote. “I believe the DC Council could follow their model and take action to improve testing across the city.”
The COVID-19 pandemic is the kind of emergency scenario in which the government should support its people, according to Putta. 
“This is the reason we pay taxes,” Putta said. “This is the reason why we put money aside for a rainy day. We’re in a rainy day now.” 

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

