
December 3, 2020 by Sanjana Nayak Leave a Comment 
After 31 years at the Metropolitan Police Department, Peter Newsham has announced that he will be stepping down from his position as police chief. 
Newsham was sworn in as police chief in January 2017 after being appointed interim police chief in 2016. Newsham plans to lead the police department of Prince William County, Virginia, beginning next year. 
In response to the announcement of Newsham’s resignation, Mayor Muriel Bowser expressed gratitude for Newsham’s service.
“During his time as Chief, he led the department through a time of great change and challenge for our city and our nation, and we appreciate his distinguished service to the District,” Bowser said in a Nov. 24 statement.
Newsham has faced criticism surrounding multiple matters including his handling of recent protests and deadly police shootings. This past summer, he faced increased scrutiny as demonstrations against police killings of Black citizens took place in Washington, D.C., and throughout the nation.
While his service is appreciated, Newsham’s departure could also enable positive change, according to D.C. Council Chairman Phil Mendelson.
“This presents an opportunity to try new approaches to law enforcement and new strategies to fight violent crime. We’re losing a good cop, but sometimes a fresh face can be a good, too,” Mendelson said in a statement Nov. 24.
Members of the council are currently working with Bowser to select Newsham’s successor. Bowser has also assured that an acting police chief will be named soon. 
Newsham is scheduled to begin his new role in Prince William County in February 2021, according to the Prince William Board of County Supervisors. He will be replacing former chief, Barry Barnard, who retired July 2020.
The D.C. Council passed a variety of police reforms during Newsham’s time as police chief, including emergency legislation in June which required the release of the names of officers involved in a shooting by police and body camera footage. 
Newsham expressed frustration about the Council and the emergency legislation in a private address first reported by Fox 5. 
“They completely abandoned us,” Newsham said. “They forgot about our 20 years of reform, and they insulted us by insinuating that we were in an emergency need of reform.”
During the month following the June reform bill, D.C. Councilmember David Grosso (I-At Large) expressed disapproval of the police chief, calling for Newsham to resign.
“Chief Newsham has regularly engaged in an adversarial, rather than collaborative, relationship with the Council, even on piecemeal reforms,” Grosso said in a July 9 statement. “Chief Newsham pushes an outdated tough on crime approach to policing that results in violence and harassment of untold numbers of people, mostly Black, across our city.”
In moving to his position in Prince William County, Newsham will be taking a pay reduction. His annual salary will be $215,000, according to Prince William County spokeswoman Sherrie Johnson. In comparison, last year, the Washington Business Journal reported that Newsham’s MPD salary was approximately $273,000. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 3, 2020 by Baylee Jones and Claire Stowe Leave a Comment 
Sivagami “Shiva” Subarraman, executive director of the Georgetown University Women’s Center and LGBTQ Resource Center, is retiring from both positions at the end of the year, initiating a restructuring to unite the centers.
Subbaraman was appointed director of GUWC in Nov. 2019, a year after former Director Laura Kovach resigned. Following Kovach’s resignation, the center, which supports programming and resources for women on campus, was maintained by student interns and undergraduate staffers who organized programs and events on their own for over a year. 
Subbaraman also served as director of the LGBTQ Center, which provides resources for LGBTQ students and allies, since its founding in 2008. As director of the LGBTQ center, Subbaraman established a range of programs, including the annual OUTober LGBTQ History Month and various leadership initiatives for students, Subbaraman wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
Following her resignation, the centers will work together under a new structure, according to Subbaraman. 
“In many ways this is a good move for the sustained work of the Centers,” Subbaraman wrote. “It will now be part of a larger organizational structure, allowing much of this work to be aligned with broader campus issues around inclusion and equity, and for an administrative sharing of talent and resources that was not possible with two smaller Centers.”
Subbaraman served as the only full-time staff member of the GUWC until Georgetown named Annie Selak associate director Jan. 8. 
Subbaraman and Selak worked together to alleviate undergraduate students running the center and implemented new programs and initiatives, including “Keeping it Real: Faculty Conversation Series” and a collaborative speaker series with the Hindu Student Association and Dharmic Life, according to Subbaraman.
Adanna Johnson, associate vice president for the Office of Student Equity and Inclusion, who also oversees Georgetown’s Center for Multicultural Equity and Access and the Georgetown Scholars Program, will transition both centers to be included under the OSEI’s umbrella. 
The OSEI, created in 2019, serves as a support resource for students, sponsoring events and programs that promote inclusion, equity and diversity on campus and houses the Center for Multicultural and Access, Community Scholars Program, and the Georgetown Scholars Program. 
Adanna Johnson will serve as the director of both centers. The LGBTQ Center will continue to be staffed by Assistant Director Amena Johnson, and GUWC will continue to be staffed by Associate Director Annie Selak.
Working with the OSEI will benefit both centers, according to a university spokesperson. 
“This move will create additional alignment between both the Centers and OSEI, and will be beneficial in bringing increased resources to the Centers, as well as a broader lens to the issues students may be facing,” the spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Serving as director of both centers allowed for a valuable connection between the two programs, according to Subbaraman. 
“It seemed important to align the work of both centers, to better serve the changing and evolving needs of current students, faculty, and staff,” she wrote. 
Adanna Johnson hopes to continue Subbaraman’s work to support women and the LGBTQ community at Georgetown.
“We will continue to elevate these Centers while we address the intersectionality of social identities in both social and academic ways,” she wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I am excited to be a part of a long tradition of justice work at Georgetown University by welcoming the Centers into OSEI.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 3, 2020 by Caitlin McLean 2 Comments 
Two Georgetown University graduates reelected to Congress in the 2020 election reflected on the mentorship opportunities and exposure to politics at Georgetown that influenced their journeys to the House of Representatives. 
Reps. Lori Trahan (D-Mass.) (SFS ’95) and Stephanie Murphy (D-Fla.) (GRD ’04), who both won their reelection campaigns during the Nov. 3 election, wrote to The Hoya about the factors that led them to run for office and their goals for the next term. 
Twenty-eight graduates who ran for seats in the 117th Congress won their bids, including graduates from the Georgetown University Law Center, undergraduate programs and masters programs in the School of Foreign Service. In 2016, the Law Center’s law-school graduate representation in Congress was second only to that of graduates from Harvard Law School. Twenty-two graduates were elected or reelected to the House of Representatives, and two graduates were reelected to their seats in the Senate. Jon Ossoff (SFS ’09) is a candidate for a Georgia Senate seat in the runoff election Jan. 5. 
Below is a record of the interviews conducted via email with Reps. Trahan and Murphy, edited for length and clarity. 
How did your time at Georgetown influence your decision to pursue a career in public service?
Trahan: I grew up in a working-class family in Lowell, attended public schools and started working when I was 11 years old. Going to college was always my dream, but hardly something my parents could afford. So earning a scholarship to play volleyball at Georgetown was a game-changer. I became the first person in my family to graduate from college, and that opportunity changed the trajectory of my life. Georgetown greatly expanded my horizons. It changed my perspective dramatically on what was possible to achieve because of the caliber of faculty, advisors, students and guests on campus. At some point, what seeped into my soul was that government was good — an instrument for making people’s lives better. It’s the body that holds up and protects the Constitution and makes sure we’re living up to it. Georgetown absolutely shaped my belief in government, policy and our country’s role in the world.
Were you involved in student government while at Georgetown? 
Trahan: I was unable to participate in so much of what Georgetown offered on campus beyond the classroom because I played volleyball, and it consumed much of my time both in season and during the offseason. So, student government, studying abroad and internships weren’t things I could take part in. That being said, when I arrived at Georgetown, the 1992 presidential season was underway, and it felt like we had a front-row seat to then-Governor Clinton’s campaign. While that was going on, I was also studying at the School of Foreign Service with the hopes of becoming a foreign service officer. After graduating, I began working on Capitol Hill, and I loved it — the policy, the advocacy, the negotiation and the opportunity to serve the people from my hometown. While running for office myself wasn’t something I had ever planned, the seeds were clearly planted during my years on the Hilltop and Capitol Hill.
What are your legislative goals for this next term?
Trahan: Starting on Inauguration Day, we’ll be able to jumpstart the wheels of progress that came to a grinding halt at the federal level four years ago. We’ll deliver on COVID-19 pandemic relief, protect and strengthen health care, create good-paying jobs, fund high-quality public schools, tackle climate change and so much more. We also must ensure that we’re tackling racial and ethnic disparities in all of our policy decisions and begin the process of uniting our country. In my first term in Congress, nearly half of the bills that I introduced were with a Republican co-lead, and I believe this moment requires us all to reach across the divide and rebuild the muscle of working together.
What influenced your decision to run for office? 
Murphy: I consider myself a patriot, not a politician. That’s because my story could only happen here in America. When I was just a baby, my family and I escaped Communist Vietnam by boat, and the U.S. Navy rescued us. We came to America as refugees and eventually became proud American citizens. My father worked hard at a power plant and my mom as a seamstress. Together, they took my brother and me to clean office buildings at night. They cleaned the same type of office buildings that I would later occupy as a businesswoman in the private sector. 
Two moments in my life called me to public service. The first was when terrorists attacked our country on 9/11. I left the private sector to earn my master’s in foreign service at Georgetown and then eventually became a national security specialist at the Department of Defense under President George W. Bush. I later moved to Central Florida with my husband Sean when he had the opportunity to run a small business. I became a mom of two wonderful young children and then returned to the private sector as a businesswoman. But then, after I saw so much dark and divisive rhetoric in the 2016 presidential election, a gunman walked into the Pulse nightclub in my community and killed 49 innocent people. I really felt like you couldn’t have that level of hateful rhetoric and not expect to see it manifest itself in acts of violence in your community. Moreover, the man who had represented my district took a check from the National Rifle Association only two days after that shooting. I decided that the only way you can change Washington is to change the type of people we send to Washington. So I ran a long-shot, four-month campaign against a 24-year incumbent, and I won.
Do you have any mentors from Georgetown that made a lasting impact? 
Murphy: I had great professors in professor Ted Moran, Mike Callen, Bruce Everett and others who taught me a lot about trade, business and geopolitics. Maria Pinto Carland, the associate director [of the MSFS program at the time], taught me about the importance of networking and the power of MSFS moments — which brings me to Madeleine Albright, with whom I was not lucky enough to study under in grad school, but with whom I’ve had the privilege of working as a member of Congress. I admire a fellow refugee and immigrant who went on to be a great secretary of state.
Do you have any advice for Georgetown students who want to run for office one day? 
Murphy: No matter the odds, have the courage to try. If you run a campaign on your ideas and in a way that makes you proud and remains true to your values, there is no shame in defeat — and it makes winning all the more special.

Rodolfo alfonso says 
December 6, 2020 at 5:24 am
Congratulations to Thw Georgetown graduates who are in Public service

Christina Manca says 
December 6, 2020 at 12:31 pm
Great article. Thank you for the reminder that serving in Congress is born from duty and patriotism.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 3, 2020 by Caitlin McLean Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association Senate unanimously voted to establish a committee in charge of fundraising for cosponsored events with the Black Leadership Forum. 
The resolution, titled the Georgetown Advocating For Activist Support Act, was passed Nov. 23 and seeks to create a committee that will increase the amount of money allocated by GUSA for advocacy. The committee will be created in collaboration with the BLF, a coalition of multiple campus organizations including the Black Student Alliance, the Black House and the African Society of Georgetown. 
By increasing fundraising for BLF events, the act aims to further the individual missions of all BLF-affiliated groups and to create a formal relationship between GUSA and the BLF. Senators praised the act for its attempts to establish more inclusion and support for the Black community on campus.
“It’s monumental, and I think that this should inspire all of us to continue to push for a more progressive legislation for things that will make Georgetown a safer, more inclusive, a more representative space where all students can be comfortable,” GUSA Senate Vice Speaker Melanie Cruz-Morales (COL ’22) said at the Nov. 23 meeting. 
In the process of crafting the legislation, Black student activists said GUSA has historically underfunded advocacy efforts, according to the resolution. 
“As has been expressed by Black student organizers throughout the meetings for this legislation, students advocating for the protection of their civil rights and racial equality on Georgetown’s Campus believe that finances allocated by GUSA for advocacy consistently fall short of what is needed,” the resolution reads. 
The idea for the G.A.A.S. Act originated over the summer while protests against police violence inflicted on Black citizens were at their height, according to the bill. Funds will be raised by multiple sources, including graduate donations, a capital campaign and university departments. 
The committee, which will have at least one GUSA representative, will be composed of a majority of Black students and organizers. Committee members will manage funds and decide the eligibility of each cosponsored event proposed by the BLF. According to the act, the committee will also explore community partnerships with student organizations like the Georgetown University Alumni and Student Federal Credit Union, The Corp, the Social Innovation and Public Service Fund. 
The BLF hopes that, with access to more funds, it will also be able to provide scholarships for first-years, help students with the costs of books and supplies and, in the future, host conferences and field trips, as well as launch a BLF website that will be a resource for all Black students on campus, according to AbdulRahman Gabriel (COL ’22), a BLF co-facilitator who endorsed the legislation. 
“The fund is a great step because it is GUSA’s commitment to directly supporting the Black community on campus, and that is the allyship that is necessary,” Gabriel wrote in an email to The Hoya. “It provides for a set and reliable means of support as Black orgs on campus should not be struggling to fundraise in order to host events or give back to the community.”
GUSA Speaker of the Senate Leo Teixeira (COL ’21), who helped introduce the G.A.A.S. Act, said it was a prudent plan to expand the reach of BLF events and programs.
“This is something that has been very well thought out, very well considered, and I think this is an incredible example of seeing something that needs to be done and putting in a tremendous amount of work to fully pull for something that is an incredible solution to a problem on campus,” Teixiera said at the Nov. 23 meeting. 
GUSA Senator Kariel Bennett (COL ’23) also praised the resolution by calling it a crucial step in GUSA’s mission to further connect with Black student organizations on campus.
“As a member of the Black community and someone who has a dance team under BLF, this resolution is monumental,” Bennett said at the Nov. 23 meeting. “You guys are amazing for even considering writing something so extensive.”
The bill’s original intent was to more broadly support the Black student body at Georgetown, according to Gabriel. 
“The G.A.A.S. Act was initially a bill that also focused on supporting Black students on campus, but many Black leaders on campus, as well as the BLF, felt that it lacked resourceful support,” Gabriel wrote. “It was done in the hopes of finding an impactful solution to advancing Black voices and purposes as well as supporting the Black community in a productive manner. The G.A.A.S. Act is essentially meant to support activism on campus in any way possible.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 3, 2020 by Giulia Testa 9 Comments 
Faculty in the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service drafted an open letter calling for university leadership to implement accountability standards to consider former officials from President Donald Trump’s administration for campus invitations and appointments.
The open letter, released Nov. 23, has garnered over 200 signatures from Georgetown faculty, graduates and current students. The letter petitioned senior university administrators to develop a set of transparent criteria in order to vet officials involved in the Trump administration before being approved for visiting appointments or high-profile speaking engagements. The letter appeals to the necessity of developing these criteria by claiming the actions of many officials who had served in the previous administration were incompatible with Georgetown’s values and therefore undeserving of the platform Georgetown’s campus offers.
Georgetown’s location in the nation’s capital makes it especially important for the university administration to reconsider campus invitations and appointments, according to Jeffrey Anderson, a professor in the SFS and the department of government who helped draft the letter. 
“With Inauguration Day approaching in January, we thought it appropriate to ask our university higher administration to reflect on the criteria we apply as a university to these kinds of invitations,” Anderson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The reason: unlike every single past presidential transition, this one has been questioned and undermined at every step by the outgoing Administration.”
The authors wrote that their intent is not to curtail free speech on campus or to advocate for a general ban on Trump administration officials. Rather, the purpose of the letter is to highlight the need for a critical examination of speaker invitation policies by university administrators. 
“We are simply pointing out the urgent need for reflection by senior University administrators, who ultimately have the power to approve visiting appointments as well as high-profile public speakers, about how our firmly established and revered Georgetown values will inform the manner in which we as a University interact with officials who served in this Administration,” the letter reads.
Georgetown College Republicans member Dalton Nunamaker (COL ’22), though not speaking on behalf of the organization, said the letter seeks to go against Georgetown’s values because it perpetuates political divisions.
“As anyone who truly knows our community will attest, conservatives like myself bring a lot of important ideas and perspectives to Georgetown,” Nunamaker wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Isolating half of the nation through an ideological purity test will only worsen existing echo chambers on the hilltop and drag us farther from the ideals of a free and compassionate society that we all seek.”
A universal ban on all Trump appointees would not reflect Georgetown’s values, according to letter signatory Mark Rom, an associate professor in the McCourt School of Public Policy.
“There might be some in the Georgetown community who believe that *anyone* who worked for the Trump administration should be, by definition, barred from our campus,” Rom wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Barring all Trump appointees would not reflect Georgetown discernment.”
However, Nunamaker wrote that implementing this criteria would still stifle political dialogue, and banning any administrative officials would create a dangerous precedent.
“Our differences should bring us to the table together for healthy debate, not split us into irreconcilable factions,” Nunamaker wrote. “Georgetown will not be served by branding members of any administration as untouchables.”
The drafters’ current goal is to raise awareness of the open letter among members of the Georgetown community before formally presenting new standards to invite speakers and appoint faculty members to University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95) and the university’s administration.
“Our main objective right now is to disseminate the letter as widely as possible among the members of the Georgetown community, including current students and alumni,” Anderson wrote. “With this open letter, we’re hoping to raise awareness among decision-makers at all levels of the university about the need to pause and reflect before clicking on the send button for that invitation.”
A university spokesperson declined to comment on the open letter when contacted by The Hoya. 
Inspiration for the open letter came from a similar initiative drafted by Harvard University community members calling on school leadership to refrain from hiring members of the Trump administration or inviting them to speak on campus, according to the Georgetown letter. Both Georgetown’s and Harvard’s letters state that the Trump administration has sought to disrupt a peaceful transfer of power, and inviting former members to speak on campus would legitimize Trump’s behavior.
While the Harvard letter places an emphasis on graduates who have served in the Trump administration, the Georgetown letter focuses more broadly on high-profile officials who are typically invited to campus following a presidential transition. In 2016, the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service hosted “The Exit Interview,” a six-part lecture series discussing outgoing outgoing President Barack Obama’s legacy with his administrators, such as National Security Advisor Susan Rice. Anderson attributed this difference to Georgetown’s location in the nation’s capital.
“We’re 2.5 miles from the White House, while Harvard is 438 miles away,” Anderson wrote. “Georgetown University has always benefited from its location here in Washington, DC and its proximity, both literally and figuratively, to the centers of political power in the nation’s capital. In the past, the University has welcomed to campus prominent former government officials, who have delivered prestigious addresses to the community and who have held longer-term visiting appointments as both faculty and fellows.”
Georgetown already has standards for donations to the university, so similar standards should be developed for individuals who wish to visit campus or be employed by the university, according to Rom.
“Georgetown has an extensive (and appropriate!) set of standards to vette those who wish to give money to Georgetown,” Rom wrote. “It is important that Georgetown have the same standards regarding speakers/visitors/faculty/fellows, etc. That you are rich, or famous, or powerful, are insufficient grounds.”

Beth Kelley says 
December 3, 2020 at 11:02 pm
What has happened to this institution of supposed higher learning? Banning any future speaker who was in Trump’s administration from speaking on the campus? Yet the disgraced  James Comey, who may yet be indicted for his role in the Russian hoax narrative, will now be teaching at Georgetown’s Law School! Let us hope it’s not a course on Ethics in Government. Georgetown has obviously lost its way…

Carol Harrison says 
December 6, 2020 at 2:04 pm
President John J. DeGioia
Georgetown University
3700 O Street, NW
Washington, SC 20057
Re:  OPPOSE:  “Faculty Letter Petitions Georgetown To Develop
        Accountability Criteria for Outgoing
        Trump Officials,” December 3, 2020  by Giulia Testa
Dear President DeGioia:
I am writing to strongly OPPOSE the “Faculty in the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service drafted an open letter calling for university leadership to implement accountability standards to consider former officials from President Donald Trump’s administration for campus invitations and appointments.”
It is a despicable political attack.  Georgetown University has a outstanding history of promoting American ideals.  This is a malicious and dangerous attempt to subvert free speech on the Georgetown campus.  The Georgetown students should not be taught revenge, as a method of controlling the “correct” political doctrine on campus.
Sincerely,
Carol Harrison
SFS ’73

Edward J Cooney says 
December 7, 2020 at 7:02 pm
I agree totally with Carol Harrison.
Edward J. Cooney
SFS ’67

Carol love Harrison says 
December 20, 2020 at 2:13 am
Please use your important history in the School of Foreign Service to counter this very dangerous assault on the freedom of speech at Georgetown University.

M. Thatcher says 
December 12, 2020 at 9:42 am
This is disgraceful.

Hoya Saxa says 
December 14, 2020 at 10:27 pm
Did Peter Strzok sign on? How about Donna Brazille? What a joke.

Illuminated Alum says 
December 16, 2020 at 2:52 pm
What about all the former Obama admin officials willy-nilly advocated for thousands of drone strikes that impacted innocent civilians across the Middle East. What a double standard. Georgetown faculty live in a stupid academic bubble, and they are afraid to discuss anything that doesn’t align to their myopic world views.

Jeffrey Anderson says 
January 7, 2021 at 3:30 pm
You folks obviously didn’t read the letter. Curious to hear your comments now after the assault on democracy we witnessed yesterday.

L. Creech says 
January 23, 2021 at 12:13 pm
I have no problem with ‘invited speakers’ on campus as long as the acceptance or rejection of a speaker is applied to all. However, when it comes to faculty, whether visiting, adjunct, or career, Georgetown needs to revisit their rules, assuming there are any. We have a lot of qualified adjuncts who actually are professional ‘professors’, then we have those like Donna Brazille, Strzok, Comey, and my person favorite… Chuck Hagel, who was hired, given premium office space, yet had no qualifications required of other Georgetown faculty. But of course, he was here to ‘hep out where I can’ according to a quote he made when asked what privilege entitled him to teach at Georgetown. Georgetown has had its reputation diminished enough in recent years, with the admissions pay-to-play scandal, the revelation of Georgetown’s role in slavery, et al. Georgetown is a world class university, not an unemployment station for clinical narcissists from government. Get back to education and let the politicos and their fellow travelers do like every one else and look for a job they are qualified for.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

