
November 12, 2020 by Noa Bronicki Leave a Comment 
Despite facing a host of new challenges because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Ferretti-Badger administration says it has stayed committed to advocating for students, addressing both current student needs and long-term goals. 
Georgetown University Student Association President Nicolo Ferretti (SFS ’21), Vice President Bryce Badger (MSB ’21) and members of the GUSA press team reflected on the administration’s progress and failures during a meeting with campus media Oct. 27. 
The bulk of the discussion focused on GUSA’s response to pandemic-related issues. As soon as Georgetown University announced students had to leave campus in March because of the spreading coronavirus, the newly elected GUSA executives realized they would have to put their plans and campaign promises on hold to address the evolving situation. Navigating a pandemic without a map proved difficult, however. 
“We were the first people to ever go through an administration like this,” Badger said. “There was no blueprint, no instruction manual to follow. There was no mold we could build our administration around.”
Ferretti and Badger have not seen each other in person since March, and they have never met some of the newer members of the GUSA Executive, which has made working together more difficult, according to Badger. The struggles that come with working online have also been a hindrance.
“It’s exhausting, and it weighs you down, and getting people to do their best work in this environment has been a struggle,” Ferretti said. “I think the way we have been able to work well together is we’ve been super understanding. I think that flexibility has been key to whatever success we have had getting over this fatigue.” 
Early on in the transition to online learning, the GUSA Executive team took steps to keep the student body informed about administrative decisions and bring student concerns to the attention of administrators, according to Ferretti and Badger. The team updated students on developments in university policy through GroupMe chats and routine email blasts, while also gathering student feedback through surveys. 
Working through the challenges of the pandemic, Ferretti and Badger said they have still made progress toward their long-term goals, which include sustainability and inclusivity. The GUSA veterans campaigned on promises of increased sustainability efforts, elevation of marginalized student voices and greater advocacy for survivors of sexual assault. Ferretti said he was particularly proud of the work the team is doing to transition Georgetown from nonrenewable energy sources to more wind and solar energy. The executives said they have collaborated with the university’s Office of Sustainability to increase the proportion of university power sources from renewable resources. Another success they touted is dorm renovations, including the replacement and renovation of HVAC and new ramps for more accessibility.
“We were fortunate, recently, that a lot of dorm renovations just got approved, and these were all renovations that we were pushing for for a while. Actually, this is something that I’ve been working on since I first started as a senator,” Ferretti said. 
The GUSA executives were also pressed on the organization’s tarnished reputation as an exclusive and competitive student group. The GUSA Senate faced a wave of controversy during its fall election cycle after several candidates dropped out of the race, citing a toxic culture. While the senate does not fall under Ferretti and Badger’s purview, Ferretti said he did not know if GUSA culture on the whole has improved. 
“I don’t know how much the culture has changed, and it’s hard for me to gauge that because I’ve heard conflicting accounts,” Ferretti said. “Negative opinions are helpful if they are accurate.” 
Badger also highlighted the work the GUSA Executive has been doing around mental health, particularly its intersectionality with race. The GUSA vice president and policy chairs from the Mental Health Policy Team and the Race & Inclusivity Committee have begun work on a platform called “Me, Myself, and Mind,” which Badger described as a forum for students to share personal experiences with mental health, specifically students of color and low-income students.
“The purpose of it was that people know they are not alone and that no matter where you are — no matter what resources you don’t have access to, no matter where you are in the world — there are other students who are also in similar situations,” Badger said. 
Ferretti and Badger pointed out these projects would not be possible without the foundations that have been built by other student groups. The pair highlighted the work of the Black Survivors Coalition and the Georgetown Disability Alliance.
“We are rarely the leaders when working with activist groups; we are there as a supportive body working within their system. They are the ones with the goals,” Ferretti said. 
Looking forward, Ferretti and Badger hope to continue advocating for mental health, academic accommodations and revamped bystander trainings. The pair say they are currently involved in discussions with administrators about plans for the spring semester and are continuing to bring student concerns to the attention of the university. 
“We are really focused on making sure that students with high needs — needs for housing stability, needs for safe housing, needs for accommodations because of disability, whatever it may be — have a spot on campus,” Ferretti said. “In terms of on-campus students, this is the next big area because they are facing a lot of immediate issues that we definitely need to address before the end of the semester.”
GUSA has also taken an active role in financial aid reform and has a representative who works with the Office of Student Financial Services to advocate for students. In early August, the Ferretti-Badger administration led student efforts to reform the financial aid process after many students reported unexplained decreases in their financial aid packages. In addition to trying to meet the needs of individual students, GUSA members are also calling for more systemic changes to promote equity, according to Ferretti. 
Badger and Ferretti agreed their working relationship with the Georgetown administration is a positive one, but they are often frustrated with administrators’ dismissal of student concerns. 
“We need to call them out when they are doing stuff that’s not good for students and push for things that they are not going to be comfortable with,” Badger said. “I think that comes with the job; that’s just a reality we have to deal with.”
In the second half of their term, the pair are thinking forward and preparing for the next GUSA executive election in February 2021, when they will need to pass on their roles, according to Badger.
“The only way that stuff keeps getting pushed through is years of different GUSA administrations working on things, not just one, so we are very focused on making sure that these projects do continue going forward after we leave office,” Badger said. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 12, 2020 by Ella Kohler Leave a Comment 
Women in the United States vary significantly in terms of well-being depending on the state they live in and their racial identity, according to a study released by Georgetown University’s Institute for Women, Peace and Security on Oct. 8. 
The U.S. Women, Peace and Security Index explores how women’s rights and opportunities vary by state and provides an overall ranking based on 12 indicators of women’s status related to inclusion, security and justice. Among these indicators are representation in the state legislature, experienced intimate partner violence and affordability of health care. 
The index found great variance in women’s well-being across states, with the highest ranked state, Massachusetts, scoring about four times higher than Louisiana, the lowest ranked state on the list. The study also saw significant disparities in legal protections, with no states offering full legal protections of women’s rights, according to the index’s metric, and six states offering no legal protections whatsoever. The report considered laws criminalizing sexual harassment in the workplace, mandating paid parental leave and requiring domestic abusers to relinquish firearms, among other legal protections.
The report provides key insights on the seen and unseen issues U.S. women are currently facing, according to Elena Ortiz (SFS ’21), the main research assistant for the report.
“We hope that this index provides kind of a data impetus and hard evidence of why and where women’s well-being is lacking and where the blind spots are,” Ortiz said in an interview with The Hoya. “It really exposes the blind spots and really places an urgent call on leaders to address these gaps, whether it be in terms of average women’s well-being across states or whether it’s racial disparities within states or across regions — whatever it may be.”
The report found clear racial disparities among women’s well-being, especially in areas including women’s college completion, state legislative representation and maternal mortality. For example, the study found the maternal mortality rates for Black women are almost quadruple those for white women in New Jersey.
Despite laying out stark gender and racial injustices, the report also found the majority of Americans support gender equality. A survey from the report found four in five adults believe it is important for elected officials to work on issues affecting gender equality, and two in three adults believe the country would be better off with more women in political office.
Although many people recognize that inequities exist, the data measuring these disparities can still be surprising, according to Jeni Klugman, lead author of the report and Managing Director of GIWPS.
“One’s aware that there’s gaps, but when you see them quantified in those ways, it really is quite striking,” Klugman said in an interview with The Hoya. “I knew there were disparities; I didn’t realize that they were going to be so large.”
States that received higher marks in the rankings, however, still have areas where they need to improve, according to Ortiz.
“We found that across the twelve indicators, only one state in the nation does well, or scores in the top two quintiles across all twelve indicators, and that’s New Hampshire,” Ortiz said. “So that tells us that even states that rank really highly still have work to do and still have key blindspots in terms of women’s well-being.”
Now that the report is published, researchers hope the findings can better inform conversations around women’s well-being and lead to effective legislation, according to Klugman.
“We’re hoping to inform people. There’s a lot of implications here for the policy agenda, both at the state level but also at the federal level,” Klugman said. “I think it’s important to be informed about real outcomes on the ground to inform conversations for people. So I think that having facts and figures can help with that.”
Although the full report is 79 pages long, GIWPS partnered with National Geographic to release a condensed version of the report that highlights many of the key findings.
Overall, the report provides an excellent benchmark for future studies around women’s equality issues in the United States, according to Irene Berman-Vaporis, a National Geographic journalist who worked with GIWPS to publish the study.
“It really gave you a starting point to see, okay, this is what data there is so far and hopefully there’ll be better data in the future that would help us do an even more in-depth look,” Berman-Vaporis said in an interview with The Hoya. “This is really such an important topic that it’s great as a starting point and hopefully five years from now, ten years from now, there’ll be even richer information than we currently know.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

