
October 23, 2020 by Ella Kohler Leave a Comment 
As she entered the 25th year of her investment banking career, Dawn Carpenter (GRD ’20) stopped to ask herself, “What am I doing with my life?” 
Carpenter left her Wall Street career in 2013. Questions about the ethics of her work and the market system she helped influence lingered on her mind. The desire to answer these questions, combined with her interests in theology and business, led her to create a new podcast titled “What Does It Profit?” which released its first three episodes Oct. 20. Each episode features an interview with a different guest from the world of business and examples of how capitalism can be a force for good.
“We want to take this snapshot in time where business itself has identified a real problem,” Carpenter said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “I mean, we’ve created and perpetuated things like rampant inequality, degradation of environments, marginalization of people, you know, all of these negative things. And we’re saying that, yes, that’s true. But there are people out there that are trying to do something about it, and so we want those stories to be told.”
Some of the guests featured in the first season of the podcast include Nobel Peace Laureate Jody Williams, hedge fund manager Fahmi Quadir and corporate legal scholar Adam Winkler, according to the podcast’s website.
The podcast’s name is derived from the Bible verse Mark 8:36, “For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?” 
“This bible verse has endured over the centuries as a reminder that we can’t put our price tag on what matters most,” Carpenter’s website states.
Carpenter first started down the road to creating the podcast when she began thinking about how theological ideas could make for more ethical business.
“I started writing about the intersection of theology and business, and I knew I needed more,” Carpenter said.
Having begun her career in investment banking, Carpenter decided to return to school and begin a doctorate program in liberal studies at Georgetown University in 2015. In addition to her studies, Carpenter has worked with the Kalmanovitz Initiative for Labor and the Working Poor since 2016. 
Previously, Carpenter partnered with the McDonough School of Business to create her first podcast “More than Money” in 2011. The show ranked 11th on iTunes Business but due to legal trademark issues with the podcast’s title, Carpenter decided to end the project. 
Three Georgetown undergraduate students, Nate Kral (COL ’22), Niels Ruigrok (COL ’22) and Andrew Berg (MSB ’21), support the podcast’s production. All three were enlisted as research assistants for the podcast and also played a variety of roles in the production of the podcast itself (Full disclosure: Kral currently serves as the multimedia editor at The Hoya).
Though episodes feature experts familiar with business, the podcast is designed for a general audience and does not require listeners to have any prior technical knowledge of the topics discussed, according to Kral. 
“It’s easily digestible, and it’s a really awesome way to connect people with people who aren’t necessarily celebrities but people who are doing really good work in the business world,” Kral said in an interview with The Hoya.
The team released the first three episodes together covering topics including short-term investing strategies, corporate consciousness and long-term shareholder activism. New episodes will be published every Wednesday through the end of the year. 
For Ruigrok, the podcast also provides an important perspective of optimism about the business world by highlighting efforts of positive change.
“In a relatively short period of time, it gives you great anecdotes of passionate people actually making a difference in the business world and showing that it’s not all grim,” Ruigrok said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 23, 2020 by Caitlin McLean 2 Comments 
Miko Peled, a Jewish pro-Palestinian writer and activist who has been accused of posting antisemitic tweets, spoke at an event Sunday despite widespread condemnation from students and campus organizations.
Peled’s invitation to speak virtually at Georgetown University provoked backlash, resulting in a petition led by the Georgetown Israel Alliance, a campus organization promoting education and discussion about current events and issues surrounding Israel and the Middle East. The petition was signed by over 130 students and three other student organizations asking the university to cancel the event for giving a platform to a speaker with a history of antisemitism without allowing other voices to contest his beliefs.
The petition, signed by Georgetown University College Democrats, the Jewish Student Association, the fraternity Alpha Epsilon Pi and GIA, as well as individual students, claimed Peled’s previous remarks constitute hate speech.
“While it is important that a variety of opinions and perspectives are represented in a discussion of the Israel-Palestine conflict, Mr. Peled’s rhetoric crosses a line into hate speech, as demonstrated by his social media accounts and speeches at past events,” the petition reads.
On a Georgetown Zoom webinar titled “Anti-Zionism vs. Anti-Semitism”, Peled spoke about the Israel-Palestine conflict and discussed how he delineates where anti-Zionism ends and antisemitism begins. Anti-Zionism is generally defined as a political ideology in opposition to the state of Israel, whereas antisemitism is prejudice against the Jewish people.
President of GU-Qatar SJP Zain Assaf (SFS ’23) moderated the conversation with Peled.
“The groups that oppose my views and wanted to silence the event at Georgetown did not act because they are Jewish. Their opposition is a result of their Zionism, a racist, violent ideology,” Peled wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The work that is being done by students for justice in Palestine is heroic.”
GU SJP and GU-Q SJP did not immediately respond to requests for comment for this story.
The petition said Peled’s past comments reflect antisemitism. In tweets from 2016 cited in the petition, he compared the Israel Defense Forces to Nazi Germany’s Gestapo and referred to Jewish people as “sleazy thieves” in reference to U.S. aid to Israel.
Despite the petition’s concerns, Peled did not infringe Gerogetown’s Speech and Expression policy, so administrators did not intervene, according to a university spokesperson.
“Georgetown University is committed to the free and open exchanges of ideas, even if those ideas may be found difficult or objectionable by some,” a university spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Faculty members and student groups with access to benefits may invite any outside speaker or guest to speak on campus or at a virtual event. An appearance of any speaker or guest on campus, or at a Georgetown virtual event, is not an endorsement by Georgetown University.”
While the university is committed to the principle of free speech, it also stands against bigotry, hatred and racism, according to a university spokesperson.
“While we affirm that open discourse, discussion and debate are essential components of academic life — we also have foundational values that stand in clear opposition to bigotry, hatred, and racism, and in clear support of assuring that every student is welcomed and respected in our community,” a university spokesperson wrote.
However, the petition argued that the event does not promote free speech because of its webinar format. Although there was a Q and A portion of the event, students could not interact with Peled face-to-face.
“While in normal times we would move to condemn this event and then try to engage with the speaker/attendees regarding their antisemtic viewpoints, the use of Georgetown’s webinar function makes it impossible for attendees to directly interact with the speak or other attendees,” the petition read. 
Although the petition took the position that the format of the event should be changed, the event went forward as planned.
During the conversation with GU SJP presidents, Peled suggested antisemitism and anti-Zionism do not overlap and instead stand in opposition to one another. 
“The title could just as well have been the difference between racism and anti-racism. Antisemitism is a form of racism,” Peled said. “Anti-Zionism is a struggle against or a stance against a racist political ideology. Zionism is a racist political ideology.” 
Peled also compared the Israeli-Palestinian divide to aparthied and accused the Israeli government of genocide and ethnic cleansing.   
“If you believe in the rights of humans — rights in general — if you believe in the rights of refugees to return to their homes, and be given restitution and compensation, if you believe that people should have a right to equality, then you cannot but oppose and reject Zionism,” Peled said.
Rebecca Stekol (SFS ’21), co-president of JSA — one of the four organizations that signed the petition — said the event’s choice to only allow Peled’s definition of anti-Zionism and antisemitism to be heard is dangerous because people may think Peled’s opinion is held by all Jewish people. (Full disclosure: Stekol formerly served as a deputy opinion editor and an opinion columnist for The Hoya.)
“More than anything, it was a careless choice,” Stekol wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I am disappointed in their planning of this event because it is wrong to ask one Jewish person, who espouses views that have crossed into antisemitism, to paint an umbrella definition of what is and is not antisemitism.”
Stekol added that SJP could have invited other speakers to talk about Zionism who would have better acknowledged that the intersection between anti-Zionism and antisemitism is a complex topic. 
“That is an ongoing dialogue among the entire Jewish community, and there is not just one definition that neatly fits anti-Zionism and antisemitism into separate boxes, because the line is easily blurred,” Stekol wrote. “We need to retain agency over this dialogue. In addition, there are many other progressive, pro-Palestine Jews that SJP could have reached out to who do not espouse antisemitic rhetoric.”
During the Q and A portion of the event, a student confronted Peled by accusing him of antisemitism and bringing up his past tweets, including one from 2016 and a 2019 tweet in which he called Zionism a sign of dual loyalty to the governments of the United States and Israel. Peled denied he was antisemitic and said he had never made antisemitic statements.
“The question that you have submitted, that you or somebody submitted to you to ask, is false. None of it is true. None of it happened. I did not express any form of antisemitism in any of my expressions at all, ever,” Peled said.
Stekol expressed disappointment with how the event was ultimately allowed to proceed and said inviting a speaker who uses antisemitic rhetoric devalues the important conversation about where the line between anti-Zionism and antisemitism lies.
“In my time at Georgetown I have engaged in many meaningful dialogues about Israel/Palestine with students along a wide spectrum of opinions.” Stekol wrote. “Even though Peled is Jewish, Jews can hold antisemitic beliefs, and it is tokenizing and harmful to have him as the sole representation of Jewish voices at this event.”
CORRECTION: A previous version of this article said that the president of Georgetown University Students for Justice in Palestine moderated the event alongside the president of GU Qatar SJP, who in fact was the only person to speak with Peled. The article has been updated to reflect this information.

gary fouse says 
October 27, 2020 at 3:53 pm
As a former adjunct teacher at the University of California at Irvine, I had the chance to attend one of Peled’s speaking events there years ago. He is a hot-tempered radical who has turned his back on his own country and aligned himself with those seeking to destroy the Jewish state. When he spoke at UCI, he objected to my videotaping him, which was my right in a public event in a public venue. As for his friends in the SJP, they are a bunch of brown shirts, who use disruption, bullying, and intimidation to silence their opponents. I have personally witnessed their disruptive tactics on campus. He has a strange concept of heroes.
Peled has the right of free speech. At the same time, we have the right to speak out against him.

Ziad says 
May 23, 2022 at 10:54 am
To insult Miko Peled with the accusation of  anti-Semitism,  a man whose grandfather signed Israel’s Declaration of Independence and whose niece was killed by a Palestinian suicide bomber, is beyond the pale.  Your whole line of rhetoric is just your way of avoiding a look in the mirror he is holding up.  Easier to accuse him of anti-Semitism than address the facts.  When you find justification in the Torah for the Zionist actions against Palestinians for 74 years, maybe you will have an audience.  Until then, don’t insult a man of truth and justice with such a petulant rejection.  I guarantee you if there was a speaker who was spewing hateful Zionist rhetoric against Palestinians, you would have welcomed him or her to campus with open arms!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 23, 2020 by Liana Hardy 3 Comments 
Georgetown University administrators reiterated they are moving forward with a reconciliation fund they announced last year to benefit descendants of the 272 enslaved people sold by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus in 1838, but did not promise to implement the semesterly fee students overwhelmingly supported in 2019, according to student representatives to the board of directors. 
In the 2019 referendum, students voted to add a $27.20 semesterly fee to all undergraduates’ tuition to benefit the descendants of the GU272. The university made its first major announcement addressing the result of the referendum in October 2019, deciding to establish a $400,000 reconciliation fund in lieu of the semesterly fee, as well as community-based projects benefiting descendants.
After an Oct. 13 meeting with the board of directors’ Working Group on Student Affairs, Eliza Lafferty (COL ’21) and Escadar Alemayehu (NHS ’22), student representatives to the board, told campus media in a news conference that the university is deliberating over which projects to fund in reconciliation efforts. Administrators intend to involve descendants and the Georgetown community in the decision-making process. Members of the GU272 Advocacy Team were not included in the board meeting and were not consulted in preparation for the Oct. 13 meeting. 
Despite the university’s previous commitment to a reconciliation fund, its implementation plans remain vague. Vice President and Chief of Staff Joseph Ferrara did not offer a timeline on when the university would take further concrete action. Though Lafferty and Alemayehu reported Ferrara said the university would implement the referendum, he did not indicate he meant the university would launch the semesterly fee students voted for in the 2019 referendum, leaving students initially confused about the university’s intentions. 
“It is unclear to what extent the university plans to implement the referendum,” Lafferty and Alemayehyu wrote in their report of the meeting.
Alongside the October 2019 announcement of a $400,000 reconciliation fund, the university also launched an advisory board composed of faculty, students, graduates, staff and descendants. That fall, they also announced the formation of two additional advisory groups to continue the university’s academic and research initiatives and public history efforts, as well as two university projects focused on expanding understanding of and memorializing Georgetown’s history in relation to slavery.
A university spokesperson confirmed the university plans to share an update in the coming weeks on upcoming steps the university will take to engage with its history of enslavement and current racial injustices on and off campus. However, the spokesperson did not commit to the semesterly fee or provide a concrete timeline for the impending announcement. 
The spokesperson clarified that Ferrara’s reference to the referendum in the Oct. 13 meeting did not promise the university will implement the semesterly fee. No tuition fees relating to the GU272 referendum will be collected, according to the spokesperson. 
Instead, the university said it will encourage community members to contribute to the reconciliation fund established in 2019. 
“As an initial step, a fund — with financial resources that will meet the $400,000 commitment the University made in October 2019 (based on the amount of the proposed student fee) — has been established. While mandatory fees will not be collected, we will be inviting all members of our community to contribute to the fund,” the spokesperson wrote.
Because the GU272 Advocacy Team had asked administrators for an update on their implementation plan, Ferrara followed up with an email after the meeting stating the university’s plans to fulfill last year’s announcement. 
“The Board Student Affairs Committee met earlier this past week. At that meeting, I provided a brief update on our work in slavery, memory, and reconciliation. I shared that while the necessary pandemic response had slowed down various initiatives, we were planning now to re-engage a number of efforts,” Ferrara wrote to student activists. 
Ferrara intends to meet with the GU272 Advocacy Team to discuss implementing the reconciliation fund.
“One of those would be our work to move forward on establishing a reconciliation fund. As was discussed at the meeting, the plan is to engage you and other members of our community in this work,” Ferrara wrote. “We will set up a time to discuss further.”
GU272 Advocacy Team member Nile Blass (COL ’22) emphasized that the reconciliation fund fails to carry out the demands in the 2019 student referendum.  
“It was clear that whatever they were doing was going to be functionally different and separate from the referendum. They were not going to overlap in any meaningful way at all,” Blass said during a press conference with The Hoya.
Although student representatives to the board say the referendum has been before the board of directors for five meetings since June 2019 and the university has explained the dialogue with GU272 descendants is ongoing, little contact has been made by the university with the GU272 Advocacy Team since their last meeting in February, according to Blass. She worried the university’s announcement is largely performative.
“The communication has been nonexistent,” Blass said. “There’s no real working relationship. I think the closest we had to a working relationship was during 2018 when things were very public.”

What’s a Hoya? says 
October 23, 2020 at 3:05 pm
The author should note that Georgetown University has no obligation to actually follow the 2019 GUSA referendum. It is merely a recommendation. Students have no control over the university’s resources—only the board of directors does. As is, the article misleadingly suggests that Georgetown is required to follow it and is violating some rule. 
Additionally, it is perplexing why the 272 Advocacy Team are mad. Regardless of whether the $400,000 comes from the university of from students, the recipients will be equally as happy from windfall of cash. For some reason, they want to target students—regardless of their ability to pay and their absolute lack of culpability in slavery—and not the university.

Shaheed A. Muhammad says 
October 31, 2020 at 7:13 pm
Well, I have always thought that this 2019 GUSA referendum was a very strange proposal, coming from the view that the BSU of Georgetown, most of whom if not all of whom are descendants of enslaved Africans themselves, would get down with paying any amount as a form of restitution for the harm inflicted on the 272 enslaved Africans sold off by their Jesuit slave-masters to pay off a debt they ( the slave-masters ) owed. The irony of this proposal is bewildering.  The children of those enslaved are now being asked to pay the debt owed by the children of the slave-master as the slave-master used the ancestors of the Africans of Georgetown University to pay off their debt back then. The proposal coming from the white student body, GUSA, may well be looked at as proper, the descendant children of the offending slave-masters seeking to pay restitution in an attempt to make whole the descendants of the enslaved who were deprived of their human rights by the forefathers of the white student body.
   I would like to hear something about the matter from members of the BSU of Georgetown U.
                                                          Shaheed A. Muhammad

Lisa Narcisse says 
April 4, 2022 at 11:51 am
I appreciate the effort alone in recognizing the descendants of the GU272.  After tracing my family lineage; I was surprised to learn that I am the 4th grand-daughter of Eve Mahoney whose father and mother were sold by Georgetown University to a plantation in Terrabonne Parish, Louisiana.  We have to always remember that these were human beings sold as property to save the university from going into debt.  Also we have to remember that the emotional impact of displacement and being sold affected future generations of descendants.  If we look at the victims of the  Holocaust, Japanese internment camps and other atrocities inflicted on other groups; they have been given reparations, apologies, and resources.  How are we as African-Americans any different.  The U.S. never compensated our ancestors although capitalism was literally built on slave labor.  Please take the time to consider the human beings and future descendants who were impacted by these decisions.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 23, 2020 by Kelly Anderson Leave a Comment 
Following firm pressure from dozens of faculty members, Georgetown University expanded its emergency stipend for faculty and staff who are incurring extra caregiving costs because of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
In a scathing Oct. 19 memo obtained by The Hoya, faculty members slammed the university for failing to prioritize family care responsibilities during the COVID-19 pandemic, labeling the failure as unconscionable. The 75 faculty members who signed the memo demanded the university include consideration of faculty members’ care responsibilities in future planning decisions. 
The memo was addressed to University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95), Chief Operating Officer Geoff Chatas, Provost Robert Groves and each of the deans of the undergraduate and graduate schools.
The university responded Oct. 22, announcing the expansion of the GUCares dependent care fund from $1,000 per employee to a maximum of $3,000 per employee through the end of the fiscal year in June 2021. GUCares is an emergency fund that provides support to full-time faculty and staff facing sudden financial loss because of family loss, natural disasters or other crises. The administration expanded the fund in the spring to help faculty deal with dependent care challenges caused by COVID-related closings of school, child care and elder care services. 
The email also announced the creation of a new human resources position dedicated to meeting faculty caregivers’ needs, as well as a standing committee to review faculty concerns, meeting two of the demands the original memo had requested.
“The Office of the Chief Operating Officer and the Faculty Senate are working together to convene a standing committee to provide continued input on dependent care support and resources provided by the University,” Groves wrote. “Additionally, The Department of Human Resources will deploy a dependent care resource (DCR) Coordinator by Oct 30. The DCR coordinator will be available to support faculty and staff in dependent care identification, and will serve as a point of contact within Georgetown to communicate and answer questions about the university’s caregiving resources.”
The push by faculty at Georgetown is in line with growing pressure in American universities to recognize the difficult double role of teaching and caregiving that many faculty have been forced to undertake since the pandemic began. Last week, Yale University announced plans to expand paid parental leave for some faculty in response to concerns about over-burdened professors. Faculty at Northwestern University and the University of California, Los Angeles have also launched petitions asking for increased support for faculty who have caregiving responsibilities. 
History professor Katherine Benton-Cohen, who helped put together the memo, is the parent of a kindergartener and a 10th grader who have been attending online school since March. Benton-Cohen said the cancellation of her children’s usual summer plans because of the pandemic forced her to spend money on a babysitter and took time away from her research. She decided to draft the memo after hearing colleagues were experiencing similar struggles.
“I felt a real responsibility to speak out, especially hearing from a lot of people trying to manage this who are more vulnerable,” Benton-Cohen wrote in an email to The Hoya. “[Caregiving during COVID-19] contains both short- and long-term implications that we need a comprehensive set of policies to address.”
In the executive summary of the faculty demands, the memo suggests immediate and long-term remedies for university leaders to consider, including conducting a faculty survey on care responsibilities, creating a website to provide communication channels for faculty caregivers and allowing for family leave.
To stress the magnitude and urgency of the cause, the memo cited a Collaborative on Academic Careers in Higher Education national survey which found that 53% of academic faculty are parents of infant or school-aged children, while 12% report being the caretaker for a dependent adult. Extrapolating from the COACHE survey data, the memo estimated that over 400 Georgetown faculty members have part- or full-time child care responsibilities during the pandemic.
“If something else besides childcare were derailing the work of at least half our faculty,
we would surely treat it as the crisis and high priority that it is,” the memo read. 
The memo further criticized the university for spending disproportionate resources on resuming research before failing to provide the necessary support for faculty with caregiving duties.
“For lab research resumption, there are apps, committees, websites, redeployed staff, forms to fill out, covid tests two times per week, and research town halls. ​This is for a constituency that is ​smaller​ than the number of people who have care responsibilities,” the memo reads. “Where is the (much easier, frankly) infrastructure and support for addressing their inability to do work, to say nothing of their mental and physical well-being or that of their dependents?​”
While Groves did convene a COVID-19 child care task force over the summer to examine how the university could support faculty care responsibilities, none of the committee members were child care experts, and the group lacked a sufficient budget to enact tangible relief, according to the memo.
The memo included anonymous testimonies from faculty members who said the pandemic has made it difficult to fulfill their professional obligations while meeting their family responsibilities.
“These last six months are the first time in my entire life in which I actually questioned my ability to be a working mother with a career,” one professor wrote in the memo.
“I have been placed in the position of choosing between family and scholarship and there is no question about what I choose, but it is unfortunate that a place like Georgetown, with its genuine commitment to educating for a full life, is so content to put its faculty in the position of making that choice,” another professor wrote.
Groves sent an email responding to the memo Oct. 20, and outlined the university’s plans to offer increased caregiving support.
“The closure of schools and regular child and elder care options has created an unprecedented crisis for families – I am humbled by your testimonials and deeply committed to supporting you,” Groves wrote in an email to faculty and staff obtained by The Hoya.
In the Oct. 20 message, Groves said he hopes to reopen Hoya Kids, the university’s campus child care facility for the children of faculty, as soon as public health conditions allow. Groves added that the administration would immediately implement the memo’s recommendation to form a committee to oversee university planning around family care responsibilities and a voice in decision-making. 
Benton-Cohen, who has spent hours of her time developing the summer COVID-19 child care task force as well as drafting the petition, said she was happy with the quick administrative response to the memo.
“I am thrilled with the response, and deeply pleased to see Georgetown strive to live up to its high ideals,” Benton-Cohen wrote.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

