
March 30, 2020 by Giulia Testa and Grace Buono Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association circulated a petition for a Double A grading system to address the challenging circumstances many students face as a result of the novel coronavirus outbreak.
Under the proposed grading system, faculty would decide between giving students either an A or A-, with no mandated distribution requirements, according to GUSA Vice President Bryce Badger (MSB ’21). The petition has garnered over 1,500 signatures from students, faculty and student organizations as of March 29. 
To address the abrupt shift to a virtual learning environment in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, Provost Robert Groves announced March 14 that the university adjusted the grading policy for the spring 2020 semester. The shift allowed undergraduate students to take their courses pass/fail this semester and extended the withdrawal deadline until the last day of classes. 
GUSA circulated the petition, inspired by a similar proposal created by students at Harvard College, to mitigate penalties faced by students who are experiencing extenuating circumstances in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, according to Badger.
“A core principle of Georgetown University which we all subscribe to as students is Academic Excellence. Academic Excellence entails uncovering truth and discovering meaning. This approach allows students to focus on just that,” Badger wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Without a fear of subpar grades students are able to focus on learning, furthering our education and our pursuit of the spirit of Georgetown.”
The university’s efforts to address the challenges many students are currently facing are not enough to alleviate the diverse challenges facing students as they adjust to online learning during the public health crisis, according to the GUSA petition for a Double A policy. 
“The current grading mechanism disproportionately impacts Hoyas who come from low-socioeconomic backgrounds, are international students, students with disabilities, undocumented students, and many other populations who experience a myriad of extenuating circumstances rendering them unable to perform academically to their fullest ability, in the least optimal environments,” the petition reads.
At this time, the university is not considering implementing the Double A grading system because of the changes Georgetown already made, according to a university spokesperson.
“We have a policy in place that is intended to be fair, flexible and give students choice,” the spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We were among the very first in the country to allow pass/fail options on all courses, and it is consistent with a large number of other institutions that have adopted similar policies.”
Georgetown students advocating for a Double A policy worked with other universities around the country that are proposing similar systems to address these disparities between students, Badger wrote. 
“We’re currently involved in a coalition of schools that continues to grow everyday where we are sharing resources and strategies for organizing for grade system changes,” Badger wrote. “We’re working with Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Brown, Berkley [sic], and Princeton.”
Harvard did not adopt undergraduate legislation endorsing a Double A policy. Instead, the Harvard administration instituted a universal satisfactory-unsatisfactory grading system for the semester, according to The Harvard Crimson. 
In addition to Harvard, schools including Columbia, Stanford, Dartmouth and University of California, Berkeley, have instituted mandatory pass/fail grading for the spring term. Universities including Yale and the University of Pennsylvania have adopted opt-in pass/fail grading policies similar to Georgetown’s.
Students have also drafted a petition titled “Pass or ‘Current Grades or Higher,’” in which  students would be able to choose between passing their courses or receiving grades no lower than they had on March 6, 2020, before spring break began.
The “Pass of ‘Current Grades or Higher’” petition directly opposes the Double A grading system, saying it devalues the merit and worth of an A. The petition also states that the Double A grading system is unlikely to be passed by administration.
“We hope that, by proposing a more moderate approach, it is more likely that Georgetown academic administrators will consider our proposal,” the petition reads. “We have interacted with a number of faculty members who have expressed their disapproval of ‘Double-A.’”
The GUSA Senate passed a resolution voicing support for the Double A grading system at their weekly meeting March 29. GUSA Senator Henry Dai (SFS ’22), one of two senators to vote against the motion, said a Double A system would disincentivize student academic engagement.
“I trust our professors, I trust our deans, I trust our students to work to find ways to better support students,” Dai said in an interview with The Hoya. “Double A, for GPA purposes, that would be great. But for actual students’ production, for student performance, for education that we receive from Georgetown, I think that would have negative consequences.”
This article was updated April 8 to reflect a recent development in GUSA legislation. 

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 30, 2020 by Yalda Zarrabi 1 Comment 
Communities must unite in solidarity to protect one another during the global COVID-19 pandemic, a panel of health experts and Catholic leaders said in a Facebook Live event Thursday.
COVID-19, a respiratory disease caused by a new coronavirus strain, has impacted 199 countries and territories, with a global death toll of over 33,000 people. The United States is now leading in confirmed cases, with 138,908 infected individuals and more than 2,000 deaths as of Sunday. In an effort to reduce the spread of the disease, 26 states and several cities and counties have issued shelter-in-place orders requiring people to stay home, with exceptions for businesses such as pharmacies and grocery stores.
The collective agreement to restrict individual freedom for the benefit of human society relates to the Catholic Social Teaching of solidarity, according to panelist John Monahan, senior advisor for global health to the president of Georgetown University.
“It’s a moral tradeoff if we’re constraining individual freedom and rights on behalf of doing something that is going to benefit the public good or actually benefit people that you’ll never know,” Monohan said. “In my mind, the notion of solidarity that comes out of Catholicism is really powerful, and I would argue that it’s a moral frame that we can bring to public life.”
The mobilization restrictions imposed by state governments have impacted the economy on national and global levels. The number of people filing for unemployment in the United States hit a record high of 3.28 million as of March 21, nearly five times more than the previous record of 695,000 set in 1982, according to BBC. With the vast majority of restaurants closing temporarily and laying off their employees, workers in the food and beverage industry are among the most financially vulnerable, according to NPR.
Panelist Reyna Guardado, a Salvadoran immigrant, opened Guardado’s Restaurant in Bethesda, Md., in 2007. During the COVID-19 outbreak, Guardado and her husband were forced to temporarily shut down the Spanish and Latin American restaurant and lay off employees — many of whom have young children or live with older parents — according to Guardado. With the recent support of their customers’ takeout orders, however, Guardado reopened the restaurant for takeout and rehired four of their employees.
The restaurant also introduced new safety precautions to protect the health of employees and customers, according to Guardado. The decision to reopen for takeout largely stemmed from a hope of providing safe work opportunities for employees.
“To make our place very secure, we picked up the employees from their house, sanitized the whole restaurant and asked when the customers come to the restaurant to stay separate from each other so we protect the customers as well as the employees.” Guardado said, “We took the harsh decision to open the restaurant but at the same time protect ourselves and provide a job for these employees.”
The event, titled “Catholic Social Thought and the Coronavirus Crisis: Moral Principles for Terrible Times,” was hosted by the Georgetown Initiative on Catholic Social Thought and Public Life on March 26. Other panelists at the event included nurse and former President and CEO of the Catholic Health Association Sr. Carol Keehan and Jesuit priest and physician Fr. Myles Sheehan, S.J.
On Friday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a $2 trillion coronavirus economic stimulus bill that was introduced and approved by the Senate on Wednesday. The bill, which is intended to keep businesses and individuals affected by the crisis financially compensated, will give an estimated $560 billion to citizens through individual checks, according to NPR.
While the bill provides individuals with some financial income and extends insurance benefits and eligibility, there is still more to be done to ensure that people are financially compensated, according to Monahan.
“This bill made some very important improvements in unemployment insurance in terms of making more people eligible and extending benefits, and it also provided direct payments to individuals,” Monohan said. “But the bottom line is that we’ve got a long way to go to have a system that’s gonna help people.”
The stimulus package also includes a $100 billion allotment for hospitals, $11 billion for diagnostics, treatments and vaccine research and $1.32 billion in funding for community health services.
With healthcare workers being one of the few professions to continue working in the field, people must recognize the risks that medical workers face everyday, according to Keehan.
“They are put in positions: people who have children, people who are pregnant, people who have parents who are old,” Keehan said. “They are worried about not only getting the disease themselves but giving it to their children, to their unborn child, to their elderly parents.”
Global citizens should remember the current measures taken to find a vaccine and prevent the virus from spreading, in order to better apply the strategy to future crises, according to Sheehan.
“I think we really need to look at how we look at the next time this happens so people are not put into such terrible situations,” Sheehan said. “We really need to figure out what we will do better for the future and how in particular we need to mobilize.”

Hardwood Revival says 
April 27, 2020 at 9:29 am
Only together with God’s help can we defeat this epidemic. May God help us.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

