
February 21, 2020 by Ashley Zhao Leave a Comment 
Former Georgetown University Student Association Senator Alexandra Mucher (COL ’22) resigned during a GUSA Senate meeting, reading a resignation letter that cited a toxic and unsupportive environment.
Before Mucher’s resignation Jan. 26, the Ethics and Oversight Committee had begun drafting articles of impeachment against her because of her several meeting absences, which exceeded the three allowable number of absences for senators. Mucher, a survivor of sexual assault, said she missed meetings because of her struggles with her mental health, which was negatively affected by insensitive conversations in GUSA surrounding issues of racial violence and sexual assault, according to Mucher.
The Ethics and Oversight Committee was originally going to announce the drafting of impeachment proceedings against Mucher during the senate meeting in which she resigned, according to Chair of the Ethics and Oversight Committee Chris Ziac (COL ’22).
Mucher, who had been informed of imminent impeachment plans against her by another senator before the meeting, decided to announce her resignation to ensure she would be able to share her perspective and experience, she said in an interview with The Hoya.
“I think that if I didn’t talk about all of this, it would just kind of vanish into nowhere,” Mucher said. “Especially around the time when I chose to actually resign was because, if I was about to be removed anyway, and if I was removed, it would have just been like, ‘Oh yeah, Alexandra didn’t show up to the meetings, and then she was removed,’ and that’s not an accurate depiction of what happened.”
The general attitude and conversations in GUSA surrounding sensitive topics such as racial violence and sexual assault on campus made it difficult to make progress on such issues through legislation. The topics’ treatment in the senate also made some survivors and people of color uncomfortable, according to Mucher.
Her choice to publicize her resignation and share her experiences in GUSA help reveal the flaws within the organization to the student body, Mucher said.
“I think that GUSA needs to be held accountable for the ways in which they routinely fail people, not just survivors, but also people of color, low-income communities, queer students,” Mucher said. “I also think that GUSA says this thing where they say that they’re pushing for diversity, but the environment is actually extremely toxic, and I don’t want people to go into it without knowing what to expect, because that’s what happened to me.”
Mucher noted an Oct. 6 senate discussion on a bill for a potential climate survey about racial issues on campus. The senate discussed including questions regarding student experiences with the Georgetown University Police Department, and some senators argued the questions in the survey were antipolice. While the bill ultimately passed unanimously in the senate, the initial pushback reflects GUSA’s lack of understanding about racial issues, according to Mucher.
“People aren’t really sensitive to the fact that for people who don’t look like them, the police are an actual threat, and people have had experiences with the police that leave them traumatized and upset,” Mucher said. “They just talk about it like it’s just this arbitrary issue that doesn’t really affect anyone and can just be talked about completely neutrally, which kind of shows the bias of GUSA.”
After Mucher had accrued two absences, the Ethics and Oversight Committee met with her Nov. 8 to discuss reasons behind her missing GUSA events, according to Ziac. These absences were for missing events, such as tabling. Mucher did not know these events, outside of the weekly senate or committee meetings, were mandatory, according to Mucher. The rule that made such events mandatory for senators to attend had been presented and passed the day the fall 2019 class of senators, including Mucher, was sworn in, according to Ziac.
Mucher had not submitted any excuse forms, which are available to senators who need to miss meetings, and did not wish to discuss issues she had with the GUSA environment, according to Ziac. Mucher also did not inform the Ethics and Oversight Committee of the reasons behind her absences in advance, Ziac said.
“We also tried to figure out more about the senate culture, if that was affecting her in any way, but for whatever reason she didn’t really want to talk about that, so that didn’t really factor into our discussions too much, which is kind of unfortunate in my opinion because that was something we were looking to improve,” Ziac said.
Many of the meetings Mucher chose not to attend were because they had to do with sexual assault, however, which she did not feel comfortable discussing in GUSA’s environment, Mucher said. The Ethics and Oversight Committee spoke with Mucher again via FaceTime and Ziac texted her Dec. 3 after she accrued over four absences to inform her that the committee was considering impeachment, according to Ziac. Mucher then clarified to Ziac that her mental health and discomfort with insensitive conversations in GUSA were reasons behind her absences.
Mucher’s experience reflects the need to reform punitive measures against senators to better account for the diverse experiences of the student body, especially those of students within marginalized communities, Speaker of the Senate Juan Martinez (SFS ’20) wrote in a news release sent to The Hoya.
“In specific regard to the resignation of Senator Mucher, I believe it is unfortunate that the Senate has specific thresholds for unexcused absences that, upon being met, commits the Ethics and Oversight Committee to pursue impeachment against senators regardless of individual situations,” Martinez wrote. “I believe there needs to be a cultural shift on campus in the way we hold others accountable. That shift should be toward a conflict-resolution approach that is conscious about factors that disproportionately hinder marginalized students.”
The GUSA Senate should create greater transparency beyond public statements student representatives release as they do not accurately reflect the conversations surrounding sensitive topics within the senate, Mucher said.
“I think that the student body should know who’s representing them, truly, and the decisions that they’re making, and not just the things that they see them send out, which are reactionary pieces and don’t actually have any weight to them,” Mucher said. “The student body’s already extremely disillusioned with GUSA, and I think that this shows why.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2020 by Clara Grudberg and Harrison McBride 18 Comments 
A black-clad person, equipped with a cellphone and a voice manipulator, took to Twitter on Feb. 8 to urge members of Georgetown University’s secret societies to reveal their identities. The unknown person claims to be a member of the anonymous group “The White Rose.”
The group has been targeting supposed members of the Society of the Stewards by revealing their identities and personal information on its public Twitter account. Over the past two weeks, the group has posted a number of masked, voice-modulated videos, as well as released a portion of a tax return document from an organization called the Stewards Charitable Trust. The Hoya was unable to independently verify the claims made by The White Rose.
The Society of the Stewards is a long-standing, all-male Georgetown secret society. While few details are known to the general public, the group is believed to have a large graduate network and a six-figure endowment. 
The White Rose seeks to hold powerful groups on campus, like the Stewards, accountable, according to The White Rose.
“Primarily, the White Rose exists to raise awareness of some of the more nefarious aspects of secret society culture at Georgetown,” The White Rose wrote in a statement to The Hoya through Twitter. “We asked for further transparency from an organization with hidden membership and a secret agenda attempting to wield influence in all corners of Georgetown life. When the Stewards failed to compromise we decided to continue releasing names again to further raise awareness among the Georgetown community.” 
The White Rose’s claims about the Stewards’ membership and activities have no factual grounding, according to Adam Carter, a spokesperson for The Steward Society.
“I have looked at the White Rose Twitter account and it is full of misinformation and false rumors, and mockery rather than satire,” the spokesperson wrote in a Feb. 21 email to The Hoya. “It is a jambalaya of old paranoia and distorted stories at the end of a game of Chinese Whispers. Mostly it is just a regurgitation of untrue conspiracy nonsense aiming at the gullible.” 
The White Roses’ tweets break Washington, D.C. law and university standards, according to the spokesperson. 
“At a much more serious level, the Twitter account bears a malicious and, I believe, a sufficiently criminal intent,” the spokesperson wrote. “The account and its makers are, in my view, in violation of DC criminal law concerning cyberstalking and harassment, and so I am preparing to file charges with the University’s protective services and the DC Metro Police.”
On Thursday, a chalk drawing of a rose, as well as the message “We are coming for you” was also left in Red Square. 
D.C. statute defines stalking as purposefully engaging in conduct with the intent to cause a specific individual to fear for their safety or the safety of another person, feel seriously frightened, alarmed or disturbed, or suffer emotional distress. The perpetrator must know or should have known that their behavior could reasonably cause such harm, according to the Code of the District of Columbia. 
Harassment and bullying is defined as an act that may place an individual in reasonable fear of physical harm, cause a substantial detrimental effect on an individual’s physical or mental health, or one which otherwise creates an intimidating or hostile environment that interferes with an individual’s work or academic pursuit, according to the Georgetown Code of Student Conduct.
Since The White Rose has broken Georgetown’s conduct standards, the university should take disciplinary action against the group, according to the spokesperson.
“I would hope that the University will also act, given the harassment and bullying of any students who are entitled under the contract made by accepting their tuition dollars, if not by common decency, to peace of mind and freedom from mockery, fear, and the impugnation of their character,” the spokesperson wrote. 
The university did not have a comment regarding the activity of The White Rose as of Feb. 19. 
On Feb. 4, two days before the Georgetown University Student Association Executive elections, The White Rose sent an email to members of the GUSA Senate and campus publications, claiming a GUSA Executive candidate and a senator are Stewards. The sender signed off on the email as “The White Rose,” but the email account was under the name “Ann Hutchinson,” an apparent reference to the Puritan reformer Anne Hutchinson.  
In subsequent tweets, The White Rose released the names of another GUSA senator and three other student leaders on campus as alleged Stewards. 
GUSA members have been connected to the Stewards in previous years. In 2013, a separate anonymous organization, known by its Facebook profile “StewardThroat Hoya,” released documents and photographs implicating that year’s GUSA presidential runner-up as a Steward. In 2014, four of the eight candidates running for GUSA Executive office were confirmed to be Stewards.
The White Rose has membership in the double digits and formed on campus in the spring of 2019, according to the anonymous member. One of the group’s main aims is to have the GUSA Senate pass legislation regulating the activity of secret societies on campus, according to the anonymous member. 
“Releasing names will not be enough because this action alone will not end the Stewards’ constant pursuit for power under the veil of secrecy. Therefore, we are pursuing action in GUSA to introduce an amendment to ban those with secret agendae from running for public office within their organization,” The White Rose wrote. “An alternative, and perhaps more realistic amendment, would involve forcing those in secret societies to declare their allegiances upon deciding to run for student government.” 
If these options fail, The White Rose will pursue a referendum to coincide with the April GUSA Senate elections to introduce a total ban on secret societies, according to the member.
GUSA does not currently intend to take up legislation on secret societies, according to Senator Daniella Sanchez (COL ’22).   
“Neither the White Rose nor the Stewards have any real power or influence in GUSA at the moment. Not to mention, if the person behind the White Rose truly wanted to improve the exclusive culture of our university, they would not hide behind a mask,” Sanchez wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Instead, they would reach out to those in GUSA with their true identity to work with us on real solutions rather than threatening us.”
While the intentions of the group may be positive, the method by which the group is pursuing its goals is questionable, according to GUSA Senator Leo Teixeira (COL ’21).
“In theory, the prospect of an unaccountable society seeking to covertly seek to influence and push an agenda is unacceptable, so one can understand why the White Rose is doing what they’re doing,” Texiera wrote in an email to The Hoya. “At the same time, however, since they have to maintain privacy for obvious reasons, its difficult to judge their legitimacy or credibility.”
The White Rose reached out to “The Hilltop Show,” a student-led online political comedy group, to organize an in-person interview Feb. 15, but subsequently canceled it, according to Alexandra Bowman (COL ’22), president of “The Hilltop Show.” (Full disclosure: Bowman formerly served as a staff writer and a cartoonist for The Hoya.)
“We then responded by offering to do a ‘live video interview’ with the White Rose,” Bowman wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The White Rose responded, ‘This is something we can do.’ Some time later, they said that they had ‘chosen a representative and are willing to go live.’ Then, on Friday night at 12:48 a.m. before the day of the interview, the White Rose contacted us and said that, for private reasons, they wanted to cancel the interview.”
The White Rose will remain anonymous because of fears of possible retribution, according to the member. 
“Yes, retribution is a possibility. We know of examples where previous individuals who have attempted to expose their behavior have faced attack,” The White Rose wrote. “Furthermore, it is easier to conduct operations without facing a repeating barrage of questions from others. Despite this, we have considered going fully public before, because unlike others, we have nothing to hide.”
Hoya Staff Writer Jaime Moore-Carrillo contributed reporting.
This article has been updated Feb. 21 to include a response from the Stewards and Feb. 23 to include the spokesperson’s name.

Hoyalum says 
February 21, 2020 at 8:36 am
All members of the White Rose should immediately come out of the shadow of secrecy and unveil themselves.

Jack says 
February 21, 2020 at 9:23 am
So we all know this is the Stewards’ latest sad attempt to get people think they are actually important on campus

Fellow Regian says 
February 21, 2020 at 2:17 pm
This is the most ridiculous piece of journalism at the Hoya yet.  Let me see if I have this right: a secret set of self appointed elites have undertaken to dox, cyberstalk, harass, and bully another set of students who apparently spend their time planning on how to give an elite university charitable contributions when they are not filing their tax returns.   And The Hoya thinks it’s OK to help them do it with a news story that keeps the malefactors anonymous.  I am guessing White Rose is a kid who has lost a few elections and blames everyone but his loser self.  What am I missing?

William Emery (COL'19) says 
February 22, 2020 at 5:34 pm
Hello Manny,
I hope the new year finds you well. 
We have never formally met, but I’m a recent Georgetown graduate. Having been vocally anti-Stewards during my (mercifully brief) time in GUSA and also being generally concerned with the ever-diminishing value of my Georgetown degree, I’d thought I’d throw my two cents into this mess.
At the core, this situation is just weird. From the 30,000 foot view, you’re an accomplished, late middle-aged lawyer giving anonymous quotes to an undergraduate newspaper so that you can threaten some eighteen or nineteen year old with a libel lawsuit.
And all that to intimidate a kid out of doxing the teenagers you’ve selected for your secret-but-not club? There is a healthy irony in threatening to sue the malefactors on the one hand and telling them to reveal their identities at the same time. Even what you’ve said in this article alone is more than enough to justify the White Rose’s anonymity. But that’s beside the point.
I don’t think there’s much disagreement that the second Stewards have not had a positive impact on Georgetown’s reputation. Every time this sort of thing pops up, I start checking WaPo for the next scathing thinkpiece painting the Hilltop as a hot mess of vapid antics and Ivy envy. And, when that article drops, we’ll deserve it. The good works of your organization aren’t worth the bad press, and the Stewards would better serve our community if they met it on the level. Or, if you absolutely have to have a secret combination pushing for a very particular vision of Georgetown’s future, please be less farcical about it.

Granville Lives! says 
February 27, 2020 at 6:20 pm
Hello StewardHunter, 
And you’re a Chime, let’s all thing about that.  You must think that the over-representation of Chimes on the Alumni Board of Governors is deserved. 
Your intuition is good, but your reading skills are poor.  The article above has no anonymous Steward quotes, identifies a Steward spokesman named Adam, and has no threat of libel suits.  Also, Mr. Carter makes no claim on on anyone’s identity, and seems unconcerned about that of the cyberstalked Stewards or his own.  You might have some sensitivity to the mental health issues involved for young people being stalked by people who may not be all there.  And note, Will, bully tactics as a student are tolerated because everyone wants to get along and not upset even the fragile bully.  But when you are an alum, sympathy for a crime might not be understood by your employer or the local FBI.  Enjoy your new life.

Anabel Getz says 
February 21, 2020 at 2:22 pm
It is beyond hypocritical to anonymously “unmask” someone. White Rose, show your face. Sincerely, non-anonymous commentator.

The Inquisitor says 
February 21, 2020 at 2:26 pm
So if I understand this correctly the “White Rose”. . . 
1)  Demands other groups release names but won’t release any of their own . . . 
2) Is dumb enough to actually think GUSA can force anyone to do anything . . . 
3)  Claims it’s mission is to “raise awareness of some of the more nefarious aspects of secret society culture at Georgetown” without providing any evidence of these so-called nefarious activities . . . 
4) Has outed immigrants, people of color, and the founder of the Tombs, which donates money to undergrads, provides jobs, and is an important part of student life . . . 
5) Chickens out of an interview at the last minute . . . 
6) Demands the Stewards “compromise,” but neglects to mention that “compromise” is to EXACTLY what the anonymous White Rose group won’t do themselves.
And people think Georgetown students are smart?  This is embarrassing.  I feel sorry for this person.

Neelesh P Manandhar says 
February 21, 2020 at 3:32 pm
Wow! What a wonderful article, truly huge props to The Hoya for its dedicated Journalism. The Stewarts seem so shady to me, the fact that an All-Male secret society  exists at Georgetown and are potentially influencing the University through their finances ahould scare everybody. I know that I would advocate for the removal of any GUSA senators that are in The Stewarts as I would not have voted for them had I known they were part of this group. While i get the criticism of The White Rose we have to remember that they exist in opposition to The Stewarts, if we disagree with their methods, we should seek to remove the stewarts so that all secret societies are removed… not to mention, the white rose refers to a WWII era student group who opposed Nazi rule in Germany, begging the question— what exactly ARE the Stewarts hiding?

The Inquisitor says 
February 21, 2020 at 4:12 pm
I’m looking at the Twitter feed now . . . why did the White Rose decide to publish the home address of one of the Stewards?  
Are they hoping someone will go to his house and physically threaten or hurt him?  Couldn’t the White Rose get out the information with publishing private information like that?  Lots of crazy people out there.
Sounds like harassment and probably illegal.

SFS Hoya 23 says 
February 21, 2020 at 5:29 pm
On the White rose Twitter it says Richard Cellini started the Stewards.  Apparently he also is behind the Georgetown Memory Project to reconnect the descendants of the GU272.  
The Stewards sound pretty liberal to me.

John Machir says 
February 21, 2020 at 6:26 pm
The person or persons who make up the White Rose a) ought to stop complaining about something they are doing themselves and b) need to get a life.  They sound like future members of Antifa.

Fellow Regian says 
February 21, 2020 at 7:22 pm
There is no doubt that this is illegal.  In fact White Rose is committing a separate felony count each day their Twitter account exists, per each specific individual that it is naming, harassing and cyberstalking.  That is a lot of felonies.  All anyone of these people cyberstalked or doxed has to do is file a complaint with Metro Police and the Police can get the identities of White Rose with one phone call.  It seems to me that someone is going to be playing grown-up very soon.   (What they are doing is also a violation of the GU Student Code, so some academic careers just took a turn.)  If anyone remembers, the Stewards did not hesitate to sue Georgetown some years ago and they won a big judgment.  White Rose should consider renaming itself Red Cape.

Black rose says 
February 21, 2020 at 8:07 pm
The irony here is of importance. An anonymous student group is demanding removing anonymity from another student group…need I say more…also I think you dramatically overestimate the impact of secret societies on Georgetown. Find something better to do

Roger Hart III says 
February 22, 2020 at 4:29 pm
The Stewards speak of “misinformation and false rumors” by the White Rose… not a single example??? They’re panicking like crazy, ratting on each other and running for the hills. It’s so obvious at this point, just look at all the fake comments they’ve planted.
These scoundrels still haven’t answered any of the tough questions surrounding their crooked schemes. Instead they’re trying (and failing miserably) to hide their embarrassment with a flimsy if not farcical threat of legal action. Anyone with a functioning brain can see this.
It’s time for these wannabe elitist blowhards to be exposed, for their repeated cowardly attempts to covertly nobble the university, without the knowledge or consent of students. As well as continuing to expose more Stewards, The White Rose should reveal their own identities because everyone will be on their side.

CarthusianHoya says 
February 25, 2020 at 1:11 am
The White Rose and its members need to provide examples or sufficient suggestive evidence that the Stewards are impacting the community in any sort of subversive, calculated, agenda-driven way. To me, the Stewards instead sound like a secret fraternity of driven, successful leaders who are in positions of leadership on campus due to their own merit. There is absolutely no evidence to suggest that they monopolize the community or push a collective agenda that is destructive to the institution’s values, the freedom/opportunity of non-members, and the overall student experience. The only seemingly concrete information that has been presented is the names of members. In the same was that underground fraternities and groups create their own rules and have their own practices, the Stewards should be able to operate in a manner of their liking unless it can be proved that their members are collectively impeding the student experience of others or are negatively contributing to the natural order of the institution that they intend to serve. 
Until then, let the group and other secret groups like it do their thing. My advice to the White Rose – start an initiative of your own. Start a process of induction of your own. Make it yours. Make it special. Must be a pretty boring group if its activity and existence is hinged on the activity of another group like it.

Fellow Regian says 
February 26, 2020 at 12:07 pm
Hello StewardHunter, you are a man of great intuition to match your obsessive behavior.  And ironically, you are a Chime.  Let’s all give that one some thought.   
Of course, the line between intuition and paranoia is just a matter of tweaking the meds.  Three observations:  the news article above does not have an anonymous quote from the Stewards, it does have a comment from a guy named Adam, and threats of a libel suit are nowhere mentioned except by you.  The other thing I notice is that Mr. Carter does not seem bothered by revealing of identities.  He is bothered by the calumnies and the online felonies being committed.  Finally, I am not sure what bad press you are talking about.  It seems to me that the Stewards are only ever written about in relation to GUSA crazies, and usually they come under abuse by folks that, from 30,000 feet, appear to be mental-health challenged.  Reading your letter, you would think that Stewards are doing something crazy.  But they do not appear to be drinking, doping or leaving the faith of their fathers to convert to a cult-like sect.  Also, you really need to be more sensitive to the mental health issues to real people that spreading lies causes them.  And you should not diminish the criminality of cyberstalking.  Bullying might have been tolerated when you were a student only because everyone wants to get along and for no one to be upset, but when you are an alumnus, you have an employer and a local FBI office that may not be so understanding.

William Emery (COL'19) says 
March 3, 2020 at 11:28 pm
There’s a lot going on here, in both the comments (did you post this one by mistake? It’s a little over the line). I honestly appreciate that you’ve said all this stuff out loud because, while deeply inappropriate, it gives me the chance to talk about and reckon with some things that I couldn’t find a good way to when I was on the Hilltop.
Let’s start with the factual issues.
Yes, I grew up in a town called Granville, specifically the one in Ohio. I’m not sure what your motive is with bringing that up, so I’m just going to leave it there.
I’m not Steward Hunter. The day I saw the account last May, I sought out a member (three, actually, which was excessive in hindsight) of your organization to apologize for any role I played in encouraging that sort of behavior and emphasized that it wasn’t me.
I am not, and will never be a Chime. In fact, I hold the ignoble distinction of being one of the few neophytes to actually be booted out of the process by a unanimous vote of the actives. 
Now to the insinuations about my mental health. It’s no secret that a lot of my work as a “GUSA crazy” centered on accessibility. I’m proud of what I helped build, and I’m thrilled at the progress that has been made in the three or four years since my departure from the advocacy space. This was, of course, when I first interacted with the Stewards. To give credit where it is due, your organization saved Project Lighthouse, and I appreciate that.
It’s less common knowledge (insofar as any of this is) that I was psychiatrically hospitalized my sophomore year at Georgetown, and that I was diagnosed with obsessive-compulsive disorder and major depression. I’m not ashamed of it. My time in Five West (and, yes, the medication regimen that came with) gave me the chance to experience life without a constant storm in my head and to take stock of my life.
I am ashamed, however, of the choices I made before seeking treatment and starting down the road to recovery. Yes, I drank too much. Yes, I bullied people. It doesn’t make it better, but I didn’t recognize the magnitude of my behavior. When I finally did, during my fall 2017 semester, I resigned from all of my positions (except in ABP and ResLiving). In stepping away, I hope I gave the communities some chance to heal.
I’m assuming by “cult-like sect” you’re referring to my membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Again, at the time of the hospitalization, I had lost everything. I thought I’d destroyed my relationship with my family, nuked my academics, and driven away my remaining friends, to name a few. For the first time in my life, with my soul stripped bare, I understood what really matters: my relationship with Christ. Since you seem to know a good deal about me, please feel free to reach out. I’d love to talk more about that, although this isn’t the place.
So, anyway, the big question remains: “Well, Will, then why did you post on a random Hoya article?” 
Through my immature and antagonistic behavior, I ended up on the wrong side of the Stewards. And, here’s the thing. You guys can be pretty cruel. I wanted to speak out as you threatened some other immature, antagonistic students. Nobody did the same for me when I was in their position. As the just dessert for actually signing that inane comment, I came home from work today to find two comments making thinly-veiled allusions and snide comments about stuff I never thought would be treated with such disrespect. And, as you noted, some future employer or a local(?) FBI office might very well find this thread. So, here I am, trying to talk candidly about the worst years of my life.
But, for the record, I have been forward with both my current employer and my future law school about the challenges I’ve faced and the mistakes I’ve made. I plan to do the same with future opportunities. Recovery is a lifelong process, there will be setbacks, and I strive to be honest in my dealings.
Even though I’m pretty confused at the severity of your reply, I think — in the long run — it’s for the better. For years now, I’ve wondered if I just imagined the malevolence of the Stewards (or at least those who speak for it). Unfortunately, now I know that wasn’t the case.

William Emery says 
March 4, 2020 at 8:19 am
After some sleep, I decided to check something.
https://web.archive.org/web/20200222150426/https://thehoya.com/anonymous-twitter-account-vows-to-unmask-secret-society-members/
The name Adam Carter did not appear in the article at the time of my comment. I don’t think I need to editorialize on the implications of this in relation to your broader comments about my mental health, except that things really fell apart once I came to believe my reality wasn’t real.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2020 by Annalise Myre 1 Comment 
A TV adaptation of “Baghdad Central,” a novel authored by Georgetown University professor Elliott Colla, is set to stream on Hulu in March. 
The series originally aired on Channel 4 in the United Kingdom on Feb. 3 and has received critical acclaim since its release, according to a news release from the Arabic and Islamic studies department. Colla, an associate professor of Arabic and Islamic studies, published the historical fiction source novel about the U.S. presence in Iraq in 2014. 
The TV show is set in U.S.-occupied Iraq shortly after U.S. forces removed Saddam Hussein from the Iraqi presidency and disbanded the Iraqi army. The story features a former police inspector named Muhsin al-Khafaji who searches for his missing daughter. Al-Khafaji works as a detective for the U.S.-led coalition forces while following his own personal agenda. 
The show is a six-part crime thriller for Channel 4 written by BAFTA-nominated writer Stephen Butchard. 
After Euston Films bought rights to the novel in 2016, Butchard began writing the script, according to Colla. Butchard added characters and changed many elements of Colla’s initial plot, but Colla and Butchard reached a compromise in the end, according to Colla.
“I read drafts of the screenplay as Stephen worked on them and gave my feedback, but from the outset, our understanding was that this would be their story, though it would remain true to the characters and situation,” Colla said. 
American actor and Oscar-nominated producer Waleed Zuaiter plays protagonist al-Khafaji. Zuaiter is best known for co-producing and starring in the critically acclaimed 2013 film “Omar.” Alongside Zuaiter, well-known theater actor Bertie Carvel plays Frank Temple, a former British police officer who helps rebuild Iraq’s police force. Co-stars also include “House of Cards” star Corey Stoll as Captain John Parodi, a U.S. military police captain and Temple’s archnemesis, and “Homeland” star July Namir as Mrouj, Khafaji’s sick daughter. 
At the beginning of the production process, Colla worried the series might fall into discriminatory tropes prevalent throughout the industry’s adaptations of events in the Middle East, Colla wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
“There’s a long history of orientalist, Islamophobic representations of Arabs in Euroamerican cinema and television,” Colla said. “But as soon as I met the producers, and then the director, and then the cast, I stopped worrying.” 
Colla collaborated with Jonathan Curling, a producer in Egyptian television, and Arij al-Soltan, a young Iraqi producer, to maintain the historical integrity and realism of the script, according to Colla. 
In contrast to traditional Western portrayals of Iraq, Colla’s novel captures the country’s often misunderstood nuances and complexities, according to Joseph Sassoon, a professor of history and political economy at Georgetown’s Center for Contemporary Arab Studies and al-Sabah chair in politics and political economy of the Arab world.
“Because of Elliott’s background as a professor of Arabic literature, he understood how the society functions and how it is structured,” Sassoon said in an interview with The Hoya. “He didn’t come with the usual biases of a lot of politicians or journalists or even sometimes academics when they write about this country.” 
The series will showcase Colla’s accomplishments and draw attention to Arabic literature and culture, according to Suzanne Pinckney Stetkevych, chair of the department of Arabic and Islamic studies. 
“All of us AIS are proud of Colla’s accomplishments and their contribution to our fields of Arabic language, linguistics, literature and the other Islamic humanities,” Stetkevych wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We hope that his novel Baghdad Central and the television series will serve to alert readers, viewers and critics to the world of Arabic literature and culture, and the presence of so talented and engaging litterateur among our research and teaching faculty at AIS.”
In the summer of 2017, Colla travelled to London to work on early drafts of the script. In August 2018, Colla went to Morocco to meet the production crew and cast. The day of the first script read-through with the entire cast was also the first day of classes at Georgetown, according to Colla. Colla had initially told producers he was not going to be able to make it, he wrote.
“I happened to be teaching a comparative literature course on noir fiction that year,” Colla wrote. “I got off the phone and my family said, ‘No! When someone turns your book into a film and invites you, you go.’ And besides: have you ever had students complain because you had to miss a class?”
Colla ultimately accepted the invitation and explained to his students he would be missing class to go to Morocco for the television production, he said.
“Sure enough, no one complained,” Colla said. “But at the same time, I doubt many of them believed it. It was a far-fetched claim for a bookish professor to make.”

Jerry says 
February 21, 2020 at 12:09 pm
Congratulations!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2020 by Sophie Haber Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University has appointed Sarah Onori as its new Title IX investigator, filling a full-time position that has been vacant since June 2019.
Onori formerly served as the equal opportunity and Title IX investigator at Northeastern University. As investigator, Onori will oversee student Title IX investigations, investigate employee civil rights discrimination and harassment complaints, and conduct university climate assessments, the university announced in a Feb. 18 news release. Onori will also focus on improving community engagement with the Office of Title IX Compliance and contributing to training initiatives, according to Title IX Coordinator Samantha Berner.
The university has not had a full-time Title IX investigator since Berner simultaneously served as Title IX investigator and interim Title IX coordinator until late June 2019. While the university conducted its search for a full-time investigator, several temporary investigators shared the responsibility of investigating sexual misconduct cases filed by students against their peers, according to Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion and Chief Diversity Officer Rosemary Kilkenny (LAW ’87). 
The university spent months conducting its search for a new Title IX investigator to ensure it found a candidate with the necessary experience for the role, according to Berner.
“This role is an extremely important position, not only to the Title IX office, but for the Georgetown community as a whole, so we approached our national search with extreme care,” Berner wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
Students have criticized long vacancies in the Title IX office. After former Title IX investigator Laura Cutway left unexpectedly in June 2018, Berner served as both interim coordinator and investigator, prompting students and student groups, such as H*yas for Choice and The Corp, to demand the university publicly address the lack of a full-time dedicated coordinator in a September letter emailed to university administration. Ten months later, Berner transitioned to full-time Title IX coordinator.
The university did not publicly announce Cutway’s departure or Berner’s appointment to the campus community. 
The lack of transparency and expediency in the Title IX office’s hiring processes is concerning, according to HFC Vice President Chad Gasman (COL ’20).
“We’re angry that it took the University this long to provide a resource that students deserve, need, and had been asking for for months,” Gasman wrote in a statement to The Hoya. “It demonstrates a lack of care on the part of the University and specifically a disregard to the needs of the University’s most marginalized and unsupported communities.”
Since qualified investigators handled students’ sexual misconduct cases in the interim, the lack of a full-time investigator had no impact on the quality of university support, according to Kilkenny.
“There has never been any compromise in the University’s ability to provide excellent investigatory services in the Title IX arena,” Kilkenny wrote.
Among undergraduate students at Georgetown, 31.6% of women and 11.6% of men reported experiencing nonconsensual sexual contact since entering college, according to the results of the 2019 Campus Climate Survey on Sexual Assault and Misconduct. Georgetown reported higher rates of sexual assault compared to other universities who participated in the national survey.
The search committee to find a new Title IX investigator included key campus partners, community members and students, according to Berner. The committee looked specifically for an experienced candidate who had an appreciation for Jesuit values and was compatible with the Georgetown community, according to Berner. 
As the investigator at Northeastern, Onori gained experience conducting investigations, drafting reports and advising students about Title IX rights and resources, she wrote.
In addition to her most recent work at Northeastern, Onori also served as an assistant district attorney in Plymouth County, Mass. These professional experiences will help inform Onori’s work as Title IX investigator at Georgetown, according to Kilkenny.
“Sarah Onori is a seasoned investigator with a proven track record not only in higher education, but also in our judicial system,” Kilkenny wrote. “Her experience uniquely equips her to fairly and evenhandedly work with the parties involved in sexual misconduct cases and we are looking forward to integrating her into the team of talented colleagues involved in the adjudicatory process.” 
Onori’s experiences growing up in a first-generation Nigerian family and studying at Boston College, a Jesuit university, instilled in her a passion for service to others, she wrote.
“I am enthusiastic to be a part and contribute to that mission at Georgetown and serve the community by being a neutral and impartial investigator on discrimination and harrassment matters,” Onori wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The move to hire Onori comes alongside a broader effort by the university to improve Title IX processes. The university released a January 2019 statement underscoring its commitment to ensuring Title IX processes are adjudicated fairly in response to Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos’ plans to release Title IX guidelines that would narrow the definition of sexual harassment, expand the rights of those accused of sexual misconduct and limit liability for institutions.  
Georgetown is preparing for potential new regulations that may come from DeVos’ plans in the coming months, according to a university spokesperson. 
“Georgetown remains committed to its programs, resources and initiatives to combat sexual assault and to fostering a safe environment for the entire community,” the university spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The University will continue to focus on sexual misconduct education and prevention, support for individuals impacted, and prompt and equitable processes to respond to reports and complaints of sexual misconduct.”
The appointment of a full-time Title IX investigator is key to fostering a community free from sexual and discriminatory harassment, according to LGBTQ Resource Center and Women’s Center Director Shiva Subbaraman.
“At the LGBTQ Center and the Women’s Center we are certainly very pleased with the appointment of Sarah Onori as Title IX investigator,” Subbaraman wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Some of these searches are far more complicated and long drawn out than many imagine it to be, and we are really glad that we have been able to secure a seasoned professional.” 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2020 by Clara Grudberg and Yalda Zarrabi Leave a Comment 
Activists can harness the power of digital media platforms to raise awareness and bolster the goals of black liberation movements, political scientist Cathy Cohen said at a Feb. 20 event.
The event titled “Black Resistance in the Digital Age—From Twitter to Black Queer Feminism” took place in Lohrfink Auditorium. At the event, Cohen reflected on the growth of black resistance movements within the digital realm.
Social media provides a platform for historically silenced and marginalized individuals to freely express themselves, according to Cohen.
“It is a space of previously policed voices; in particular, those of black feminists can be heard,” Cohen said. “The imposition of the politics of respectability is more difficult with spaces with relatively open boundaries.”
The event was sponsored by the Center for Social Justice, the Kalmanovitz Initiative for Labor and the Working Poor, which develops policies and strategies to improve American workers’ lives, multiple academic departments and major and minor programs.
The talk is a part of a series of events on campus recognizing Black History Month. This year’s programming commemorating Black History Month features almost 50 events, nearly double the number of events in 2019.
Digital platforms give young black activists a space to unite and rally together against injustice, according to Cohen.
“I want to explore the liberatory and maybe deviant possibilities of politics in the digital space,” Cohen said. “Specifically, I’m interested in how young black people are using digital spaces armed with deep political alienation and the participatory culture to build a new black public sphere where radical black politics, radical black movements might be birthed.”
Platforms like Twitter have allowed movements to gain momentum. The social justice movement Black Lives Matter, which aims to stop violence and systemic racism towards black communities by law enforcement, was birthed on Twitter in 2013 through a trending hashtag. A lack of diversity among Oscar nominees was highlighted by the 2015 #OscarsSoWhite hashtag, created by activist April Reign.
Information can be spread more effectively via digital platforms than traditional media sources, which increases the effectiveness of liberation movements, according to Cohen.
“These sites, which highlight content which focus primarily on issues impacting black communities, may now constitute an online black counterpublic that has the potential to provide a space for political discourse and action that allows us to fight for black liberation,” Cohen said.
Cohen is a professor at The University of Chicago where she served as the chair of the department of political science and director of the Center for the Study of Race, Politics and Culture. Her work primarily focuses on the study of post-civil rights movement black politics and social movements.
Over the past decade, black digital media outlets like Blavity and The Root have emerged. These online publications primarily cover and offer perspectives on issues affecting black communities.
Open digital platforms, however, still offer more equitable coverage for activists than these black media outlets because digital platforms are free from bureaucracy and editorial restrictions, according to Cohen.
“Even black media sources, whose mission of uplift and respectful visibility was decidedly different from the mainstream press, were hierarchy-structured with editors making final decisions with who and how black people would be represented,” Cohen said.
Cohen’s work in political activism includes serving as a founding board member of the New York-based Audre Lorde Project, an organization which serves LGBTQ people of color. Cohen has also written two books: “The Boundaries of Blackness: AIDS and the Breakdown of Black Politics” and “Democracy Remixed: Black Youth and the Future of American Politics.”
Digital media offers powerful tools for movement building, but the true transformative capabilities lie within the activists themselves, according to Cohen.
“I never think of platforms of having revolutionary potential,” Cohen said. “I think of people on platforms as having revolutionary potential.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2020 by Grace Buono 1 Comment 
A record 45 Georgetown University students and graduates have been named Fulbright student scholars during the 2019-20 cycle, the most of any college or university in the United States.
The Fulbright U.S. Student Program funds research opportunities and teaching fellowships for undergraduate and graduate students worldwide, according to the program website. This year’s cohort of Georgetown Fulbright student scholars is the largest number of students admitted to the program in university history, after 30 recipients set the previous record during the 2018-19 cycle.
Fulbright student scholars receive federal funding in the form of grants to study abroad after graduation, conduct individual research, pursue master’s degrees or teach English in foreign countries. Douglas McKnight, a third-year doctoral student in the German department and 2019-20 Fulbright grant recipient, will use his grant to study the impact of World War II on the cultural memory of Austrian cities. McKnight would not be able to further his research without the support of the scholarship program, he wrote.
“Fulbright provides graduate students the ability to conduct on-site fieldwork for an entire academic year that is fully funded,” McKnight wrote. “Fulbright has a great reputation abroad and being a Fulbright scholar enables you to access resources that might otherwise remain inaccessible.”
The historic number of student recipients comes after a yearslong initiative by the Georgetown Office of Fellowships, Awards, and Resources to raise awareness for the program and bolster resources to better support applicants, according to Lauren Tuckley, senior associate director of fellowships.
“When I first came here I saw that this program was completely underproducing what we could produce because this is a very good program for Georgetown’s students, especially because it’s internationally focused,” Tuckley said in an interview with The Hoya. “This has been the first year, after eight years of deliberation and developing the recruitment advising and the review packaging of this, that we’ve been able to achieve the 45.”
Since Fulbright was founded in 1946, 492 Georgetown students have taken part in the U.S. Fulbright student scholars program, according to a Feb. 10 university news release. 
University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95) congratulated the Georgetown Fulbright student scholars for their commitment to global improvement in a Feb. 10 university news release.
“We are deeply honored by this distinction earned by the students and alumni of our Georgetown community,” DeGioia wrote in the news release. “The contributions of our Fulbright recipients – past and present – represent a profound commitment to service, to the pursuit of knowledge and to building bridges of understanding.”
The record number of admitted students to the program this year is a testament to Georgetown’s strong academic program and institutional support, according to McKnight.
“Georgetown should be proud that it has such a large cohort abroad with this program,” McKnight wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Fulbright has a great reputation abroad (and here in the US), and having so many Georgetown students and alumni taking part in it reflects the high level of academics offered at the university across the board.”
GOFAR provides a number of resources for applicants to the Fulbright program. Each applicant is aided by a personal advisor, as well as a faculty panel, which reviews and provides feedback on the application, according to Katrin Sieg, a German professor who served as McKnight’s faculty advisor.
The resources provided by GOFAR are key reasons for the success of Georgetown applicants, according to Sieg.
“We have a great infrastructure in place, we have people who tell students about grant opportunities, fellowship opportunities,” Sieg said in an interview with The Hoya. “We have people who do mock interviews for the Fulbright so they get a lot of help so beyond the individual advisor and of course that plays a really big role in getting a grant.”
All applicants to the Fulbright program gain invaluable experience and perspective, according to Tuckley. 
“This was a program that was founded in 1946 after the second world war with an idea that to become a more tolerant citizen we need to embrace other cultures. That is an essential component to why we tremendously promote and recruit,” Tuckley said. “We hope that anybody that goes through this process ultimately leaves with a set of skills that’s invaluable to them irrespective of whether they win or they lose.”

Margaret Diaz-Fugetta says 
February 21, 2020 at 5:42 pm
Well done!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2020 by Jaime Moore-Carrillo Leave a Comment 
Young U.S. citizens risk forgetting how post-9/11 U.S. policies have harmed Muslim communities at home and abroad, author and researcher Nazia Kazi said at a Wednesday event. 
After terrorist organization Al Qaeda attacked U.S. military and economic targets Sept. 11, 2001, the U.S. launched a decadeslong effort to neutralize terror threats across the globe. U.S. counterterrorism efforts, which remain a centerpiece of U.S. foreign policy, focus on Islamic fundamentalist organizations in the Middle East. Experts, pundits and policymakers have criticized the undertaking — dubbed the war on terror — for its allegedly unclear goals and problematic methods.
The U.S. government’s war on terror is a manifestation of Islamophobia, according to Kazi. U.S. citizens must recognize state actions can qualify as Islamaphobic to begin to counter bigotry more broadly. 
“If we are to understand Islamophobia at all, we must push ourselves to think beyond the actions of bigoted individuals, and we must push ourselves to understand the roots of their hate,” Kazi said. “We must push ourselves to see the Islamophobia that is perpetrated by the state and all too often paid for by our tax dollars. And most importantly, we must push ourselves to see our own tragic and often invisible complicity.”  
The post-9/11 expression “never forget” has been used to justify and mask U.S. foreign policy blunders, according to Kazi. 
“‘Never forget’ is the brand name of 9/11, and as a slogan ‘never forget’ is on par with ‘Just Do It,’ and we have to ask: If ‘Just Do It’ makes us go out and buy Nikes, then when it comes to ‘never forget,’ what exactly are we being sold?” Kazi said. “‘Never forget’ functions ideologically, making sure we do forget — that we forget the uneasy global histories that have better memory, a more nuanced, contextual memory would force us to remember.”  
Kazi serves as an assistant professor of anthropology at Stockton University, a public university in New Jersey, where she studies Islamophobia and U.S. foreign policy. Her 2018 book “Islamophobia, Race, and Global Politics” discusses the intersection of Islamophobia and U.S. foreign policy, according to the publisher’s website. 
Those born after 9/11 lack knowledge surrounding the incident because of twisted historical narratives, according to Kazi. 
“I surveyed undergraduate students this fall, students who were born after 9/11 in 2001. I was curious to find out what these young Americans actually do remember about the thing they’re supposed to never forget,” Kazi said. “Eighty percent of my respondents couldn’t tell me what the Patriot Act was. One respondent said it was a Netflix show starring Hasan Minhaj.”
Signed into law by President George W. Bush almost two months after the 9/11 attacks, the USA PATRIOT Act introduced sweeping reforms with the described intention of bolstering U.S. national security. The law, which granted U.S. law enforcement the power to collect communication records and detain immigrants suspected of terrorism, has drawn criticism from politicians and human rights advocates.  
The event, titled “Islamophobic Nationalism and Forgetfulness in the Terror Decades,” was hosted by the Bridge Initiative, a university research group that investigates Islamophobia, in the Intercultural Center. During the event, Kazi discussed the diverse manifestations of Islamophobia in the United States, especially in the foreign policy arena.   
U.S. society has glossed over unflattering aspects of U.S. foreign policy after 9/11 through slanted ceremonies and educational programs, according to Kazi. She referenced the United States’ often overlooked support for Saudi Arabia and CIA sponsorship of mujahideen fighters in Afghanistan from 1979 to 1989, instances she said reflected United States’ willingness to compromise purported U.S. human rights values for political ends. 
“These are not the histories that make it into our social studies books. They might not even be the histories you expected to hear at a university lecture on Islamophobia. But there are ideological underpinnings at the heart of U.S. empire building,” Kazi said. “It might begin to help us understand how it is that generations of Americans have come to see their country as a global force for good or a hapless victim of evil, but never, to quote Martin Luther King Jr., as ‘the greatest purveyor of violence’ on Earth.” 
Hoya Staff Writer Ashley Zhao contributed reporting. 
This article has been updated to clarify Kazi’s polling results. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2020 by Katrina Schmidt Leave a Comment 
Campaign leadership for a University of Texas at Austin Student Government winning executive campaign identified uncanny similarities between the graphics used for their campaign and the graphics of Nicolo Ferretti (SFS ’21) and Bryce Badger’s (MSB ’21) winning Georgetown University Student Association Executive campaign. 
Camron Goodman and Amie Jean, the UTSG president and vice president for 2019-20, ran in February 2019 with the slogan “UT led by you” and a campaign featuring bold, ’90s-inspired graphics. The designs are originally by Sarang Kim, a recent graduate from UT’s advertising and studio art programs. 
Ferretti and Badger’s GUSA campaign this January employed nearly identical graphics, a detail Badger acknowledges was directly inspired by Goodman and Jean’s campaign at UT, although he maintains the designs were not explicitly plagiarism. 
“We were conscious of the fact of how similar the two are,” Badger said in an interview with The Hoya. “We liked how non-traditional this was and how out of the box it was.”
Badger personally created the designs for his and Ferretti’s campaign using Adobe Photoshop and Canva. After Badger and Ferretti decided to run for GUSA Executive, they researched student government campaigns at universities across the country. The design of Goodman and Jean’s campaign stood out to them, Badger said. 
“The colors were so brilliant,” Badger said. “We were like, ‘wow, let’s do something like this.’”
In hindsight, Badger and Ferretti regret failing to contact Goodman and Jean prior to using such similar graphics. Badger and Ferretti included a credit for the “Design Inspiration” for the campaign on their Facebook page and website, Badger said. 
The credit, which reads “Design Inspiration: Camron & Amie,” should have included a link to the campaign or attributed direct credit to the design, Jacqui Briddell, the communications director for Goodman and Jean’s campaign, said in an interview with The Hoya. 
“They credited us on their website, but they just said ‘inspired by Camron and Amie,’ but they didn’t link to our campaign. They didn’t say ‘at the University of Texas,’ so there’s no way for people to know where it came from,” Briddell said. “It would’ve been nice for them to reach out and ask us.”
Kim and Briddell credit much of Goodman and Jean’s campaign’s success to its cohesive graphics and visual elements. 
“We just really focused on having something that was approachable, personable,” Kim said in an interview with The Hoya. “I think that’s how you attract people with the same mission, same vision, same values.”
Briddell first learned of Ferretti and Badger’s campaign through a friend who saw a Facebook post sharing Ferretti and Badger’s graphics. 
When a friend showed Briddell the social media accounts for Ferretti and Badger’s GUSA campaign, she was shocked by the similarities to the UTSG campaign she had worked on the year prior. She tweeted screenshots of Goodman and Jean’s graphics alongside Ferretti and Badger’s, and the tweet received dozens of retweets and over 200 likes. 
Following her initial frustration, Briddell now describes Ferretti and Badger’s use of many of the same design elements as flattering. 
“Me saying everything I said wasn’t coming from a place of malice,” Briddell said. “It’s actually really cool to see that our campaign, our brand identity and the way we kind of executed things from a communications standpoint really inspired them.” 
The growing role of social media in student government campaigns, and branding in general, makes originality critical for developing a unique concept, Briddell said.
“People aren’t necessarily paying attention to where content was birthed or where it came from,” Briddell said. “It just isn’t who you are. It doesn’t truly represent who you are as a person, as a candidate, as whatever, if you’re using something that you didn’t create.”
Goodman and Jean’s campaign, focused on making UT a more inclusive and supportive campus, was particularly inspiring, Badger said. 
“I’m sorry that we didn’t reach out to them in advance,” Badger said. “I think they really set a high bar for what campaigns should look like across the nation, and I really applaud them for everything they did throughout their campaign and throughout their term.” 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2020 by Giulia Testa Leave a Comment 
Lauinger Library is celebrating its 50th anniversary with two exhibits honoring the evolution and history of the building since its opening in 1970.
The main exhibit on the fifth floor of the library is titled “50 Years of Excellence & Service” and examines the library’s legacy from its construction to the present, according to a Feb. 11 press release posted on the library’s website. The companion exhibit on the third floor in the Kerbs Exhibit Area is titled “Eight Things You May (Or May Not) Know About Lauinger Library.”
The exhibits feature artifacts, pictures and other documentation relevant to the library’s history. Both exhibits opened Feb. 3 and will remain on display until May. An online version of the “50 Years of Excellence & Service” exhibit is also being created on the library’s website. The webpage details the history and importance of all the objects included in the physical exhibition.
The exhibits celebrate Lau’s importance to the Georgetown University community, according to Harriette Hemmasi, dean of the library.
“Over the years, Lauinger has become more of a place to create knowledge than just consume content on the shelves,” Hemmasi wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Through the use of digital technologies such as podcasting and tools such those found in the Maker Hub, students and faculty are able to express their scholarly ideas and arguments in new ways and with new meaning.”
Lau first opened in 1970 after the university’s book collection outgrew Riggs Library, the library on campus at the time, according to the library’s website. 
One of the most recent expansions of the library includes the creation of the Maker Hub on the first floor. The site, which was constructed in 2016, was designed as a multipurpose workshop for students on campus. 
The creation of new spaces within the library has expanded the number of resources the library offers to students, according to the Feb. 11 library press release.
“Today’s Library remains a central place to conduct research and to study; it is also a place of creativity and exploration. Several major transformations in the Library’s recent history reflect a shift toward more collaborative and experiential learning,” the press release read.
In addition to providing an overview of the building’s design and planning process, the exhibit highlights examples of scholarly work and projects undertaken by Georgetown faculty and students who have been supported by library resources, according to Lynn Conway, one of the curators of the exhibition.
“Lauinger is much more than simply a place. It’s a combination of amazing collections, services and staff, all available to the campus community,” Conway wrote in an email to The Hoya. “With the Library 50th anniversary exhibition, it was fun to work on a topic which was very familiar to me in some ways (I’ve worked in this building for 25 years) but also one which allowed me to discover and share new aspects of  Lauinger’s history.”
The exhibit also features documents, photos and other artifacts celebrating the history of libraries on Georgetown’s campus and the lead-up to the creation of Lau. 
The main exhibit includes a portion of a door from the university’s first library from 1831, a map of campus showing potential sites for a new library from 1945, library construction photos from 1967 to 1969 and other documents honoring the evolution of Lau’s capabilities as a library. 
Another aspect of the exhibit focuses on the specialization of each floor to meet various student needs, including a social work space on the second floor, as well as a space dedicated to research on the fifth floor. 
Every student at Georgetown can find an effective study space in the library, according to Hemmasi.
“While many students want a quiet place in the library to study, others need and enjoy different types of study environments such as the more collaborative, social space on the second floor of the Lau,” Hemmasi wrote.
For students, this multi-functioning space on campus provides students with a versatile space to work, according to Saahithi Dantuluri (MSB ’23).
“Lau is one of the best places on campus to study in,” Dantuluri wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The quiet reading rooms allow you to focus on studying for tests or writing essays, while Lau 2 is a busy environment where you can get your group projects done.”
As part of the anniversary celebrations, the library will also host an open house reception March 30 for students, faculty, staff and graduates. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2020 by Harrison Lee Leave a Comment 
Proliferating gun ownership increases the potential for domestic abuse and complicates the judicial process for survivors, representatives from the Asian/Pacific Islander Domestic Violence Resource Project Lauren Pires and Sofia Kim said at an event Tuesday.
In their roles at DVRP, Pires and Kim collaborate with service providers and law enforcement agencies to provide care for survivors of domestic violence. DVRP specifically seeks to end gender-based violence by working with clients from Asian/Pacific Islander communities, according to their website. Pires works as the outreach and training program manager at DVRP, while Kim serves as outreach and training coordinator.
During the event, Pires and Kim discussed the role of firearms in domestic violence and elaborated on the barriers survivors of domestic violence face when seeking support. Many volunteers and aid organizations do not adequately understand the complexities of domestic violence, Pires said.
“We work with volunteers at shelters, we work with organizations providing free legal aid and even though these places should know what they’re talking about, they do not because people do not like talking about domestic violence,” Pires said.
Many survivors of domestic violence from Asian/Pacific Islander backgrounds must overcome additional language hurdles when attempting to report domestic violence to authorities, according to Kim.
“For almost all of our clients, English might not be their first language. So imagine having so much trauma, right, and not having the ability to access help in your native tongue,” Kim said.  “So that is a huge barrier to seeking help.”
With the rise of mass shootings and gun control activist groups like March for Our Lives in recent years, gun violence has increasingly become a concern throughout the United States. As U.S. citizens advocate for gun reform, they should remember how guns can also make domestic violence more lethal, according to Pire.
“I’m sure everybody in this room understands that when you hear gun violence and domestic violence, the two kind of go in hand-in-hand, right? Homicide by gun. So for us, this comes into play with the idea that more than 50% of women victims of intimate partner violence in the U.S. overall are killed by a gun,” Pires said. “Every month, an average of 52 women are shot and killed by an intimate partner, and that’s in the U.S.”
In recent years, domestic gun violence has increased. Seven hundred fifty-two of 1,321 women murdered by their partners in 2014 were killed with guns, according to a recent Northeastern University study. This figure rose to 926 of 1,527 in 2017. From 2010 to 2017, gun-related domestic homicides increased by 26%.
One way perpetrators of domestic abuse gain access to guns is through the boyfriend loophole. This measure allows people to purchase and own guns even if they are convicted of domestic violence or have a restraining order filed against them. The 1994 Violence Against Women Act, which must be renewed every five years, established resources such as the National Domestic Violence Hotline for survivors of domestic abuse. The National Rifle Association opposed the act’s renewal in 2019 because of a new provision that would close the loophole. Congress officially renewed the act April 4.
Recent legislation to quell domestic violence against women, including renewing the Violence Against Women Act, has required significant activism to convince lawmakers of its necessity, according to Pires.
“It attempts to close the ‘boyfriend loophole,’ and ensures that survivors have access to safety and justice, but it has to be renewed every five years by Congress and it almost didn’t this year,” Pires said. “There were — I mean, the amount of petitioning we were doing and the amount of coalitions we were on — like it was unreal. And yet, we are at the whims of whoever is in office to decide whether or not this very basic law gets passed.”
In an effort to raise awareness about gun violence, the Georgetown University chapter of March for Our Lives held the event titled “Dialogue on Gun Violence and Domestic Abuse” in the Intercultural Center Feb. 18.
Firearms can add a layer of instability to already uneasy situations in relationships, according to James Benner (SFS ’21), the federal affairs committee chair for Georgetown’s chapter of March for Our Lives.
“Bringing a gun into an already volatile situation is not a good idea,” Benner said at the event. “Say the victim gets the gun. I think that gives more evidence for the perpetrator to be like ‘I’m the one being threatened, I’m not the one who asked for the gun first,’ so I can see it very easily flipping the tables in the advantage of the perpetrator.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2020 by Harrison McBride Leave a Comment 
Members of Cuba’s Lyceum Mozartiano of Havana are completing a visit and cultural exchange program with the Georgetown University Orchestra after travel complications threatened the annual program. 
As a part of its fourth annual exchange with Georgetown, the cohort will sit in on orchestra classes and rehearsals, as well as lead master classes for students in the Georgetown University Orchestra from Feb. 17 to 21. Prior to this year’s exchange, the Havana Lyceum Orchestra performed at the John. F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts as part of the production of the Clemency of Titus from Feb. 13 to 15. This year, Lyceum Mozartiano of Havana musicians faced visa difficulties that complicated their travel to the United States for the performance and exchange. 
Maintaining the exchange has been logistically difficult due to ongoing tensions between the U.S. and Cuban governments. Previously, the two countries had a poor relationship due to the Cuban government’s association with the Soviet Union during the Cold War, according to BBC. U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration has instituted provisions that make travel arrangements difficult. 
The Havana Lyceum Orchestra and the Georgetown University Orchestra have collaborated in an exchange program since 2017. Although the program has grown in recent years, the changing political dynamics between Cuba and the U.S. have complicated the travel process, according to Georgetown University Orchestra music director Angel Gil-Ordóñez.
“It was an incredible experience for us,” Gil-Ordóñez said. “Then the administration changed, so it was much more difficult to keep the relationship. This year we were able to bring them here because the Kennedy Center took care of the visas.”
The Kennedy’s Center’s International Programming team usually submits visa applications for the international artists it presents, according to Brendan Padgett, a senior press representative for The Kennedy Center. 
“The Kennedy Center did help with the visas,” Padgett wrote in an email to The Hoya. “This is standard procedure that presenters follow with any company that requires work visas.
The Havana Lyceum Orchestra had to travel to Mexico before being able to enter the U.S., according to Gil-Ordóñez. Despite these travel barriers, it is still important for Cuba and the U.S. to partake in cultural exchanges. 
“My only hope is that politicians understand that cutting bridges with such a culture is such a terrible decision. I think that these people can bring so much to us, and everytime they come here they do,” Gil-Ordóñez said. “I hope that politicians understand that the best way to understand different people is knowing them better, traveling to their countries and understanding them.”
JoJo Farina (COL ’23), who is serving as a translator for the group, said the experience has been enriching as the two orchestras bonded through music. 
“I feel like music is something that the language barrier kind of goes away with. I think it’s kind of a cool way of bridging that gap,” Farina said in an interview with The Hoya. “Almost every group of people creates music, and I think it’s pretty cool that you can share that connection even if you can’t really understand.”
The two groups hope to complete further exchanges in Georgetown and Cuba, pending further cooperation between the two governments. Hopefully, the program continues to offer lessons and experiences to students, according to Gil-Ordóñez.
“Definitely we want to keep the cooperation, and hopefully it will happen again next year,” Gil-Ordóñez said. “They really discovered wonderful things here. And, for our Cuban visitors to be in a place like Washington, D.C., it’s such an incredible experience.”
At the Kennedy Center, the seven members of Havana Lyceum Orchestra performed with Latin American theater director Carlos Diaz and other musicians to create a Cuban adaptation of Mozart’s opera “La Clemenza di Tito,” according to the Kennedy Center website.
The experience of performing with the orchestra offered both professional and cultural development for everyone involved, according to Bryce Robinson (SFS ’22), who performed alongside the group at the Kennedy Center as a member of the chorus.
“My experience with them was incredibly professional. They are really good musicians, and they’re super nice,” Robinson said in an interview with The Hoya. “The biggest thing is, obviously we have distinct cultures, but we’re still all people. Yes, we are from different countries with different political systems, but we all got in a room and we made music and we hung out after.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2020 by Ashley Zhao Leave a Comment 
Sanctioning lies infringes upon U.S. citizens’ right to free speech, journalist and legal scholar Garrett Epps said at an event Wednesday.
The event, titled “The Right to Lie,” was hosted by the Free Speech Project and the Georgetown University Lecture Fund. The Free Speech Project, a student- and faculty-run nonpartisan initiative that works to assess free speech across the United States, hosts monthly discussions on campus on topics concerning free speech.
Whether the government should be able to restrict free speech it deems false or defamatory is an especially relevant question given the rise of social media, according to Epps. Social media has created greater platforms for all perspectives, including those that are not truthful, Epps said.
“A lot of people began to think, ‘Well, you know, we need to look very carefully at what is allowed and what isn’t allowed,’” Epps said. “And we’re still dealing with that question, and we’re dealing with it in a very complicated, fast-moving and in many ways maligned media landscape that nobody’s really prepared for.”
President Donald Trump has used social media to tweet 3,083 false or misleading statements between the start of his presidency and January of this year, according to The Washington Post. Such statistics raise the question of whether false speech should be regulated, according to Epps.
While people should continue to discuss concerns regarding the proliferation of false speech and possible ways to address this issue, allowing the government to decide what should be considered false speech will only lead to an abuse of power, according to Epps.
“You don’t want the government coming in and deciding this is true and this is false; or this is too rude, you can’t say that; or this is too inflammatory, you can’t say that. Because history shows us that governments who have that power inevitably will abuse it,” Epps said. “And either just abuse it in the sense of being just sort of heedlessly bureaucratic or deliberately attempting to skew and suppress criticism of the government and points of view that it finds to be inimical.”
People who argue the law should not protect false speech are primarily concerned with defamation, according to Epps.
“We don’t want to live in a society where there’s no boundaries on what people can say,” Epps said. “The idea that we don’t protect false statements of fact that injure people’s reputation and the law of defamation is very old; it’s very highly developed. We know how to assess when someone has suffered damage as a result of false and defamatory statements about them.”
However, while the precedents set by defamation laws do condemn some false speech, they do not imply the government has the right to suppress any speech it deems false, Epps said.
“Out of that enormous well of case law, going back well before the settlement of the New World, we have this proposition that falsity, false and defamatory speech, has no value at all,” Epps said. “But that doesn’t create, as it’s quoted, a general principle that if something is false, government can suppress it.”
Epps has been a professor of law at the University of Baltimore Law School since 2008, where he teaches “Constitutional Law” and “First Amendment” and specializes in constitutional law. 
U.S. citizens and policymakers should not become complacent with current free speech laws and instead should constantly reevaluate and reexamine them, according to Epps.
“If you bring in someone like myself who makes his living teaching the First Amendment, you are very likely to have someone tell you that we’ve struck the appropriate balance, so, you know, the American law of free speech is great,” Epps said. “I don’t know that I want to take that position because I think that any regimen of free speech has benefits and it has costs, and we are constantly reassessing what the costs are.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2020 by Kelly Anderson Leave a Comment 
The United States Department of State has made strides toward cultivating a representative workforce for public servants in recent years, Deputy Director of the Foreign Service Institute of the U.S. Department of State Julieta Valls Noyes said at a Thursday event. 
Noyes discussed the need for diversity and inclusion in foreign policy and challenges faced by her and other minorities in pursuing work in diplomacy at the event titled “Talk With Ambassador Julieta Valls Noyes – Deputy Director, Foreign Service Institute.” Noyes has spent more than three decades in the Foreign Service, a career that has spanned assignments in five different countries. 
Despite progress in workforce representation in recent years, the State Department still has room to improve regarding diversity, Noyes said.
“Where we’re not as well represented is in the more senior ranks because, of course, it takes up time for people to move up,” Noyes said. “Slowly, slowly, steadily, steadily, we hope to get to a more equitable service.”
Noyes cited the Rangel Program, a State Department initiative started in 2002 administered by Howard University that seeks to attract people from minority groups that are historically underrepresented for careers in the Foreign Service, as a key factor in the department’s increasing diversity. Since the Rangel Program’s start, representation of minorities in the State Department has increased by about 25% and representation of women in Foreign Service generalist officer positions has increased by 12%, according to Noyes.  
As a woman of color in the Foreign Service, Noyes sometimes felt that she could not adequately express her opinions to her superiors and peers, she said. 
“There have been times I’m not going to lie where I felt like it was probably more prudent to keep my opinions to myself or where I felt like if I did voice my opinions, they would fall on fallow ground,” Noyes said. “There have been other times where I expressed my opinion even with some trepidation that it wouldn’t be well received, and there have been some times where my opinion has been strongly solicited and strongly guanted and so it really did depend on the issue on the situation who I was engaging with how urgent the matter was what particular experience I brought to the table.”
Before becoming the deputy director of the Foreign Service Institute at the State Department, Noyes served as the U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Croatia. Prior to that, she managed relations with twelve countries in Western Europe and the European Union as the deputy assistant secretary for the Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs from 2013-2015. 
In the discussion hosted  by the Institute for the Study of Diplomacy as part of its Diverse Diplomacy Leaders Speaker Series, Noyes also discussed her journey to joining the foreign service and the ways a profession in diplomacy has enriched her life. 
Noyes decided that she wanted to join the Foreign Service when she was 15 years old because of her experiences growing up as a child of immigrants, she said. Noyes’s parents immigrated to the United States from Cuba as refugees shortly before her birth, an experience she said sparked her desire to serve her country. 
“We grew up with a profound sense of gratitude to this country for taking in our family and for giving them an opportunity to make a new start,” Noyes said. 
Noyes, who met her husband on the day she took the oral exam to become a Foreign Service officer, spent part of her childhood in Brazil where her father was assigned while working for The International Business Machines Corporation. 
During that time, Noyes became friends with other American children whose parents were stationed in the country working for the U.S. Foreign Service. 
“I started learning about what their parents did and it was just a very attractive lifestyle I already was enjoying living overseas, learning new cultures and cuisines,” Noyes said. 
Noyes joined the Foreign Service immediately after graduating college and was grateful for the opportunity to give back to the country that helped her family. 
“It really was destiny, I think, and it was such a magnificent opportunity to repay this wonderful country for everything that it did for my family and for the family of so many other refugees and new arrivals,” Noyes said. “It is something that we remain profoundly grateful for to this day.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2020 by Samantha Sinutko Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University kicked off its fifth annual week of social justice programming on Tuesday with a schedule of 15 events.
Social Justice Week is hosted by the Center for Social Justice Research, Teaching and Service, a collection of education, research and service programs intended to further social justice in the community. This year’s Social Justice Week features a variety of programming, including speakers, networking events, seminars and self-care workshops. 
The annual week of events aims to raise awareness about social justice issues and encourage activism, according to Executive Director at the CSJ Andria Wisler.
“Drawing on its Jesuit heritage, Georgetown has a University-wide mission for social justice,” Wisler wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We hope that this week of diverse events with multiple campus and community partners, shows how the creation of a more just world can be and is the responsibility of all members and units of our Georgetown community.” 
This year’s programming will take place over the course of five days. The week kicked off with a Feb. 18 discussion on effective race-conscious policies at universities titled “Doing the Inner Work of Racial Justice: Principles, Practices (and Prayers!) for Healing Ourselves and Transforming the World.”
The week will culminate in the “MLK Evening of Hope and Resistance,” an evening of spoken word, poetry and music meant to honor Martin Luther King, Jr.’s legacy. The event will be co-hosted with the MLK: Let Freedom Ring! Initiative of the Office of the President and is a part of Georgetown’s Black History Month programming.
Each year, the CSJ brings in distinguished speakers honored for their scholarship in their field to discuss issues directly related to Black communities and the issues they face, according to LaMonda Horton-Stallings, chair and professor in Georgetown University’s department of African American studies.
One of the week’s events, titled “The Ella Jo Baker Distinguished Lecture: Black Resistance in the Digital Age — From Twitter to Black Queer Feminism,” will feature speaker Cathy Cohen, professor of political science at the University of Chicago and founder of the Black Youth Project, an organization designed to advocate for Black millenials. 
Cohen will address evolving advocacy efforts for the Black community, according to Horton-Stallings.
“Dr. Cohen will discuss the growing role of digital media in the strategies of grassroots activists and politicians, community organizing, and social movements of various Black communities and societies across the globe,” Horton-Stillings wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Social Justice Week is intended to bring together departments and organizations across Georgetown’s campus, according to the CSJ website. The master of science in health and the public interest program invited Alejandra de Mendoza, assistant professor at the Georgetown Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center, to speak Wednesday.
Mendoza’s seminar focused on how women from minority communities experience disparities in receiving proper medical counseling and testing for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer. The seminar will highlight the intersection of social justice and medicine, according to Vi Nguyen, Educational Coordinator at the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.
“We invite speakers who are leaders in their field,” Nguyen wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Since many of our students are interested in social justice and changing public health through activism and advocacy, we thought it was appropriate to invite Dr. Mendoza for this week’s seminar.”
Students should attend and actively participate in the events hosted during Social Justice Week, according to Nguyen.
“It is important that our graduate programs engage with the community and attend events outside of the classroom,” Nguyen wrote.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2020 by Sophie Haber Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Police Department arrested a person not affiliated with Georgetown University on Feb. 15 after he vandalized areas in St. Mary’s Hall.
The vandal left messages and tagged his Instagram handle in several classrooms and hallways, broke a vending machine and discharged a fire extinguisher, a university spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. The messages have since been removed from the building.
The suspect confessed to damaging the building upon his arrest, according to the university spokesperson.
“He was apprehended by the Georgetown University Police Department when they responded to a noise complaint in the building,” the spokesperson wrote. “He was arrested for destruction of property after admitting to causing the damage.”
The vandal wrote his Instagram and Snapchat account names and messages including, “Fuck the police I come strei from the undergraun ha ha ha ha they mad cuz I am lit Brown” on classroom doors and whiteboards in marker. 
St. Mary’s houses the School of Nursing & Health Studies and academic departments, including Georgetown College’s departments of mathematics and computer science. 
Matthew Carvalho (NHS ’23) saw the effects of the vandalism when giving his mother a tour of the school Feb. 16. When he noticed the inappropriate messages scrawled on the doors, Carvalho took photographs for evidence and tried to explain the situation to his mother, he said.
“At first I thought it was for an activity or something like that, but I looked closer and saw that it was someone’s Instagram account, and I realized it can’t possibly be for an activity,” Carvalho said in an interview with The Hoya. “There was derogatory language and swear words. I told my mom it was a school activity because I didn’t want her thinking my school was being vandalized when we pay all this tuition.”
The university has not announced plans to alter security measures in the building. However, the incident has raised concerns about safety in St. Mary’s, according to Carvalho.
“It was really disheartening to recognize how easy it is for strangers to get in there,” Carvalho said. “I know I have to swipe in order to get in and there is security, but I realized anyone can come in at any time.”
The university is still investigating how individual gained access to the building, as academic buildings including St. Mary’s are locked after hours and can only be entered by community members via a valid GoCard swipe, according to the spokesperson.
“We believe this individual was let into the building by someone with this swipe-access to the building, and we are investigating this,” the spokesperson wrote.
Although the vandalism offended Carvalho, it renewed his appreciation for the building, he said. 
“It gave me a newfound respect and made me realize how much I care about that space,” Carvalho said. ”I go there to study and work a lot, and the fact that someone would disbody it in that way was highly offensive to me, because it’s my school, it’s my place of learning, and no one should disturb that.”
This article has been updated to include a statement from a university spokesperson regarding security procedures in St. Mary’s Hall.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2020 by Jaime Moore-Carrillo Leave a Comment 
Voters and activists dissatisfied with President Donald Trump’s administration must consider long-term fixes to the structural issues that enabled his rise, former presidential adviser Dan Pfeiffer (COL ’98) said during an event Thursday. 
Since Trump assumed office in 2017, the president has been met with criticism. The U.S. House of Representatives impeached Trump in December on counts of abuse of power and obstruction of Congress. Nearly 40% of Democratic voters say defeating Trump in the 2020 presidential election should be the most important issue for the Democratic nominee, according to recent polls by FiveThirtyEight. 
Before serving as former President Barack Obama’s senior adviser from 2013 to 2015, Pfeiffer advised numerous Democratic candidates on the state and federal level over the span of two decades. Having exited the political arena, Pfeiffer currently co-hosts the popular political podcast “Pod Save America.”
Should the Democratic presidential nominee defeat Trump in the 2020 election, policymakers must reform broken aspects of the American political system, according to Pfeiffer. 
“Even if we are to beat Trump in 2020, which is something I think personally is very important and we’ll work very hard to do, even if we do that, we are not going to solve the problems that gave us Trump,” Pfeiffer said. “The politics is currently rigged against the views of the majority of Americans.”
Republicans were able to secure a majority of seats in the Senate in 2018 because of the structure of the U.S. electoral system, even though Democrats won 12 million more votes nationwide, according to The New York Times. Many experts are also concerned that partisan gerrymandering — redrawing political districts to secure an electoral advantage — and voter suppression are unfairly disadvantaging progressive voters and candidates, according to The Guardian.
Pfeiffer proposed three strategies to mend the issues he sees in the U.S. political system: challenge Republican political strategies, beat Trump in the 2020 election and introduce sweeping electoral changes. 
Republican lawmakers’ and political actors’ behavior during the Trump era represents a continuation of long-running Republican positions that preceded Trump’s rise, according to Pfeiffer.
“There is a strain of belief that is very prominent in this town and among a lot of elected Democrats that Trump has taken the Republican party hostage, and he is the one making them act the way they’re acting,” Pfeiffer said. “And I fundamentally believe that is not true and that Donald Trump is not an aberration. He’s the logical extension of where the Republican party has been going for a long time.”
Issues of political reform and Democratic electability have been the focus of his latest book, “Un-Trumping America: A Plan to Make America a Democracy Again.” The talk, hosted by the Georgetown University Institute of Politics and Public Service, was the second stop on Pfeiffer’s national book tour. The book was published Tuesday and follows Pfeiffer’s acclaimed 2018 release, “Yes We (Still) Can: Politics in the Age of Obama, Twitter, and Trump.” Pfeiffer spoke with Mo Elleithee, the executive director of GU Politics.
To win in 2020, Democrats must focus on concrete policy proposals and issues of fairness, Pfeiffer said. 
“The question the Democratic nominee has to make is: it’s not is the economy working, it’s who is the economy working for,” Pfeiffer said. “And if you want someone who’s going to make the economy work for you, vote for a Democrat. If you want someone who wants to make sure that you pay more for your Amazon Prime subscription than Amazon pays for federal taxes, you should vote for Trump. Like, if we make it a discussion about fairness, we have a chance to win it.” 
If a Democrat wins the presidency, the new administration must reform electoral law, restructure the Supreme Court and restore valuable democratic norms, Pfeiffer added. First among these reforms is reversing Republican voter suppression policies and engaging eligible voters who have been disengaged from the political process. 
“The very first thing — the most important thing — Democrats need to do is we need to not just undue Republican voter suppression. We have to have an aggressive agenda of voter expansion,” Pfeiffer said. “We need to make it as easy as possible for every eligible person to vote in this country.” 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2020 by Hansen Lian Leave a Comment 
Brooke Pinto (LAW ’17) joined the race for a competitive Washington, D.C. Council seat last Thursday, becoming the eighth candidate to enter the upcoming Democratic primary and special election. 
The D.C. Council seat for Ward 2, which represents the Georgetown neighborhood, has been vacant since January, after former councilmember Jack Evans resigned amid ethics violations. Evans himself is seeking to regain his seat as one of the eight Democratic primary candidates in the crowded field. Ward 2, which also encompasses Dupont Circle and downtown D.C., is among the District’s most affluent wards.
Pinto has worked in the office of D.C. Attorney General Karl Racine (D) for the past two years as the assistant attorney general for policy and legislative affairs. Previously, she served as a tax attorney for Racine. 
Working for Racine, Pinto has helped push through legislation to address hate crimes, data protection and deceptive charity practices, according to The Washington Post. These experiences working with advocacy groups to pass policy inspired her run for the council, according to Pinto.
“I was really impressed and inspired by a lot of the advocacy going on at a ground level by the various groups around our city and felt that sometimes they lacked an ally to make sure that their issues were taking across the finish line,” Pinto said in an interview with The Hoya.
Pinto marks the eighth candidate to join the June 2 primary race and the ninth to enter the June 16 special election for the Ward 2 seat. In a crowded field, Pinto hopes to stand out as the candidate who can most effectively represent Ward 2 from the moment she is elected.
“By the time of the election in June, the seat will have been vacant for six months. Ward 2 residents right now don’t have a representative in the D.C. Council, and we need someone to get in there right away who knows how to do this job,” Pinto said. 
Before his resignation, Evans had represented Ward 2 since 1991, making him the longest-standing member in D.C. Council history. After gaining notoriety for accruing 11 ethical violations stemming from his legal and consulting work outside of the council, the politician may have lost some of his longtime voters. Some of Evans’ critics fear, however, that Pinto joining the race will further split the opposition vote, potentially allowing Evans to win back his former, according to The Washington Post. 
Critics should not frame the race as Evans versus everyone else because former Evans’ voters may switch their vote in favor of a new alternative, according to Pinto.
“I think that voters who have traditionally supported Evans in this seat are excited to have a fresh new face, not only someone with new ideas, but someone who has practical business education and the relevant professional experience,” Pinto said. “The number one thing overall is to make sure that Ward 2 believes in their leader.”
Vicki Girard, a professor at Georgetown University Law Center who taught Pinto in a seminar on medical-legal partnership, said that Pinto’s work ethic in the classroom demonstrates a passion for law that will make her a strong representative for Ward 2.
“Brooke is a smart, open-minded, fair, organized, professional woman who thinks big yet knows what small steps are needed to get things done,” Girard wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Her well-established commitment to Georgetown Law Center’s motto, ‘law is but the means, justice is the end’ is reflected in her approach to school, work, life and the world.”
Pinto said her experience at GULC helped motivated her to become a lawyer and run for public office and inspired her campaign slogan: “If you don’t like the law, change it!”
“The driving principle that really inspires me in being a lawyer is something that I learned at Georgetown during my first year,” Pinto said. “And that was this notion that the law is valuable; the law can be changed. I used to think prior to law school that the law was this set in stone, archaic, traditional, centuries and centuries-old institution that could not be changed, and something that I was always so inspired by during law school is that if the law doesn’t make sense, you can just change it.”

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2020 by Jimmy O’Meara Leave a Comment 
The Council of the District of Columbia is considering banning cashless businesses following similar legislative measures across the country.
The bill, introduced by Councilmember David Grosso (I-At Large), would penalize vendors that do not offer a cash option for payment. Adopted for perceived security benefits and to ward off robberies, cashless businesses have been criticized for being inaccessible to people with lower incomes who may not possess a bank account. Grosso introduced similar legislation in February 2019 and June 2018, neither of which passed the council vote. 
Cashless businesses increase socioeconomic divisions among D.C. residents, according to Grosso. 
“By denying patrons the ability to use cash as a form of payment, businesses are effectively telling lower-income and young patrons that they are not welcome,” Grosso wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Practices like this further stratify our diverse city when we should be working to foster greater inclusion.”
The bill should benefit marginalized groups as cashless businesses often block low-income patrons from paying, according to Meryl Chertoff, a professor at the Georgetown University Law Center and the executive director of the Georgetown Project on State and Local Government Policy and Law.
“I observed how the operation of cashless businesses in the District created two tiers of customer,” Chertoff wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Those who carried bank cards or apps, generally well-off people, and the poor and unbanked who disproportionately in DC are people of color, or the undocumented.” 
Businesses should accept cash to treat all of their customers equitably and respectfully and make their products and services more accessible, according to Chertoff.  
“Retail establishments are places of public accommodation. If I come into a coffee shop with $10 in my pocket I should be treated the same if it is cash I earned running chores, or salary loaded on my debit card from my employer the investment bank,” Chertoff wrote. “Money in your pocket is a source of dignity and autonomy for each of us.”
The bill comes as part of a broader movement against cashless operations around the country. Rhode Island, New Jersey, Philadelphia and San Francisco have passed laws banning cashless businesses, according to WAMU. Additionally, the U.S. Congress is considering enacting a similar measure. 
Council Chair Phil Mendelson (D) cosponsored the bill to promote equitable consumer access throughout the country, he wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
“There’s a substantial number of District residents who do not have credit or debit cards,” Mendelson wrote. “They are excluded from retail opportunities. This is about equity for all residents.”
An increasingly cashless economy also encroaches on consumers’ privacy as credit and debit cards leave an online trail of purchased items and shopping locations, according to Chertoff. 
“The real world increasingly will mirror the online one if the cashless model expands, as each swipe of a card, like each click of your mouse, enables the data miners to ascertain your location, buying preferences, health needs and habits,” Chertoff wrote. “All that data lets them build an increasingly granular picture of who you are.” 
The Corp launched a cashless policy in February 2018, garnering criticism from members of the Georgetown University community, including 2019-2020 Georgetown University Student Association President Norman Francis Jr. (COL ’20). 
“It is an elitist practice that prevents a lot of students, especially low-income students, from living properly on campus by making basic life necessities such as food or cleaning supplies inaccessible,” Francis wrote to The Hoya for a September 2019 article. “Cashless is classist, plain and simple.”
Representatives from The Corp did not respond to The Hoya’s request for comment by publication. 
The bill should not significantly impact the Georgetown student body but only expands students’ potential payment methods, according to Chertoff. 
“The bill won’t change anything for Georgetown students who like to be cashless,” Chertoff wrote. “It just will give everyone the option to use cash for a retail purchase.”
A representative from the Washington Parking Association, a nonprofit organization of commercial parking operators, opposed the bill. The representative testified at the Feb. 13 meeting that accepting cash would be inefficient for some businesses, like parking garages, where attendants need to work quickly to reduce traffic. Others, including the D.C. Chamber of Commerce, expressed concerns that the bill does not include an exception for app-based payment models ride-share companies use.  
Banning cashless methods will hurt D.C.’s economy, according to Erika Wadlington, a representative from the D.C. Chamber of Commerce who spoke at the hearing, according to WAMU. 
“We see a significant impact on current and emerging businesses in the District, as well as a hindrance to our innovative and creative economy,” Wadlington said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2020 by Jack Zhang 1 Comment 
Dozens of union workers from Safeway and Giant grocery stores rallied in front of a Safeway store in Southwest Washington, D.C., on Feb. 19 and announced a potential strike. 
The demonstrators announced a strike vote meeting for March 5, following four months of contract negotiations in which workers have fought against benefit cuts and frozen wage rates. The United Food and Commercial Workers Local 400 represents the unionized workers as well as more than 25,000 Safeway and Giant Food workers in the DMV area, according to their website. 
The UFCW Local 400 announced a tentative agreement on a new contract with Giant after the Feb. 19 rally, according to a UFCW Local 400 news release. Negotiations with Safeway reached a stalemate.
Safeway will not exclude a three-year minimum wage freeze for new workers from the contract. The company is also seeking to impose an hour limit for part-time workers that would prevent them from receiving benefits, according to the release. Additionally, union workers are concerned about proposed cuts to healthcare and pension benefits.
Representatives of Giant workers are expected to agree to the terms, but further negotiations with Safeway may be necessary, according to Jonathan Williams, a spokesperson for UFCW Local 400. 
“Our expectations are that our members will vote to accept the offer that we are going to table. But Safeway is another story,” Williams said in an interview with The Hoya.
Mark Federici, the president of the UFCW Local 400, announced at the end of the rally that Safeway unionized workers will review the contract and vote whether to accept the companies’ proposals. If the workers deem the proposals unacceptable in a two-thirds vote, the union will authorize a strike, according to Williams.
“We announced today our intent to take a strike vote on Thursday, March 5th if we don’t have a fair contract by then.” Williams said. “If we were to vote on a strike at Safeway it would require a two-thirds majority vote by our members and we think this it’s doable.” 
If a strike is authorized, it would affect 115 Safeway stores around the DMV area, significantly disrupting their operations should all 10,000 Safeway members choose to strike, according to Williams. 
“We have had signs at every single Safeway location that you can see if you drive by, signed by workers at their stores saying they are willing to go on strike,” Williams said. 
The companies’ move to cap wages and limit benefits is worrisome, according to D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser in a Feb. 18 letter to Ira Kress, the interim president of Giant Foods.
“I am proud to stand with workers in the District and to support policies that ensure they have access to a living wage and health benefits,” Bowser wrote. “I am deeply concerned by the recent news that indicates a new contract would make cuts to healthcare and retirement benefits and stagnate the salaries of new workers at a minimum wage for three years.”
Strikes are not unprecedented in The District. In December, Metro transit bus operators striked to prevent the Metro from privatizing, which shut down some bus services. The union representing the workers, Amalgamated Transit Union Local 689, set up a fund to financially support workers during the strike. 
Although other recent strikes have shut down services, Safeway will continue operation in the event of a strike while negotiating with workers, according to Beth Goldberg, a senior public affairs manager at Safeway. 
“Safeway is committed to remaining at the bargaining table to work through our challenges and reach an agreement that rewards our employees,” Goldberg wrote in an email to The Hoya. “In the event of a strike, our stores will continue operating and serving our customers.”


Jwm says 
February 29, 2020 at 10:32 pm
Safeway is a second rate company and can’t compare to Giant…They have dark and dingy stores with employees with bad attitudes..
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 21, 2020 by Clara Grudberg 2 Comments 
The District Department of Transportation is in the process of constructing 100 electric scooter parking corrals around Washington, D.C., after legislators and residents complained the scooters obstructed sidewalks.
An off-sidewalk corral has been installed in the Georgetown area at the intersection of M and Thomas Jefferson Streets NW. DDOT is planning to install additional corrals at 33rd and M Streets NW and 26th and P Streets NW by spring 2020, according to DDOT Public Information Officer Lauren Stephens. Personal vehicles like bicycles can also be parked in the spaces. 
The corrals will prevent parked scooters and bikes from interfering with pedestrian traffic, according to DDOT Director Jeff Marootian. 
“These off-sidewalk corrals provide a designated area where both shared dockless vehicle operators and riders and private vehicle riders can safely store their vehicles,” Marootian wrote in a Jan. 24 DDOT news release. “By placing these corrals in no-parking zones near intersections, we are fulfilling Mayor Bowser’s vision of creative problem solving to make our streets safer for all users.”
Scooter sharing platforms must be regulated because of routine carelessness from riders, according to Councilmember Mary Cheh (D-Ward 3), who introduced a bill in the D.C. Council calling for increased regulation of scooter parking locations in June 2019. 
“Many scooter users weave in and out of pedestrians on the sidewalk at high speeds, do not follow important safety rules, ride while inebriated, and routinely discard scooters that block pedestrian walkways, private driveways, and handicap accessible ramps,” Cheh said at a Nov. 4 hearing on the bill. “Users have also been seen riding with two people on a single scooter, which is both against the rules and extremely dangerous. This bad behavior is not just dangerous to the user, but to the public at large as well.” 
To address pedestrian concerns, DDOT chose locations to install the scooter corrals based on commercial foot traffic and community feedback, according to the news release. 
“The off-sidewalk corrals were first piloted in business improvement districts and commercial areas where higher numbers of dockless vehicles were expected to be parked,” the statement read. “The new locations focus on residential areas where sidewalks are narrower and more likely to be blocked by an improperly parked dockless vehicle, based on feedback DDOT received from residents.”
Electric personal vehicles like scooters and bikes have rapidly increased in popularity since they were introduced in the District in spring 2018. About one in six D.C. residents used an e-scooter in the past year, according to a June 2019 poll conducted by The Washington Post. In October 2019, DDOT announced plans to allow e-scooter services to expand their fleets, bringing the amount of scooters deployed in the D.C. area to approximately 10,000. 
The move to expand e-scooter operations, however, has been delayed by a DDOT plan to allow only four e-scooter sharing companies to operate in the District: Jump, Lyft, Skip and Spin. Until March 31, all licensed companies will be allowed to operate. After, DDOT will make their selection and the planned fleet expansion will begin. 
The expansion of e-scooters in the District should address public desire for more vehicles without inconveniencing pedestrians, according to Marootian. 
“We have listened closely to the public on this,” Marootian said to The Washington Post. “We have heard from users of bikes and scooters who want to see more of them, and we have also heard from members of the community who support the program and want to see it managed in a way that has less scooters placed in public rights of way.”
E-scooters are a positive addition to transportation options in the District, but require greater oversight and regulation, according to Cheh.  
“It’s a wonderful thing to have the scooters,” Cheh said to The Washington Post. “But it’s a little bit like the Wild West at the moment.”


George Poling says 
April 27, 2020 at 2:54 am
Hello Clara,
This was an amazing article, Really helpful for beginner.
I have a question, Is electric scooters is legal in  DC?
Thanks

KERRY WASHINGTON says 
January 18, 2021 at 8:22 am
Is electric scooter legal on Washington?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

