
April 7, 2020 by Annalise Myre 1 Comment 
Human encounters and on-the-ground campaigning are vital to the success of a presidential run, former presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg said in a virtual Zoom event March 31.
Buttigieg, the former mayor of South Bend, Ind., became the first openly gay Democratic candidate to run for president in the United States when he launched his campaign in April 2019. The Indiana politician quickly garnered national attention and support for his presidential campaign, most notably winning the 2020 Iowa caucuses after a Feb. 27 recount of the Feb. 3 caucus, leading Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) by a small margin. After a disappointing fourth-place finish in the South Carolina primary, however, Buttigieg decided to end his campaign March 1.
During the event, titled “Reflections on Running: A Conversation with Mayor Pete Buttigieg,” Buttigieg reflected on his nearly yearlong campaign and discussed what he learned about U.S. citizens during the campaign process. Future presidential elections should place a greater emphasis on in-person campaigning rather than TV commercials and other forms of money-based campaigning, according to Buttigieg.
“Whatever we come up with, I think it is really important that it be an approach that still makes it possible with eye-to-eye, in-person, in-your-face campaigning to cut through the media clutter and to get beyond the forms of attention that really can’t be bought by whoever has the most money to buy TV commercials,” Buttigieg said.
Campaigns are less often built on money or name recognition and more often on genuine interactions with voters, according to Buttigieg.
“The beauty of the process — the whole reason it can’t simply be bought by the person with the most money, the reason it is not simply handed to the person with the most name recognition — is that you have to go backyard by backyard, diner by diner, with crowds that started from eight or 12 or 20 in order to build the kind of campaign that could eventually have a crowd of 10,000,” Buttigieg said.
Buttigieg was one of the first Democratic presidential candidates to appear on a Fox News town hall, something many other Democratic candidates refused to do because of the network’s constant attacks against the Democratic party, according to CNN.
By appearing on platforms like Fox News, candidates can get their messages across to more voters, especially voters that may not initially support their campaign platforms, Buttigieg said.
“I also think you can’t be surprised if people don’t hear your message if they literally don’t hear your message because you have never been inside their media bubble,” Buttigieg said. “We tried to cover as much ground as we could knowing we weren’t going to come into a national conversation and immediately overtake U.S. senators or former vice presidents or cabinet secretaries but that we could at least establish a voice and gather some kind of following.”
The virtual event was co-hosted by the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service, Georgetown University College Democrats and the Georgetown Bipartisan Coalition as part of the GU Politics “Reflections on Running” series. The series, which was launched in 2016, aims to bring former presidential hopefuls to campus to discuss the lessons they took away from the campaign trail, according to the GU Politics website.
As the first openly gay Democratic presidential candidate, Buttigieg acknowledged the importance of representing a certain identity without letting it define you or your campaign.
“For us, what we realized was the most important thing was to be very clear and upfront and true to who I was and at the same time never allow it to appear that I was running to be the president of gay America,” Buttigieg said. “I was just running to be the president of the United States of America.”
Buttigieg, who is 38 years old, was also the youngest candidate in the 2020 primary race and ran on a platform of generational change.
Rather than rushing to run for office, young people who are interested in politics should first focus on following their passions and developing the necessary skills and experience, Buttigieg said.
“What I would encourage anybody to do or to think about if you think you might have a future running for office is not to get too hung up on some game plan to run for this office or that office, but rather arm yourself with as many skills as you can and then look for ways you can make a difference,” Buttigieg said. “If you focus on the issues you care about and follow that wherever it takes you — and it might be activism or office or scholarship — that’s going to be a much more authentic path.”
This article has been updated to clarify that Buttigieg was the first openly-gay Democratic presidential candidate.

Fred Karger says 
April 8, 2020 at 7:24 pm
I enjoyed Annalise’s story in the Hoya about Pete Buttigieg, but he was not the 1st openly gay major-party candidate to run for president, I was back in 2012 and appeared on 6 state ballots. Common mistake with all Pete’s success and I was proud to support him. Could you please correct this story from ASAP? It’s important to keep LGBTQI+ history accurate. Thanks! https://www.politico.com/video/2019/06/30/fred-karger-buttigieg-2020-068424
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 7, 2020 by Casey Ferrante 2 Comments 
Georgetown University’s undergraduate first-year acceptance rate rose to 15% this admissions season, an increase from last year’s record low of 14%. 
A total of 3,309 applicants were admitted to the Class of 2024 from a pool of 21,318 first-year applicants. The increased acceptance rate came after the pool of first-year applicants to Georgetown decreased by 3%. The university admissions committee also decided to accept about 100 more students than originally planned in anticipation of a low yield rate from the Class of 2024, according to Dean of Undergraduate Admissions Charles Deacon (CAS ’64, GRD ’69).
The admissions committee offered more acceptances this year to take into account mounting financial burdens on admitted students amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The admissions committee similarly increased the acceptance rate in 2009 after expecting that the 2008 recession would lower yield rates, according to Deacon. 
High tuition costs may be the largest factor for high school students to choose not to attend Georgetown, Deacon wrote. 
“All of the top 20 US News universities had application declines of 5-10% this year so we are in that range,” Deacon wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We believe affordability is the primary issue as the total cost approaches $80,000.”
Recent announcements from U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Steven Mnuchin and other leading economists suggest that the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic will result in unemployment levels in the United States reaching 30%, surpassing those of the Great Depression. Over 10 million U.S. citizens have already filed for unemployment benefits over the last two weeks.
The national average annual college tuition for a private university or college in the United States is $36,801, according to U.S. News. For the 2019-20 academic year, full-time students at Georgetown paid $55,440 in tuition in addition to housing and other fees, according to the university revenue and receivables website. 
If fewer admitted prospective students decide to attend Georgetown than in years past, students currently on the waitlist may have a better odds of receiving an offer of admission, according to Deacon. 
“We did offer about 100 more acceptances than initially planned assuming there could be some impact on our typical yield of close to 50%,” Deacon wrote. “Students on the Waiting List could have a greater chance than usual if the yield does decline and we will be keeping in touch with them throughout April.”
This admissions season marks the first time the university did not send out regular decision letters by mail, according to Deacon. Letters were posted to students’ online admission portals March 20 at 6:30 p.m. to quickly notify students. 
“We did this in the interest of letting students know where they stand as soon as possible,” Deacon wrote. “This is a very unpredictable time for college admissions across the country and we will be working along with the financial aid office to provide as much support as possible to these students and families as they approach this important decision.”
The university does not currently plan on extending the deadline to accept the offer to attend Georgetown from May 1, according to Deacon. Georgetown commits to a financial aid policy that meets all demonstrated need, according to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions website. 
“There is no need to extend the deadline as we meet the full need and students will have 5 weeks from now until May 1 to decide,” Deacon wrote. “Also we have students on a Waiting List who deserve an answer.”
Colleges such as Williams College and George Mason University decided to push back their decision days in light of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Overall acceptance rates across all four schools increased compared to the 2019 admissions cycle, according to admissions records provided by Deacon. 
Georgetown College admitted a total of 1,950 students out of 12,683 applicants for an admit rate of 15.4%. The School of Foreign Service saw an acceptance rate of 14.7% after admitting 590 out of 4,027 total applicants. The McDonough School of Business admitted 543 students from 3,219 applicants, resulting in a 16.9% acceptance rate. The School of Nursing and Health Studies saw the largest jump in its acceptance rate, admitting 226 of 1,389 applicants for an admit rate of 16.3%, a 3% increase from last year. 
Of the students admitted to Georgetown’s Class of 2024, 28% are Asian American, 13% are Latinx, 11% are Black and 1% are Native American, according to the admissions records. 11% of admitted students are first-generation college students, 9% are legacy students and 8% are international students. 
Applications have decreased across all four schools, according to the admissions records. The decline comes after the applicant pool to Georgetown’s early action program shrunk for the second consecutive year. 
During the early action admissions cycle, Deacon also said Georgetown’s significant overlap institutions, such as Boston College and the University of Virginia, began offering early decision programs that may have disincentivized students from applying early to Georgetown. 
This year, admitted students will not be able to visit campus for Georgetown revisit days. The Office of Undergraduate Admissions announced the cancellation of Georgetown Admissions Ambassadors Program Weekends on March 11 amid concerns about the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak. Held throughout the spring, the weekends focus on introducing students to Georgetown’s academic and social culture through campus tours, department open houses and a campus activities fair, according to the GAAP website.
Though the decision to cancel GAAP weekend may come as a disappointment for admitted students, the university will provide online resources to convey information that would have been communicated to them during the weekend, a university spokesperson wrote in an March 11 email to The Hoya. 
“This decision did not come lightly given the investment of time and capital families put into planning visits to Georgetown and Washington, DC,” the university spokesperson wrote. “In the coming weeks, Georgetown will make available a series of online lectures, chats, and experiences designed to connect future students with our academic life and campus community. Our hope is to replicate much of the programming they would have experienced during the Open House.” 

Joe Hoya says 
April 13, 2020 at 6:20 am
Go on the common app georgetown

Hoya Joe says 
April 29, 2020 at 8:39 am
No we are too special
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

