
October 30, 2020 by Naomi Greenberg 1 Comment 
By Nov. 3, thousands of Georgetown University students will have cast their ballots for the 2020 presidential election. In the meantime, ineligible students must sit on the sidelines, hoping their peers look out for their interests at the ballot box. 
Georgetown’s international and undocumented students, many of whom grew up in the United States but are not citizens, cannot vote in the 2020 presidential election. F-1 and J-1 visa holders account for more than 5% of the undergraduate student body, but their situations, as well as those of undocumented students and green card holders, fall out of mainstream discourse as the election looms closer. 
Elisabeth Koch (SFS ’24) grew up in Paris with French and German dual citizenship and is now living on campus with F-1 visa status. She worries her classmates may forget about issues like visa or residence status and that the United States’ COVID-19 pandemic response has global ramifications.
“I feel like Georgetown and American citizens probably don’t think about it,” Koch said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. 
Ira Tiasko (SFS ’23), who lives in Ukraine, and Angeli Nandwani (COL ’24), who lives in Panama, also cannot vote in the United States. Both students are active in the politics of their home countries, as well as in U.S. politics through personal activism and academics. Voting, however, is not an option.
“I hate it because I want to vote so much,” Nandwani said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. 
International students like Nandwani worry a President Donald Trump reelection will complicate their studies. In the past four years, the Trump administration has revised visa rules and tightened other immigration laws, hampering international students’ ability to study in the United States. Last month, the Department of Homeland Security introduced new rules limiting the length of stay for F-1 and J-1 visa holders, adding hurdles to the reapplication process. In July, the DHS introduced a rule banning students from taking online-only courses in the United States, only to rescind the rule following legal pressure from universities. 
Koch, who relies on maintaining her F-1 visa to remain on campus during the virtual semester, said she has a lot at stake this election. She struggled to obtain her visa this summer because of the regulations imposed by the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in July 2020 and is unsure what will happen to her F-1 visa status as virtual instruction continues if Trump is reelected.
These same regulations meant Nandwani could not get a visa issued by the U.S. Embassy in Panama. She is still unsure whether she can make it to campus for future semesters and hopes her peers take the international students into account when they vote. 
Tiasko, who just submitted a ballot for local Ukrainian elections, is especially concerned about changing U.S. foreign policy because, if Trump is reelected, she believes the already strained relations between Russia and Ukraine will deteriorate. 
Despite their inability to vote Nov. 3, undocumented and international students still play a significant role in the U.S. political system by attending events, joining protests and signing petitions, according to Thomas Connelly (SFS’ 21), a director of GU Votes. 
“[Undocumented and international students] are not immune to the effects of the presidential election,” Connelly said in an interview with The Hoya. “If they’re not able to get representation through a vote, they have to be able to represent themselves in other ways. We want to support that as best we can.” 
Connelly identifies attending events, joining protests and signing petitions as alternative ways for ineligible Georgetown students to be involved. 
Nandwani suggested starting debates with friends and family as a way to engage with the upcoming election.
“Why not? That’s all we can do, but I think that’s enough,” she said. 
Ultimately, the best way for Georgetown’s eligible students to honor the silent voices of the community’s noncitizens is to vote.
“It is your civic duty to go and vote, because if you can, you’re going to change the history or change the politics,” Tiasko said. 
Koch agreed. 
“Please do it, because we’re depending on you.”

Jack says 
October 30, 2020 at 7:52 pm
First, barred from the ballot box is disingenuous.  Next, if you accept the risk of attending university or employment anywhere in the world, you accept the attendant risks, including non-representation in the local political process.   Welcome to reality.  Hoya Saxa.  LJH. SFS ‘75
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 30, 2020 by Claire Stowe Leave a Comment 

While most Georgetown University students moved home in March after the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, Mark Agard (SFS ’23) stayed on campus instead of returning to his home in Washington state, where he feels he would not have had the resources to continue his classes online. For the rest of the spring semester and the summer, Agard attended classes on Zoom from his Village A apartment.
Now, seven months later, Agard is still living on campus among the few hundred students granted on-campus housing this fall, with no clear idea of what the spring will hold. Agard and others have had to make plans for housing with the university at a time of great uncertainty, with Georgetown’s policies subject to change.
After the university announced it would not house all students on campus for the fall semester, students could apply for on-campus housing to fulfill academic requirements like clinical hours or because of uncertain home situations. The university offered housing to about 500 students for the fall semester.  
Georgetown’s Office of Residential Living sent an email update to all on-campus students Oct. 28 notifying them of their automatic approval for spring on-campus housing. Although students were told to move in no earlier than Jan. 11, Residential Living provided no update on the dates and costs for the spring semester, which will be released after the spring 2021 operating decision, according to the email. 
Students said the housing application may have been premature as Residential Living asked them to declare their plans by Oct. 13, two weeks before they received confirmation for spring housing. Many students, including Agard, are unsure of what the next few months will hold. They also said they could not make a decision without more information from the university, including details on spring housing options and future move-out and storage policies, as well as additional housing costs. 
The university’s Fall 2020 Plan originally said that students living on campus would move out by 12 p.m. on Nov. 21. However, the university provided on-campus students a second Housing Stability Application to select their winter move-out plans in an Oct. 6 email from Associate Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students Jeanne Lord.
The application offered students three possible plans: move out by Nov. 21, stay through finals and move out by Dec. 18, or stay through winter break until the start of the spring semester. 
There will be no additional cost for staying on campus after Nov. 21, according to the Oct. 28 email. However, the university offers no meal plans for this period, so students must cover their own food costs. Before this email, students were unsure as to whether there would be additional costs and how these could play into their decision to stay on campus past Nov. 21.
“They’re asking us to make that decision with completely inadequate information,” Agard said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “Are there going to be hybrid courses, do we have to be online, are they going to expand the stability housing, are they going to reduce it? There’s so many things that are just up in the air and they’re asking us to make a judgement call like a month before.”
Although on-campus students are guaranteed spring housing, Residential Living encourages all students to pack their belongings and, if possible, take them home, in the case that public health conditions or individual circumstances prevent some students from returning to campus. The university said it will not arrange for any packing or storing of belongings left in students’ rooms, and any remaining belongings will be thrown away. 
Jameson Nowlan (SFS ’23), who is currently living on campus, also criticized the housing application for its invasiveness into the home life of many students. 
“A lot of students felt like they had to fully disclose their personal situations and personal trauma in order to prove that somehow their circumstances are so difficult that they can’t do housing at home. Really, when it comes down to it, a lot of us just don’t have a great home life or family life,” Nowlan said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “A lot of us are here for a lot of different reasons and we don’t usually fully disclose why, because it’s our lives.”
Jameson Nowlan (SFS ’23) is planning to stay on campus until Dec. 18, but she was concerned that the university would make students move everything out of their dorms on move-out day. Nowlan said she has nowhere to store her belongings between the end of the first semester and the beginning of the second. She sees the university’s request that students pack all their belongings as a precaution, and she is relieved she is allowed to leave them in her room after Dec. 18.
Nowlan’s greatest worry, though, is that she will not be allowed to live on campus again in the spring. Nowlan said she cannot adequately complete virtual learning at home, so without spring on-campus living options, she may have to graduate late. This may make applying to outside scholarships more difficult because many are contingent upon her set graduation date.
“I’m in a situation where I’m forced to do virtual learning, but I also don’t live in an environment where virtual learning is possible,” Nowlan said. “If I wasn’t welcome back next semester, I would have to take classes even though I know my work wouldn’t be the best, and I wouldn’t be in an environment that is conducive to Georgetown-quality work.”
In an effort to advocate for more transparency, the Georgetown University Student Association supports on-campus students and is working on a letter to the university demanding improved communication, according to an email from GUSA Press Secretary Jacob Bernard (SFS ’23).
“The letter clearly requests that Georgetown permit students with medical housing to maintain their current housing assignments as well as prioritize vulnerable students,” wrote Bernard. 
Daniella Sanchez (COL ’22), the GUSA director of COVID response, is advocating for on-campus students and has been working to ensure that all student needs are met, including housing and financial aid. 
Sanchez and her team are organizing a town hall to listen to concerns and plan to meet with the administration to advocate for students before the official plan is released by Nov. 16, according to a GUSA spokesperson. 
“Her first goal is to ensure that students’ needs are met first and foremost, whether it be housing, wifi, accommodations, or financial aid,” the GUSA spokesperson wrote. “Overall, she hopes to coordinate and uplift the needs and concerns of communities across campus by bringing them into the conversation.”
Despite student advocacy, undergraduates on campus still face uncertainty until the university finalizes its plans. Jennifer Linares (COL ’23) is also unsure of her plans for after Nov. 21, and felt that she could not make an informed decision by the Oct. 13 deadline without more specifics from the university. Although she wants to return to her home in Florida for Thanksgiving break, she was concerned about what the move-out requirements could be. 
“If we have to move out, that adds a different layer of a thinking process, just because it is so expensive to move out,” Linares said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “If we do have to move out fully, I don’t know what I would do.” 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 30, 2020 by River Harper Leave a Comment 

Freshman Leathan Posey (COL ’24), like many other students grappling with virtual learning, has grown tired of taking classes over Zoom. 
“No matter how you look at it, spending hours on end in front of a computer is not the most desirable way to spend your time,” Posey wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
“Zoom fatigue,” a new phenomenon brought by the transition of schools and workplaces to an online environment, has hit college students hard. Instead of interacting with professors and their classmates in person, students are now forced to attempt to connect with their professors and peers from their own home through a computer. Sitting through hours of classes and meetings on video-conferencing applications like Zoom is not only physically tiring but emotionally draining, according to several Georgetown students.
The exhaustion extends beyond classes. Posey says Zoom fatigue has significantly limited his involvement in extracurriculars. He has only attended one club meeting since the start of the semester. 
“It is not as easy to justify spending your weekends, time usually devoted to enjoyable or leisurely activities, sitting at a desk with your computer on yet another Zoom call,” Posey wrote. 
Jeremy Bailenson of Stanford University said in an interview with the Wall Street Journal one of the reasons Zoom seems so tiring is because the human brain has to work harder to produce nonverbal cues essential to our communication skills. These nonverbal cues, in combination with speech and movement, make up a concept known as synchrony, and this phenomenon is more difficult to perfect over video conference. 
Eric Langenbacher, a professor in the government department, cited unstable connections, less interaction between students and a more limited attention span over Zoom as some of the main drawbacks of the virtual environment for both professors and students. 
“It seems that doing everything online is much more work and more exhausting than in person,” Langenbacher wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I think many professors can feed off the energy in the room when a lecture or seminar is going well. Obviously, this doesn’t translate online.” 
Junior Yifu Mu (COL ’22) mentioned physical fatigue as one of the main downsides of taking classes online. Specifically, the blue light from looking at a screen for too long has often caused him eye discomfort and exhaustion. 
Despite these physical difficulties, Mu said professors have improved the quality of their classes since the start of virtual learning last spring.
“Beginning this fall semester, professors are way more prepared to instruct over Zoom than the second half of last semester,” Mu wrote in an email to The Hoya. “A lot of classes flow better, and I think that speaks to the level of adjustment that Georgetown professors have made and are willing to make.”
David Lipscomb, a professor in the English department, has tried to develop strategies to make his online classes more engaging. He has found students generally hold their attention well for about 10 minutes during online instruction. 
“My Zoom classes work best when I script everything and move pretty quickly from one activity to the next,” Lipscomb wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Routines become ruts real fast on Zoom.”
Lipscomb has attempted to encourage student engagement by mixing up his lesson plans and asking students for feedback on how they feel in class in the hope of finding things to improve. He said later on in the semester, he plans to hold more one-on-one conferences with students, since these seem to work better over Zoom. Langenbacher also cited the chat function on Zoom as helpful in fostering productive conversations about course material during class. 
Lipscomb and Langenbacher have also developed their own methods to cope with the stress and fatigue Zoom classes have induced over the course of the semester. Each has found trying to speak on the phone more, instead of talking while looking at a screen, has a positive influence on their mindset. 
Langenbacher also believes taking walks and going outside to see scenery is beneficial. Yu also tries to go outside and get physical activity often to curtail the negative effects of Zoom fatigue.
“I definitely need that balance between sitting in my room in front of a screen and being physically active,” Yu said.
Georgetown University plans to release its preliminary plans for the spring semester by Nov. 16. Though some parents have been goading the administration to reopen campus, citing the negative health effects of online learning, continually rising COVID-19 cases in Washington, D.C., and across the nation have cast doubts on those hopes. The possibility remains that students and professors will have to contend with online classes for a little while longer.
Along with shorter attention spans, Langenbacher noted a more unexpected difficulty with online classes: trying to land jokes with an unforgiving virtual audience. 
“It is difficult to tell whether a joke or anecdote lands because the regular in-person cues are not operative,” Langenbacher said.
For Lipscomb, if the spring semester takes place online, one significant challenge will still remain. “My sense of humor doesn’t seem to translate to Zoom. That’s been rough … and humbling.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 30, 2020 by Grace Buono Leave a Comment 
Five years ago, if someone asked 13-year-old Arianna Nassiri (COL ’24) if teenagers three years her senior should be allowed to vote, she would have said, “They’re kids, they’re immature.” 
But then, she read the United States Constitution. 
“Social maturity is not a grounds for enfranchisement or disenfranchisement, because if that were the case, there are millions of enfranchised adults who I would deem immature,” Nassiri, now a college freshman, said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “It’s not what our Founding Fathers wanted.”
Today, Nassiri is a campaign chair and communications representative for the Vote16 San Francisco initiative, a proposition that appears on 2020 election ballots urging the city to allow 16- and 17-year-olds to vote in municipal elections. 
In 2015, the San Francisco Youth Commission, a body of 17 representatives between the ages of 12 and 23 who advise the city’s Board of Supervisors and Mayor on policies that directly impact young people, launched the Vote16 movement after passing a resolution calling for the enfranchisement of 16 and 17 year olds. 
The reform proposition first appeared on San Francisco ballots in 2016, where it earned 48 percent of the vote, just shy of the 50 percent threshold it needed to pass. Since then, the city’s Board of Education and Board of Supervisors have endorsed the initiative and, should it pass in November, San Francisco would be the first major city to lower the voting age to 16 for local elections. 
Nassiri joined the campaign the same year, shortly after the initiative’s failure on the ballot. Now, she is helping organize a citywide campaign to rally public support for Vote16 SF. 
The youth enthusiasm Nassiri has seen over the past three years demonstrates how ready young people are to actively participate in local politics.
“I think that a lot of officials and just community members are starting to realize that young people are citizens, are actively due paying citizens, and participating in ways that most adults are not even participating in,” Nassiri said. 
Voters who oppose lowering the voting age often cite a lack of maturity and experience as reasons why the legal voting age should remain at 18 (the same logic Nassiri applied when she was 13). However, many of San Francisco’s most politically active citizens are young, according to Nassiri. Nassiri is an example of this, as she serves on the city’s Youth Commission and worked as an intern for Mayor London Breed.  
“This argument that age has a direct correlation to one’s political maturity is just no longer valid,” she said. “Young people are actively participating citizens and are members of that population and it’s unjust to disenfranchise them just based on how many years they’ve been on the planet.” 
Nassiri’s interest in politics and advocacy is in part what drew her to Georgetown University. As an activist, having a community of like-minded students was important, she said. 
“Knowing that there are a couple thousand [students] in my class alone that are engaging in these fights in their local communities as well for different initiatives, that we’re all aware of this education and the power that this education holds, is hopeful for me,” Nassiri said. 
Though not all of her classmates support expanding local enfranchisement, coming to Georgetown has allowed Nassiri to better understand the importance of civics education. People have accepted that political progress is slow and laborious, but if more young people had exposure to comprehensive education on their role in local government, that could change, Nassiri said.
“The American Constitution was written to be amenable,” she said. “It’s written so it can be amended to reflect the changing demographic of America, and that’s a gift.”
If the Vote16 SF proposition is passed, the city is set to implement a required civics education curriculum in public schools, according to a San Francisco Youth Commission report published in 2019. 
Nassiri’s work with Vote16 SF is part of a broader movement across the country to lower the voting age for local elections. Generation Citizen, an organization dedicated to expanding civics education, has thrown its weight behind Nassiri’s campaign and others like it across the country.
Passing Vote16 in San Francisco would be an important step in bringing national awareness to the conversation of expanding enfranchisement, according to Brandon Klugman, the Vote16 USA campaign manager at Generation Citizen.
“Places like San Francisco passing it and successfully implementing it would go a long way in proving that this works and that it’s an idea worth taking seriously,” Klugman said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “And so as it becomes more mainstream maybe we can have a more tangible conversation about what it would look like to push for it on a larger level, but I think we’re not quite there yet.”
While Nassiri fully supports lowering the voting age for local elections, she is unsure about the steps it would take to lower the federal voting age to 16. 
For now, attending online classes from her home in San Francisco, Nassiri is eager to finally arrive on campus and join the activist community in-person at Georgetown. 
“Though I haven’t even brought myself to Georgetown, there’s a level of hope I have and enthusiasm I have to come to D.C. and to learn about all the work these other activists are doing,” Nassiri said. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

