
May 14, 2020 by Hansen Lian Leave a Comment 
The Democratic and Republican National Committee chairs remained hopeful that their parties can overcome disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic during virtual events in April. 
The events came as the primary season for the 2020 general election has nearly concluded, with former Vice President Joe Biden (D) presumptively running against incumbent President Donald Trump (R) in November. 
Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service Executive Director Mo Elleithee (SFS ’94) first talked with DNC Chair Tom Perez on April 20 and later with RNC Chair Ronna McDaniel on April 22. The conversations were conducted over Zoom, and members of the Georgetown University community were able to tune into the conference and ask questions during the latter half of each broadcast. 
During the Democratic primary campaign, the DNC prioritized building party unity heading into the general election, according to Perez.
“Our goal is to make sure that everyone got a fair shake because we want to make sure that we come out of our Democratic primary united,” Perez said. “And what I’m proud of is every single candidate has issued a full-throated endorsement to the vice president. I’m really excited about that. What we’re doing is leading with their values.”
The Republican Party, however, is well-prepared financially and benefits from an existing campaign infrastructure, according to McDaniel.
“Clearly, we’ve had a head start. We’ve raised record money. We’ve had an ability to work with the Trump campaign. We’re in 23 states already with 800 staff on the ground, and we’ve activated about a million volunteers,” McDaniel said. “We build the roads so that candidates can drive on it. And that road takes years and years and years to build, and we’re in the best place we’ve ever been heading into this election.”
The two-part series, titled “Election 2020: A Chat with the Chairs,” was hosted by GU Politics in coordination with the Georgetown Bipartisan Coalition, Georgetown University College Democrats and Georgetown University College Republicans. GU Politics also streamed the conversation live on its Facebook page and YouTube channel.
Regardless of existing infrastructure, traditional election strategies could not be implemented this year because of the pandemic, according to The New York Times. Both parties have had to forgo public events, with Biden turning to video speeches and Trump making do with press conferences instead of rallies. 
Despite the present obstacles to organization, McDaniel said stay-at-home orders allow for unprecedented personal check-ins with voters.
“Everyone’s home, so they’re responding, and they want to talk more. It is an interesting shift, but I don’t feel we’ve lost any ground,” McDaniel said. “Instead of knocking on that door, I’m knocking on your Zoom, I’m knocking on your email. We just want to check on you: ‘Are you doing OK? Can we give you the resources you need?’ That’s where the whole country was, and so we wanted to just make it more of a check-in.”
Perez pointed to the recent primary held April 7 in Wisconsin as an example of how the Democratic party can succeed despite the challenges posed by the pandemic. The state Supreme Court, which has a Republican majority, blocked Gov. Tony Evers’ (D) order to postpone the election, and the U.S. Supreme Court blocked an absentee ballot deadline extension in what was condemned by left voices and election experts as an attempt at voter suppression, as voters wary of COVID-19 may have avoided the polls. 
Regardless of the pandemic, turnout remained high at 34%, comparable to previous presidential election cycles in 2008 and 2012, although lower than in 2016, according to NPR. Biden won the state’s Democratic primary with 63% of the vote, and a Democrat-backed judge was elected to the state Supreme Court. 
Perez took a partisan stance and said the election results from Wisconsin prove Democrats can successfully organize voters despite unforeseen obstacles, both biological and political.
“We tried hard to get Republicans to postpone it, but they saw an opportunity to suppress the vote and win an election in Milwaukee and in Wisconsin for this critically important state Supreme Court case,” Perez said. “We know how to organize in the middle of a pandemic. They tried to suppress the vote and we were able to stop that. And most importantly, voters are motivated.”
One of the biggest motivating factors may be the economy, as unemployment has skyrocketed to 14.7% because of the pandemic, according to FiveThirtyEight. Focusing on the economic consequences of the pandemic, McDaniel said that voters will choose who they trust the most to rebuild the economy and that Trump is best positioned to do so.
“The president built an economy that was in such great shape as we headed into this unforeseen crisis: 7 million new jobs, 500,000 manufacturing jobs. This was a president that immediately understood as a candidate the threat that China posed in terms of our supply chain,” McDaniel said. “Americans still, even against Joe Biden head-to-head, trust the president on the economy and to build back the economy at a higher level.”
Perez, however, said the pandemic response from the president pales in comparison to the precautions taken by the Democrats, including pushing back the Democratic National Convention from mid-July to Aug. 17, according to The New York Times. 
“We’re always planning and hoping for the best, but we’re planning for every contingency, and that is what preparedness is about. Unfortunately, the president has not gotten the memo, and we are paying dire consequences for that,” Perez said. “We will nominate our standard-bearer, and in the meantime, we are organized everywhere.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 14, 2020 by Kelly Anderson Leave a Comment 
The COVID-19 pandemic is a stark reminder of the challenges posed by globalization, waning U.S. leadership and the ineptitude of the Trump administration, Senator Mitt Romney (R-Utah) said in a virtual event April 28. 
The conversation, titled “American Leadership During Times of Crisis: A Conversation with Sen. Mitt Romney (R-Utah),” was hosted over Zoom by the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service and co-sponsored by Georgetown University College Republicans and the Georgetown Bipartisan Coalition. GU Politics Executive Director Mo Elleithee (SFS ’94) moderated the event, which centered on the challenges facing policymakers in a global health crisis.
While the Trump administration should be criticized for the United States’ lack of personal protective equipment and testing for COVID-19, the country’s unpreparedness also stems from the long-term diminishing influence of U.S. foreign policy, according to Romney.
“That first phase was not one that will stand out as being a great moment in American leadership,” Romney said. “I think the world was a bit surprised by that because they think of us as being the nation that first went to the moon, that has accomplished extraordinary things in the new economy, and yet when it came to PPE, when it came to testing and just the speed of our response, it looked slow.”
As the coronavirus rapidly spread in early March, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention initially said healthy people should not wear masks to ensure health care workers had adequate supplies. Panic buying still caused a shortage of masks and other personal protective equipment, however. China is one of the leading global suppliers of personal protective equipment, but strained diplomatic relations and the presence of products that were not Food and Drug Administration certified on the market prevented hospitals from receiving shipments quickly, according to Vice News.
The senator said an overreliance on Chinese manufacturers’ medical supplies played a role in the botched response, reiterating his April 23 op-ed in The Washington Post warning U.S. politicians of China’s growing influence.
“We really have let China get a hold of our industries that are key to our health care, but that’s also true across our economies,” Romney said. “Because of that, I think there’s a wake up potential right now to say, ‘Wait a second. How far are we gonna let China go?’ before we say, ‘Hey, you gotta play by the same rules everyone else plays by.’”
The aftermath of the pandemic will be a critical time for U.S. leaders to strengthen their partnership with allies and assert leadership in the global order, according to Romney.
“If we collectively come together, I bet we can dissuade China from the course they’re on. If, instead, we all focus internally and only think about our domestic policies,” Romney said, “we will have missed an opportunity to create the leverage we need to make China play by the rules.”
On the domestic front, Romney said policymakers should pursue a balanced approach between federal and state regulations. As of May 2, 97% of the U.S. population is currently under a stay-at-home or shelter-in-place order, according to CNN. While Trump claimed many states could have reopened by May 1 and shared federal guidelines with governors, individual states are responsible for making their own plans to restart their economies.
While the decision to reopen businesses is made by state and local governments, other parts of the response, like ventilator production and distribution, should be managed at the federal level, according to Romney. He said the federal government did not exercise enough power.
“Were it up to me, I would have a far more centralized coordination effort,” Romney said. “I think it’s important for the people at the top to recognize there are always people out there with more information. You want to bring them in, divide the responsibilities and manage them.”
When peak infection rates begin to decline, the United States should not only focus on rebuilding the economy but also look to provide leadership in disease prevention efforts, according to Romney.
“I think we have the potential to stand out in a positive way in the recovery area, and I would suggest the development of treatments and vaccines. That kind of research work is going on around the world,” Romney said. “We may not be first, but there is certainly a lot going on here that’s not going on in a lot of places, and we may well be able to lead in that area.”
If the Trump administration’s recovery effort outshines its initial response to COVID-19, the president may still win reelection, according to Romney. He spoke in response to one student’s question about the presidential election in November.
“I think it is likely the incumbent will win,” he said.“I think it’s likely that the economy will be doing better than we’re feeling right now. We’re near a down now. It’ll probably be heading back up by November, and that will augur to the advantage of the incumbent.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

