
May 12, 2020 by Annalise Myre Leave a Comment 
As classes transitioned online this past semester, professors adapted to new software and sought to overcome technical difficulties to maintain a productive learning environment during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Amid growing concerns about COVID-19, Georgetown University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95) announced in a universitywide email that all in-person classes would transition indefinitely to online-only coursework beginning March 16. Professors noted problems in areas like attendance, oral examinations and academic integrity, but saw how such technology also allowed for experimentation and creativity as seminars and labs were forced to adapt. 
Trying to maintain instructional continuity, professors and students have relied on Zoom, a videoconferencing service that provides a venue for remote online meetings and mobile collaboration. Other applications like Proctorio, a surveillance program that detects suspicious behavior and displays a student’s probability of having cheated, have enabled professors to proctor examinations online.
Before adopting the Proctorio software, the faculty of languages and linguistics discussed the feasibility of the program and used practice tests to make sure the program could work, Ronald Leow, director of Spanish language instruction, wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
“From our side, while we did encounter some issues like connectivity, being thrown out of the session and unable to re-enter unless a code was used, RAM memory, not doing the practice test before, we were also able to resolve all these issues with much flexibility,” Leow wrote.
Some professors have opted to prerecord lectures and switch to asynchronous learning, while others have continued to hold live lectures and seminar discussions. Language instruction over Zoom sacrifices the valuable in-person aspect of class students ordinarily benefit from, Leow wrote. 
“With classes of 18, the instructor finds it quite challenging to promote a natural communicative setting in which new information is being shared, everyone participating fully, and the instructor in control of the activities,” Leow wrote. “One major benefit is the ability to record the class, which can then be viewed by anyone who was absent or interested in reviewing what took place during the session.”
Although transitioning to an online learning environment was new to both professors and students, student engagement has not been significantly influenced by the shift, according to Charles King, professor of government and international affairs and chair of the government department.
“I’ve been pretty amazed at how well my students have adapted, despite the very serious obstacles that I know many of them are facing,” King wrote. “Attendance is down, but that is to be expected, and in some other ways Zoom has improved things. Students who might have been uncomfortable speaking up in a large lecture hall are now participating more online.”
Lab-based classes such as biology and chemistry faced bigger challenges than discussion-based classes, according to chemistry department chair and professor Timothy Warren. After the university decided to move online, the chemistry department sent an iPad and Apple Pencil, a stylus optimized for iPad applications, to every professor and teaching assistant to equip faculty to continue problem-solving.
“As chemistry is such a visual science, it is crucial that we can show students in real time how we draw chemical structures and problem solve,” Warren wrote. “This new technology we quickly adopted allows us to more naturally communicate with our students by sketching, writing, and problem-solving in the same ways we would do in person by hand.”
Faculty also worked to provide video demonstrations of lab techniques and had their students analyze real data collected by teaching assistants to simulate experiments that would ordinarily be conducted in person. Additionally, online office hours have proven to be popular and could remain even once in-person instruction resumes, Warren wrote.
“Professor Diana Glick shared that she has more students attending office hours now that they are virtual – her ZOOM office is much bigger than her Georgetown office,” Warren said. “Offering virtual in addition to in-person office hours is definitely something she will do when we all return to campus.”
Despite the sudden transition to an online learning environment and changes in policy, professors adapted quickly to meet their students’ needs, according to King.  
“I’ve been amazed at the rapidity with which my colleagues have adapted to this new environment,” King wrote. “There are always going to be challenges as professors quickly rework syllabi and expectations, as well as transition to a Zoom-based format, but people have done it with energy and creativity. I’ve been very proud to be a part of this community at this difficult time.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 12, 2020 by Jaime Moore-Carrillo and Moira Ritter Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University administrators and students have expressed disappointment with the latest federal revisions to Title IX rules, raising concerns that the changes will reverse hard-fought progress in sexual assault prevention on campus. 
Signed into law in 1972, Title IX prohibits discrimination based on sex in academic institutions receiving federal funding and outlines procedures to investigate sexual misconduct on campuses. The new regulations, published by the Department of Education on May 6, tighten definitions of sexual misconduct and limit the scope of misconduct claims schools must investigate. They also introduce a slate of procedures to “ensure a fair and transparent process” for the accused. 
The finalized regulations require schools to hold in-person hearings in which both the accuser and the accused can be cross-examined, a process many sexual assault prevention groups claim is traumatic for assault victims. The DOE also reduced the investigative responsibility of schools, stating that schools only need to investigate cases that occur on campus or in school programs or school-sanctioned organizations. The new changes are set to go into effect August 14. 
The Georgetown administration has expressed frustration with the new changes and the short time frame in which they must be administered. 
“We are deeply disappointed the new regulations do not reflect many of the concerns we raised through our formal comment to the Department of Education and are very concerned by the short time frame colleges and universities have been given to implement these complex regulations during such difficult times,” a university spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
The DOE released its proposed Title IX changes in 2018 and allowed the public to submit complaints and propose alterations. The proposed rules upended Obama-era Title IX policies, which lowered the standard of evidence needed in sexual assault cases and introduced a slate of procedures to tackle sexual assault on college campuses. Georgetown sent an 11-page letter to Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos in January 2019, advocating against cross-examination and stricter evidentiary standards. 
The DOE’s new Title IX standards will hinder efforts to confront sexual misconduct on campus, according to H*yas For Choice Co-Organizing Director Katarina Watson (COL ’21). 
“Our stance is that these regulations further promote an agenda of protecting the institution and the accused. They are adding limits and narrowing definitions while we desperately need the opposite,” Watson wrote in a message to The Hoya. “These regulations allow institutions to ignore the incredibly severe and prevalent issue of sexual assault and everything that comes with it.”
Watson is also a member of “Title IX for a New Generation,” a student-designed women’s and gender studies class that was offered for the first time this spring. Taught by professor Sara Collina, the course focused on educating students on the Title IX system at Georgetown. The class will be offered again in the fall.
The Title IX revisions will disincentivize reporting of sexual misconduct and downplay the needs of survivors, according to Miranda Wesley (NHS ’22), another member of the Title IX class. 
“The regulations seem to unnecessarily protect schools and the accused a lot more than survivors and complainants. There is no more 60-day time limit, so schools can draw out cases for even longer. Cross-examination can now be required, which is extremely harmful and traumatizing,” Wesley wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I am opposed to the new regulations because they will deter many survivors from coming forward and having an equal education.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

