
July 25, 2020 by Campus News Editor Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association Senate voted to establish new discussion guidelines during its meeting July 19 in light of several intense debates within the organization.
The new guidelines aim to foster inclusive discussion among senators holding different viewpoints and minimize personal attacks against senators during discourse. 
“RESPECT all of the members of our group in their varied experiences, perspectives, situations, and identities, even in disagreement,” the document orders. “Separate the people from the issue: Someone may make a statement or behave in a manner that seems insensitive or offensive. Before resorting to personal attacks, try to address the specific incident first.”
While GUSA adheres to the GUSA Governing By-laws and standard parliamentary procedure, these established rules do not address senator conduct during debate. The new community guidelines will formalize rules for respectful behavior and hold senators accountable for their speech and actions, according to GUSA Senate Speaker Daniella Sanchez (COL ’22).
“I hope that our community guidelines serve as a reminder of how to engage in respectful discourse for our body, and I intend to use these guidelines to hold all of us accountable for our comments and behavior within the Senate,” Sanchez wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The creation of behavioral guidelines comes in response to significant disagreement and hostility within the senate during its summer session meetings, according to Sanchez.
“This is necessary as the summer, unlike any summer before, has been full of extremely important, sensitive, and, at times, political issues that have ignited a lot of passion and heated debate within the Senate,” Sanchez wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Disagreement is part of the process yet I have seen that we have had a difficult time respectfully disagreeing which eerily matches the civility within our current political atmosphere.”
Senators have also engaged in disrespectful and offensive behavior during the summer session, specifically in regard to recent racial justice issues and the Black Lives Matter movement, according to GUSA Senator Eric Bazail-Eimil (SFS ’23).
“We’ve seen Senators act disparagingly towards people that bring testimony forward about their own experiences with racism and discrimination on our campus,” Bazail-Eimil wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We see Senators refuse to add pronouns to their biographies and Zoom names, call the Black Lives Matter movement all sorts of horrible things, and generally drag their feet on racial justice issues. We’ve also seen that some Senators are willing to make deals around bills that are designed to support FGLI students so that they can enjoy greater power in the Senate.”
Two weeks prior to the decorum reforms, the senate held a heated debate about a student article that condemned the Black Lives Matter movement and denied the existence of systemic racism.
Sanchez emphasized the importance of respectful debate among GUSA senators and criticized the idea that debates within GUSA are a conflict between liberal and conservative students.
“We should not be unanimous every time,” Sanchez said during the meeting. “I understand that there’s a lot of issues that we feel passionate about and we think should be unanimous. But at the end of the day, if you look at the broader Georgetown community that we’re representing, we don’t all have the same perspective. Georgetown University as a whole does not always agree on everything.” 
To better promote a sense of communal respect, the Senate Community Guidelines recognize the potentially upsetting nature of the issues GUSA deals with and implement provisions for senators to avoid interfering in one another’s policy areas. The document also acknowledges the potential effects of debates on the well-being of students and encourages senators to focus on the issues that are most relevant to the lives of Georgetown students.
The GUSA Senate functions best when it focuses on issues relevant to the lives of Georgetown students, according to GUSA Senator Chris Ziac (COL ’22).
“Often when we get into more divisive and broader issues that have less tangible connection to our community, that’s when we get into more divisive and uncomfortable territory, and I think that some of the best work we do is when we’re more explicitly focused on helping students have a better Georgetown experience,” Ziac said during the meeting.
The GUSA Senate also voted to appoint Ziac as its vice speaker for the remaining month of GUSA’s summer session.
Ziac edged Senators Zach Volpe (SFS ’23) and Zahra Wakilzada (COL ’23) in a close election for the position June 19. 
The previous vice speaker, Eric Lipka (COL ’23), resigned from his position on the leadership team and in the Senate on July 9 to focus on his mental health. Following his resignation, Lipka endorsed both Wakilzada and Senator Leo Teixeira (COL ’21) as options to take his place.
In advocating for his candidacy, Ziac emphasized his experience in GUSA working with Georgetown’s student organizations.
“I have deep knowledge of both student organization leadership, the financial aid system, federal work-study, as well as the committees of GUSA, by-laws, constitution and et cetera,” Ziac said during the meeting. “I believe this deep knowledge will help me more definitely navigate the reopening negotiations, as well as the other issues that we’ve been dealing with this summer.”
Ziac hopes to help further student interests as fall reopening plans continue to develop. 
“I hope to use the position to facilitate and advance the great advocacy and other initiatives Senators have been tirelessly working on throughout the summer,” Ziac wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Additionally, I hope to be an advocate for all students as GUSA leadership continues to meet with University administration on issues regarding reopening and ensuring students have the resources they require for the fall semester.”
Wakilzada believes the senate missed an opportunity to foster more inclusive leadership by electing Ziac. 
“Unfortunately, I am not surprised by the turnout,” Wakilzada wrote in an email to The Hoya. “[The] Senate has always favored a specific group over others for leadership positions. I really hope that we learn and educate each other on the importance of practicing real inclusivity and representation.”
After moving to change the community guidelines, GUSA unanimously passed a resolution to combat student food insecurity during the ongoing pandemic.
To combat food insecurity, the GUSA resolution urges the university to consider providing food stipends for students facing food insecurity and encourages that the Hoya Hub remains at its current, temporary location in McCarthy Hall rather than its original location in the Leavey Center, where its proximity to the MedStar Georgetown University Hospital could put students going to the Hoya Hub at risk of coming in contact with COVID-19 patients.
“I think that food insecurity was already a fairly big issue on college campuses across this country before the pandemic,” GUSA Senator Joseph Yacovone (COL ’22), the resolution’s sponsor, said during the meeting. “And I think the ongoing crisis has only made things worse, not better.” 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


July 25, 2020 by Clara Grudberg 1 Comment 
Months after the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic left their dining rooms abandoned, local Georgetown restaurants are seating customers once again and adjusting to a new reality under Phase Two of the Washington, D.C. reopening plan. 
Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) transitioned the District into the second phase of reopening June 22, allowing indoor dining in restaurants, shopping in nonessential businesses and the opening of recreational facilities with safety restrictions. Bowser ordered restaurants and bars to shut their doors March 16, limiting operations to curbside pickup and delivery options.
Although COVID-19 closures were difficult for restaurants, prioritizing safety was the right decision, according to Juan Andino, food and alcohol manager at Mr. Smith’s of Georgetown, a restaurant and piano bar on K Street. 
“I think the government has been doing the right thing by continuing to go slowly,” Andino said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “It hurts a lot of businesses, including my business, but in the long run I think it’s the right thing to do.”
The sudden and drastic economic slowdown has taken a heavy toll on businesses that tend to rely on in-person operations for the bulk of their revenue, such as restaurants. Many Georgetown restaurants were able to stay afloat during the District’s shutdown and have cautiously recommenced in-person dining. 
Relying solely on takeout and delivery orders was enough to sustain some businesses throughout the pandemic, according to Bettina Stern, co-founder of Chaia Tacos, located on Grace Street. 
“To minimize the concerns by our employees and to follow suggested social distancing requirements, we made the decision on 3/15 (just ahead of Mayor Bowser’s directive) to move from regular service hours to limited hours, a pared-down menu, and only offering take out and delivery via in-store orders and online,” Stern wrote in an email to The Hoya. “This plan allowed us to minimize employee contact and to reduce labor costs, as well as to operate with a two-person team (one owner and one kitchen employee in each store).
Reopening a restaurant while COVID-19 is still a threat requires careful planning and the acquisition of personal protective equipment. The Georgetown Business Improvement District has been helping establishments open their doors by communicating frequently, creating flyers and providing necessary safety materials, according to Lauren Boston, communications director for the BID. 
“The BID has been sending our members updates almost daily with information and resources regarding DC’s phased reopenings, to ensure they are aware of and following the guidance. We worked with the city to distribute PPE packages to businesses,” Boston wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The Georgetown BID has created face mask and social distancing signage that we have placed throughout the commercial district and also sent to our members, should they wish to use that signage within their own businesses.” 
The BID also assisted restaurants in acquiring permits for outdoor sidewalk dining spaces, an environment that puts customers more at ease, according to Andino. 
“The Georgetown BID also helped us open up our outdoor eatery — they call it a ‘streatery,’” Andino said. “So now we have a few tables outdoors of the restaurant, which also helps because it’s outdoors and people feel safe being out there. We spaced out the tables — gave each table at least six feet separation between each other. People feel better sitting outside: they are able to take off their mask to be able to eat and drink.” 
Though many restaurants were able to pivot to delivery or takeout to sustain operations, some Georgetown restaurants were unable to stay above water. The America Eats Tavern, a popular eatery on M Street founded by celebrity chef Jose Andres, shuttered in late June. An M Street storefront for Le Pain Quotidien, a national breakfast chain, also shut down.  
Even with increased customer traffic, restaurants that have managed to reopen are still struggling with the pandemic’s financial pressures. Businesses are still producing much less revenue than they have during regular summers. 
“It’s night and day,” Andino said. “This time last year, we were doing sales over $100,000; this year, we’re lucky if we get to $25,000, maybe $30,000 sales for this month.”
Despite the considerable drop in revenue compared to previous years, there has been a gradual increase in profits since reopening, according to Stern. 
“We are currently at sales of  < 50% Year-Over-Year, but Week-Over-Week, sales have been improving ever-so-slightly,” Stern wrote in an email to The Hoya. “If we can continue to serve good food and keep some of our staff working, when things do pick back up again, we will be poised and ready to get back to business ‘as usual’.”
Safety precautions and finances are not the only issues restaurants are dealing with. Waitstaff have had to contend with abusive behavior from customers, according to Gregory Casten, owner of Nick’s Riverside Grill, located in the Georgetown Waterfront complex. 
“We had somebody screaming at our staff yesterday because we wouldn’t split a check,” Casten said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “I personally think the staff is more at risk than the customer.”
Encounters have centered around customers’ disapproval of employees wearing masks, according to Casten. 
“Some people are fucking assholes. I mean, it’s literally shocking — they pull masks off the staff, say, ‘You don’t need that,’ ‘This is all bullshit,’” Casten said. “I just want you to wear a mask because the government is telling you you’re supposed to. That’s really been the number one issue for us.”
Patrons and community members have also had a positive impact on the reopening process, helping restaurants and their staff get through the pandemic, according to Stern. 
“The restaurant community has the impulse to lean into adversity and, typically, we are culture bearers and community gathering places,” Stern wrote. “During this time though, it is our customers and our neighbors who are scrambling to help our restaurant and our employees to survive this crisis. We are thankful to each and every one of them for supporting us.”

isla john says 
April 13, 2021 at 6:21 am
I have read your blog its great
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

