
June 18, 2020 by Moira Ritter and Kelly Anderson 1 Comment 
Hundreds of Georgetown University students signed a petition calling on the university to use its campus spaces as a sanctuary for protesters amid ongoing nationwide demonstrations against police brutality and racial injustice. 
Washington, D.C., has become a focal point of national unrest provoked by the murder of George Floyd at the hands of a white Minneapolis police officer. Protests in the District entered their third week on Saturday as protesters sustain their push for drastic policing reforms and a broader reckoning about racial inequity in the United States. Black Lives Matter protesters have gathered in the Georgetown neighborhood over the past two weeks, but there have been no reports of protests on campus. 
The Metropolitan Police Department and other law enforcement agencies operating in the District have used tear gas, batons and rubber bullets to disperse peacefully gathered crowds. In some cases, local residents have housed protesters being pursued by police officers.  
The petition, which has garnered over 300 signatures as of June 18, demands the university utilize its campus spaces — downtown and on the Hilltop — to help shield demonstrators from police abuse. 
“As an institution historically contributing to the brutality of slavery, in a city shaped by a large African-American population, and as the first Jesuit university in the nation, Georgetown should lead by example and become a sanctuary for those fighting for racial justice,” the petition reads. “We urge Georgetown to act and ethically establish its campus as a sanctuary—free from the real and anticipated violence of external police.”
Protesters have sought refuge on Georgetown’s campus in the past. On May 3, 1971, MPD officers made arrests and released tear gas after more than 3,000 protesters who were protesting the Vietnam War sought shelter on Georgetown’s campus. The university administration did not intervene. In response, then-GUSA President Roger Cochetti (SFS ’72) created Students of Georgetown Inc. to protect the rights of students and community members.
This petition, drafted by The Corp and the Georgetown University Student Association, follows student calls for the university to cut ties with the MPD and renewed demands for reform in the Georgetown University Police Department.  
GUSA’s decision to sign on to the petition was influenced by the Vietnam War protests on campus, according to GUSA executive leadership. 
“Georgetown, as an institution committed to social justice, must support today’s protesters just as we supported those protesting against injustice in the Vietnam War,” GUSA leadership wrote in a statement to The Hoya. “We recognize the work that Georgetown professors have done, and urge the administration to support those speaking out against the racist institutions that those professors have studied.”
University officials met with students, faculty and staff involved with the petition this week and plan to continue discussions on the matter in the future, according to a university spokesperson.
“Georgetown is committed to upholding its long-standing Speech and Expression Policy, and to promoting the free exchange of ideas and opinions as part of a safe and harassment-free university community,” the spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “In addition, we work to provide care and support to all members of our community whether they are on or off campus.”
The university has an ethical obligation to support the protection of protesters on campus, according to AJ Williamson (COL ’21), the chair of the Georgetown University College Democrats, who signed the petition.
“If the university does not honor the demands in this petition, it will have chosen to side with systemic violence against the Black community and the repression of First Amendment rights,” Williamson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Such a stance would be antithetical to the values of our organization, and would be antithetical to the professed values of our campus community.”
The GUSA Senate passed a resolution voicing support for the petition at its meeting June 14 in a 16-2-1 vote. 
Efforts to protect students’ rights to free speech are grounded in the university’s commitment to Jesuit values, according to GUSA Senator Lucy Sonsalla (SFS ’23).
“The university would be well within its moral and legal rights to speak out against MPD, and as a Jesuit institution, Georgetown’s moral obligation is to protect those who seek sanctuary,” Sonsalla said during the meeting. “These historically Catholic values don’t have a legal foundation anymore. It’s our duty as an institution to uphold them to the threshold of legality and for many protesters, Georgetown’s their home. To remain silent to our constituents and fellow students and the Hoya family would be an attack.”
CORRECTION: A previous version of this article stated that the GUSA Senate resolution supporting the petition was passed unanimously. The resolution was actually received 16 votes in favor, two against and one absentation. The article has been updated to reflect this information.

M. Mullen says 
June 23, 2020 at 8:11 am
Did you know that the GU school colors honor the Confederacy? In addition to the other actions taken by GU students to stop institutional racism and promote social justice, I hope students can get the University to change their school colors. Please share the following information with your readers.
Despite Georgetown University’s long history of leadership and innovation, there is one area of social justice where the university fails miserably. The Georgetown University blue and gray school colors were created to honor the Confederacy. 
According to the university website, in 1876, the Georgetown College Boat Club created a Committee on Colors. The college did not have any colors at that time and the club believed they needed school colors so supporters could identify the team during races. The Committee, wanted colors that honored Georgetown students and alumni who fought in the Civil War so they chose the colors Union blue and Confederate gray see: https://www.library.georgetown.edu/infrequently-asked-questions/when-and-why-were-blue-and-gray-adopted-georgetowns-colors.
Women from the neighboring Visitation Academy created a banner that was half blue and half gray and presented it to the College. The banner, now lost, was prominently displayed at commencements and other school events and the blue and gray colors quickly became part of the university’s tradition. 
In 1876, to celebrate the end of the Civil War, Georgetown students selected the colors blue (Union) and gray (Confederate) as the school’s official colors. Georgetown University never corrected the issue and, to this day, happily accepts its role in promoting slavery and racism see: https://www.georgetown.edu/who-we-are/our-history/. 
To view other ways Georgetown University supported slavery, racism, and the Confederacy see: https://www.library.georgetown.edu/exhibition/shades-blue-and-gray-georgetown-and-civil-war.  
During these times of social injustice, Georgetown University’s 144-year-old tradition of honoring those who fought to preserve the institution of slavery empowers those who promote intolerance and bigotry. Their indifference to the symbols of racism helps fuel institutional racist practices against people of color. And, their support of the Confederacy, through the adoption of the color gray as one of their school’s colors, serves no other purpose than to further divide an already racially divided country.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


June 18, 2020 by Harrison Lee 1 Comment 
Government department chair Charles King received the 2020 Francis Parkman Prize for his book about a small group of cultural anthropologists working at the beginning of the 20th century.
“Gods of the Upper Air” examines how research conducted by Margaret Mead, Zora Neale Hurston and other students of Franz Boas rejected the conventional wisdom of their contemporaries that race, sex and gender are fixed and biologically predetermined. King published the book in August 2019 to wide critical acclaim, culminating in the Parkman Prize this June.
King said modern changes in societal perceptions of identity inspired his research into the subject of anthropology.
“Some years ago, I think it occurred to me that we were undergoing a sea change in contemporary society not just in the United States, but in other countries around the world, in how large numbers of people thought of issues like race or gender or sexuality — seeing these things, as any undergraduate learns in an ‘Intro to Sociology’ class, as socially constructed identities,” King said in an interview with The Hoya. “And I wanted to trace where that idea came from because it became a very powerful idea in our society.”
“Gods of the Upper Air” captures the prescience of Boas and his students, according to University of California, Berkeley psychology professor Alison Gopnik in a review for The Atlantic.
“[King] makes the case for anthropology in a thoughtful, deeply intelligent, and immensely readable and entertaining way,” Gopnik wrote. “The old distinctions between biology and culture, nature and nurture, just don’t work. Today, it’s clear that culture is our nature, and the ability to change is our most important innate trait.”
The Francis Parkman Prize, named after the 19th-century historian, is awarded annually to the best nonfiction work of history on an American theme. Recipients of the prize also receive $2,000. The prize has been issued since 1957 by the Society of American Historians, based at Columbia University.
Although the book focuses on anthropologists, King said “Gods of the Upper Air” is foremost a historical account because it focuses on documenting changes in how people see the world around them.
“I’m a social scientist,” King said. “I write history books, and this really is a history book or a biography of a group of people. It’s not a work of anthropology itself, but it’s about an anthropological way of seeing the world that I think in turn transformed, in general, our way of seeing the world.”
Andrew Bickford, an assistant professor in the anthropology department, praised “Gods of the Upper Air” for its contribution to the field of anthropology and expressed appreciation for King’s work outside the field of government.
“All disciplines need to know their history, and Prof. King has done a wonderful service for anthropology and the social sciences in general by bringing Boas’ and his students’ commitment to combating racism and oppression – and the obstacles they faced in doing so – so vividly to life,” Bickford wrote in an email to The Hoya. “This is a fantastic and much deserved honor for Prof. King.”
While King’s book is a historical work, Bickford emphasized the relevance of its contents in today’s current social climate.
“What I find most striking in Prof. King’s book – and what he draws out that is often absent from histories of early anthropology – is just how radically imaginative Boas and his students were in their scholarship and in their fight against prevailing understandings and notions of race and identity, and their willingness to confront racism and oppression head-on,” Bickford wrote. “Their radical imagination is something we can continue to draw from and use in today’s struggles.”
Georgetown University played a positive role in helping King foster his own work, according to King.
“I’ve been at Georgetown going on 24 years, and it’s been a really remarkable place to do this kind of work,” King said. “And I’m so pleased that the university is engaging deeply in these questions around race identity, sexuality, gender, with more energy and commitment than I think it’s ever had. So all of that is to the good.”
Besides taking inspiration from colleagues in Georgetown’s anthropology department, King said his wife inspired him and expanded his knowledge of the ways anthropologists think.
“The person I was intellectually closest with in this project is also the person I’m just closest with in life — was my wife,” King said. “She has a Ph.D. in anthropology. She brings to her work a kind of anthropological sensibility. And so being in the same house with her, in a way myself getting to be an anthropologist of an anthropologist, that really helped me see how people who are trained in this field understand the world.”
King hopes that people take Boas, Mead and Hurston’s lead in light of ongoing conversations about race.
“Shift your sense of what the normal thing is, the obvious thing, the commonsensical thing. Throw that up in the air, make that look really weird,” King said. “Make your sense of the normal look weird for a moment, and then as soon as you do that — ah. Then the possibilities of social change suddenly open up.”

Linnea says 
June 26, 2020 at 8:49 pm
My mom says you did such a good job!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

