
November 22, 2020 by Ivy Becker Leave a Comment 
Performing arts and African American studies professor Soyica Diggs Colbert (COL ’01) will serve as interim dean of Georgetown College effective Jan. 1, a university news release announced.
The Nov. 11 announcement comes nearly a month after Christopher Celenza, dean of the College, announced he will depart Georgetown University in January to take on a similar position at Johns Hopkins University. Colbert will assume the duties of the interim dean position until the search for another dean is concluded.
Colbert has already taken on an increased administrative role in the College within the last year. She was appointed to a vice dean position in January 2020 and has made strides toward redressing systemic racism, including helping ideate and host a college webinar series that focused on the intersection between faculty research and racial justice in October. 
In her new role, Colbert hopes to build on the work she took up in her vice dean position as well as on Celenza’s previous goals regarding sustainability and expanding faculty diversity.
“During my appointment, I hope to continue my life’s work of expanding access, working to redress systemic racism, and building stable and equitable structures that support research and teaching for the common good,” Colbert wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Following Dean Celenza, I plan to maintain the transparency of decision making, provide students expanded research opportunities, and cultivate a sense of belonging for all members of our community.”
Celenza joined the Georgetown University faculty in July 2017, when he was appointed as dean of Georgetown College. Celenza also currently serves as a professor in both the history and classics departments. In an Oct. 22 email to the university community announcing Celenza’s departure, University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95) said Celenza cared deeply about educating undergraduate students while also spearheading efforts to increase diversity within the faculty and staff of the College.
Celenza called on his colleagues to promote equity and diversity in line with the mission of the College.
“We’ve also really focused in my time here on diversity, equity and inclusion when it comes to hiring,” Celenza said. “In other words, making sure not just that we have a diverse community, but that the people who are here feel welcomed and included so that the experience is actually equitable. I think that everyone’s gotta work on that.”
Though proud of the school’s accomplishments thus far, Celenza acknowledged there is more work to do to improve the College, especially in terms of strengthening Georgetown’s commitment to the environment.
“Think about how the environment affects everything, right? It affects law, it affects policy, it affects health, it affects economics, it affects all of the different disciplines you find in the College like the natural sciences, social sciences, humanities, the arts,” Celenza said in an interview with The Hoya. 
Celenza’s accomplishments while at Georgetown include launching the Royden B. Davis Fellowships, which help fund undergraduate students’ summer research opportunities. He also began the Sophomore Success Series, which connects sophomore students with recent College graduates. Additionally, he directed the Georgetown Humanities Initiative, which aims to make the humanities more accessible to the public by sharing the benefits of humanistic scholarship. 
Georgetown is currently conducting a national search to fill permanently the position of Dean of Georgetown College, according to Vice Dean for Undergraduate Education Sue Lorenson.
“The Dean of the College should be a nationally recognized scholar with a proven record of thoughtful and innovative academic leadership,” Lorenson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The Dean should be an enthusiastic cheerleader for the enduring value of a liberal arts education.”
Despite Celenza’s desire to continue improving the College, he ultimately made what he called “the hardest decision,” to leave Georgetown to become the next James B. Knapp Dean of the Krieger School of Arts and Sciences at Johns Hopkins. 
Celenza hopes to take on new challenges in his next role at a school he already knows well, having already worked at Johns Hopkins before Georgetown. These preexisting connections will help him adjust to the new environment where he will shoulder additional responsibility. Johns Hopkins’ dean of the Krieger School of Arts and Sciences encompasses Georgetown’s dean of the College, dean of the Graduate School of Arts & Sciences and dean of the School of Continuing Studies, according to Celenza.
“So in that sense, it’s a challenge. There are more responsibilities unfolded in it,” Celenza said. “And I had been there 12 years before coming here.”
Even though he is leaving Georgetown, Celenza said he will carry the Georgetown spirit with him to Johns Hopkins.
“I have not met a student yet who hasn’t had a real interest in service, like serving humanity, realizing that we’re all given privileges at institutions like this and that we need to do something with that, you know, for other people,” Celenza said. “That’s in the air at Georgetown. And one job I have is bringing some of that back to Hopkins.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 22, 2020 by River Harper Leave a Comment 
Prior to the emergence of the coronavirus in March, thousands of Georgetown University students were looking forward to casting their votes via absentee ballot from the Hilltop come November. After eight months of uncertainty, many found themselves not only voting from home, but taking on an increased role in the democratic process as well. 
As a result of the pandemic, many students took advantage of being home for the semester to engage with local polling places and ensure voting proceeded smoothly. Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, students were able to work at polls across the entire country instead of only in Washington, D.C, getting to interact with many different types of voters from all around the United States. 
Students interested in contributing to the democratic process decided to work to check people in at their polling place, monitor precincts for irregularities, report issues or give rides to people who were not able to get to their polling location on their own. Taylor Kahn-Perry (COL ’23), who is currently taking a gap year, worked as a nonpartisan poll monitor in Charleston, S.C. 
As a poll monitor, Kahn-Perry was responsible for watching her precinct’s operations throughout the day, looking for any signs of trouble or attempts to commit fraud or intimidate voters. 
Her previous experience organizing with the Poor People’s Campaign, a movement dedicated to ending poverty in the United States, inspired Kahn-Perry to get involved in poll monitoring to help prevent the suppression of marginalized voters, she wrote in an email to The Hoya.
“Since I’m in South Carolina, which has historically dealt with issues of racist voter suppression, it feels especially important to volunteer as a poll monitor this election,” Kahn-Perry wrote. “It’s been energizing and important to be in a community and in solidarity with folks across South Carolina who know that voter suppression is violence and are willing to take an active role in ensuring justice in our elections this fall.” 
Voter turnout for people aged 18 to 29 increased significantly for the 2020 election, a marked improvement for a group that saw drastically lower turnout in the 2016 election compared to every other age group. 
This increase in youth turnout has been attributed to the Black Lives Matter protests that took the country by storm over the summer in the wake of George Floyd’s killing in May, as well as President Donald Trump’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic that has alienated many young voters across the country. Many millennials and members of Generation Z see these issues as ones that made the 2020 presidential election the most important of their lifetimes, boosting turnout accordingly. 
On-campus organizations working to energize voters voiced support for the students. Although GU Votes could not register voters on campus like it usually does, the organization, which is part of the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service, encouraged members of the Georgetown community to sign up to work at election sites across the country.
“Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, it’s more important than ever that young people serve as poll workers to help ensure that our election will be fair, safe, and secure. GU Votes is excited to see Hoyas getting involved in the election process by serving their communities and helping others vote this election day,” a spokesperson for GU Votes wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
After signing up to check people in at a polling site in Miami, Julia Damski (SFS ‘24) participated in trainings and simulations to reduce the likelihood that voters might experience difficulties come Election Day. 
“One of the main reasons that I wanted to get involved was so that I could help facilitate democracy in this election while also protecting the thousands of senior citizens who need to stay home because of the pandemic,” Damski said in an interview with The Hoya. “I’ve also been concerned that there would be a severe shortage of poll workers in this election and felt that it was important to get involved during one of the greatest threats to our democracy that we’ve ever seen.” 
Although Trump has repeatedly claimed the election was fraudulent and has sought to challenge President-elect Joe Biden’s victory, neither Damski nor Kahn-Perry saw any instances of voter fraud or illicit activity while working at the polls. 
Although being a poll worker or monitor could be stressful at times, the experience was worth getting a firsthand glimpse into the voting process, according to Damski.
“At my training, I was really inspired to see how diverse the group of people was, and I’m really encouraged that people from all kinds of age groups and ethnicities care deeply about this election and are trying to get involved,” Damski said. 
Kahn-Perry said the involvement in this election was as exciting as it was necessary.
“I’m made incredibly hopeful by all the folks I’ve seen step up to be poll workers, nonpartisan poll monitors, and organizers during this important time, but I know that the work must continue to build a more just future,” Damski said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

