
October 8, 2020 by Caitlin McLean 1 Comment 
The day Sina Nemazi (COL ’21) met the Democratic presidential candidate is not one he will forget anytime soon.
“Getting to meet Biden up close was a really great experience because I have been supporting him since day one, and he was super charismatic,” Nemazi told The Hoya in an interview. “He came out and spoke about Virginia and how we’re going to fight to take back our country and the values that make us who we are.” 
Sina Nemazi (COL ’21), the chair of Washington, D.C.-Maryland-Virginia Students For Biden, is one of many Georgetown students who have gotten to witness the democratic process up close as volunteers on campaigns across the country, from congressional races to the presidential race. 
Students for Biden is a branch of Biden’s national campaign focused on arranging phone banks and voter registration drives and marketing Biden’s campaign message to young voters. The organization’s DMV chapter has also hosted events with big-name speakers, including former Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley (D), Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-Md.) and former Virginia First Lady Dorothy McAuliffe. Nemazi says he’s also been on calls with former Texas Rep. Beto O’Rourke (D).
Although it has been harder to juggle schoolwork with the campaign as the election nears, managing Students for Biden merits the investment of time and energy, according to Nemazi.
“We’re within 30-some days of the election, and all we want to do is just phone bank and get voters registered and all this stuff, and it’s just kind of hard to do that because you have to manage your student schedule with that,” Nemazi said. “I would say that it is difficult to manage, but we make it work.”
Annalise Myre (COL ’24), who is currently taking a gap year, started working for the Biden campaign in Iowa in February, knocking on doors and phone banking to make sure people turned out for the Iowa caucuses in support of Biden (Full disclosure: Myre is a staff writer at The Hoya).
“I had really interesting conversations with people in their homes about why Biden was the best candidate and convinced a few Bernie [Sanders] supporters to ultimately support Biden,” Myre wrote in a message to The Hoya. “Being on the ground in Iowa showed me that campaigns are run by young people and if you are passionate about a candidate, you can contribute a lot to the momentum of the campaign”
Over the summer, Myre interned for Precision Strategies, a political consulting firm, where she worked with Stephanie Cutter, Program Executive for the 2020 Democratic National Convention. At Precision Strategies, Myre was responsible for finding stories about COVID-19 related to the campaign. 
“Kristin Urquiza, the woman who lost her father to COVID and went viral for saying the only preexisting condition her father had was trusting Donald Trump, was actually someone I found and suggested to my team,” Myre wrote. “It was amazing to see her speak at the Convention and see her story break through as a standout moment from the first night.”
Over the summer, Arianne Kane (COL ‘24) and Yasy Celikoyar (COL ‘23) both worked on the Jesse Mermell campaign for Massachusetts’ 4th Congressional District, the seat vacated by former Rep. Joe Kennedy III. 
After struggling to find a summer job, Kane decided to help out Mermell’s campaign. Although she does not plan on working for another campaign, the experience left her inspired to pursue a career in public health policy, she wrote. 
“I love being in the political world, so I’d want to find a way to merge my interest in healthcare with policy,” Kane wrote. “And unfortunately, as is the case with reproductive healthcare, gun violence prevention, and so many more issues, healthcare is inextricably tied to policy, so I’m sure this won’t be my last foray into politics.” 
Mermell (D-Mass.) ran on a progressive platform, but lost the Democratic primary to the more moderate Jake Auchincloss (D-Mass.). The campaign’s positive atmosphere left Celikoyar motivated to continue working on and managing campaigns despite the loss, she said. 
“The staff was amazing. It was all women-led, women-managed, and I think that you know after leaving a campaign like that you can’t help but be super motivated to go out there in the world and make a difference,” Celikoyar said. “I don’t think I would ever necessarily want to run for office seeing how tiring that can be, but I do love the organizing aspect of it, and I hopefully can continue this process and be a campaign manager someday.” 

Temporally Confused says 
October 14, 2020 at 4:05 pm
How is Annalise Myre class of ‘24, a freshman on a gap year, a writer for the Hoya?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 8, 2020 by Claire Stowe 2 Comments 
While most Georgetown University students are taking classes at home, Alice Lei (NHS ’22), a nursing major, not only returned to campus but spends 16 hours a week in a local hospital fulfilling clinical hours. 
Lei and many of her classmates returned to campus this fall to participate in clinical rotations, during which nursing students spend time each week practicing skills they learn in lectures in a real hospital environment.
Yet contingencies surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic have left Lei and many of her classmates feeling the need to choose between their health and their education. Some students in the Bachelor of Science in Nursing program in the School of Nursing and Health Studies worry about contracting coronavirus and spreading it to others. They say the NHS does not have contingency plans for if they fall ill and become unable to complete in-person clinical hours.
After Georgetown announced no students would be allowed to return to campus this fall, nursing students were given three options for the semester. They could choose to defer a year, take nonclinical classes part-time or take classes on campus to take part in clinical rotations, according to an email to The Hoya from Margaret Nolan, interim director of the BSN program, and Edilma Yearwood, chair of the department of professional nursing practice. BSN students need 120 clinical hours to graduate. 
Given these three options, however, students felt pressure to return to campus to complete their degree requirements on time, according to a student in the BSN program who preferred to remain anonymous and will be referred to as Alex to protect their identity. 
“The only option we were given was to return to campus and work in the hospital or take a full year off,” Alex wrote in an email to The Hoya. “If there were other options besides taking a year off, I would have taken them. I have severe asthma and was terrified to return to campus and work in the hospital.”
Even if they did choose to return to campus, some students are uncertain if they will be able to graduate if they catch coronavirus and need to take time off to recover. Nursing students say the administration has not provided a clear contingency plan if the problem arises.
While junior nursing students have been participating in entirely in-person clinical rotations, many senior nursing students have been completing the majority of clinical rotations online despite returning to campus. Seniors only have in-person clinical rotations once a week, according to a fourth-year BSN student, who preferred to remain anonymous and will be referred to as Casey to protect their identity. 
“I wasn’t very happy to be forced to come back,” Casey said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “Especially because I’m only coming back so that I can leave my apartment once every other week.”
Nolan and Yearwood wrote in their email to The Hoya the administration acknowledges student concerns and will work to address any confusion about fall policy. 
Additionally, nursing students are frustrated after being asked to sign a clinical release form Sept. 8 to participate in hospital rotations that implied students returned to campus freely. Although the form said students were given alternatives to returning to campus, effectively, students’ only alternative was delaying their graduation, according to a student in the BSN program who preferred to remain anonymous and will be referred to as Jordan to protect their identity. 
“They say that we came back of our own volition even though we had other options. The truth is our other options were to do another year of school,” Jordan said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “While that is technically another option, it is not viable for a lot of students financially, emotionally, physically; it was an option but I don’t think it was a viable one.”
Until early October, students on campus believed they would not be able to quarantine before being required to head home on Nov. 20, the same day that clinical rotations end. However, nursing students received an email on Oct. 6 from Associate Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students Jeanne Lord notifying them that housing would be extended to Dec. 18.
“The NHS Dean’s Office sponsored your fall campus housing because of required academic curricular elements in your degree program necessitating on-campus work,” Lord wrote in an email obtained by The Hoya. “The Dean’s Office has notified us that your coursework necessitating on-campus presence will be completed by Friday, December 18, the last day of fall final examinations. As a result, you may remain on campus until December 18 to complete your coursework.”
After Thanksgiving break, students will participate in clinical meetings online until winter break, lessening the risk of contracting coronavirus from the hospital setting.
Regardless, Georgetown students are not permitted to care for COVID-19 patients or patients who are being evaluated for coronavirus, so students only need to quarantine if it is required by the state they are returning to, according to Nolan and Yearwood.
“Given their strict adherence to PPE requirements while caring for patients, nursing students do not require quarantine before going home unless it’s a requirement of the state they are visiting or leaving,” Noland and Yearwood wrote in an email to The Hoya. “However, they must self-monitor for symptoms of COVID-19 and testing is recommended for even the most mild symptoms.”
Before Georgetown extended on-campus housing for BSN students, students were advocating for an extension that allowed them enough time to quarantine before leaving the Hilltop, according to the GUSA Student Health Policy Team. 
“The GUSA Student Health Policy Team has made advocating for BSN Majors a top priority,” the team wrote in a collective email to The Hoya. “Our policy team has partnered with BSN Majors who have raised concerns and our conversations with the administration are still ongoing. We have made significant progress to establish an open dialogue with the NHS BSN Director and formulate a questionnaire to compile individual perspectives.”
Students are also raising concerns about proper personal protective equipment. In an Aug. 5 meeting for the Class of 2022 BSN cohort, administrators initially promised each nursing student one N95 mask upon their return to campus. Lei said the administration waited until Sept. 28 to begin distributing masks. 
In a Sept. 28 email to nursing students, administrators explained N95 masks would be provided for student comfort. The email came after seven BSN students were informed several staff members and patients on their clinical floor had tested positive for COVID-19 on Sept. 26. These students will be relocated to a different floor and were advised to “maintain strict adherence to PPE” and monitor their symptoms, according to the email from their clinical supervisor. 
Lei said the administration worried that distributing N95 masks to students who were not coming into contact with COVID-19 patients directly would cause unnecessary concern.
Before the N95 masks were distributed, BSN students were given a bag of standard surgical masks, a face shield and goggles, according to Colby Schmidt (NHS ’22). (Full disclosure: Schmidt currently serves as social media editor for The Hoya.) Students are now expected to use the same N95 mask for the entirety of the semester, wearing a standard surgical mask overtop to help preserve the N95 underneath. 
Ultimately, communication between administrators and students has left BSN students with few options for the fall semester, according to Alyssa Rose (NHS ’22).
“I feel like it needs to be communicated with our clinical instructors what exactly is required of us in our clinicals,” Rose said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “We’re not getting paid, nor do we have an option. It was either you come back and you do your clinicals, or you are a year behind and you do not graduate on time.”

SaishaEduversity says 
September 15, 2021 at 5:24 am
Greatfull Article Thanks For Sharing This..!!

Shannan E Weis says 
October 19, 2021 at 9:14 pm
Thank you for shower your knowledge upon us. It surely help us to save ourself from the sever illness.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 8, 2020 by Samuel Ahmed Leave a Comment 
Former Georgetown University Law Center Dean David J. McCarthy Jr. (LAW ’60, LAW ’62, H ’83) died Oct. 1 at the age of 85.
McCarthy approached his interpersonal relationships with kindness and playfulness, according to Wallace Mlyniec (LAW ’70), a professor at Georgetown Law.
“David had a unique ability to combine serious academic and administrative understanding with a gentle touch,” Mlyniec said in an interview with The Hoya. “This is a guy who would always advise his hiring committees to only hire someone who was smarter than they were. But at the same time, he was the guy who was gonna play Santa Claus at the Christmas party for the little kids.”
After receiving his Juris Doctor and Master of Laws degrees from Georgetown Law, McCarthy clerked for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Joining the Georgetown Law faculty in 1965, McCarthy served as a professor of topics including property law and state taxation law before he served as assistant and associate dean. McCarthy was ultimately appointed to the role of dean and executive vice president for law center affairs in 1975, running the entire Law Center until 1983.
McCarthy’s presence was felt in all corners of Georgetown Law, from his role in the faculty hiring process to his individual interactions with students, according to William Treanor, the current dean and vice president of Georgetown Law.
“He was very devoted to building a great faculty and was the dean during the period in which many of the giants of Georgetown Law were hired,” Treanor said in an interview with The Hoya. “He was a great teacher, a real expert in local government law and deeply committed to the Georgetown community.”
As head of Georgetown Law for eight years, McCarthy led the program through a period of great change and expansion: the growth of its physical campus, a new administrative structure, additional clinical program offerings and more faculty to fill new openings.
McCarthy took Georgetown Law from its original faculty-centered, conservative pedagogy to a place where it accounted for the diverse needs of students, according to Daniel Ernst, a professor of legal history at Georgetown Law.
“He moved Georgetown Law from a very stodgy program, with students coming in taking their lectures, to a much more student life experience,” Ernst said in an interview with The Hoya. “He was able to do that because he understood how predominantly Catholic and male faculty thought and was also committed to moving the school forward.”
McCarthy’s gregarious personality and experience as a law student himself gained him a rare amount of respect and admiration from his students, according to Ernst.
“There’s this copy of a student newspaper I’m staring at when he was stepping down as the associate dean, and all these students are submitting a petition asking him not to resign,” Ernst said. “That’s not normally what happens when associate deans resign. He was a law student at Georgetown, so he really identified with law students. When students came up with things that needed to be addressed, he was always on board with it.”
After his tenure as dean ended in 1983, McCarthy remained with Georgetown Law, serving as a professor in the school as well as a member of the Law Center’s Board of Visitors, a group of people from the public and private sectors that advises the dean of Georgetown Law.
McCarthy additionally served in various capacities for committees with the American Law Institute, American Bar Institute, Association of American Law Schools, Jesuit International Volunteers, the D.C. Pretrial Services Agency and the Citizens Choice National Commission on the IRS and the Individual Taxpayer.
In addition to his professional accomplishments, McCarthy was also known for his sense of humor, even during otherwise serious situations, according to Mlyniec.
“Dave was actually a very funny guy,” Mlyniec said. “I was debating him on a question on a panel, and at one point, I looked at the audience and said, ‘This is one of the few times I’ve ever totally agreed with Dave McCarthy,’ and without missing a beat, he said, ‘Well, in that case, we must be wrong.’ He was that kind of guy who you could disagree with, and it had no effect on the friendship that you had or your respect for him.”
After retiring, he and his wife, Mary McCarthy (NUR ’60) moved to Charlottesville, Va., and became involved with learning communities associated with the University of Virginia.
Despite the move, McCarthy retained ties to Georgetown through his four daughters, three of whom received undergraduate degrees from Georgetown University and a fourth who worked at Georgetown Law for several years. 
McCarthy leaves behind fond memories in the minds of friends, colleagues and family, according to Mlyniec.
“He was absolutely beloved,” Mlyniec said. “If you are a dean, not everyone is going to love you, but I can honestly say I don’t think there was a person on the faculty or in his administration that would not tell you that they love Dave McCarthy. He was just that kind of guy.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

