
November 2, 2020 by Ella Castanier Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University plans to bring back more undergraduate students and release another round of housing applications for the spring 2021 semester, according to Georgetown University Student Association Senate Speaker Leo Teixeira (COL ’21).
Teixeira provided spring reopening updates after an Oct. 21 meeting between GUSA leadership and university administration. The meeting included Provost Robert Groves, Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson, GUSA President Nicolo Ferretti (SFS ’21) and Vice President Bryce Badger (MSB ’21), with other students and members of the administration. Teixeira publicly announced the details of the administrative meeting at the GUSA Senate meeting Oct. 25. 
The university hopes to increase the amount of students on campus up to approximately 2,720 students, according to Teixeira.
“They’ve expressed that their goal right now is to increase density,” Teixeira said at the GUSA meeting. “So they want to bring more students back on campus.”
The 2,720 limit is based on the number of students that can be housed in single rooms. While the university hopes to bring back more students, a fully in-person semester is not an option the administration is considering, according to Teixeira.
“The only option that’s off the table right now is fully in-person, normal situation,” Teixeira said. “I think that’s pretty obvious to everyone, but they’ve said that that is the only thing they’ve taken completely off the table so far.”
A university spokesperson confirmed in a comment to The Hoya that the administration ruled out bringing all students back to campus. The spokesperson said the administration was considering “various scenarios” but did not provide more details. 
“While there is no scenario in which it will be feasible to bring all 5,000+ residential undergraduate students back to campus in the spring, the administration is reviewing a number of options,” the spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “As always, we are working to find the best way to sustain our academic mission and meet our public health obligations in the midst of a pandemic.”
Teixeira also reported the administration said testing is not a constraint on how many students will be brought back. 
“Testing, they said, is going very well,” Teixeira said. “Right now, they’re just focusing on upping their infrastructure to be able to do rapid same-day testing.” 
While the administration still wants to release plans for the spring semester Nov. 16, Teixeira expressed concerns about whether they would actually be prepared with a plan by then.
“They’re still adamant that they want to announce the plans by November 16,” Teixeira said. “It is also very clear that they are way behind schedule in terms of actually being able to get a plan out by then, which is no surprise.”
Teixeira also said there will be more housing applications for students with unstable home situations. 
“In regards to the unstable housing application, as you all know, there are a large amount of students on campus right now who had to apply because of unstable housing situation to be able to get on campus,” Teixeira said. “They’ve confirmed that they’re going to be doing another round of that once the spring plans are approved.”
Teixeira did not specify who will be prioritized for on-campus housing this spring and if there will be another tuition discount. The university announced Oct. 28 all students living on campus during the fall semester will automatically be granted spring housing if they enroll for the spring semester.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 2, 2020 by Christine Copeland Leave a Comment 
On the eve of Election Day, candidates for the Ward 2 seat on the Council of the District of Columbia are finishing up their campaigns and hoping for the best Nov. 3.
Current Democratic Councilmember Brooke Pinto (LAW ’17), who won a special election for the Ward 2 council seat in June, faces threats from three other candidates running for her seat: progressive D.C. Statehood Green Party candidate Peter Bolton and former Democrats Martín Miguel Fernandez and Randy Downs, who have both mounted independent bids.
In her four months as councilmember for Ward 2, Pinto has been using her legislative, business and tax experience to aid the community in recovery from COVID-19, she said in a phone interview with The Hoya. 
“I think that my background as a lawyer, both as a tax attorney and the assistant attorney general for policy and legislative affairs, affords me with the opportunity of having a broad policy and legal background that I bring with me into every hearing, every roundtable and every regulatory matter,” Pinto said. “I am really proud of the work that we’ve been able to do during my first four months, and I am optimistic about the change in productivity and honest governance and transparency that we will be able to bring to Ward 2 over the next four years.” 
Fernandez, one of the three candidates challenging Pinto and a medical anthropologist who has worked in public health and STEM education, believes he has the background and experience needed to handle the pandemic. 
Fernandez’s experiences as an immigrant from Peru who grew up in the Washington, D.C. area lend him a valuable perspective on the firsthand experiences of everyday D.C. residents. Fernandez believes Pinto cannot relate to constituents facing deep financial insecurity in the present moment. 
“This person is horribly out of touch with the financial realities of everyday people in the District,” Fernandez said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “I have a greater level of understanding for what people are going through at this moment, and because of that, I am able to offer more direct and informed reactions that are needed on the policy level.”
Current protests against systemic racism and the worsening pandemic have pushed voters toward progressive positions, according to Fernandez. 
“Reality has endorsed a lot of the stances I am taking, whether it is divesting from the police and investing in what we call the social determinants of health and a decent life, the stances I’ve taken on affordable housing, or expanding everyone’s access to high-speed internet,” Fernandez said.
Downs has served two terms as Advisory Neighborhood Commissioner in Dupont Circle since moving to the District nearly a decade ago and has advocated for public spaces in D.C. as the president of the Friends of Stead Park Board.
Community members want a representative on the Council with experience in local government and a connection to their area, according to Downs.
“I will be making decisions with compassion and empathy, and I really believe that our leaders should have those qualities,” Downs said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “This is about so much more than the party label, but more about the values that I bring to this race and that I would bring as a councilmember.”
Like Fernandez, Downs said Pinto is plagued with ethical issues, which have made some question if they elected another Jack Evans, Pinto’s embattled predecessor, who resigned from the council in January 2020 after his colleagues raised concerns about political favors he granted to private sector clients. Pinto reflects elitism of the kind voters objected to in Evans, according to Downs.
“She used generational wealth to donate $68,000 of her own money to the campaign,” he said. 
In response to her opponents, Pinto denied the allegations leveled against her, calling them unfair and disheartening.
“I am staying focused on the issues at hand and ensuring that I am working productively with all of our residents to make sure that we recover from the devastating impacts of COVID-19,” Pinto said. “My opponents have been very disappointingly negative and have been throwing everything that they can at the wall to see what sticks — really pedaling conspiracy theories and vicious attacks. That’s just not the way that I operate.”
Bolton, representing the D.C. Statehood Green Party, is advocating for public ownership of utilities, a public bank and a Green New Deal for the District. Another priority for Bolton is achieving statehood for D.C., which he wants to pursue with increased pressure on the federal government. 
“No more Mr. Nice Guy,” Bolton wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I support aggressive measures to pressure the federal government into granting D.C. full statehood.” 
Although a third party candidate has never won the council election in the past, Bolton is confident he is introducing new ideas and bringing important matters to light, no matter the outcome. Despite the negative impacts on voter outreach posed by COVID-19 and the financial
disadvantage the Green Party has compared to Democrats, Bolton said he is hoping for the best in the upcoming election and will continue to fight for statehood in the District. 
Bolton credits grassroots fundraising with his ability to run a viable campaign in spite of the obstacles faced by third party candidates.
“Thanks to the generous contributions of supporters, I’ve been able to run a professional campaign and cover essential costs like printing campaign materials, filming a campaign video and hiring a campaign manager,” he said in an interview with The Hoya.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 2, 2020 by River Harper Leave a Comment 
Professors at the Georgetown University Law Center compiled fact sheets about how to counteract private militias’ ability to perpetrate domestic terrorism during the Nov. 3 election, as well as a sheet about how to recognize and prevent voter intimidation in general.
The Law Center’s Institute for Constitutional Advocacy and Protection released the private militia fact sheets for all 50 states and a general fact sheet on voter intimidation Sept. 22. Specifically, the fact sheets detail the laws each state has in place against the presence of private militias at polling stations. The pamphlets also provide actions voters can take if they encounter someone at their polling place engaging in militia activity to intimidate voters.
ICAP hopes to provide clear resources for election officials and help voters understand the gravity of militia groups’ presence at the polls, according to Mary McCord, legal director of the ICAP and a visiting professor at the Law Center.
“We’re just trying to help local and state authorities understand what kind of public safety measures they can take while still preserving First and Second Amendment rights,” McCord said at a media event. “So it’s something that law enforcement and state and local officials and just community members need to take seriously.”
In all 50 states, it is illegal for someone to be part of a militia not organized or controlled by a state or federal government, according to the fact sheets. Despite this prohibition, the United States has seen a drastic uptick in private militia activity in the past year, especially during the protests that occurred across the United States following the deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and others, according to McCord.
There are still several misconceptions around private militias at polling locations around the United States, including the idea that private militias are protected by the Second Amendment.
By dispelling common misconceptions about private militias at polls, ICAP hopes voters feel safer with their ability to cast a ballot, according to Joshua Geltzer, the executive director of ICAP and a visiting professor at the Law Center. 
“Our hope at ICAP is that these fact sheets undermine myths that have, unfortunately, taken root in some segments of the country that unsanctioned, unaccountable, private militia activity is lawful,” Geltzer wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We hope empowering voters, activists, and law enforcement with these fact sheets allows Americans to vote in confidence knowing that unlawful militia activity shouldn’t arise in the first place and, if it does, can be stopped.”
In addition to information about state prohibitions on unregulated militias and voter intimidation, each fact sheet contains advice for voters about what to do if they witness militia activity or experience intimidation on Election Day. Specifically, voters should document what they see and report their findings to a nonpartisan hotline, such as 866-OUR-VOTE, that monitors the election for irregularities and violation of voter intimidation laws. 
Since creating the fact sheets, McCord and the rest of ICAP have worked with elected officials at the state and local levels to help prepare them to handle the anticipated voter suppression efforts from militia groups.
McCord said election officials on all levels have spoken with her about her findings and have been receptive to suggestions to guard against private militias at the polls.
“So in the last couple of weeks, myself and others at my organization have addressed groups like the U.S. Conference of Mayors, the major city police chiefs, various different groups of district attorneys, other groups of mayors and other groups of attorneys general,” McCord said. “We’ve seen more and more officials at various levels putting out strong statements against voter intimidation and also urging vigilance against armed voter intimidation.”
In addition to the fact sheets regarding private militias, ICAP released a general voter intimidation fact sheet, which explains efforts that can be taken to prevent voter intimidation. On Oct. 21, ICAP also released a fact sheet for law enforcement providing guidance on how to curtail private militia activity outside of polling places, according to McCord.
All sets of the fact sheets were created in collaboration with the law firms Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, O’Melveny & Myers, and Jones Day, which offered pro bono assistance to the Law Center. 
By publishing and spreading reliable information, ICAP hopes to diminish the deleterious effect militias could have on the electoral process this November, according to McCord.
“Many local and state officials are preparing by making sure that people in their jurisdictions understand the laws, and we’re trying to support that work. In support of that work, we are in the midst of producing another type of fact sheet,” McCord said. “We want to provide that guidance because it’s very disruptive to have arrests around polling places. It also can be intimidating and disruptive to have a major law enforcement presence around voting places.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

