
December 2, 2020 by Noa Bronicki 4 Comments 
All of the Georgetown University Patrick Healy Fellows publicly resigned from their fellowships through an Instagram post Nov. 1 after months of attempting to get the board to fix an atmosphere the fellows characterized as hostile to marginalized communities. 
The post was removed Nov. 2, according to the fellows. It is unclear who deleted the post, which has since been widely reshared on both Instagram and Twitter.
The Patrick Healy Fellowship, a program at the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access, was founded in 1997 to bring together leaders who want to advocate for issues affecting communities of color through on-campus programming and education. The PHF consists of the Alumni Board and student fellows who are selected through an application process. 
Student fellows experienced elitism, classism, sexism, queerphobia and racism in the program, according to the fellows’ resignation letter. 
“The fellowship asks for a strong relationship between alumni and fellows, and through our ‘Letter to the PHF Board’ we asked for extremely reasonable changes in the fellowship to be made after experiencing repeated instances of racism, queerphobia, sexism, classism, etc,” the social media post reads.
The fellows attempted to address these issues in an Aug. 27 letter to the fellowship’s leadership, according to Briana Thomas (COL ’21), a former fellow who resigned over the summer before the rest of the group but helped the fellows get in touch with administrators and organize their requests. 
Among the letter’s requests were the removal of a board member who had made racist and classist comments, the removal of certain unnamed fellows facing sexual misconduct allegations, the removal of a GPA requirement for applicants and more transparency between the board and fellows. 
The fellows’ concerns focused on power imbalances within the fellowship, according to Rimpal Bajwa (SFS ’22), one of the fellows who resigned.
“Even though there aren’t that many white alumni in the fellowship [board], they were still more centered in the fellowship, which to me didn’t make much sense because the power dynamic was very off,” Bajwa said in an interview with The Hoya.
Although the fellowship is intended to be a safe space for students of color, Bajwa said the language used by the board members was sometimes offensive. For example, one of the board members, a white woman, told a Black fellow that she came off as aggressive during her interview, according to Bajwa. 
“Hearing that language of an angry Black woman, that’s such a stereotype, and it’s such a trope that’s been used to mitigate the voices of Black women,” Bajwa said. “It was definitely a very racist and sexist thing to say to a Black woman.”
Bajwa said the same board member advocated for keeping the GPA requirement for acceptance into the program, choosing to prioritize academic achievement over community work and activism, which the fellows viewed as both classist and elitist.
“Which just plays into this whole entire notion of respectability politics that says that you should be striving for academic excellence while completely neglecting this activism work, which is equally as important,” Bajwa said. “Hearing that she wanted to value academics more than the work that we’re doing and mitigating the stuff that we’re doing on campus was really hurtful because we place great value on the work that we do, and we think that it’s really important work.”
The fellows who resigned were not the first cohort to have concerns about the fellowship program, according to Thomas. 
“The fellowship has never felt like a safe space for me,” Thomas wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Everyone who came before us never really advocated for a change at the level we are currently doing because the fellowship breeds that professional networking and contacts are more important than moral integrity and actually supporting the voices of students of color.”
Bajwa said the PHF board did not reply to the original August letter. 
“We just thought it was strange that we would write a letter and there’s no response — dead silence for two weeks,” Bajwa said. “We don’t even get the respect to get a response.”
After the fellows sent a follow-up, one board member told the fellows they could reach out via email or phone if they wanted to have a conversation with the board. The fellows rejected the board member’s invitation to talk, however, requesting a written response to their initial letter. 
The board deemed the fellows’ manner of communication in this exchange to be inappropriate, according to the letter shared in the fellows’ social media posts. 
The board’s inaction to redress the fellows’ concerns prompted their public resignation, according to Bajwa. 
“When we voiced our concerns, they basically told us that we could just resign. I feel like that says a lot about how little they value our voices and how little they actually value our opinions and input,” Bajwa said. “The fact that they’re not willing to change to address these concerns and changing needs of students on campus just shows that they’re not there for students of color. They’re just there to maintain this image that they’re there for students of color.”
Diversity, inclusion and community are still top priorities for PHF despite the conflict with this year’s fellows, according to the PHF Alumni Board.
“The PHF Board is committed to dialogue, and made multiple attempts to engage with our Fellows in discussion in the spirit of our founding principles,” the board wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We will continue to hold space for dialogue around issues our Fellows raise, especially those related to transparency, inclusion and respect.” 
The fellowship plans to continue its work and remains committed to its pillars, according to the board’s emailed statement.
The board consistently disregards student voices and opinions, so the fellows hope their public resignation makes potential applicants reconsider their interest, according to Thomas.
“I hope anyone who wants to apply simply does not,” Thomas wrote, “and that is the main reason for our public resignation to really inform students on what we’ve experienced and model that you never have to stay anywhere where you are not respected no matter the benefit.”

Ben says 
December 4, 2020 at 3:12 am
Good for you, they made me feel like trash because of my GPA, which wasnt that low to begin with, but questioned why it was not to their standards which was intrusive because there were actual reasons that were personal. Then an administrator on campus minimized my experience in the interview process because the fellowship.

Ridiculous says 
December 7, 2020 at 1:10 am
If a GPA requirement or someone calling you “aggressive” is such a big deal for you,  you have no idea what’s coming at you once you enter the workforce. Your life is so good you’re literally struggling to find something to be outraged about.

Brad says 
December 16, 2020 at 10:13 am
Good god. More non-specific whining and claims of trauma from the professional victim class. There’s nothing here. Nothing specific. It’s absolute bullshit that these fellows suffered.

Actual Rational Hoya says 
December 16, 2020 at 6:52 pm
Thanks for wasting the space that more productive people could have utilized.
Like literally this stunt is in opposition to actually maintaining your GPA and student responsibilities? You don’t need to spend $70K to whine about everything.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 2, 2020 by Liana Hardy Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association Senate released a statement criticizing the university’s spring 2021 plan, claiming university officials ignored student input when designing the spring academic calendar.
The statement comes after Georgetown officially announced plans for the upcoming spring semester Nov. 16. In advance of its decision, the administration proposed six different calendar options. The chosen plan, which delays the start of the semester until Jan. 25 and combines spring and Easter breaks, was the least popular option, according to survey data collected by GUSA from 492 students. Administration officials had access to the data.  
In the statement titled “The Administration Hears Us, But Refuses to Listen,” GUSA officials say the university was negligent when making decisions and chose to overlook students’ opinions. 
“In spite of detailed knowledge of students’ difficulties, the administration has chosen to disregard our well-being,” the statement reads. “This cycle of indifference must not continue in the upcoming semester.”
The plan’s cancellation of three-day weekends in the spring semester and an absence of proper breaks will negatively impact student mental health, according to GUSA Senator Leo Rassieur (COL ’23), who contributed to the statement.
“I think any student could tell you how valuable it is to have just one or two extra catch-up days per month to complete late or long-term assignments and, better yet, take a breather,” Rassieur wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Georgetown has a serious problem of burnout culture, and it doesn’t help that our academic calendar is based around nonstop work.”
The statement demands the university implement a minimum of one break per month for the upcoming semester. 
GUSA officials also pushed for more transparency surrounding the demographics of university officials overseeing housing requests for the spring to assess any biases. They cited instances of first-generation, low-income students with unstable living conditions being denied on-campus housing for fall 2020 as a prior failure on the university’s part. Several students who filled out the application noted they felt very uncomfortable with the application questions, saying they had to describe their trauma in detail in order to have their application accepted.
“Last semester’s stability application process was already extremely unethical and traumatizing for students as many were denied housing due to an incomprehensive process,” the statement reads. “Given that the administration is only allowing about 150 new stability applicants on campus for Spring, this will more than likely exacerbate the issue.”
The statement also urged the university to bring transfer students to campus along with seniors for the spring, address on-campus student dining and worker health insurance needs and provide more virtual mental health resources for the student body. 
The university administration already faced significant backlash this past semester surrounding its decision to reduce financial aid for off-campus students in July. Administrators revised their decision in August, largely restoring financial aid.
The spring 2021 plan is yet another example of how the university has consistently ignored student feedback when making crucial decisions during this past year, according to Rassieur. 
“Without a doubt, Georgetown’s administration turns a blind eye to student input in making decisions,” Rassieur wrote. “This is what we observed when they released the problematic financial aid packages for the fall, when they continually keep us in the dark on the status of our workers — especially Leo’s workers who are keeping us fed during the pandemic — and now with this plan for Spring 2021.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 2, 2020 by Ella Kohler Leave a Comment 
After her reelection to the Council of the District of Columbia, Ward 2 Councilmember Brooke Pinto (LAW ’17) has her eye on a variety of issues, ranging from COVID-19 pandemic recovery to criminal justice reform.
Pinto beat out three challengers in November, garnering 68.83% of the vote. She previously won the seat in a June 2020 special election to replace former Councilmember Jack Evans, who resigned after numerous ethical scandals. With her June election, Pinto became the first woman to hold the position. Pinto said her reelection campaign was shaped by the repercussions of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the mass demonstrations for racial justice in D.C. 
Helping the District recover from the devastating impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic is a main priority for her term, according to Pinto. 
“First front of mine continues to be COVID-19 recovery, making sure that our community has access to quick and accessible and free testing, ensuring that we have access to vaccines once those become available next month, making sure that our workers have access to extended unemployment benefits and providing additional assistance to our small local businesses,” Pinto said in a phone interview with The Hoya.
After a summer of protests against police killings of unarmed Black citizens in D.C. and across the country, Pinto plans to address racial injustice with a multi-faceted approach.
“I think that when we’re talking about reforms and addressing the systemic racism that pervades our entire society and country and world, I think it’s really important to also zoom out and think about all of the areas that we can make a meaningful difference,” Pinto said. 
The D.C. Police Reform Commission, created by the Council in June, has the potential to make a positive impact, according to Pinto. The commission will present their formal recommendations for Metropolitan Police Department reforms to the Council by the end of December 2020. Pinto said these recommendations will help to mold her criminal justice reform agenda. 
“Criminal justice reform is going to be a major focus at the start of 2021 for me and all of my colleagues as we work to really implement many of the important demands of so many of our neighbors over the course of this summer,” Pinto said. 
Increasing access to after-school programming is another important step towards a more equitable D.C., according to Pinto. 
“It’s really important that we provide all of our students with optionality and access to after-school programming both for supervision, but also for athletic movement and intellectual stimulation and socialization and to hone various talents and skill sets as we set them up for higher learning,” Pinto said. 
Pinto is also working to move the Second Look Amendment Act through the Council’s Committee on the Judiciary and Public Safety. The bill would allow individuals who committed crimes before the age of 25 to petition a judge to review their cases once they have served 15 years of their sentences. 
As winter approaches, increasing access to affordable housing and assisting city members experiencing homelessness is another key priority for Pinto. 
“We’ve done a number of things to move folks into housing, and particularly as it gets colder in the next few weeks,” Pinto said. “We are very focused on moving as many folks into permanent, supportive housing as possible and ensuring that our wrap-around services and benefits are truly tailored to the individualized needs of each person.” 
The possibility of a Democratic majority in the U.S. Senate is a source of hope for D.C. statehood, according to Pinto. 
“If Democrats get the Senate, there is no stopping what we could do, and statehood really becomes a more immediate term possibility,” Pinto said.
In addition to her policy-related goals, Pinto hopes that as the first female Ward 2 Councilmember, she will empower other young women to run for office.
“I think that women oftentimes stop themselves from pursuing their next goal with a fear or a worry of being the most prepared in the room before they raise their hand,” Pinto said. “I hope that my running and my winning inspires other young women to get involved, whether that be in public service or in their own private business capacity to step up to the plate.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

