
May 29, 2020 by Connor Thomas and Jaime Moore-Carrillo Leave a Comment 
Incoming Georgetown University freshman Gabe Fleisher (COL ’24) joined a panel of student journalists on a “Meet the Press” roundtable May 28 to scrutinize universities’ plans and policies for the fall semester. 
Moderated by “Meet the Press” host Chuck Todd, “Meet the Press: College Roundtable” features panel discussions with college journalists, focusing in particular on issues affecting higher education during the COVID-19 pandemic. The five-part series will air weekly on NBC News’ YouTube channel and Snapchat, and on NBCUniversal’s streaming service, Peacock. For the program’s pilot episode, Fleisher and two other college journalists questioned Howard University President Dr. Wayne A. I. Frederick and University of Arizona President Dr. Robert C. Robbins about their plans to reopen their universities.   
Fleisher said he hoped to highlight relevant student issues surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic on the program.
“I know students across the country have a lot of questions and concerns about going back to college in the fall and think many universities haven’t really answered them,” Fleisher wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I’m particularly interested in pressing both college presidents about what makes them confident it is safe to return for in-person classes and whether they think the price of university tuition should be lowered if some classes and experiences are going to be altered because of coronavirus.”
Fleisher, who plans to major in government and minor in journalism, has acquired significant fame in the realm of political journalism for his “Wake Up To Politics” podcast and daily newsletter. The newsletter, which boasts 50,000 daily readers, summarizes and analyzes U.S. political news. In 2019, Fleisher scooped news of New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio’s (D) presidential campaign bid, derailing DeBlasio’s intricately planned launch. 
Despite the common distinction between professional and student journalism, students produce valuable  and commendable reporting, according to Fleisher.
“Student journalists are still journalists, full stop — and so many of them are producing amazing work that is breaking news and shedding light on important stories,” Fleisher wrote in an email to The Hoya. “No one’s journalism should be discounted because of their age or level of education; instead, everyone’s work should be considered equally and regarded as impressive and important no matter if the journalist is a student or a ‘professional journalist.’”
During the 20-minute conversation, Fleisher pressed Frederick on Howard’s reopening policy and the university’s plans to ensure student safety. Student journalists Sami Sparber from the University of Texas at Austin and Aiyana Ishmael from Florida A&M University followed up with inquiries about the presidents’ plans to maintain student health and attract prospective students. In response, Frederick and Robbins mulled over different plans and possibilities for in-person instruction. 
College journalists can fill an important informational void and serve their localities as local print newspapers continue to flounder, according to Todd. 
“With more local news outlets going out of business or drastically cutting back their coverage, student run college papers are going to be an important source of accountability for these growing news deserts,” Todd wrote in an email to The Hoya. “There’s a need for robust local journalism and college students who are aspiring professional journalists can fill a real need.”
Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, student journalists have an invaluable role in reporting on student issues and ensuring university accountability, according to Fleisher.
“Additionally, since colleges are being watched incredibly closely for how they plan to respond to the pandemic, I think the situation offers a perfect opportunity for student journalists to hold their college administrations accountable and bring answers for their peers,” Fleisher wrote.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


May 29, 2020 by Clara Grudberg Leave a Comment 
 This article directly references content that is potentially upsetting. Please refer to the end of the article for on- and off-campus resources.
An unknown perpetrator has repeatedly defaced the property of Hardy Middle School in Burleith with hateful graffiti, triggering a police investigation for a suspected hate crime and widespread community outcry. 
The graffiti was discovered on the 34th Street side of the school property, and on one occasion in front of the Safeway on Wisconsin Avenue. The graffiti first appeared May 17, followed by more messages May 20 and May 23, according to Eric Langenbacher, the president of the Burleith Citizens Association and a government professor at Georgetown University. The messages are filled with antisemitic tropes, references to Freemasonry and nonsensical phrases. All the graffiti has been written in chalk. 
The bizarre content of the messages has led law enforcement to suspect the perpetrator may be dealing with issues of mental illness, Langenbacher said. Langenbacher was the first person to report the bigoted writings and has personally removed them. He has also met with investigators from the Metropolitan Police Department about the incidents.    
“It’s pretty clear that it’s the same individual responsible because the handwritings are the same; some of the images that have been put up there are the same. It’s always kind of in the same spots,” Langenbacher said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “A lot of individuals, including the police, are of the opinion that there probably is a mental health issue involved as well. Some of the graffiti has just been weird.”
Bigoted messages on school property are frightening and are the antithesis of what the Hardy community represents, according to Martin Welles, a parent at the school and vice president of the Parent-Teacher Organization. 
“Hardy Middle School is one of the most diverse, inclusive and high achieving schools in the District of Columbia. Whether the graffiti was targeted toward Hardy Middle School, or an opportunistic smear, there is no place for racist/antisemitic attacks in our community,” Welles wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Due to the school being closed as a result of the Coronavirus, school children did not have to witness it.” 
Multiple instances of antisemitic graffiti have been uncovered in recent years on Georgetown’s campus. In May 2017, antisemitic messages were discovered in a Leavey Center restroom, adjacent to the Makóm Jewish gathering space. The following semester, swastikas were found painted in an LXR dormitory restroom.
In response to the hateful messages found at Hardy, community members drafted and circulated a letter condemning antisemitism and bigotry in the neighborhood. The letter has garnered over 149 signatures from residents of Georgetown, Burleith and other Washington, D.C. neighborhoods. 
The already painful circumstances of the COVID-19 pandemic have made the appearance of the hateful graffiti all the more distressing, but the incident a reminder for the community to stand together, according to Advisory Neighborhood 2E Commissioner Elizabeth Miller, one of the letter’s first signers.
“It’s hard enough when the world is normal to see hateful graffiti,” Miller wrote in an email to The Hoya. “But, in these anxiety-inducing days of the pandemic when we need to be kind to each other and support our community the hate seems particularly painful. I urge our neighbors to be vigilant and if you see something, say something and report incidents immediately to the police.”
Resources: On-campus resources include Health Education Services (202-687-8949), Counseling and Psychiatric Services (202-687-6985) and the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access (202-687-4054); additional off-campus resources include The Trevor Project, a national 24-hour, toll free confidential suicide hotline for LGBTQ youth (866-488-7386).
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

