
July 6, 2020 by Jaime Moore-Carrillo 3 Comments 
First-year students and select upperclassmen will be allowed to live on campus during the fall semester, Georgetown University administrators announced in an email Monday detailing the plan for fall 2020.
The announcement follows months of uncertainty about the university’s fall reopening plans and mounting student frustration. Meanwhile, COVID-19 cases and deaths continue to climb across the country, forcing many cities and states to back into lockdown and jeopardizing business and university reopening efforts.  
Students with complicated home situations, some resident assistants and some seniors who must be on campus to complete graduation requirements will be allowed to return to campus. Nursing students, ROTC cadets and seniors enrolled in a 5-year master’s program will also be granted on-campus residence, according to a follow up email from Provost Robert Groves. Students already living on campus will not need to apply again to remain on campus during the fall. Every student will live in a single-occupancy room. 
“If the conditions of the pandemic permit, we will look at the possibility of moving to a next stage—welcoming additional students back to campus residence halls, beginning with members of our senior class,” University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95) wrote in an email to students.
Classes will be held in hybrid-flexible or entirely virtual formats. The plan offers no details on grading policies, tuition changes or a possible extension of the deferral deadline. The plan also did not disclose details about policies concerning international students. 
The fall reopening plan includes a slate of health protocols for on-campus activity. All members of the Georgetown community will be tested upon returning to campus; the university will send test kits to all campus-bound students located in the United States. All students living on or near campus will be provided with reusable masks and additional personal protective equipment. Symptomatic people or people who have been in contact with someone who has tested positive for the virus will be tested on an “ongoing basis.” Additionally, members of the community will be required to routinely document symptoms through a mobile app or questionnaire.
The fall plan also included some financial aid reforms. Students in need of financial assistance but living off campus will receive a “modest living allowance,” as a part of their financial aid package, according to a July 7 email from Vice President for Student Affairs Todd Olson. Additionally, the Office of Student Employment is working to increase the number of remote work opportunities, according to administrators.  
University officials strongly discouraged upperclassmen from leasing homes in the neighborhoods surrounding campus. Any rising junior who rents a home in the area will be required to live on campus their senior year, according to the plan. Most undergraduates will be required to leave on-campus residences by Nov. 20. 
In-person dining will be available but will be restricted to minimize occupancy of the dining hall. The university plans on implementing a mobile ordering system, allowing students to order and pick up meals. 
Most student activities will be required to transition to virtual formats. New Student Orientation will be hosted completely online, and some in-person activities will be allowed to be held outdoors with significant health restrictions. No decision has yet been made about the resumption of athletics. 
“Our planning assumptions have emphasized the importance of flexibility, and the possibility of needing to significantly adjust campus life as local or national guidance changes and as the conditions of the pandemic evolve,” DeGioia wrote. “We will continue to share updates and information as soon as they are available. In the coming days, we will be announcing virtual forums for members of our community—including incoming students and parents—to provide further details and answer questions.”
University administrators were previously considering four possible reopening plans for the fall, according to official slides obtained by The Hoya. Three of the plans entailed bringing some students back to campus; however, campus life and classroom learning would have transformed dramatically given measures for enforcing strict health guidelines. Administrators scrapped those plans July 1, according to notes from a meeting between administrators and student leaders.  
Washington, D.C., began Phase Two of reopening June 22, allowing schools, businesses and some public services to resume limited in-person operations. Despite a recent small jumps in community spread of the virus in the District, the city has seen a steady, sustained decrease in community spread of the virus. Georgetown’s reopening plan has yet to be approved by the city. 
This is a developing story.

Michele Egan says 
July 6, 2020 at 11:09 pm
To not offer a tuition rebate for our students who are forced to learn remotely is unacceptable.

Diana Murray says 
July 8, 2020 at 11:07 am
As a parent I think this decision is not good for Sophomores.  Todd Olsen has no answers, they waiting until July 7th, after deadlines have been met and just assume they can take peoples money from Freshman and to hell with Juniors and Sophomores. 
They need to at least allow Sophomores and a few other students to come on campus.  Additionally, Georgetown neighbors may have input but that is it.  They chose to move to a place that houses a University.  The noise and issues are part of the deal and they can move if they don’t like living there.
Georgetown needs to re-think what their plan is for Fall 2020 and come up with a new plan that includes ALL Georgetown students.

Hugh MacKay says 
July 8, 2020 at 6:30 pm
What is to prevent students from renting a house in the area and living with their classmates but taking online classes? how is the university going to enforce the 3 year on campus requirement if you rent a house but just say you are living at home? Honestly that’s what me and my college friends would do if we were returning sophomores or upperclassmen
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


July 6, 2020 by Jaime Moore-Carrillo 1 Comment 
More than 200 students, faculty and graduates have signed an open letter to Georgetown University administrators calling on the school to abandon legacy admissions in light of ongoing discussions about how the university can combat racial injustice. 
Legacy admissions, in which children or other relatives of graduates are granted admission preference to a particular institution, is common practice for many of the nation’s top universities. 
The practice of giving preference to legacy applicants reinforces economic and racial inequalities, according to the petition, which has garnered at least 235 signatures as of July 6. 
“It is a policy that jeopardizes confidence in the qualifications of the university student body as a whole by allowing for a fundamentally flawed metric of academic evaluation and personal character to skew a meritocratic process,” the petition reads. “Most of all, legacy admissions are part of a system of institutional racism that relegates qualified Black students to second-tier status in higher education.” 
Universities developed legacy admissions policies — sometimes referred to as “affirmative action for the rich” or “affirmative action for whites” — in the 1920s to discriminate against Catholic and Jewish applicants and maintain social and religious homogeneity in the classroom. 
Additionally, the discriminatory nature of legacy admissions has carried over to new generations, hindering applicants or color and low-income applicants from accessing higher education, according to Amanda Feldman (SFS ’22), one of the petition’s authors. 
“It has severely restricted our minority communities from truly being represented at Georgetown,” Feldman said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “The policies really heavily favor people who already have a leg up in the system given their privilege, as a result of their wealth. In a sense it gives them two boosts over certain communities who have historically been left out of the college process.”
The practice grants outsize advantages to relatives of graduates, studies have shown. Researchers estimate legacy status doubles or quadruples the likelihood of admission to a selective school. A Harvard University survey of admissions at 30 top universities found that applicants with any legacy connection had received a 23.3% boost in the probability of admission; applicants with primary legacy — a parent who attended the university as an undergraduate — received a 45.1% bump. Legacy admits generally skew white and wealthy.  
Though Georgetown does not actively recruit applicants with legacy status, admissions officers give preference to an applicant with Georgetown connections when attempting to break a tie with another applicant of “equal academic standing.” Legacy applicants to Georgetown are more likely to be admitted than other applicants; the acceptance rate for legacy applicants in the Class of 2021 was twice that of applicants with no legacy status. Approximately 10% of students in the Class of 2021 have some kind of legacy status. 
The continued practice of legacy admissions reinforces unfair admissions barriers to Georgetown, according to Adam Shaham (SFS ’22), the petition’s second author. 
“When you use legacy admissions as a tool who gets to decide who gets into the university, you are putting people who were explicitly banned from our community at a disadvantage simply because of their identity,” Shaham said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. 
Legacy admissions is not the only problem with Georgetown’s admissions practices, Feldman and Shaham assert. 
“Getting rid of legacy admissions is not a silver bullet, but it’s part of a system that works against low-income communities and communities of color and first-generation communities,” Shaham said. “It’s part of a broader system that needs to be changed.”
Feldman and Shaham pointed specifically to inadequate recruiting in underprivileged communities, excessive testing requirements and a complicated, independent admissions process as barriers to accessibility. 
A university spokesperson did not say if administrators are considering reforms to admissions policy. 
“Through a holistic admissions approach, we review all applicants without consideration of a family’s financial consideration or ability to pay,” a university spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The Georgetown Scholars Program and Community Scholars Program continue helping the university enroll a more racially and socioeconomically diverse student body, including many first-generation students.”
Feldman and Shaham’s petition follows other efforts from faculty and students to improve Georgetown’s accessibility and diversity. Faculty in the School of Foreign Service drafted a letter to administrators calling on the school to revise its admissions practices and curricular content to tackle racial inequities. Several high-ranking faculty, including Mark Giordano, vice dean for undergraduate affairs in the SFS, and Fida Adely, chair of the Arab studies program, signed the petition.
Left unaddressed, the educational barriers facing low-income students and students of color can risk reinforcing social, racial and economic inequality, according to Shaham. 
“When we lock out Black voices from systems of higher education, we’re locking them out from key positions across society,” Shaham said. “Policies like legacy admissions, which significantly disadvantage communities of color, actually have implications generations down the road for American society as a whole.” 
This article was updated July 7 to include a university comment. 

Raymond Fahey says 
March 1, 2022 at 11:50 am
What percent of first year students are admitted each year because a donation was made to the University in support of their application? I’m hoping the answer is zero, but I’m not sure.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

