
September 17, 2020 by Moira Ritter Leave a Comment 
First-year students have started to adjust to college life, navigating long hours on Zoom and difficulties establishing community in the virtual learning environment by connecting over social media.
Georgetown University’s original reopening plan, released in July, invited approximately 2,000 students back to campus, including the entire Class of 2024. When the COVID-19 pandemic did not abate, however, the university revised its original plan, instead opting to invite only about 500 students who secured housing because of extenuating circumstances. 
Adjusting to the beginning of the school year and the beginning of college, which can already be a difficult process, has been especially hard this fall in a virtual learning environment, according to Hannah Ajibola (NHS ’24).
“Something that has personally been difficult for me is the fact that we are not physically going to classes. It just makes the day drag on,” Ajibola said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “It feels like I’m doing the same thing: Zoom, online class, homework online, just always looking at a screen. It can be hard to balance home and school life because I still have home responsibilities too.” 
Ajibola, who is currently living with her family in Bethesda, Md., must also navigate taking classes from the room she shares with her sister, who is also calling into college classes from home. 
While peers, faculty and teaching assistants have been supportive of first-year students, some feel support from administrators is lacking. The communication students do receive from university officials can come off as impersonal and leave students feeling unsupported and isolated from the Georgetown community, according to Lara Santana (SFS ’24).
“We are students for them, but I think sometimes they don’t realize that we’re people,” Santana said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “We have personal lives, and we sit on Zoom for countless hours and just do work. We need their support, and we need guidance for all the resources that are supposedly out there, but we have not been told about.”
Professors and teaching assistants understand the challenges students face and have made an extra effort to reach out to students, according to Kenny Boggess (SFS ’24). 
“Professors have all been very good about being there as support networks and getting to know us outside of the academic setting. My TAs have been good too,” Boggess said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “I just moved out of my house, but my philosophy TA was very good, like, ‘If you need anything I will meet you outside of class time to catch you up personally.’”
Besides academic concerns, studying at home has also precluded students from bonding with classmates and peers, according to Ajibola. She expected study groups to emerge organically and for relationships to grow from there.
“But in the online format, you have to really put yourself out there more because if you don’t outright say ‘Oh, can I get your number?’ or ‘Let’s talk about this’ or directly schedule something on Zoom, then you’re just not going to do it,” Ajibola said. 
Despite the difficulties of developing relationships in their classes, many first-year students have taken advantage of social media, joining campus clubs or organizing socially distanced meetups with other students who live in their area. Ajibola shared that students from Washington, D.C., Maryland, Virginia and the surrounding areas are organizing a group gathering sometime in October. 
Social media and other communication networks have been crucial to maintaining some semblance of social life, according to Boggess.
“It’s relatively easy to find time to hang out in a park or something with distance and masks, but I’ve definitely been getting social time in,” Boggess said. “It is absolutely necessary, and I would quite frankly go haywire without it.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 17, 2020 by Brian Ely Leave a Comment 
During the COVID-19 pandemic, low-income families with children have faced reduced work hours, lower household incomes and food insecurity, according to a survey of over 500 parents of low-income students in Tulsa, Okla., by two Georgetown University psychology professors.
On Aug. 18, as schools began to reopen despite the continued threat of the pandemic, researchers at the Tulsa School Experiences and Early Development Study published their study’s survey investigating how the pandemic has affected low-income families in Tulsa. Professors Anna Johnson and Deborah Phillips of the Georgetown department of psychology were two of the four primary investigators in the study, alongside professor Diane Horm from the University of Oklahoma-Tulsa and professor Gigi Luk of McGill University. 
Funded by the National Institutes of Health, the Tulsa SEED Study first began collecting data in 2016 from low-income families with three-year-old children. The researchers are tracking how children’s participation in pre-kindergarten programs affects their learning and development through the fourth grade. The study now comprises a diverse population of over 1,000 low-income families, with the oldest children having just completed first grade when the pandemic shut down schools in the United States. 
Families of color have been especially financially hurt by the pandemic, accounting for a disproportionate amount of the 60% of parents who reported that their household income had decreased and the nearly 50% of parents who reported experiencing food insecurity during the pandemic, according to the survey. Johnson and Phillips said they were not surprised by the numbers, noting that the pandemic has only exacerbated the economic and racial disparities in the country. 
“Our evidence is in line with what others are finding in different regions of the country: racial disparities in economic and material hardship impacts of the pandemic, the salience of food insecurity as a source of parent stress, and the technological and time constraint-related challenges with remote instruction,” Johnson and Phillips wrote in a collaborative email to The Hoya. 
The study found that low-income Tulsa families had been economically hit hard by the pandemic’s effects. Of responding parents, 46% lost their job or saw reduced work hours, with 59% reporting a decrease in total household income, according to the survey.
“As everyone knows, when the pandemic hit, many workplaces closed and many low-income parents whose job situations were already unstable lost their jobs or had reduced hours and pay,” Johnson said in an interview with Georgetown’s Discovery and Impact News. 
Nationally, about 50% of non-Hispanic Black parents and low-income parents and more than 60% of Hispanic parents reported they or a family member lost work or income because of the pandemic, according to Urban Institute’s Health Reform Monitoring Survey conducted in late March and early April. 
In the Tulsa SEED report, the investigation team focused on first graders enrolled in Tulsa public schools during a six-week period from May to June of 2020 and sampled 118 teachers and 586 parents, of which 90% were mothers.
Johnson and Phillips wrote that the Tulsa SEED study was the first to look at the influence of COVID-19 from the perspective of parents as well as teachers. They found that 20% of teachers reported facing food insecurity during the pandemic, and 25% have seen a decrease in their household incomes.
“I think we were most struck by the fact that these full-time teachers reported food insecurity,” Johnson and Phillips wrote. “And nearly half the sample of teachers had their own children learning at home while they were teaching—as a working parent with young children at home myself while I try to do my job, I can attest to how stressful it is to try to wear your ‘mom’ hat and your ‘teacher’ hat at the same time!”
Johnson and Phillips also said that, because the pandemic has led teachers and parents to bear increased stress, educating and caring for already disadvantaged children has become more difficult.
“We were struck by the shared stresses they experienced, the challenges they faced in collaborating to foster learning, and the clear motivation they expressed in doing so,” Johnson and Phillips wrote. “They simply need more support for working as a team to ensure that the pandemic leaves no child behind.”
The stressors of virtual school and food insecurity brought on by the pandemic have also had adverse impacts on mental health within the families and teachers surveyed. One in four parents and one in three teachers reported depressive symptoms, and teachers and parents experiencing food insecurity were doubly likely to report depressed feelings, according to the survey. 
Witnessing how the pandemic has left families and children behind was one of the most difficult parts of the study, especially because children cannot escape a stressful home life by going to school, according to Johnson and Phillips. 
“Teachers and school personnel are a lifeline for families in the midst of the pandemic. We cannot mention this often enough,” Johnson and Phillips wrote. “Parents and teachers are frightened, they are stressed, and they are unsure what the future holds. Environments full of stress are not good for children.” 
However, giving parents and teachers a voice through the study in light of the pandemic’s hardships has been one of the most rewarding aspects of the project for the research team. 
“Their experiences and needs must become a central component of efforts to address the pandemic,” Johnson and Phillips wrote. “They are our pipeline to young children, and thus to solutions aimed at enabling all families and schools to weather the pandemic as successfully as possible, not just those who can afford to purchase added supports.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 17, 2020 by Hansen Lian and Harrison McBride Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University professors held teach-ins on anti-racist topics for two days instead of holding class as part of the first nationwide Scholar Strike for Racial Justice.
Professors around the United States and in Canada organized for the Scholar Strike on Sept. 8 and 9 to raise awareness of the effects of systemic racism in higher education and society at large. The strike focused on education, with professors who canceled class holding or attending teach-ins or forgoing their usual curriculum to discuss racism and its effects with students. 
The Scholar Strike grew out of the NBA strike, which players began Aug. 26 to protest the police shooting of Jacob Blake in Kenosha, Wis., and other acts of police violence against Black Americans. Blake, a 29-year-old Black man, was paralyzed after white police officers shot him seven times in the back while he attempted to climb into his car, where three of his sons sat in the backseat. A video of the incident went viral, sparking days of protest in Kenosha as well as a resurgence of anti-racist activism nationally. 
On the same day of the NBA strike, Anthea Butler, an associate professor of religious studies and Africana studies at the University of Pennsylvania, supported the strike on Twitter and suggested other professors do the same.
“I would be down as a professor to follow the NBA and Strike for a few days to protest police violence in America,” Butler tweeted. 
The idea of a Scholar Strike then spread rapidly across social media platforms, with organizers setting up a website where people could register teach-in events at their own universities. 
Georgetown’s African studies program and Center for Contemporary Arab Studies sponsored the “Race and Racism in Africa and the Middle East” panel, one of the teach-ins that took place Sept. 8. The three-person panel featured two Hoyas — Khaled Esseissah, an assistant teaching professor in the African studies program, and Trishula Patel, a sixth-year student pursuing a doctoral degree in history.
Patel hopes that the two-day strike will get the university’s attention and motivate it to reorganize systems and power structures.
“I’m hoping that the strike will force the university to make real structural changes that go beyond diversity trainings and climate committees,” Patel wrote in an email to The Hoya, “and that there’s a meaningful shift towards not only increasing the diversity of the university population, but that this becomes an institution where these communities truly feel like they belong.”
The Scholar Strike motivated the Georgetown Alliance of Graduate Employees to host teach-ins Sept. 12 and 13 in solidarity. The first day of programming featured speakers focusing on topics such as defunding the police, workers’ rights, and policing and racial equity in higher education. The second day of programming focused on the importance of taking action against injustices after educating oneself about them. 
GAGE’s activism summit brought together activists from around campus in organizations like the Black Survivors Coalition and Georgetown United Against Police Aggression to grow and unify the community working to rectify racial injustice, according to Marya Hannun, a GAGE member who helped organize the teach-in.
“We wanted to make sure our members and the broader campus community still had a forum for action,” Hannun wrote in an email to The Hoya.
At Georgetown, Arab studies professor Fida Adely, African studies program professor Lahra Smith and Center for Contemporary Arab Studies professor Rochelle Davis spearheaded the initiative by drafting a proposal that suggested ways for faculty to support the strike. 
Besides canceling classes, the suggestions Adely and the other professors circulated among School of Foreign Service faculty included integrating issues of race into course discussions or as assigned reading materials and promoting the Scholar Strike on social media or through an auto-reply email that gave details about the strike.
The professors submitted the informational document to the newly formed ad hoc SFS Faculty Council Working Group on Anti-Racism, which supported teachers’ collective action, according to Adely.
Adely herself implemented many of these proposals, including canceling all but one of her meetings and creating an auto-reply email many of her colleagues adopted for the duration of the strike.
“Due to my participation, my email response may be delayed. Let me encourage you to follow #SCHOLARSTRIKE on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter, and to engage with the teach-in occurring on the Scholar Strike YouTube channel,” Adely’s auto-reply email read.
Though some professors decided to hold classes, many still supported the strike by bringing up issues of racial injustice in their classes, according to Adely.
“I can say that the colleagues I have spoken with have clearly wanted to support the #scholarstrike in some way. Not everyone has been comfortable with canceling class however, but not out of fear of repercussions,” Adely wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Rather, many conveyed an obligation to students especially with online learning.”
While Adely decided not to cancel her courses during the strike, she said both sections of the course she is teaching were restructured so discussions were focused on topics of race and racism. She invited a guest speaker to one section and had students attend the “Race and Racism in Africa and the Middle East” teach-in for the other.
Adely said seeing friends and colleagues grapple with how they can be actively anti-racist is reason for hope.
“I continue to be heartened by the moment we find ourselves in — everyone I speak with is grappling seriously with what obligation they have to actively work for anti-racism in our lives and in our university,” Adely wrote. “This is a long-term process.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

