
March 8, 2020 by Amy Li 1 Comment 
Nearly three hundred students have signed a petition protesting Georgetown University’s decision to consolidate Residence Hall Offices, criticizing the university for eliminating on-campus jobs and removing important centers of residential communities.
The university announced that it would be shifting from student-manned RHOs to smart lockers for package distribution at the end of the 2020 summer term. RHO managers and assistant managers were informed of the restructuring after receiving an email at 11:56 p.m. on March 5, one day before spring break began for students.
The university did not consult with RHO managers before the decision was made, according to Kennedy Hall RHO Assistant Manager Zaki Thabet (SFS ’21).
“It’s just super frustrating because they haven’t talked to managers at all. They didn’t give us any advanced notice so that we could respond to our teams and respond to the fact that our teams got told that half of the jobs in Residential Living are getting eliminated, including my job,” Thabet said. “There was no communication. They have completely gone over our heads, and it’s like they just completely disregard their student leadership.”
Residential Living recognizes that the timing of the announcement was not ideal, Director of Residential Services Bill Huff wrote in an email to The Hoya.
“We worked to inform students as soon as possible so they could make decisions going into housing selection and potential job opportunities in the fall,” Huff wrote. “Staff will be available to connect with student workers during spring break and beyond, either virtually or in person.”
Starting in the fall 2020 semester, keys will be managed in a centralized key room located in Harbin Hall with two additional annex spaces for students who live in other areas of campus, according to an email sent from Huff to RHO employees obtained by The Hoya. Student key assistants will be responsible for issuing lockout keys, performing key audits and helping manage lost keys. Key assistants will also be able to issue vacuums and brooms for students.
The current structure of the RHOs does not support the increasing needs of students regarding package deliveries, Huff wrote in the email announcing the change.
“The management and distribution of packages is currently a manual process that takes hours to complete each day,” Huff wrote. “To better align with best practices at our peer institutions we will be leveraging smart lockers and recommended process optimization to improve the overall student experience. Through these improvements, carriers will be able to deliver more efficiently, students will receive timely notifications regarding their deliveries, and on-campus traffic will decrease substantially.”
Self-serve package lockers have been implemented at universities including Princeton University, Vanderbilt University and Boston College. 
Because of the restructuring, Residential Living will be hiring fewer student workers for the 2020-21 academic year. Residential Living, however, is committed to giving preference to current employees and students who have approved work study, Huff wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Residential Living plans to hire approximately 40 to 50 student workers for the key assistant position, according to Huff. Ninety-nine RHO assistants and 10 managers are currently employed across all five RHO locations, according to Thabet.
A key assistant has less meaningful and significant responsibilities than an RHO worker, Thabet said.
“I just don’t really see how that’s an efficient system to kind of consolidate all that down into one place in Harbin,” Thabet said. “There’s not really enough lockouts to demand having two people on shift in a windowless room in Harbin.”
The job description restructuring will also likely decrease the number of hours students can sign up to work, according to a Kennedy RHO employee who requested to remain anonymous.
“No one’s going to get that many hours,” the employee said. “If they’re going to hire that many people and have two, maybe three people on shift, I’m literally sitting in here doing the math based on those proposed hours that he gave, and that’s like, maybe five hours tops per week, which is just not enough for pretty much every single person I know who works here.”
The purpose of RHOs extends beyond distributing packages, according to Thabet. RHO employees aim to embody customer service and foster community, Thabet said.
“We build relationships with the people who live in Southwest Quad and here in Kennedy. People know us; we know the people who live here,” Thabet said. “I like to think that the Kennedy RHO is something important to the Southwest Quad community, and they’re just closing us down.” 
The decision to consolidate RHOs comes after months of tension between student workers and Residential Living staff. 
In September, Arrupe RHO employees sent an email to university administrators demanding a solution to chronic understaffing. Many of the employees worked more than 20 hours per week and worked shifts alone, which violates university rules, according to the email from RHO employees to administrators obtained by The Hoya. 
Unfilled professional staff positions have also contributed to a less supportive environment for student workers, according to an RHO manager who requested to remain anonymous. Residential Services Coordinator Jessica Scibetti left her position in December 2019 and Associate Director for Residential Services Ross Iosefson left his in January 2020. The two positions have yet to be filled.
“We haven’t been supported at all in these roles this year, not since Ross and Jessica left,” the manager said. “I think this is part of a trend that is developing this year. Res Living just does not care about the implications of its decisions on student workers.”
The remainder of the semester will be disheartening for RHO employees, Thabet said.
“It’s on the managers now with no guidance from professional staff to keep our staff motivated enough and energized enough to finish out the year before they shut us down,” Thabet said. “It’s hard to do that if there’s no guarantee of being rehired next year.”

Hoya says 
March 9, 2020 at 4:28 pm
This is a good move by Georgetown. It will substantially lower salary costs (lower tuition increases), be quicker for students to retrieve and be notified of their packages, and be easier for couriers. Although the students will have decreased amount of work, they can use that time for other jobs on or off campus. Or, simply study more.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 8, 2020 by Casey Ferrante Leave a Comment 
The seventh annual OWN IT Summit doubled its turnout since last year and highlighted the challenges facing women in positions of power. 
The summit, which aims to combat the stigma around women in the workforce through programming that emphasizes intersectional feminist values, brought 440 registered attendees, 28 board members and 65 volunteers together Feb. 29 to engage in conversations with women in leadership, according to Executive Director of OWN IT 2020 Emma Turner (COL ’21).
OWN IT featured three mainstage panels in Gaston Hall, a networking hour and breakout sessions on topics including women in health care and women in arts and entertainment. This year’s event brought high-ranking female leaders to campus, including Samantha Power, former ambassador to the United Nations, Valerie Jarrett, former senior adviser to former President Barack Obama for public engagement and intergovernmental affairs, and Laura Jarrett, early-morning anchor at CNN.
In a mainstage conversation, Power discussed her memoir “The Education of an Idealist” and the obstacles of being a woman in her profession. Power encouraged students to combat unconscious gender biases at the summit. Women in positions of power have to balance work and personal life but are often looked down upon for discussing everyday activities, according to Power. 
“Even women, when they reach a certain point, they make it from the outside look easy,” Power said. “These women were plagued by self-doubt, or that as they were saying to the Russian ambassador, ‘Have you no shame!’ and excoriating him for the shelling in Aleppo and for the interference in the U.S. election, part of that person’s brain, my brain is thinking, ‘Oh shit, I forgot to pack the snack!’”
The first panel of the event, “Changing Workplace Culture,” emphasized the need to make the workplace a safer environment for women to participate in. 
Companies should invest in making the workplace a safe space for women and dedicate the necessary resources to provide women with the services they need, according to panelist Maya Raghu, director of workplace equality and senior counsel at the National Women’s Law Center. Companies must see sexual assault prevention as an important societal responsibility rather than a temporary concern. 
“There are some that are approaching this as a PR issue, as a crisis management issue, which from my perspective is the wrong approach because it is very short term and it’s not going to lead to the deeper sort of cultural change that they need to prevent this from happening in the first place,” Raghu said.
The OWN IT 2020 Summit stands out from past summits because this year’s team was able to recruit powerful, high-profile women to participate, according to Turner.
“Our mainstage speakers were big names for OWN IT, and I think that set the tone for the rest of the day,” Turner wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Starting the day listening to speakers like Amb. Power and Valerie Jarrett left attendees energized and ready to participate in more intimate breakout sessions.”
The mission of OWN IT is to provide a forum for college-aged women to interact with and learn from women in leadership without worrying about the financial burdens of unpaid internships and networking, according to its website. After the successes of this year’s event, organizers are looking ahead to adapt to the changing needs of Georgetown University students, according to Turner.
“The conversations that happen at OWN IT are unique and will shift depending on what students need at the time,” Turner wrote. “We want OWN IT’s team and summit to represent all of Georgetown’s campus, and I hope that OWN IT will shift its focus more towards networking and connecting students with the women that come to speak. Additionally, I hope that OWN IT will create more partnerships with on-campus groups and similar organizations like the Women’s Forum.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 8, 2020 by Giulia Testa Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University Campus Ministry removed the name of the former Jean Vanier Cabin at the Calcagnini Contemplative Center because of an independent inquiry released Feb. 22 that confirmed multiple allegations of sexual and emotional abuse by the cabin’s namesake.
The cabin was originally named after Jean Vanier, founder of L’Arche International, a worldwide organization established in 1964 to support adults with intellectual disabilities. Vanier’s alleged abuses began shortly after the founding of L’Arche, taking place between 1970 and 2005 in France, according to an email sent by Director of Campus Ministry Fr. Gregory Schenden, S.J., to all students who have attended a retreat at the CCC.
L’Arche employed GCPS Consulting, a U.K.-based group with expertise in the prevention of sexual exploitation and abuse, to begin an independent inquiry after Vanier’s death in May 2019. L’Arche’s decision to start the inquiry was based on an allegation against Vanier in 2016, which was thoroughly investigated and acknowledged by Vanier, and a similar allegation in March 2019, according to a summary report of the inquiries findings. The inquiry team received six total allegations from alleged victims and directly interviewed five of them, according to the report.
The university takes the findings of this report seriously and does not support any forms of sexual abuse or covering up of sexual abuse, according to Schenden.
“The news that Jean Vanier engaged in manipulative sexual relationships and emotional abuse with women between 1970 and 2005 is horrifying,” Schenden wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We strongly condemn all acts of sexual abuse and the complicity of covering up of sexual abuse in all forms. We praise those survivors who came forward to report their experiences.”
The inquiry also found that Vanier was aware that Fr. Thomas Philippe, his spiritual director, had emotionally and sexually abused several women beginning in the 1950s, according to the summary report. While Philippe was officially sanctioned by the church in 1956, Vanier repeatedly claimed he was not aware of Philippe’s behavior, releasing two public statements of denial in 2015 and 2016, according to the report.
Vanier’s choice to defend Philippe implicates Vanier in both sexual abuse and a cover-up, according to Schenden’s email to all students who have attended a retreat at the CCC.
“Some of these survivors confided in Jean Vanier, but he dismissed their pain and suffering and did not report their allegations,” the email read. “Thus Jean Vanier was also complicit in covering up Philippe’s abuse.”
L’Arche is deeply upset by the findings of the report and is currently undergoing a systematic review of their safeguarding policies and procedures, including setting up a Safeguarding Commission to ensure such abuses do not happen again, according to L’Arche Director of External Affairs Theo Latiolais.
“We are stunned and saddened by this news,” Latiolais wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We are processing and grieving and remain committed to ensuring the safety of all our members.”
The CCC has been used for Campus Ministry retreats, department meetings and other university retreats, including the ESCAPE program, since its opening in 2013. In addition to naming a cabin at the CCC after Vanier, who was previously considered an international humanitarian and spiritual leader, Georgetown also invited Vanier to speak about compassion and his communities for the disabled in Gaston Hall in 2002.
L’Arche’s mission of bringing people with and without intellectual disabilities together is one of the reasons Georgetown has supported the organization. Georgetown should continue to support the organization while also recognizing Vanier’s wrongful actions, according to Libbie Rifkin, professor and director of the disability studies minor.
“I think L’Arche’s mission is great and right in line with Georgetown’s commitment to caring for the whole person,” Rifkin said in an interview with The Hoya. “I think it would be important for us to continue to support the organization as it does good work while being extremely critical of and rejecting Jean Vanier’s personal behavior.”
Campus Ministry plans to host a conversation around the renaming of the cabin at a later time, according to Schenden’s email to all students who have attended a retreat at the CCC.
Campus Ministry urges those who are affected to seek out resources on campus to help process the news, according to Schenden.“We acknowledge that this news is deeply painful,” Schenden wrote. “The chaplains and staff of Campus Ministry are available to those affected, as are other university resources.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

