
October 22, 2020 by Kelly Anderson 2 Comments 
Georgetown University students who hope to study abroad spring 2021 face uncertainty about whether their study abroad plans will be complicated by coronavirus-related travel restrictions. 
Although all student university-sponsored international travel has been suspended since March 4 because of health risks posed by COVID-19, the university is currently planning to proceed with most spring study abroad programs. A June 15 announcement from the university extended the travel moratorium through the fall 2020 semester, canceling all fall study abroad programs. In an email to undergraduate students Aug. 28, however, the Office of Global Education announced it had opened spring 2021 study abroad applications for juniors and sophomores.
Multiple students reported the OGE encouraged them to proceed with applications to international programs for spring 2021, including Sanjna Jain (SFS ’22) and Maddy Duval (COL ’22), who both plan on studying abroad next semester. (Full disclosure: Duval currently serves on The Hoya’s editorial board.)
Jain said she initially hoped to study in Morocco, but after consulting staff at the OGE, she decided to look into programs located in European countries with lower coronavirus transmission rates. She is now applying for a study abroad program in Denmark. Jain remains concerned, however, that the university will extend its moratorium on international travel even if the program itself continues as planned.
“From what the advisers told me, they think the programs themselves are going to run, but the question is whether Georgetown is actually going to let people go on the programs,” Jain said. “It seems like OGE won’t have much control over whether we go abroad.”
When approached for comment, OGE Director Craig Rinker deferred comment to a university spokesperson, who said it is too early to make a decision on spring study abroad programming until the health risks can be properly evaluated.
“We recognize the importance of communicating our approach to the spring semester as soon as possible. Many factors are still uncertain and evolving, and our number one priority is the safety of our community,” the university spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We will continue to evaluate guidance from local and federal governmental agencies, health and epidemiological projections, and other factors relating to international travel throughout the fall semester.”
Duval had initially been accepted to an OGE-sponsored program at the University of Auckland for the spring, but it was canceled because of the pandemic, so she began to look for other programs. She also considered putting her study abroad experience on hold, especially since the spring 2021 programs could be canceled on short notice.
“They’ve been really open with me about the possibility of it being canceled, and they said if programs do start to cancel they’re going to try and get those students placed elsewhere,” Duval said. “I’m planning to apply to a different university in New Zealand, but I’m also keeping the possibility open to study abroad in senior fall or over the summer because I feel like the possibility other programs start to cancel is pretty high.”
Study abroad uncertainty has thrown Duval’s academic plans into flux, and she hopes the university is cognizant of the additional planning students who want to study abroad are facing.
“My vision of what my time at Georgetown would look like is completely up in the air,” Duval said. “I’m the type of person who likes to have a plan, so it’s been hard to accept that I can’t control it and just know that I have to wait and rely on external factors for the decision to be made.”
Jain said her OGE advisers have suggested the office would make a final decision about the spring semester by late October, but no official announcement has been made on when or what the university will decide. 
The university will follow a similar procedure when evaluating whether to cancel study abroad for the spring as it did for this fall, according to a university spokesperson. 
“We made the decision in mid-June in order to provide all students who had planned to participate in university-sponsored international travel or programs ample time to adjust their plans to continue their studies with Georgetown for the fall semester,” the spokesperson wrote. “We recognize how disruptive and significant this decision is, and the university is actively working with relevant departments to help affected students determine the best course of action to continue their academic progress in the fall.”
Other countries’ border restrictions may preclude students from the United States from international travel. Many countries, including France, Germany and Italy, have closed their borders to Americans engaged in non-essential travel due to health risks, in part because the number of COVID-19 cases in the United States is the highest in the world, according to The New York Times.
When compared with the United States, Duval said she is not concerned about contracting the virus in New Zealand, which has virtually eliminated coronavirus transmission, but does worry she could become infected while traveling overseas. 
“I would be worried if the situation in the U.S. doesn’t improve, I would be worried about me bringing it to New Zealand,” Duval said. 
Jain said she is also concerned about the risks of international flights but added European countries have handled the pandemic more successfully than the United States, and she would definitely choose to study abroad if given the option.
“I would probably feel more comfortable studying abroad than going back to Georgetown’s campus in the spring,” Jain said. “I would probably feel safer in a country that’s not the U.S.” 

Concerned Hoya says 
October 25, 2020 at 3:04 pm
Your information about European countries is incorrect. American students WILL be allowed into the countries if they are there to study. The “travel ban” on Americans does not apply to students going to study in a (ex.) German university.

more concerned hoya says 
October 25, 2020 at 9:56 pm
shut up
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 22, 2020 by Moira Ritter 26 Comments 

Georgetown University parents have flooded social media and administrators’ inboxes with messages urging the university to reopen campus for Zoom-weary students in the spring. 
The effort to reopen campus began in the Class of 2024 parent Facebook group in September. Posts complaining about the negative effects of virtual learning on students quickly evolved into a full-fledged lobbying campaign to reopen campus.
After gathering momentum, parents created a separate Facebook group, “Students and Parents Advocating for Georgetown Students on Campus,” which now has over 500 members. The group’s efforts culminated in the circulation of a petition which has garnered over 1000 signatures from parents, students and other supporters as of Oct. 22. 
The university originally planned to house the entire freshman class on campus but walked back its decision in August as the COVID-19 pandemic continued to worsen. Approximately 500 students are living on the main campus this fall because of academic requirements or unstable home situations. 
Because of a supposed lack of communication from the university about spring semester plans, 52 parents of first-years signed and sent a letter to the university Sept. 21 demanding greater transparency and urging the university to bring students back, according to a Facebook post with a copy of the letter. 
“We urge you to find a way to have freshmen on campus this fall, and no later than January, even if some or all classes are online,” the letter reads. “Is it imperative that the Class of 2024, who missed prom, graduation, and innumerable other once-in-a-lifetime high school experiences, is allowed to have what remains of their freshman year on campus? We believe the answer to this question is an emphatic and overwhelming yes.”
After receiving a muted response from the university to the group letter and other direct messages, the group published the petition Oct. 13. The social and emotional benefits of being on campus, the petition argues, outweigh the potential risks of infection spikes. As of Oct. 22, more than 214,000 COVID-19 cases have emerged on more than 1,600 college campuses across the country, according to a New York Times database. 
“Unfortunately, COVID-19 will not be gone anytime soon, and we need Georgetown’s leadership to get their students who wish to be on campus to be allowed to do so no later than January,” the petition reads. “Students must have the opportunity to be a part of the Georgetown Community  and the benefit of in-person learning which is only truly possible if they are on campus.”
The petition also demands the university be more transparent with the university community about its COVID-19 response plans, a critique raised by many students and faculty over the course of the pandemic. 
The group hopes the petition will garner support from the broader Georgetown community, not just parents of first-years, according to Heidi Hermelin, the parent who wrote the petition.
“The goal of the petition was to create a platform for more people to have a joined voice to the administration that we feel it’s very important to the education and the emotional wellbeing of the students, and not just the freshmen,” Hermelin said in an interview with The Hoya. 
The administration expects to publish a preliminary plan for the spring semester by Nov. 16, according to a systemwide email from University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95). 
“We are closely monitoring our capacity to meet the public health needs of our community, as the conditions of the pandemic continue to evolve. This involves reviewing a number of internal and external factors,” the email reads. “We are also closely monitoring the experiences of our peer institutions, with the understanding that each school’s approach reflects their individual context.”
In the meantime, the university will begin publishing more frequent updates for families about the university’s pandemic response. Students and families can also sign up for the university’s daily COVID-19 digest and watch DeGioia’s weekly video policy updates, according to an email from a university spokesperson.
Despite these moves toward greater transparency, the desire to reopen campus persists, and some parents have undertaken more intense strategies to compel the university to invite students back. 
Some parents have suggested withholding tuition in the spring if Georgetown does not allow students to return, while others have commented that their student will begin applying to transfer schools, according to several posts in the Facebook group. 
Other parent graduates have shared they will not be donating to the university until administrators communicate a plan to bring students back to campus. 
This article was updated Oct. 24 to add details about the threat posed by COVID-19 on college campuses. 

Amy kaden says 
October 22, 2020 at 11:01 am
With the impressive research being done at GU combined w the fact that DC has the 5th lowest cases of covid, it should be possible to bring students to campus. And if the neighborhood is a concern, students on campus should be far more desirable to them than the hoards of kids that will be inundating the neighborhoods should GU not open.

Kate Woodsome says 
October 22, 2020 at 11:32 am
GU  Should be obligated and determined to bring back our seniors who will be graduating next year. So many other colleges have worked out safe plans and we don’t understand why GU is not working harder to adapt to plan for their seniors! It’s proven it can be done let’s just do it.

A kaden says 
October 23, 2020 at 10:57 am
Yes! Fordham is doing a great job with all students back at their 2 densely populated city campuses. They test and their overall covid positivity rate is around .001% and of those who have tested positive, a large majority live off campus. This can be done!

Nickname says 
October 24, 2020 at 7:38 pm
You guys only care more about yourself instead of other’s life. Will the US be able to test the population on the same scale as China? Would everyone cooperate? Life comes first! Why do college kids don’t care about the public’s life! COVID-19 can rebound in all countries. Do you think the U.S. is doing better than Europe? Europe is facing a case rebound. And those who clamor to go back to school will be life killers

Ashley Tucker says 
October 22, 2020 at 12:15 pm
Thank you for covering this incredibly important issue!  Please bring the class of 2024 on campus in January!  It is imperative!

Darlene Rowley (P’24) says 
October 22, 2020 at 12:19 pm
Thank you to The Hoya for highlighting our efforts. We need to get these students back on campus, the toll this is taking on them mentally is dire. Open the library, give the students their life back. GU will undoubtedly have cooperation from students to keep everyone safe!

Maria Sosa says 
October 22, 2020 at 1:21 pm
Thank you for your well written and well researched article and for bringing attention to this important issue. It is imperative that Georgetown begin making plans instead of excuses and allow students to be on campus. Covid 19 is not going away any time soon. We need to plan and prepare but also go on with our lives. It is vital that students be on campus.

K. Schmidt says 
October 22, 2020 at 2:13 pm
Excellent article bringing visibility to a larger audience. Parents have considerable and valid concerns about the negative mental, intellectual and spiritual impact of the probable decision to keep all of the student body, or a large percentage, off campus next semester. Students will continue to miss a crucial component of their Georgetown education, Washington, DC.
The Georgetown College website page promotes, ‘The Washington, DC Classroom’. 
 “Beyond the monuments and museums, DC is a city where students can extend their learning in practical and professional environments.” 
“Beyond internships, students can travel easily into Washington, DC, to find resources to support their education.”
“The college is committed to connecting our students to opportunities typically unavailable to undergraduates.”

Georgetown Sophomore says 
October 23, 2020 at 10:46 am
In a school of 7500, assuming a 0.3% positivity rate (as previously reported) and a 0.003% mortality rate (for people ~20 years old), we would lose 0.000675 students. In any other scenario—one not being distorted for political gain, in which people’s mental health and academic/professional futures aren’t being held hostage—that would round to zero. We lost thousands of times that number of students last year in natural disasters and accidents, yet we don’t ban students from travel or driving.
The administration claims time and again that the quality of Zoom University is the same as on-campus, yet they tout DC’s opportunities and atmosphere (which one can only take advantage of in-person) at every chance they get. The hypocrisy is disgusting. So now I have to commute over an hour each way for an internship (lucky to live somewhat close to DC), since they’re smart enough to have in-person opportunities.

Benjamin Eneman says 
October 26, 2020 at 10:14 am
1) “assuming a .3% positivity rate” is a bit of a stretch.  That may well be what it averages out to, but there’s always the chance for a spike in which far more students get it.
2) “and a .003% mortality rate (for people ~20 years old)” except again, you’re forgetting a variety of factors—people with pre-existing conditions affecting lung health, people with diabetes or hypertension or other cardiac illnesses, immunocompromised folks, and so on—*and* of course the fact that students would be far from the only people on campus in the event of a full-fledged return.  Professors, facilities workers, —how many of *their* lives are you willing to sacrifice?  Are you so confident that it will “round down to zero” given that hundreds of thousands of people have died of covid this year?  I’ve struggled with mental health issues for a very long time, and I get that this sucks.  Online school is not the same as on-campus school.  I get it.  But we don’t have the right to buy the ability to be on-campus with other people’s lives.

M. Schmidt says 
October 22, 2020 at 2:37 pm
The affect on all the classes of the student body is terrible. They each lose a crucial experience in different ways.
My son is a sophomore and was only on campus for one full semester his freshman year. If spring semester is off campus, he will have missed three semesters with an on campus experience.
He has friends at Notre Dame, another private catholic college, that are on campus with a very well managed testing and quarantine (should it be necessary) system.

Saasha Orsi says 
October 22, 2020 at 2:56 pm
Please address in another article how many universities are bringing back their seniors for spring semester- this connection that this will create will continue on well beyond graduation from a development point of view- crazy that the administration hasn’t focused in on this given the class of 2020 had no special send- ofd

David Tanczos says 
October 22, 2020 at 9:41 pm
As a parent in the Facebook group referenced in this article, I am concerned that the GU administration seems to be defining “health and safety” solely as the number of COVID cases without taking mental health impacts of anxiety and depression into consideration when making their decisions on whether to open to more students and to how many. The feelings of isolation and abandonment are real, and the mental health impacts can be severe. In fact, even Dr. Fauci is now saying that public health measures shouldn’t get in the way of opening, and that we should put the concept of a physical shutdown away. Instead, he says we should focus on public health measures to safely get us to where we want to go. Also, the GU administration has said that the campus is currently open, when in reality, it’s closed to 94% of all undergrads. Last, during one of last week’s Zoom sessions for GU’s Family Weekend, GU described the virtual environment as delivering a “Signature Georgetown experience”. While we certainly appreciate the hard work and dedication of the faculty, the virtual environment lacks the richness of the in-person experience and it isn’t what our students deserve. Even if just the dorms are open and classes are online, that’s a huge step forward. The administration has recently shown some improvement in communications which is appreciated, and we hope that continues. The next step is to open to a significant number of students in January. It can be done safely.

Kelly G DePaulo says 
October 23, 2020 at 1:55 pm
Thank you, David!! This is exactly right. I couldn’t agree more. Could you please share the link for the Facebook group? It’s not coming up in searches. My husband and I both graduated from Gtown, we have 1 child who is an alum, and another who is a current student. This cannot be allowed to go on any longer. It is damaging so many student’s lives. We saved for so many years to send our children to college. To think that we are paying ridiculous amounts of money for the university to play loose and free with the devastating consequences of keeping young people out of school. Notre Dame, Villanova, Boston College, & many others have all figured out ways to make it work for students. I believe Georgetown’s lack of leadership is unconscionable.

Suzie Maguire says 
October 23, 2020 at 6:10 pm
I agree Kelly!

David Tanczos says 
October 23, 2020 at 7:59 pm
Hi Kelly, here’s the link to the Facebook group: https://www.facebook.com/groups/314824786483249/

Nina says 
October 23, 2020 at 10:02 am
Excellent Article. The students need to be brought back to campus in January.  Zoom calls is not what a college experience is about.  COVID is not going away.  We all have to learn how to live with it.  Georgetown administration needs to step up and develop strategies on how to bring students back safely.

Georgetown Sophomore says 
October 23, 2020 at 10:47 am
In a school of 7500, assuming a 0.3% positivity rate (as previously reported) and a 0.003% mortality rate (for people ~20 years old), we would lose 0.000675 students. In any other scenario—one not being distorted for political gain, in which people’s mental health and academic/professional futures aren’t being held hostage—that would round to zero. We lost thousands of times that number of students last year in natural disasters and accidents, yet we don’t ban students from travel or driving.
The administration claims time and again that the quality of Zoom University is the same as on-campus, yet they tout DC’s opportunities and atmosphere (which one can only take advantage of in-person) at every chance they get. The hypocrisy is disgusting. So now I have to commute over an hour each way for an internship (lucky to live somewhat close to DC), since they’re smart enough to have in-person opportunities.

Nickname says 
October 24, 2020 at 7:48 pm
How did you even get into the GU? Just for your internship, you’re thinking about reopening the measure. Please go to your library database and read about COVID-19! This is an unprecedented crisis! Why is America the way it is? Ask your President! The US do not need to follow what China did, but what about Europe? The epidemic is now under control in Europe. If you have COVID-19, you’ll regret the decision you had to make to open the building again! Not only you, but all of us face the problem of the quality of this class! Your job should be to succeed in this environment, not to complain!

Gtown Senior says 
October 23, 2020 at 12:10 pm
Let’s be real folks. The Georgetown University administration is incompetent and cowardly. The school community is irreparably damaged and students currently enrolled are left with a disgusting taste in their mouths. As if it’s not bad enough to not open, students on and off campus are treated like criminals in a quasi surveillance state. The school will be in financial ruins (more than it already is) given how much they’ve alienated their students. Kiss any alumni support goodbye.

Susan says 
October 23, 2020 at 9:59 pm
I thought I was alone, I want to sign that letter. I have called and called and left messages. no one answers !! Please someone let me know how to join this group. I live in New Haven.
Yale is back with a rapid test, Harvard has freshman, Cornell is back.Williams, Brown. Why are our kids outcasts?? They will lose their competitive edge. Why. Money. Because obviously we do t pay enough!!!!! Please reopen!!!!

gtown student says 
October 23, 2020 at 11:31 pm
y’all should read about all the massive outbreaks at schools that have much larger campuses and de-densified housing. In my dorm freshman year there was a point where each and every one of us had the flu – at the same time. and wait until you hear about the students’ experiences in quarantine housing at these re-opened schools. y’all would be kidding yourselves if you think there won’t be parties or large gatherings if every student is brought back.
Another thing: many students in actual need of on-campus housing were rejected in the fall. y’all weren’t rallying for them were you. 
Before any class year is prioritized, gtown needs to get all their vulnerable students on campus. those without cushy homes. period.

Alejandro Parada says 
October 24, 2020 at 7:01 am
CDC Weekly Update from their website: “Nationally, the overall percentage of respiratory specimens testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, the virus causing COVID-19, increased from 5.6% during week 41 to 6.3% during week 42. Percent positivity increased among all age groups…. Based on death certificate data, the percentage of deaths attributed to pneumonia, influenza, or COVID-19 (PIC) for week 42 was 7.6%.” That’s 36 deaths among the student population, assuming that the pandemic does not get any worse in the upcoming holiday season as projected. If there was a loose gunmen that killed half of that many students in Georgetown it would be considered a national tragedy and the blame would have fallen on the university for not properly protecting their students. How is it possibly unreasonable to follow national trends and expert advice when structuring a temporary distance learning environment? Transparency has been amazing, I have received an email at least once a week discussing ongoing planning and concerns related to Covid-19.

David Tanczos says 
October 24, 2020 at 11:50 am
I certainly respect your opinion.  Our group has been advocating for each student to have the option to live in the dorms or remain remote (just like many other schools have been doing successfully), so those wanting to stay remote would have the option to do so.  Also, while we’d prefer for classes to be in-person, we are open to classes remaining online if the students are allowed in the dorms.  In addition, the on-campus GU environment requires testing twice per week, masks, social distancing, and would have supervision (among many other safety measures), so it seems to be an extremely safe environment.  Furthermore, we believe we are following the science — even Dr. Fauci is now saying that public health measures shouldn’t get in the way of opening, and that we should put the concept of a physical shutdown away.  Instead, he says we should focus on public health measures to safely get us to where we want to go.  Also, the stats that apply to the 20 year-old student population seem to be more accurately depicted in the comment by “Georgetown Sophomore” on 10/23 at 10:46 am.  And while GU administration’s communication has improved recently, transparency has been a challenge.  For example, the administration has indicated that the DC government has made opening a challenge, yet Catholic University, also in DC, opened to freshmen in August.  I have not heard an explanation for how Catholic U could open to more students but GU couldn’t.  It certainly seems to indicate that the decision to not open in August was GU’s, not the DC government’s.  GU is an in-person university, and it has an obligation to its students to open as soon as it is safe to do so.  Many other schools in similar environments have opened safely and successfully, so GU students deserve the option to at least live in the dorms.  We have offered our help, cooperation, and support to the GU administration if there’s anything we can do to help achieve this goal.

Nickname says 
October 24, 2020 at 7:57 pm
The problem is Under certain medical conditions, the virus doesn’t necessarily kill you. However, it is enough to make students feel weak and withdraw from the class. Think about those who travel across the state. It’s contagious on planes, it’s contagious on trains, it’s contagious in public toilets, it’s too risky.GU must be careful in his decision. Without life, a diploma is nothing

Nickname says 
October 24, 2020 at 7:46 pm
How did you even get into college? Just for your internship, you’re thinking about reopening the measure. Please go to your library database and read about COVID-19! This is an unprecedented crisis! Why is America the way it is? Ask your President! The US do not need to follow what China did, but what about Europe? The epidemic is now under control in Europe. If you have COVID-19, you’ll regret the decision you had to make to open the building again! Not only you, but all of us face the problem of the quality of this class! Your job should be to succeed in this environment, not to complain!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

