
August 12, 2020 by Moira Ritter 2 Comments 
Many incoming first-year students are struggling to quickly revise their plans for the fall after Georgetown University announced it would no longer be allowing the Class of 2024 to live on campus for the fall semester.
The university’s original plan, which was released July 6, invited back approximately 2,000 students to campus, including the entire Class of 2024. However, because of the sustained severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, Georgetown will no longer bring the incoming undergraduate class back to campus, according to a July 29 email announcement. Students in unstable or unsafe living situations whose applications for on-campus housing were accepted by Georgetown will still be allowed on the Hilltop.
At the same time as the announcement, the university opened the application for on-campus housing to first-year students, who had until Aug. 5 to complete it. 
While the new plan released by the university came as a shock to several incoming students, the shock quickly turned to apathy, according to Bella Fassett (SFS ’24).
“I feel like at this point, I’m kind of just numb to all the out-of-nowhere changes that admin keeps throwing at us,” Fassett said in an interview with The Hoya. “I feel like my capability to be surprised, and even more surprised, and even more surprised — it’s like there’s not much more I have in me to be incredulous about what is happening and how admin have handled things.”
Fassett, who has a chronic illness, was relying on living on campus for her physical health and academic success. Since the announcement last week, she applied for on-campus housing, but has not yet heard back from the university with a decision.
An acceptance is no guarantee. Last month, hundreds of upperclassmen were denied on-campus housing by the university, despite facing extenuating circumstances.
If not approved for on-campus housing, Fassett will either have to live at home, where she worries her health will decline, or take a medical leave of absence, she said.
“I would just have to make it work and have my health suffer, which is not something I really even want to consider, because I’ve just worked so hard to get to the point where I can be in school at all. There were points in high school where I really was getting very close to having drastic measures of just dropping out,” Fassett said.
Two days before the new plan was released, first-year students were required to register for classes, and many also attended a webinar with details on move-in procedures, according to several incoming first-year students. The webinar came just one day before the new plan was released, aggravating the confusion and surprise felt by many.
Georgetown’s lack of transparency leading up to its announcement was frustrating and left many students in a difficult financial position and scrambling to rework their fall plans, according to Lara Santana (SFS ’24).
Santana, who lives in Puerto Rico, plans on moving into her roommate’s house in Bethesda, Md., to avoid hurricane season this fall. However, her parents already purchased nonrefundable flights to help her move into Georgetown that they now will not use.
“I just feel tied down. I feel like they didn’t give me an option,” Santana said in an interview with The Hoya, “which really frustrates me because they could have been more transparent about it, and we could have planned our schedules to fit our lives.”
Many first-year students who were looking forward to living on campus do not qualify for on-campus housing but do not have an alternative living arrangement that lends itself to study. Hannah Ajibola (NHS ’24) will be staying at her home in Maryland this fall in crowded conditions, she said in an interview with The Hoya.
“I actually share a room, so that was one of my concerns when they announced the plan. My sister is also in college, and her college is all virtual. So I’m kind of concerned, since we’re both all virtual, how we’re going to be in the same room when we both have classes,” Ajibola said.
With her whole family working from home, Ajibola is also concerned about having a stable internet connection and finding a way to purchase her own computer for online classes and assignments. 
In an effort to fight the isolation that comes with starting college virtually, many incoming students have already begun developing relationships with others through GroupMe and on social media, and many have already gotten involved with student organizations and clubs, according to Kenny Boggess (SFS ’24).
Boggess has already joined choir, orchestra, several GUSA policy teams and The Hilltop Show, he said in an interview with The Hoya. 
“We have over half the class in one of our GroupMes, so there’s a lot of chance for conversation. I’ve met a lot of people. I’ve met up with some of them in person for socially distanced saying hi. It’s relatively easy to socialize if you seek out the opportunities and you know they’re there,” Boggess said. 
Fassett said, ultimately, the university’s response to the pandemic and last-minute changes have been disappointing and have left incoming students, especially first-generation and low-income students, in difficult situations.
“It’s kind of an impossible situation,” Fassett said. “It’s a pandemic. There’s only so much we all have control over, including admin, but it just really feels like the way that this has played out has screwed over FGLI students and has screwed over students who can’t learn from home or do virtual learning for any given reason.”

Joe Biden says 
August 15, 2020 at 10:00 am
I think this is the safest option. We can’t have people running around spreading this flu. We need to stay in doors, with our masks, and listen to those who know best.
Take it from me, Uncle Joe!
[…] University announcing its intention to keep classes fully virtual and rescind an invitation for first-year students to […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


August 12, 2020 by Hansen Lian Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service announced its 11th class of fellows, featuring two people who worked on 2020 presidential campaigns as well as four other experienced figures in politics and political journalism.
The six new fellows are Faiz Shakir (LAW ’06), who directed Sen. Bernie Sanders’ (I-Vt.) 2020 presidential campaign; Lis Smith, Pete Buttigieg’s campaign communications adviser; author and CNN commentator Mary Katharine Ham; Trump administration senior adviser Kevin Hassett; former Rep. Mia Love (R-Utah); and Errin Haines, editor at large of The 19th.
The GU Politics fellows program began in fall 2015, and the program generally draws five or six political figures from diverse backgrounds and fields every semester. As of spring 2020, the program has invited 51 total fellows. This fall marks the fifth anniversary of the program.
The GU Politics fellows serve for one academic semester and share their experiences with students through discussion groups and office hours. However, because of the COVID-19 pandemic and Georgetown University’s decision to hold classes online, this will be the first year in which fellows will hold these events virtually, beginning with a Sept. 10 virtual open house.
GU Politics Executive Director Mo Elleithee (SFS ’94) said that while the fellows program has always looked to bring in experts, he believed the fifth anniversary of the program was an opportunity to draw even bigger names in politics.
“Each semester, GU Politics brings some of the biggest names in public service to Georgetown for students to interact with on a weekly basis,” Elleithee wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We wanted to go big with our fifth anniversary class, and I think we nailed it with an ideologically diverse class of six of the top operatives, public servants and journalists in the country.”
The GU Politics summer events demonstrated students are eager to connect with fellows, according to Paula Pecorella (GRD ’23), manager of fellows and career programming.
“Based on the enthusiasm we saw from students this summer, we anticipate even more students will engage with the program this semester to stay connected to the Hilltop and have these important conversations no matter where they are,” Pecorella wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Shakir looks forward to giving back and teaching about running a presidential campaign, but also getting to learn from the other fellows and students he will be working with.
“I’ll use my discussion group to explain all the facets that go into managing a presidential campaign, but I also want to get into sharing all the various other experiences I’ve had in government and hopefully help better inform students’ perspectives on a path that might excite them,” Shakir wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I’m looking forward to not only learning from the other Fellows but also from the students. I’ve always had a desire to go into teaching, and this is going to be my first real taste of it. So I’m very thankful to Mo for giving me the opportunity.”
Haines is the founding member and editor at large of The 19th, a nonprofit news organization that focuses its coverage on the intersection of politics and gender named after the 19th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution that gave women the right to vote. She is also an Associated Press reporter covering the intersection of race with the 2020 presidential election.
Ham is a journalist and senior writer for The Federalist, as well as a regular commentator on CNN. She previously appeared as a commentator for Fox News and was an editor at large of the conservative news site Hot Air. In 2015, she coauthored “End of Discussion: How the Left’s Outrage Industry Shuts Down Debate, Manipulates Voters, and Makes America Less Free (and Fun).”
Hassett is an economist who served in the Trump administration from 2017 to 2019 as chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers and returned to the administration for a second stint in April 2020 as a senior adviser in response to the economic fallout caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Love served as a U.S. Representative in Utah’s 4th district from 2015 to 2019, a distinction that made her the first Black female Republican elected to Congress. She now is a political commentator for CNN.
Smith is a political strategist who most recently was Buttigieg’s senior communications adviser for his 2020 presidential campaign. She is often credited with increasing Buttigieg’s national presence during the Democratic primaries by securing one-on-one conversations with national reporters.
Shakir served as Sanders’ campaign manager during his 2020 presidential campaign. In doing so, he became the first Muslim and first Pakastani American to manage a major U.S. presidential campaign
Shakir said he was inspired to be part of this program in part because he was able to work with political veterans during his own time as an undergrad at Harvard University, an experience that ended up shaping his own career path.
“When I was a student in college, I participated in a program much like what GU Politics offers. And it had a profound impact on inspiring me to pursue this career,” Shakir wrote. “One of my goals is to hopefully give a future generation of political and policy staffers the motivation and knowledge they need to pursue a career in bending the arc toward justice.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

