
August 3, 2020 by Harrison Lee Leave a Comment 
With their fall plans thrown into disarray by the COVID-19 pandemic, some Georgetown University students find themselves stuck in untenable leases for off-campus housing. 
The university announced July 29 that it would host all fall semester classes virtually, reversing its original reopening plan to house first-year students, resident assistants and select upperclassmen on campus. Administrators have discouraged students from renting out apartments in the neighborhoods surrounding campus. However, many upperclassmen signed on to leases months before the university announced its fall plan, unaware what the pandemic’s impact on campus life would be. 
Elisabeth Kutek (MSB ’21) signed a lease agreement for a home near campus in December 2019, hoping to move into her senior-year home in May. Kutek is unable to live at her permanent residence, where she has not lived since she started studying at Georgetown three years ago. Additionally, with an expected family contribution of $0, she relies on the university for full financial support. Kutek planned to utilize a housing fund rebate from the university to finance the rent. 
After COVID-19 made landfall in the United States in January and forced Georgetown to shift classes online by March, Kutek began to worry about the financial feasibility of her summer and fall housing. She remains unsure if her new financial aid package will include funds to pay for her rent.  
“When we found out things were going online, things got a little shaky,” Kutek said in an interview with The Hoya. “Are we still going to receive housing financial aid? Are we still going to get the same amount of support or refunding for housing?” 
During the spring, Kutek lived with a friend and their family, paying a small rent before moving into her apartment in May. She bankrolled her housing expenses using her CARES Act stipend. 
Since seniors are generally not guaranteed on-campus housing, the months of uncertainty surrounding the university’s fall plans put seniors with off-campus housing in a complicated position, according to Kutek.
“Do I need to find a subletter, not knowing if we’re going online? What happens if we don’t go online and I find a subletter? I wasn’t guaranteed housing [as a senior], and I wasn’t given a housing hold for senior year,” Kutek said.  
Kutek is now locked into a lease she may not be able to afford with a landlord who will not offer discounts. Because of her insecure housing situation, Kutek applied to live on campus in the fall and was accepted, but she was forced to turn down her offer. 
“I was searching for a subletter, and I applied for housing on campus for the fall. And I got approved for housing for the fall, but then they gave us two days to decide whether or not we were going to accept housing on campus. And like, how — like, am I supposed to find a subletter in two days? Like, that was impossible,” Kutek said. “I had no choice but to deny the on-campus housing because I definitely can’t afford to have two places at once.”
As the fall semester approaches, Kutek is unsure if she will be able to pay rent or find a subletter to relieve the financial pressure. 
Student financial aid extends to off-campus expenses, and students stuck in leases and unable to return home can apply for financial support from the university, according to a university spokesperson. 
“On a case-by-case basis, students with significant financial need who are unable to reverse their local housing arrangements and return to a permanent residence for remote study this fall, can be eligible for university need-based financial aid to help them meet off-campus living costs,” the spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The process for applying for the supplemental support can be taxing on students and their families, according to Kutek. Ultimately, uncertainty about the fall still looms. 
“One thing they recommended was having your parent write a letter about why you couldn’t be there, but, like, I really don’t want to have to put my mom through saying why she doesn’t have a healthy living space for me to do school work. I would really much prefer not to have to have her say those things,” Kutek said. 
The university spokesperson also recommended that students reach out to the Office of Neighborhood Life, the District of Columbia Office of the Tenant Advocate or the Georgetown Student Tenant Association for support. 
The Office of Neighborhood Life is responsible for advising and supporting students off campus, but it cannot arbitrate legal or contractual issues between students and their landlords. The GSTA, a student organization created in 2013 to support student renters, was last active on social media in January 2018 and was not able to be reached for comment. 
Maya Moretta (COL ’21), like Kutek, also finds herself stuck with a lease she signed months ago that she might not be able to afford. 
“Obviously, no one would have guessed that we would be in a global pandemic a year later. However, I have 5 other roommates. It’s not possible for one person to break a lease while others continue to live in the home. Therefore, getting out of the lease isn’t really an option,” Moretta wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Our landlord has been accommodating by giving us a discount on the rent for the summer but I don’t know if that will continue into the fall.”
Recent changes to her financial aid package published Friday have made her housing situation more difficult, according to Moretta. 
“I signed the lease under the impression that my financial aid would reflect my new cost, but my aid for next semester has been virtually eliminated.” Moretta wrote. “Unless the university accepts my appeal which seems highly unlikely I won’t be able to afford to attend the school in the fall and will be required to take a semester off. I literally can’t afford to attend Georgetown with the amount of money they offered me next semester, even if I wasn’t stuck in a lease. So the fact that I’m living in this house for a semester makes it ten times worse.”
Hoya Staff Writer Hansen Lian contributed reporting. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


August 3, 2020 by Liana Hardy 2 Comments 
Georgetown University disclosed substantial reductions in financial aid for students living off campus Friday, angering many who feel the new changes place undue financial burden on low-income students. 
The university said in past announcements that it would alter fall financial aid packages for students living off campus to adjust for room and board costs. However, the financial aid cuts have left many students paying the same amount or more to attend the university than preceding years, despite the university’s decision to cut tuition for the virtual fall semester. Many students receiving financial aid have also reported inexplicable increases in their expected family contributions — the estimated amount of money a student and their family can expect to pay — despite not being able to pay more. 
The timeline of financial aid decisions has added to student stress, according to GUSA officials. The financial aid packages were released only three weeks before classes are set to begin. While approximately 1,400 students have received their financial aid information, freshmen, students living on campus and some international students have not yet received financial aid details by the time of publication, according to Georgetown University Student Association officials. 
In response to financial aid changes, GUSA created a petition calling for the reappraisal of released financial aid packages and the reevaluation of packages that have not yet been disclosed. The petition, which has garnered more than 550 student signatures as of Aug. 3, also calls for an overhaul of financial aid calculations and more transparency with the financial aid process.
“The University’s consistently delayed and insufficient responses have failed to prioritize student needs, undermining student wellbeing and betraying the Jesuit values Georgetown claims to hold,” the petition reads. “There are students who are paying more to stay at home than they ever did to live on campus, with family contributions increased by a factor of nearly 7. There are students whose scholarship awards have decreased by over $15,000.00 since last year, with external scholarships so systematically miscalculated that it barely impacts their cost of attendance.”
Approximately 30% of students who received financial aid for the 2020-21 academic year saw a change of $10,000 or more in aid from the previous academic year, according to a GUSA survey of students that garnered 289 responses. The survey did not specify whether these changes were positive or negative. 
The cutbacks to financial aid have hit first-generation and low-income students the hardest, with many already working full time amid an economic downturn, including Kimberly Nguyen (COL ’23).
“I’m working 3 jobs currently trying to help make ends meet during this pandemic while my mom was on unemployment leave,” Nguyen wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I pay for my own schooling, taking out loans to be able to attend this institution. This year, my expected family responsibility on MyAccess states a 9K increase from the year prior. How does Georgetown expect me to pay this difference? I’m living at home, not using campus facilities, or on a meal plan. This 9K increase in cost of attendance is detrimental and not reasonable.”
Some students have seen such a decrease in financial aid that they will likely no longer be able to attend Georgetown, according to the petition.
“If I can’t win some random outside scholarships in the coming weeks, Georgetown University is now officially beyond what my family’s financial means can pay for,” an anonymous testimony in the petition reads. “This is an unacceptable slap in the face to students like me and makes it alarmingly clear who Georgetown values within its student body. The fact that it will, quite literally, cost more for me to stay at home (for the safety of our entire campus community) than any year I’ve physically attended Georgetown’s campus is disheartening.”
The university did not provide a comment on student financial aid concerns by the time of publication. 
The release of reduced financial aid packages comes after the university’s announcement July 21 that undergraduate students living off campus would receive a tuition discount of 10%. In the preceding weeks, more than 2,000 community members signed a petition calling on the university to reduce tuition and extend the deferral deadline. On July 29, the university said it would apply the reduction to all undergraduates. 
The tuition cut, however, had no impact on the expected family contribution threshold, meaning students already paying full or nearly full tuition would largely reap the benefits of the policy. Other institutions, such as Williams College, have reduced family contributions for students receiving financial aid in addition to cutting tuition.
Some students, including GUSA Senate Finance and Appropriations Chair Eric Bazail-Eimil (SFS ’23), suspect the tuition cuts played a role in financial aid reductions. The Hoya has not be able to confirm these suspicions.  
“I can’t imagine that in some way, it’s not related to the decision to reduce tuition,” Bazail-Eimil wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Especially when it comes to tuition-dependent institutions that redistribute hefty portions of their tuition revenues, shrinking the size of the pool of available funds inherently brings about this kind of undesirable outcome.”
The recent financial aid changes have reinforced student cynicism about university policies. Nile Blass (COL ’22), one of the organizers of the GUSA petition, said the financial aid reductions can only be seen as a way for the university to shore up its finances. 
“Georgetown is too big with too many resources and too many possibilities of making correct, fair and efficient decisions for this to be anything but intentional,” Blass said in an interview with The Hoya. “Even their failure and their complacency is intentional to an extent because it means that they didn’t put to use the vast amounts of institutional and social and economic powers that they have to ensure that this can be done in an efficient way.”
After the petition, GUSA plans to take further action to advocate for increased financial aid and to ensure the university addresses first-generation and low-income students’ unease, according to GUSA Senate Speaker Daniella Sanchez (COL ’22).
“I think that the university needs to realize that this isn’t an issue that we will just forget about or accept because this is affecting livelihoods,” Sanchez said during an interview with The Hoya. “This is administration literally taking away the sense of financial security that students used to have. So this isn’t something that we’re going to forget anytime soon.”

Nico Ferretti says 
August 4, 2020 at 10:09 am
This is such an important article; Great work. I hope readers share it far and wide. Also, go to bit.ly/financialaidcrisis for more ways to support students.

Karley Chubb says 
August 5, 2020 at 10:51 am
This is just another example of what is wrong with higher education.  All universities need to adopt new policies and commit to the cost of attendance for all four years when you make your decision to attend. This bait and switch nationwide is really disheartening to hear and it’s happening everywhere.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

