
November 6, 2020 by Grace Buono Leave a Comment 
If there is one thing that Ava McDonald (COL ’24) values most, it is authenticity. 
Almost two years ago, as a junior in high school, McDonald was scrolling through her social media feed when she realized just how many influencer-peddled, paid-to-post advertisement content clogged her Instagram feed. 
McDonald took to the internet searching for a company that had influencers targeting her generation who were posting about brands they cared about. When she found no such company, she decided to start her own. 
Zfluence, which launched in March 2019, aims to connect influential members of Generation Z — people born between 1996 and 2015— with companies they are passionate about promoting on social media, according to McDonald. Though the company focuses on influential students on college campuses, any member of Gen Z above the age of 16 can apply to become an Zfluencer. 
Unlike the paid-to-post influencers that inspired McDonald to start her company, Zfluencers are never paid for their posts. Rather, the company follows a product-as-reward system in which influencers receive free products as compensation, according to McDonald. 
“We’re really looking for people who just are really influencers not in the sense of the connotation it’s taken on, which is like people who are fake and presenting a highlight reel of their life on social media and trying to make a living out of it,” McDonald said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “We’re looking for people who really are just able to influence their peers in a positive and authentic way.”
The company recommends that applicants share their social media accounts for a review process and, while the focus is on the quality of posts, most Zfluencers have anywhere from 2,000 to 25,000 followers on Instagram, according to the company’s website. 
McDonald describes her company as a dating app for Gen Z influencers and the brands they love. People interested in becoming brand ambassadors can match with companies looking to promote their products among a younger audience. Rather than monetary compensation for posts, Zfluencers receive free products to promote. There are currently 2,000 Zfluencers on over 500 campuses working with the company, according to McDonald. 
These influential figures are often sorority or fraternity presidents, people with club leadership positions or those who have received outstanding achievement awards, according to McDonald, who personally reviews every application that comes through the Zfluence website. 
As the first generation to grow up with social media, members of Generation Z value social media branding, especially when they can tell their peers truly enjoy the products they are promoting, McDonald said. 
“We’ve seen those kind of posts by professional influencers or celebrities that are so obviously paid and clearly communicate that this post was motivated by payment and not by an authentic love of a product,” she said. “So what I wanted to do is put an end to that practice and empower members of my generation to benefit from their authentic positive influence.”
Once accepted into the Zfluence community, influencers can choose brands like beauty product chain Benefit Cosmetics, meal delivery service Snap Kitchen and nondairy plant-based ice cream brand Arctic Zero, all of which pay a monthly subscription fee to access Zfluence’s database of potential brand ambassadors. 
McDonald’s work with Zfluence was recently featured in marketing magazine Ad Age’s 40 Under 40 list on Oct. 5. McDonald appeared as the youngest honoree among other business and marketing leaders. 
“As Zfluence rolled out last year, some naysayers told her that she was too young to start a business, but the platform’s exponential growth over the past 12 months speaks for itself,” Ad Age’s Ethan Jakob Craft wrote about McDonald. 
Though McDonald began her business work before enrolling at Georgetown, she has applied her experience to a number of clubs, including her work on the public relations team at the Georgetown Retail & Luxury Association and as a marketing strategist with the Georgetown Marketing Association. 
Recently, McDonald reached out to the Georgetown Entrepreneurship Initiative, a group that aims to promote the positive change entrepreneurship can have among students and alumni, for guidance on the future of her company. 
For Jeff Reid, professor and founding director of the Georgetown Entrepreneurship Initiative, Zfluence is an example of a business representing a rising generation that is taking advantage of new platforms, like social media, he said in a phone interview with The Hoya. 
“So many social media influencers are about hype, and it can feel kind of strange sometimes,” he said. “But her business, the people who become influencers, are rewarded with the products that they are promoting. So if they don’t truly like those products, they’re not going to be an influencer.”
McDonald’s product-as-reward philosophy promotes the changes that McDonald wants to see on social media, Reid said. 
“There’s an authenticity that’s built in there, which I think is important, and it’s something that we teach at Georgetown, which is how to build a company with values instilled from the very beginning,” he said.
Since McDonald first began Zfluence, her company has been part of a growing movement to shift social media branding to include casual and more honest posts, she said. 
“Taking control of social media is something that’s more for them to share and less just putting things out there to worry about what other people might think,” McDonald said. “So I think it’s really cool that we as a generation are being a part of this change and pioneering a more authentic way to utilize social media.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 6, 2020 by Giulia Testa Leave a Comment 
Three Georgetown University entrepreneurs tied for first place at this year’s student business pitch competition.
The Bark Tank competition, which took place virtually Oct. 27, seeks to financially support business ventures created by Georgetown entrepreneurs, both undergraduate and graduate, by enabling students to pitch their business ideas for a chance to win up to $30,000 in prize money. 
Unlike previous years, three ventures tied for first place in this year’s competition: KnoNap, Button Helper and Project Olas. Each took home $30,000 in prize money.
KnoNap, founded by Danya Sherman (GRD ’21) in 2017, works to educate students about and advocate against drug-facilitated sexual assault. 
“We empower individuals against drink spiking through access to discreet, gender-inclusive, portable detection devices that test for specific date-rape drug presence,” Sherman wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Sherman has spoken and pitched to international audiences about her business, which has allowed her to witness how important her business is to many people. She has represented the United States at the 2018 G20 Summit in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and the 2019 GES Summit in the Hague. 
“After pitches or presentations, I have commonly been approached by individuals who share with me their experiences with drink spiking and or sexual violence,” Sherman wrote. “To me, these conversations reaffirm the importance of KnoNap and the dialogue we are building alongside KnoNap’s existence.”
Sherman plans on using the prize money to advance her business by finalizing the research development and initial manufacturing run of KnoNap’s product, a cocktail napkin that detects date-rape drugs in drinks.
Button Helper, founded by Robert Bolen (MSB ’20), aims to help disabled people to dress themselves with magnetic buttons. 
Project Olas, which was founded by Rebecca Cox (SFS ’23), offers conversational Spanish tutoring taught by moms living near Guatemala City’s largest landfill. Project Olas helps address two problems, according to Cox.
“We help moms in the [Guatemala City garbage dump] access safe and sustainable work where they earn more in one hour than what they would typically earn in a day,” Cox wrote in an email to The Hoya. “And we offer Spanish students the conversational practice that’s hard to get without going abroad.”
The coronavirus pandemic has created challenges for Project Olas, especially since everything is online and requires a decent understanding of technology, according to Cox. The money the project won will help fuel their efforts. 
“Previously we were bootstrapping completely on $10,000 from the Georgetown Entrepreneurship Challenge. Now we can expand our reach substantially, and grow much faster than we had anticipated,” she wrote.
The competition and prize money is supported by Ted Leonsis (CAS ’77), founder, majority owner, chairman and CEO of Monumental Sports & Entertainment, a Washington, D.C. company that markets live events. 
Although this year’s competition was held virtually because of the coronavirus pandemic, the event was not only a success, but the best event since Bark Tank was launched four years ago,  according to Jeff Reid, founding director of Georgetown Entrepreneurship Initiative.
“While we missed out on having the energy of a packed auditorium and some valuable post-event networking, we were still able to experience the drama that comes with a high stakes competition,” Reid wrote. “Ted Leonsis was so impressed, he messaged me in the middle of the event to offer additional prize money to make sure every team was rewarded.”
Reid said he admired this year’s business pitches, ones that he said were focused on benefitting society, not just making profits.
“Georgetown students are leveraging entrepreneurship to solve problems and make the world better,” Reid wrote in an email to The Hoya. “This year’s Bark Tank winners are already making a difference in the world.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 6, 2020 by Ella Kohler Leave a Comment 
Incumbent Democrat Brooke Pinto (LAW ’17) handily won reelection to keep her seat as Ward 2’s representative to the Council of the District of Columbia.
Pinto garnered 68.83% of the vote. Independent candidate Randy Downs followed, gaining 20.33% of the vote, with independent candidate Martín Miguel Fernandez and Statehood Green Party member Peter Bolton winning 6.98% and 2.83% of the vote, respectively. 
The campaign was defined by the repercussions of the COVID-19 pandemic and a summer of massive protests for racial justice in Washington, D.C. Candidates’ platforms centered on issues of pandemic recovery and Metropolitan Police Department reform. The race became more heated as Pinto’s opponents leveled accusations of unethical conduct and corruption during the campaign, citing a campaign finance complaint filed against Pinto in June. 
Pinto’s platform addressed a variety of issues, including small business support, housing, criminal justice reform and racial equality, among others. In response to the election’s outcome, Pinto promised to represent all her constituents from Ward 2 on the D.C. Council.
“I look forward to continuing to represent all of the residents of Ward 2 on the DC Council,” Pinto wrote in a tweet Wednesday. “As I have done during my current term, I will continue to seek out and work with diverse perspectives that will benefit our city.”
Downs has vowed to keep advocating for the issues on his platform, which covered issues similar to Pinto’s, including education, community-focused public safety, pandemic response and voters’ rights. He emphasized that this setback will not stop his efforts to create change. 
“Although this election did not go the way we hoped, our fight is not over,” Downs wrote in a tweet. “I will continue to work with you for COVID recovery that prioritizes the needs of residents, workers, and small businesses. I will continue to fight alongside you for affordable housing so that long-standing residents can stay in our community and new neighbors aren’t shut out by high costs. And together we will keep fighting to ensure that our public safety measures work for, not against, our residents.”
Downs will continue serving as the Dupont Circle Advisory Neighborhood Commissioner, where he has advocated for environmental sustainability and LGBT rights. 
Pinto’s reelection follows her win in June’s special election, during which she became the first woman to represent Ward 2 and, at age 28, the youngest D.C. councilmember in history.
The city held a special election following resignation of former Councilmember Jack Evans, who had served on the council for almost 29 years. Evans stepped down amid accusations of ethical misconduct related to conflicts between his council role and his employment as a private lawyer and consultant. 
Previously, Pinto worked in the Office of the Attorney General as a tax attorney representing the Office of Tax and Revenue and also as the Assistant Attorney General for Policy and Legislative Affairs, where she drafted and introduced legislation to the council on a variety of issues. 
She earned her Bachelor of Science from Cornell University’s School of Hotel Administration and later graduated from Georgetown University Law Center. 
This is a developing story. The Pinto campaign has yet to respond to a request for comment
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 6, 2020 by Moira Ritter and Claire Stowe 13 Comments 
As the community awaits Georgetown University’s spring semester plans, a group of parents now call not only for students to live on campus this spring but also for Georgetown to cease enforcing its Community Compact, efforts that have been met with student criticism. 
Since noise demanding the university reopen in the spring first appeared in the Class of 2024 parent Facebook group, over 600 parents and students have organized in a private Facebook group, “Students and Parents Advocating for Georgetown Students on Campus.” 
The group submitted a letter to administrators Sept. 21 and has since hosted a private meeting with administrators, met with the Citizens Association of Georgetown and published a petition addressed to university administrators and members of the board of directors, which has garnered over 1,500 signatures as of Nov. 5. 
By not allowing students to return to campus, the university creates disparities between students, sacrificing the mental health of some for the physical health of others, according to Palmina Fava (SFS ’94), whose son is a first-year student.
“If there is a disparity that is being created because we are mindful of a physical health risk while disregarding emotional health risk, it’s been important for me to say, well if we’re following the science, the science on how COVID affects the student population suggests to us that we should be open,” Fava said in an interview with The Hoya. 
Students have criticized the group’s efforts, however, with some posting their disapproval in the Facebook group. 
Jameson Nowlan (SFS ’23), a student currently living on campus, explained why she opposes rushing to reopen in the spring in an Oct. 26 Facebook post to the private group. Nowlan said she feels the mental strain just like everyone else but that protecting the lives of others is worth it.
“We cannot ignore the current public health situation. We are in the middle of a pandemic and while many students are perfectly healthy, we cannot forget about the hundreds of faculty, staff, and students that are either at-risk themselves, or live with immunocompromised family members,” Nowlan wrote in the post. “I am mentally and physically drained like everyone, but we have to work through it. I get we all need to cope, but if you feel okay with blindly slandering professors, other parents in the group, administration and even President DeGioia, you need to reevaluate.” 
Nowlan’s post has since been removed from the page by the group’s moderators.
The university reported 18 new cases of COVID-19 on or near campuses between Oct. 25 and Oct. 31. As of Nov. 5, more than 252,000 COVID-19 cases have emerged on more than 1,600 college campuses across the country, according to a New York Times database. The national case total now approaches 10 million, with over 230,000 deaths and counting.
Fava does not think anyone in the group is advocating for the university to overlook vulnerable members of the community, even though they are asking that the university take measures to bring students back to campus to protect the mental well-being of the rest of the student body.
“Let’s not elevate the health and well-being — the physical health and well-being — of a percentage of the population that we can put other controls in place to protect while we ignore the very real and serious consequences that are posed to the student body,” Fava said. “Let’s find a way to address both and keep both parts of people healthy, not just the physical, but the mental.”
The group has also started organizing efforts against the Community Compact. The compact sets limits on off-campus gatherings, asserts social distancing standards, delineates which parts of campus are accessible to students and outlines the consequences of violating any of the university’s rules.
Any student, faculty member or staff member wishing to access any university-owned property this fall was required to sign the compact. Students living off campus in the neighborhoods of Georgetown, Burleith and Foxhall were also required to sign the compact.
However, because students signed the compact on the condition that they would have access to campus, the compact should not be enforced for off-campus students who lack access to campus facilities, according to Fava, who is a lawyer.
“I find it draconian the way the university is trying to impose it and the penalties that it’s imposing on students who are found in violation of the COVID policies,” Fava said. “When Georgetown abdicates its responsibilities to fulfill its mission as an educational institution, and it doesn’t bring students back to campus, it doesn’t bring students back into the classroom, while knowing that those students are in the neighborhoods and are throughout D.C., then it is essentially saying ‘We don’t have responsibility for these kids. It’s the District’s problem.’”
Parents in the Facebook group whose students have been punished for violating the compact while living off campus have expressed frustration that Georgetown’s policies are stricter than the policies set forth by D.C., according to several posts in the group.
Nowlan understands that students are frustrated with following the university guidelines if they are not living directly on campus, but does not think the rules are too strict, considering the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
“I don’t think the Community Compact is insane,” Nowlan said in an interview with The Hoya. “You just have to get tested like once a week, you’re not allowed to host gatherings of over 10 people, like a lot of things that I have no desire to do during a global pandemic.”
Parents should be advocating for their students and they have a right to the education they pay for, but many of the group’s efforts have gone beyond mere advocacy for what is best for their students, Nowlan said.
“I was asking everybody, including myself, to check our privilege during this time,” Nowlan said. “We’re all angry, I understand that. But we have to understand, in the middle of a global pandemic, how our own privilege operates and affects our efforts to want ourselves and our children back on campus.” 
Kate Clark (COL ’21) also expressed her opposition to the group’s efforts in an Oct. 28 Facebook post.
Clark, who currently lives in the Georgetown neighborhood, suffers from cystic fibrosis, a genetic lung disease. In her post, which was also removed by the group’s moderators, Clark explained that she is at high risk for COVID-19 because of her preexisting condition and is concerned that an influx of students to the campus and the neighborhood could put her in more danger. 
In response to her Facebook post, parents commented that Clark’s perspective was fundamentally different from their students’ issues, as Clark had an established connection with the school and was already living in D.C. away from her parents. 
Parents advocating for the university’s reopening believe they represent the interests of most students, so they were shocked to read that students did not agree with their advocacy, according to Manju Hariharan, whose daughter is a first-year student. 
“Some of the comments I was reading from the students on the page were like, ‘Oh, you’re such a privileged lot of parents,’” Hariharan said in an interview with The Hoya. “No, I just want my kid to have an experience. That’s it. And if anyone doesn’t want that experience, I’m not going to force you.”
Advocating for students to be on campus should not be a priority right now though, Clark said in an interview with The Hoya.
“It really just feels like they’re trying to get their kids on campus so that they can see other college kids, which is exactly what we’re trying to avoid right now,” Clark said. “None of us like this, but it’s not really about what we like right now. It’s about what we have to do to keep ourselves and each other safe.”
The negativity was unnecessary and the students’ arguments did not make much sense, according to Hariharan. 
“You’re living off campus, and you’re telling me that I can’t send my child there to be on campus where it’s going to be more controlled,” Hariharan said. “To me that didn’t make so much sense. It was like I get to do this, but I’m telling you you can’t do this.”
Despite pushback, there are some students who agree with the group’s advocacy. Some first-year students feel especially isolated from a campus they have yet to live on and hope for the opportunity to come to the Hilltop next semester, even if classes are mainly virtual, according to Kathy Gong (COL ’24). 
“Parents saw what their children went through for the fall, and I think if they’re speaking up now it indicates that students are generally dissatisfied with the virtual learning environment,” Gong wrote in an email to The Hoya. “To me, meeting with members of the university and forming petitions is a great way to ensure that the university is taking everyone’s opinions into account.” 
Gong plans to move to D.C. if not offered on-campus housing in the spring, with the hope that she will be more motivated to continue virtual classes nearby other Georgetown students, she said.
Katherine Cooper (SFS ’24), a student living off campus in the Georgetown neighborhood this semester and planning to do the same in the spring, said she understands the logic on either side. Although she is happy to be in D.C., it has been difficult to see many of her high school friends living on campus at other schools while she misses out on this experience, she said in an interview with The Hoya.
“This has been a really tough year for every college freshman from senior year and having prom, sports, graduation canceled and then starting off our freshman experience in college online,” Cooper said in an interview with The Hoya. “I can see a solid argument for either way, of opening or not opening.” 
The university has already confirmed that it will not be bringing all students to campus in the spring. However, it hopes to increase the number of students on campus from 500 to approximately 2,720 students, according to an Oct. 21 meeting between the Georgetown University Student Association and university administration.
Parents in the Facebook group have also referred to other D.C. universities, such as Catholic University and American University, which have both opened to students to some degree, to justify their perspective. Parents are arguing that if these schools can open, so can Georgetown, according to several Facebook posts.
George Washington University announced Oct. 9 that it would again conduct the spring semester entirely online to keep students and faculty safe from infection. Georgetown is currently set to release its spring plan by Nov. 16.
Nowlan said that activism should help those in danger and those most at risk of dying if they contract coronavirus, and she asked parents to consider whether their advocacy is misplaced.
“Why do you think it’s okay to say things like, ‘Students probably won’t die.’ Is it because your kid probably won’t die?” Nowlan said. “I am a generally healthy 19- almost 20-year-old. I’m probably not going to die of COVID if I get it. But that doesn’t mean I want all these students to come back because I know of immunocompromised students, I know of sick faculty who would really be deeply affected by this. When I was suggesting that people check their privilege, I was thinking, ‘How does your socioeconomic class, how does your race, how does your access to health care make the pandemic apply to you differently?’ and really consider that in your activism efforts to send people back to campus.” 
UPDATE: George Washington University announced it will be able to bring an additional 1,500 students back to campus this spring in an Oct. 22 update to its spring housing plan.

A L Henderson says 
November 6, 2020 at 12:13 pm
I have had compassion for every Georgetown student who wants to be on campus and is “missing out” on their college experience.  The lack of compassion for the freshman and their families is upsetting.  The title of the is article alone makes me feel like I’m being scrutinized for wanting my voice to be heard.  People on the FaceBook 2024 group were asked to comment for the article to have their voices heard in response to the last article making us look like entitled villains.  This article’s tone did not seem in favor of the FB group but instead seems like another attack.  To be clear, people joined the FaceBook page in attempt to be heard by a college that was keeping us in dark about their upcoming plans.  As a result, Georgetown finally started addressing some of our concerns.  The sole purpose of the FB page was to give our children the same opportunity that students all over the country are getting safely.  COVID is everywhere.  Why should anyone  assume that Georgetown students are any safer at home when their siblings are going to local schools, playing sports and parents are going to work.   This country is polarized enough and now I’m starting to feel like the Georgetown community is also being polarized.  It’s bad enough that our isolated freshman are being so mentally challenged and are probably clinically depressed at this point.  Articles that suggest they should not be welcomed to campus by upperclassmen shows a lack of compassion and only makes them feel more unwanted by the Georgetown community.

BG says 
November 6, 2020 at 12:59 pm
Your bias is showing!   How about some journalistic integrity?  Let’s start with the sensational headline and choice of negative words.  “Goad”,  really?   Well I guess it would be like trying to get your parent’s attention when you want something and feel like they are being unresponsive.  I guess your at attempts of getting their attention would be “goading” them right?   There are at least 2 parties to every discussion, not every discussion needs to have one side portrayed as a villain.

Carla Barone says 
November 6, 2020 at 3:32 pm
Acerbic, critical piece designed to further the authors’ social standing and virtue signaling at a time when parents and students are sincere and diligent in seeking a good faith solution to student anxiety with the partnership of the University.  A shameful misuse of your “fact-gathering” platform.

Cindy Bambauer says 
November 6, 2020 at 10:02 pm
Hmmm! I’m a parent of a sophomore transfer student whose dream it was to attend Georgetown.  He was accepted this past spring and I cannot imagine a scenario where we would feel less welcome to a university community!
Keep in mind I have three other college kids all living on their campuses and having very rich experiences.  
Georgetown can’t even try to do anything? Nothing? No big ideas? No problem solvers? No innovations? No plan? No communication?  It’s unbelievable and so disappointing!
We shall see what spring 2021 brings!

GU Alum and Parent says 
November 7, 2020 at 2:30 pm
The “check your privilege” argument underscores the shallowness of the speaker’s mindset.  Privilege is relative.  Isn’t the student who lives near campus during this time “privileged” to be living semi-autonomously in Georgetown while other students are stuck back in their dull hometowns and high school bedrooms with parents and young siblings ever-present?  Like another commenter said above, COVID is everywhere and is not going away.  We have to learn to live our lives with it — safely, yes, but not in stasis.  I’ve been very disappointed in how the university administration has handled this.  Furthermore, I don’t really understand why 5,000 people need to organize their lives around one person with higher risk.  To me, that speaks not just of privilege, but of a selfish “me first” attitude towards one’s fellow Hoyas.

Hoya Who Cares About Others says 
November 10, 2020 at 10:56 pm
If your comment is not a selfish “me first” attitude, I don’t know what is. You’d rather force the school to open up and let your kid live on campus than guarantee the well-being of the hundreds of at-risk students.

AAK says 
November 9, 2020 at 12:44 pm
Bias much? Goad, really? Wow! How about interviewing upperclassmen who want the school to make efforts at opening for more than one side? Talk to some upperclassmen who aren’t living in Georgetown. And why so much focus on the neighborhood? Every school has populations in surrounding areas. Many city schools in densely populated cities like Fordham and Pitt are fully open to all. Did you do any work investigating how other schools have had success? And since when is it privilege to want what you are paying for? No one would push for a school to open if others around the country, in areas w higher covid numbers than DC, weren’t having success at it. Schools have had 7 months to make a plan and I would think that the great minds at Georgetown would be trailblazing this effort. I would also expect much better journalism from Georgetown student writers.

1980sAlum says 
November 10, 2020 at 1:39 pm
Over 80 percent of universities in the US have their students on campus and Georgetown’s lack of imagination and commitment is going to leave it behind.  Almost every other Catholic university has students on campus
 Colleges sometimes shift to virtual when Covid level reach an unacceptable level, and any professor that feels they are at risk is allowed to teach away from campus, and schools test.    It has been widely noted that Covid is not even in the top 10 of risks to college students, with things like drugs, depression and violence ranking much higher.    This article is written as if it’s last April, ticking off a series of existential threats that don’t exist, and citing outlier cases.  The student who is compromised living off campus doesn’t have to attend classes on campus if they don’t want to.   Their condition shouldn’t shut down the campus for the 99.99% – and yes, that is the number – of 18-24 year olds for whom Covid causes no risk – and the almost equally high number of individuals under the age of 60 for whom it holds no risk.    Draping yourself in fear is not the same as empathy and this is a classic case where the cure is worse than the disease – both to the students and to the University overall.

Max Mool says 
November 13, 2020 at 2:03 pm
A group full of sociopaths

sfs23 says 
November 14, 2020 at 3:47 am
It is incredible how you can demonise kids who just want to spend their uni years on campus. 
Sure, there should be restrictions to ensure safety but this is not about the safety of the community. It is about how the university offloading liability for any potential cases. This is not a privileged group of children yapping to party on campus, what can be more natural than wanting a proper college experience especially when you have earned it through years of hard work and are paying for it

Jack DeHoya says 
November 17, 2020 at 10:25 am
Lol… these parent’s comments are something else. Sorry Karen and Chad… I’d love to see what these attack helicopter parents will say when we fully open the university and their precious Karen/Chad Jr catches COVID-19 and get seriously ill. I’m sure it’ll be a “it’s GU fault that they didn’t keep our children safe.” 
#clowns

Jack the Bulldog says 
November 17, 2020 at 2:45 pm
I’m curious what the Hoya and this parent facebook group have to say about that one app and the student who is hosting large parties around the DC area. But my guess is they think these events are acceptable college behaviours as well.

Sfs ‘22 says 
November 18, 2020 at 8:16 pm
I am absolutely disheartened by the response of these parents. Georgetown students are guests in the D.C. community and it would have been entirely irresponsible to bring back additional students when the neighborhood is heavily elderly and the virus is disproportionately impacting Black and Latinx community members. I empathize with the mental health concerns as a fellow student, so I would actively encourage students to make use of the counseling resources the university is providing or ones within their communities. Nonetheless, “losing out on an experience” pales in comparison to someone losing their life. The administration’s plans reflect our school’s commitment, the one all student signed up for, to be men and women for others. For that, I am thankful to be a Hoya in these trying times.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 6, 2020 by Kelly Anderson 1 Comment 
Georgetown University received improperly disclosed gifts and contracts from Chinese, Saudi Arabian and Qatari foreign entities, a recently released report from U.S. Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos alleges.  
These foreign relationships pose a risk to national security, the Department of Education says. The DOE report accuses several prominent U.S. universities — including Georgetown, Harvard University, Yale University and Stanford University — of failing to disclose several billion dollars in funding and resources from foreign donors. Georgetown officials dispute the allegations and say the report misconstrues the nature of Georgetown’s foreign relationships and financial reports.
In June 2019, DeVos initiated civil investigations into 12 universities, including Georgetown, to ensure their compliance with Section 117 of the Higher Education Act of 1965, which requires institutions of higher education to transparently report foreign gifts and contracts. 
The inquiries prompted institutions to “catch up” on their reporting, which has led to disclosure of $6.5 billion previously unreported foreign gifts and contracts since the investigations began, according to the report. 
The report scrutinizes the Prince Alwaleed bin Talal Center for Muslim-Christian Understanding, an academic center housed in Georgetown’s School of Foreign Service. The ACMCU was originally established as the Center for Muslim-Christian Understanding in 1993 before it was renamed after Saudi Arabian Prince Alwaleed bin Talal after Georgetown received a $20 million gift in 2005 from the Saudi royal.
The ACMCU aims to promote improved understanding between Muslim and Christian communities worldwide, according to its website. However, the DOE report claims Talal’s donation “empowered the Saudi Arabian government to advance a particular narrative about Islamic society to the West via a legitimate Western institution.”
The DOE report cited a 2008 letter addressed to University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95) from former Rep. Frank R. Wolf (R-Va.) expressing concern that the center’s academic independence could be “compromised” by the gift. The DOE report also listed past criticism of the ACMCU “deceptively labeling itself as pluralistic” and failing to fulfill its stated mission of promoting Christian studies.
ACMCU Director John Esposito rebuked the DOE’s allegations in an email to The Hoya, writing that Georgetown has accurately filled out its financial reports.
“Georgetown carefully reviews all gifts to ensure they are in alignment with our values and our educational objectives and retains full authority over expenditure decisions,” Esposito wrote. “Unlike many other institutions, we have not had to supplement or correct any of Georgetown’s previous Section 117 reports.”
Despite the university’s compliance with Section 117, the language of the report does not make that distinction and is therefore misleading, according to Esposito. The DOE expects to close this particular investigation soon, Esposito added. 
“Despite Georgetown’s full compliance with Section 117, the DoEd report lumps Georgetown with the other institutions it is investigating in ways that imply non-compliance,” Esposito wrote. 
The report also criticizes an $10 million agreement between the Spring Breeze Foundation and Georgetown to support a U.S.-China dialogue initiative. The Spring Breeze Foundation is financed by CP Group, a multinational conglomerate based in Thailand, according to a university announcement from 2016. The DOE report alleges that CP Group has ties to the Chinese government. The report, however, does not offer any citations or proof of this allegation besides a 2019 news story about a contract signed by CP Group, a Chinese corporation and a host of other businesses to build a railroad connecting three airports in southern Thailand.
The report also claims that Georgetown “derived $2,369,807” through “significant intermingling with the People’s Republic of China.” This information was later redacted from the report Thursday evening. 
According to a university spokesperson, the report establishes an erroneous link between academic exchange programs with the Chinese Central Party School and a figure from Georgetown’s IRS Form 990. The spokesperson said it appears that number represents expenditures by Georgetown in the East Asia and Pacific region, which encompassses more than 30 countries, rather than gifts to or contracts with Georgetown. Furthermore, approximately half of the $2.3 million represents study abroad scholarships for Georgetown students studying in the region, according to the spokesperson.
Finally, the report alleges that overseas facilities operated by U.S. universities pose a risk to national security. Campuses located in Doha, Qatar, “could harbor research laboratories and other educational resources that are almost entirely unregulated by American law,” the report asserts. 
Georgetown University in Qatar opened in 2005 as part of a partnership between Georgetown and the Qatar Foundation, a nonprofit that receives money from the Qatari government. 
The report alleges that the Qatar Foundation prevented a Lebanese band with an openly gay lead singer from speaking on Northwestern University’s Qatar campus and that the organization censors viewpoints not endorsed by the Qatari government. 
A spokesperson for GU-Q did not immediately respond to a request for comment. In response to a request for comment, the DOE sent Hoya reporters a link to the original department press release.  
Esposito said the report draws incorrect conclusions about the nature of Georgetown’s foreign partnerships because it fails to consider the entire picture.
“In each of these engagements, Georgetown requires and preserves academic excellence, institutional autonomy, academic freedom and open inquiry and debate, and service to the common good,” Esposito said.

Taylor Wright says 
March 8, 2021 at 9:23 am
Thanks for sharing amazing information with us about Gifts.I love the designed boxes. I am also Purchasing custom Rigid Boxes from PrintingShell and really love the quality they have provided me in such cheap prices.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 6, 2020 by Harrison McBride Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University administrators and organizations have called for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to retract new proposed rule changes to visa programs they say severely restrict the timeframe of visas held by international students and faculty.
Under new visa program rule changes proposed by the DHS Sept. 24, people with an F, J or I visa would be allowed to stay in the United States for up to only four years before needing to renew their visa. Students and faculty may be able to apply for a visa extension or reinstatement during the grace period after their visa expires, but if they cannot, visa holders must leave the United States to apply for renewal. Previously, holders of F and J visas were eligible to stay in the United States during the duration of their academic program.
The proposed changes would affect over 3,200 international students and scholars from over 120 different countries on both the F-1 and J-1 visas, according to an Oct. 27 statement written by University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95).
Additionally, under the new rule changes, people from over 59 countries, including all of Africa, the Philippines, Vietnam, Haiti, Afghanistan and Iraq, would be banned from obtaining any visas longer than two years.
F visas allow international students to pursue a degree from a U.S. university, while J visas allow professors, researchers and students to visit the United States on cultural exchange programs. I visas allow foreign journalists to pursue work for their media outlets in the United States.
Government officials should reevaluate these changes because of the significant burdens they impose on international students, as well as colleges and universities, according to DeGioia’s Oct. 27 statement.
“We believe that these new regulations will impose significant costs upon students, scholars, the colleges and universities that support them, and the U.S. economy,” DeGioia wrote. “This proposed rule should be re-evaluated to enable us to sustain and advance the global character of our university and nation.”
After the DHS proposed the changes Sept. 24, the rule immediately moved to a 30-day comment period in which individuals could submit opinions on the new rule. Over 30,000 individuals submitted comments by the time the comment period ended Oct. 25, according to Jeffrey Tsoi, chair of the international graduate student committee within the Georgetown Alliance of Graduate Employees.
After learning of the proposed changes, GAGE launched an advocacy campaign encouraging people to leave a comment discouraging the proposed changes’ implementation.
GAGE opposes discriminatory practices such as these proposed rule changes, according to Tsoi.
“DHS threatening to submit international doctoral students like myself to additional scrutiny just so that we can complete our academic studies only serves to deepen existing patterns of discrimination and exclusion in American higher education,” Tsoi wrote on a GAGE Medium post. “As a union, we are committed to realizing a more just and equitable vision of our university community that welcomes international students regardless of their country of origin.”
Now that the comment period has ended, DHS officials will review all comments made on the proposed rule changes and decide whether to make any alterations. Afterward, the DHS will submit the proposed changes to the Office of Management and Budget for review before the rules can formally take effect.
The proposed rule change would harm not only international students but also the United States as a whole, according to a letter DeGioia wrote to DHS officials obtained by The Hoya.
“This proposed rule will impose great costs on our international students, diminish our ability to recruit and retain the brightest minds in the world, and ultimately harm the United States by depriving our country of the immense academic, cultural, and economic contributions of these students and scholars,” DeGioia wrote. “We strongly urge the Department to rescind this proposed rule.”
Now that the comment period has ended, GAGE plans to closely monitor the developments around the rule change and take any necessary actions in conjunction with their parent union, the American Federation of Teachers, according to Tsoi.
“At this point, we will be watching closely, and we will join efforts with AFT in potential court challenges, in case the rule gets implemented before the election or if the election proves incapable of preventing the implementation of the rule,” Tsoi wrote in an email to The Hoya. “In that case we will also urge the Georgetown administration to commence legal actions of its own.”
While the university’s statement against the program is positive, there is more that can still be done to help international students, according to Wendy Xia (SFS ’22).
“I think the University’s statement is definitely a step in the right direction, protecting the international Hoya community (as it did back in July),” Xia wrote in an email to The Hoya. “With all the uncertainties surrounding immigration policy, I look forward to more proactive steps (i.e. flexibilities in degree program lengths, exploring the possibility of (re)issuing visas to enable longer stays, etc.) in the future as well.”
The new proposed rules come after DHS and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement sought to implement other changes to the F-1 and M-1 visa programs over the summer. Under those changes, international students would have been barred from obtaining visas if they did not have at least one class meeting in person during the fall semester.
Georgetown ultimately signed on to an amicus brief as part of a lawsuit filed by Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, claiming the proposed rule changes were politically motivated and unnecessary. The DHS formally decided to forgo implementing the rule changes July 14.
Xia said the combination of possible new visa regulations, as well as past rule change efforts, has led many international students to reconsider studying abroad in the United States.
“For students already on the affected visas, I think we are especially vulnerable to the stringent rules and are given little flexibility to redesign our academic plans,” Xia wrote. “The gradual tightening of student visa policies are also a sign for many of us to reconsider the US as a study destination, meaning many could pivot to applying for advanced degree programs in other countries.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

