
February 23, 2021 by Caitlin McLean Leave a Comment 
Drawing from backgrounds in activism and organizing, executive election ticket Nile Blass (COL ’22) and Nicole Sanchez (SFS ’22) is striving to achieve progress at Georgetown University that peers have warned is impossible. 
Blass and Sanchez are not discouraged. 
Blass and Sanchez, both current members of the Georgetown University Student Association, want to craft new initiatives around COVID-19 policies, reform the Georgetown University Police Department, enact programs that bring attention to the university’s slaveholding past and restructure GUSA. 
The candidates are both well versed in the GUSA system, with Blass currently serving as provost of the Student Advisory Committee under President Nicolo Ferretti (SFS ’21) and Vice President Bryce Badger (MSB ’21), and Sanchez serving as an at-large senator, senior policy adviser to executive staff and member of the student activism team.
In addition to being involved in GUSA since her first year at Georgetown, Blass is a member of the Black Survivors Coalition, a student group advocating for Black women and nonbinary survivors of sexual assault. Blass also helped organize BSC’s #GeorgetownDoesntCare campaign, which called for the university to increase and improve resources for Black survivors of sexual assault, and included sit-ins in front of the office of University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95).
Blass said she and Sanchez will draw upon their experiences with campus activism to restructure GUSA into a space that prioritizes all marginalized communities.
“We do a lot of work to represent not just our communities, but the various communities that exist in Georgetown,” Blass said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “If anything, what our marginalized identities inform isn’t that we have to prioritize ourselves, but that we understand what it is to not be prioritized, to not be seen, to not be heard.”
Sanchez was also involved with BSC, where she found a community after transferring to Georgetown her sophomore year. The work of BSC reminded her of the activist movements she joined at home in New York City, according to Sanchez. 
“I was always involved, but I felt like Georgetown wasn’t the place for me to get involved until I saw the Black Survivors Coalition, and I saw a group of students so outraged and passionate that they got together and they organized,” Sanchez said. “It was the first time when I ever saw something so similar to the work I did back home that made me feel like maybe this is the place for me.” 
GUSA executives must ensure all members of the Georgetown community, no matter their identity, feel as though they have a voice on campus, according to Sanchez. 
“I know what it feels like to be that student that is disrespected and not heard of,” Sanchez said. “And I never want anyone on campus to feel like that, regardless of your identity and regardless of a community.” 
Blass and Sanchez’s administration would push the university to include student voices in the reopening process and increase transparency around COVID-19 guidelines and the consequences of violating them, according to Sanchez. 
“The school hasn’t truly made a big effort to publicize and really communicate with students what are the guidelines and what are the consequences,” Sanchez said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “The school probably already has plans of what they want to do and has already begun thinking of it.”
If elected, Blass and Sanchez would coordinate with activists and student groups on campus who have been working to reform GUPD. Allegations of hyperpolicing by GUPD and nationwide protests against the police killings of Black citizens have spurred calls for the practices of the campus police force to be reviewed. In June, the GUSA Senate passed an act establishing a student advisory committee to oversee GUPD. 
Blass and Sanchez would build upon the work of the group, according to Sanchez. 
“What they’re doing currently is collecting a lot of data and doing a lot of background research to understanding the creation of GUPD — how it was established and why it was established,” Sanchez said. “It used to be just a security detail on campus, and now it’s a full-on policing force, and to work with them and use the data they’ve created to figure out how we can reform GUPD and make this campus safer not just for students, but for administrators to feel comfortable with.” 
Blass and Sanchez would also push the university to enact a reconciliation fee, which would go directly to descendants of the 272 enslaved people sold by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus in 1838 for Georgetown’s profit. Although the fee was endorsed by students in the 2019 GU272 referendum, the university chose not to enact it, instead proposing an initiative to support projects in descendant communities. 
Enacting the referendum is important, considering the activism behind it, according to Blass. 
“I still want to push for the enactment of the referendum, especially because it has a lot to do with institutional memory,” Blass said. “I think that was a really important cultural moment for Georgetown, but as we go year and year from it, you’re going to get to the point where there’s going to be no students on campus who even remember voting in that, and I think that that really impacts how this university moves.” 
To bring more attention to Georgetown’s history of slaveholding, the Blass and Sanchez would seek to create markers that identify the gravesites of enslaved people on campus. The Georgetown area contains a number burial grounds, including those of enslaved people. In 2014, human remains were discovered during the construction of Pedro Arrupe, S.J. Hall, which is situated next to a gravesite where enslaved people were buried. 
Further action items include adding Georgetown’s slaveholding history into the curriculum of New Student Orientation and demanding the university act on their proposed community-based project initiative for descendants of the GU272, according to their campaign website.  
“We need to integrate the acknowledgment and history of Georgetown slaveholding legacy into every aspect of the Georgetown experience,” Blass said. “Not in a way of a guilt or shame dynamic, but in an acknowledgment that there is no education without these individuals whose sacrifice was involuntary.”
GUSA’s structure is another area in which Blass and Sanchez see room for an increase in inclusivity in order to combat student mistrust and indifference. In recent years, students have voiced frustration with student government at Georgetown, with some even spearheading a movement to abolish GUSA and replace it with a more efficient body. Former members of GUSA have also raised concerns about inadequate representation in the group. 
Any student should be able to join GUSA, regardless of prior experience, according to Sanchez.
“I’ve been making it very clear that you do not need to be an activist already or an organizer already to be involved,” Sanchez said. “That’s not necessary because this is not a space that’s going to be gatekept or closed off to anybody. This is the space where you’re going to learn.”
Blass and Sanchez’s administration will achieve meaningful change in Georgetown students’ day-to-day lives, according to Sanchez. 
“People have said it’s impossible, and we’ve come out with the impossible being done,” Sanchez said. “We don’t take no for an answer. We are fighters, simple as that.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 23, 2021 by Giulia Testa Leave a Comment 
Combining their experiences as student leaders on Georgetown University’s campus, executive election ticket Daniella Sanchez (COL ’22) and Leo Arnett (SFS ’22) plans to create a more inclusive Georgetown community and engage students in the decision-making process.
If elected, Sanchez and Arnett plan to focus on restructuring GUSA as a more inclusive organization, protecting student rights and establishing better communication between students and administrators.
Both currently members of GUSA, Sanchez previously served as speaker of the GUSA Senate and currently serves as the co-director of student inclusion, the director of COVID-19 response and a senate liaison for the executive staff’s engagement team. Arnett serves as the current director of campus affairs for GUSA President Nicolo Ferretti (SFS ’21) and Vice President Bryce Badger (MSB ’21). 
Relying on past experiences in GUSA and other campus organizations, Sanchez and Arnett’s platform is centered around three fundamental themes: funding, advocacy and community. 
To remain focused on these themes, the executive ticket will prioritize student voices, according to Sanchez.  
“Leo and I have always centralized student input in our work and not just to be reelected. Not because we thought that this was the best political move, but because we genuinely always cared about what the greatest student population thought and making sure that we were going beyond our GUSA,” Sanchez said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “Everything that Leo and I have done has been to make sure that students have been incorporated.”
Outside of GUSA, Sanchez is involved in the Georgetown Women’s Alliance, through which she helps bring women together in a space where they can thrive and grow. If elected, Sanchez hopes to bring special attention to women’s voices and experiences on campus. 
“It’s a very obvious issue that there’s not many women in leadership positions, especially in specific sectors across Georgetown,” according to Sanchez. 
Additionally, Arnett has spent much of his time outside of GUSA working on the Georgetown Program Board, a student-run organization that hosts events for Georgetown’s undergraduate population. 
If elected as vice president, Arnett plans to use his experiences organizing Georgetown Day and gathering student perspectives to create a more inclusive GUSA, he said.
“That experience, even bringing it into more of a virtual world, still kind of defines the way that I want to go into GUSA,” Arnett said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “In a way that brings student leaders in but also brings in and celebrates the experiences of any Georgetown student that is there.”
Sanchez and Arnett’s platform is also proposing a four-step GUSA restructuring process that focuses on ensuring student involvement. The restructuring process includes disbanding the GUSA Senate and creating a new student representative organization built on input from the student body. The plan also proposes the creation of a new club funding process for Georgetown’s Council of Advisory Boards with the help of CAB and student organizations, as well as the establishment of a new GUSA governing document, according to Sanchez and Arnett’s campaign website.
To ensure inclusivity and student involvement, the ticket plans to establish a restructuring committee within GUSA and host restructuring conventions for student leaders and organizations to participate in the restructuring plans. 
Sanchez and Arnett believe input from the student body is the key to restructuring GUSA, according to Sanchez.
“We think that the student body should be an active voice and have an active input in the process,” Sanchez said. “Instead of restructuring and proposing a plan, the student body should be consistently giving input and feedback.”
The ticket’s platform also proposes a Student Bill of Rights to ensure that students have tangible ways to execute their ideas in collaboration with administrators. The Student Bill of Rights would aim to reform the relationship between students and administrators by giving student leaders greater power in policy negotiations, according to Arnett.
“The Student Bill of Rights gives the student body teeth to actually fight back on the administration when they want to sweep whatever interests or policy initiatives that we have under the rug,” Arnett said. 
Sanchez and Arnett will also focus on improving the financial aid process. In August, after the student body and GUSA members, including Sanchez, voiced concerns about cuts to students’ financial aid packages, the university revised the packages, including waiving students’ expected summer work contributions and providing tuition credits to account for the university’s 10% tuition reduction. 
Arnett said the ticket’s financial aid policy would prioritize advocacy for a transparent financial aid process that includes all students’ financial needs, 
“The process is not transparent, and it’s not for students,” Arnett said. “We want to make sure that the financial aid process is not only transparent, but one that actually works to be as accountable for all students on campus instead of forcing a lot of students to go look for external sources of financing if it doesn’t meet those needs.”
The ticket plans to work with the Financial Aid Student Advisory Committee, advocate for reform at Georgetown while respecting federal financial aid regulations and hold the university’s Office of Financial Aid accountable.
Further, Sanchez and Arnett hope to change the way student funds are circulated to the Georgetown University Police Department. Under current university policy, student groups are required to hire campus police for certain on-campus events. The fees associated with hiring campus police are funded by part of the student activities fee, a cost that all students have to pay at the beginning of each semester. 
Sanchez and Arnett believe student funds should not go toward GUPD funding, according to Arnett.
“We don’t want the student activities fee just being recirculated back to pay the salaries of both GUPD and the university itself,” Arnett said. “That is the money that is used for student organizations, and it should be there, period.”
Last June, a student petition demanding the university cease all relationships with any police department garnered over 8,000 signatures. On June 7, the GUSA Senate passed a resolution that called for the university to cease its relationship with the Metropolitan Police Department and later created a student advisory committee to oversee GUPD. 
Sanchez and Arnett hope to use data from the university’s first cultural climate survey, launched in February 2020 to measure students’ perceptions of diversity and inclusion on campus, to initiate and inform their platform’s GUPD reforms, according to Sanchez.
“The administration is always asking for statistics — where are the numbers on that, how can you prove it — even though we know it’s happening,” Sanchez said. “The numbers in that cultural climate survey will actually show, okay, this is what’s happening. Now we need to fix it.” 
Although few formal bias reports have been filed against GUPD, many students have shared instances of unnecessary surveillance and excessive use of force by the department on social media. As a senator, Sanchez was responsible for adding GUPD-specific questions to the survey.
As part of their platform’s commitment to advocacy, Sanchez and Arnett want to support student activism, according to Arnett.
“If a student wants to go participate in either a march or a protest in D.C., or even a sit-in on campus itself, professors need to be more lenient when it comes to grade extensions or absences from class and working with students so that if they are fighting for their own rights or particular movements, that academics isn’t a barrier to that,” Arnett said. “That’s such a selling point when it comes to Georgetown, to participate in things like that.”
If elected, Sanchez and Arnett will work with the Faculty Senate and Office of the Provost to ensure these rights for students.
Overall, the ticket hopes to restore student faith and involvement in GUSA, according to Arnett. 
“This doesn’t just entail educating students about what GUSA does, because that’s what administrations have talked about in the past. That’s normally the crux that everyone falls upon, just making sure that people know what resources we have available. For us, that’s not enough,” Arnett said. “For us, what it is as soon as we get elected into office is bringing students into the conversation of how GUSA should function inherently.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

