
January 21, 2021 by Liana Hardy Leave a Comment 
Many Georgetown University students are facing smaller financial aid awards for the upcoming semester after the university disclosed spring financial aid packages Dec. 16.
Students have complained about their spring packages, citing higher tuition fees, more expensive mandatory meal plans and higher on-campus housing costs. 
These charges are usually included in each student’s calculated total cost of attendance, which is used by the university to determine the amount of financial aid each student will receive. Georgetown calculates financial aid by subtracting a student’s expected family contribution, the estimated amount of money a student and their family can expect to pay, from their total cost of attendance.
Many students have said that despite having a $0 or very low expected family contribution, they have seen significant increases in their charges for this semester compared to what they had to pay for the fall semester.
Alice Lei (NHS ’22) said her spring tuition increased, despite the university’s announcement that they would continue to implement a 10% tuition discount in the spring semester. 
“My expected family contribution was $0 but my spring tuition for spring semester was eight times how much I had to pay for fall,” Lei wrote in a message to The Hoya. “I’m also an on-campus student and they made the mandatory meal plan more expensive — it covers more, but I barely used half of the cheapest option fall semester.” 
In addition to the increase in her meal plan cost, Lei also reported a $1,200 increase in her housing payments. Lei said she was confused and overwhelmed by the additional charges.
“I’m taking 20 credits, have 12 hours of clinical rotations a week, and a bunch of other commitments and thought I didn’t need to work much to pay for this semester, so I’m pretty disappointed at my financial aid package,” Lei wrote. “I’m also confused why charges like an increase in price for a mandatory meal plan and housing are charges I need to absorb when my expected family contribution is supposed to be $0.”
Mia Johnson (MSB ’24) also said her aid decreased despite her $0 expected family contribution. Johnson said she received a much smaller spring refund compared to her refund from the fall semester. Some students receive a refund amount taken from their financial aid award to cover indirect costs of attendance, such as textbooks.
“I definitely got a much smaller refund and I’m not sure if it’ll cover everything in regards to my books and extra expenses involved in living on campus,” Johnson wrote in a message to The Hoya. “I’m an independent student, so I have a $0 family contribution and rely completely on aid to fund my education, and any change in that is very harmful and can make my experience almost impossible.”
Last August, students faced a similar dilemma when the university revealed that on-campus students’ financial aid packages would be substantially reduced for the fall semester. After backlash from the Georgetown University Student Association and the student body, the university revised packages before the start of the 2020 fall semester and restored aid to many students who faced initial reductions. 
However, students are not receiving the same level of support this semester, according to GUSA senator Nicole Sanchez (SFS ’22).
“It really hurt a lot of first-generation, low-income students and students that receive aid from scholarship programs, because their aid was reduced by thousands of dollars, and now they’re having to pay large amounts to attend the school,” Sanchez said in a Jan. 10 GUSA Senate meeting. “It makes no sense how last semester we had more support for a cheaper semester, and now the school just decided to cut all ties and let everyone fend for themselves.”
The university has denied that any reductions were made to total spring financial aid funding.
“Georgetown continues to meet full demonstrated financial need for undergraduates,” a university spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Financial aid funding for the Spring term has not been reduced.”
Spring financial aid packages seem smaller because aid was frontloaded and distributed last semester when the university waived students’ summer savings contribution, according to an email from a university financial aid advisor obtained by The Hoya. 
“The discrepancy between fall and spring comes from an additional aid disbursement that happened in the Fall,” a financial aid advisor wrote to a student in the email. “That is to say, you are receiving the same amount of aid, you just received more of it in the Fall.”
For many first-generation and low-income students, the spring financial aid cuts have demonstrated a lack of financial support from the university for the students who need it the most, according to Johnson.
“It’s honestly so horrible, not just in that we have less support, but that it’s almost like the university is taunting us and trying to go out of their way to show us that we aren’t as cared for,” Johnson wrote. “It’s like they have no empathy or desire to reach out and help their fgli [first-generation, low-income] students.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 21, 2021 by Hansen Lian Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service announced its newest cohort of fellows for the spring 2021 semester Jan. 19, including former Senator Doug Jones (D-Ala.) and other prominent figures involved in political advocacy, organizing and media.
The 12th class of GU Politics fellows features six new fellows who range across the political spectrum and bring with them a diverse set of experiences. The fellows joining Jones are Guy Benson, host of “The Guy Benson Show” and a Fox News contributor; Anatole Jenkins, who served as national director of states organizing for President Joe Biden’s campaign; Julie Pace, the Washington bureau chief for The Associated Press; Tom Perez, chair of the Democratic National Convention; and Sara Sendek, the former director of public affairs at the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency.
The fellows program is more important than ever in the current tense political climate, according to GU Politics Executive Director Mo Elleithee (SFS ’94). 
“In many ways, it feels as though our Fellows program has never been more needed than it is right now — and we couldn’t be more thrilled to be bringing in some of the top names in politics and journalism to dive back in with our students this spring,” Elleithee wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We hope Hoyas will connect with them on the virtual Hilltop, to learn from one another and tackle some of the biggest political challenges of the day.”
GU Politics launched the fellows program in the fall of 2015 and has brought in a class of five to six new fellows each semester. The fellows hold discussion sessions and office hours to discuss their political experiences and share advice with students. Since fall 2020, GU Politics has hosted these events online because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The spring 2021 fellows will participate in a virtual open house Jan. 29.
Benson is a Fox News contributor, the political editor of the conservative news website Townhall.com, and the host of Fox News Radio’s nationally syndicated “The Guy Benson Show.” In 2015, he co-authored “End of Discussion: How the Left’s Outrage Industry Shuts Down Debate, Manipulates Voters, and Makes America Less Free (and Fun)” with fall 2020 GU Politics fellow Mary Katherine Ham. 
Jenkins served as the national director of states organizing for Joe Biden for President. Previously, Jenkins has also been involved in organizing numerous Democratic Party campaigns, including President Obama’s 2012 reelection campaign in Nevada, Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign in Minnesota and most recently as the national organizing director for Kamala Harris’ presidential campaign.
Jones represented Alabama in the United States Senate from 2018 to 2021, winning in an upset race that gained nationwide media attention. Appointed by former President Bill Clinton, Jones served as a United States attorney for the northern district of Alabama from 1997 to 2001. He is known for the successful prosecution of two Ku Klux Klan members involved in the 1963 bombing of the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Ala.
Pace is the Washington bureau chief for The Associated Press. Pace previously served as the chief white house correspondent for The Associated Press,  covering the presidencies of Barack Obama and Donald Trump. She was awarded the Merrimam Smith prize in 2013 for her coverage of Obama’s 2012 presidential campaign.
Perez has been the chair of the Democratic National Committee since 2017. He served in former President Barack Obama’s administration as the secretary of labor from 2013 to 2017. Prior to 2013, Perez served as the assistant attorney general for the civil rights division of the Department of Justice. 
Sendek most recently served as director of public affairs at the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency and played a key role in the 2020 election’s security efforts. Sendek also held a variety of prominent communication positions in government and campaigns, including director of rapid response in the White House during former President George W. Bush’s administration.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

