
September 8, 2021 by Julia Kelly Leave a Comment 
The Tombs is set to reopen in mid-October following its year-and-a-half closure due to the COVID-19 pandemic and staffing shortages. 
The Tombs, a popular restaurant and bar located one block from Georgetown University’s main campus, shut down in March 2020 at the same time the university sent students home as COVID-19 began to spread throughout the United States. Washington, D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) allowed restaurants to reopen with capacity restrictions for indoor dining Jan. 22, but The Tombs remained closed. 
Students make up the majority of customers and employees at The Tombs, and without students on campus, staying open for business was not feasible, according to David Moran, managing director of Clyde’s Restaurant Group, The Tombs’ parent company.
“In addition to the students being the main source of our customer base they also are the backbone of our employee workforce and we simply did not have enough people to operate the restaurant,” Moran wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Our goal was to have The Tombs reopened when the students arrived a few weeks ago but again the lack of staffing prevented that from happening.”
Now that the university has returned to full operation and all students are back on campus again, many students are looking forward to reuniting with their friends at The Tombs, according to Matthew Coyne (MSB ’22), who plans to frequent The Tombs. 
“I think there’s a lot of pent-up demand for people wanting to get back in there and see all their friends,” Coyne said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “It’s a very Georgetown-centric spot, and the Georgetown community is not whole without The Tombs being back yet.” 
When The Tombs reopens in mid-October, customers will need to follow Washington, D.C. and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines for COVID-19, meaning masks will be required indoors except while eating or drinking, according to Moran.
News of The Tombs reopening was met with excitement by former and current students, with many looking forward to partaking in popular student traditions, according to Coyne.
For Zach Magid (COL ’21), a former employee at The Tombs, traditions like “Tombs Nights,” when students go to the bar on their 21st birthday and receive a stamp on their head, are a hallmark of the Tombs experience.
“You get to gather your friends and then make the walk to The Tombs where you get your forehead stamped,” Magid said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “For me personally, as a doorman at The Tombs for three years, I’ve given so many stamps and seen the pride and revelry it induced.”
Many seniors who already turned 21 are planning on holding alternate Tombs nights for their 22nd birthdays to emulate the tradition, according to Coyne.
Traditions like Tombs Nights help instill a sense of community among Georgetown students, according to Alejandro Kineen (SFS ’20), a former waiter and waitstaff trainer at The Tombs. Kineen plans to return as a customer once the restaurant reopens.
“Everyone you know is always going to be there. It’s just a nice end spot, either for dinner on a Tuesday night or a last hurrah on a Saturday,” Kineen said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “That made it a nice vibe because you had friends waiting on you as well.”
As part of the reopening, The Tombs has worked to update the customer experience, including changing the menu to add new offerings. The Tombs hopes to keep many other student traditions, including the 100 Day Challenge, where students can sign their name on the wall of the bar after going to the restaurant for 100 days straight, once the restaurant reopens, according to Moran. 
Knowing many of these traditions are going to return, some graduates plan to go back to The Tombs to reminisce about memories from their time at Georgetown, according to Kineen.
“I think we all plan to go back,” Kineen said. “The first few weekends, there will probably be a lot of washed-up one- and two-year seniors revisiting like old times.” 
As excitement builds for The Tombs’ reopening, the top priority for the restaurant remains to open in a safe yet efficient manner, according to Moran.
“We simply want to get the doors open as soon as possible so the students, faculty and neighbors of Georgetown can once again have The Tombs be part of their college experience,” Moran wrote.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 8, 2021 by Julia Staley Leave a Comment 
A technology security policy think tank at Georgetown University received a $42 million grant, paving the way for the expansion of its operations and increased opportunities for students to conduct policy research.
The Center for Security and Emerging Technology, a nonpartisan technology and policy research organization at the School of Foreign Service, received the donation from Open Philanthropy, a foundation that distributes grants to organizations focused on science and technology research. 
CSET relies on organizations outside the university for its funding, and with this donation, the center will be able to sustain itself through 2025. The donation marks CSET’s third round of funding since it was established in 2019 and brings the center’s total funding to over $100 million. 
This grant validates CSET’s hard work over the past three years, according to Dewey Murdick, director of CSET. 
“The first funding was basically a risk: Let’s try this. But it’s been working. We’ve actually been impacting how things are going. This second funding is now a validation funding. It’s a huge tangible validation that this hard work and positive policy outcomes and impacts that were starting to accrue is actually a good model,” Murdick said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “This is why this grant is such a big deal right now.”
CSET plans to use much of the donation to fund its main operations, including increasing staffing and research capabilities. By increasing its operational capabilities, CSET will be able to better inform policymakers about emerging technologies, according to Murdick.
“We’ve been given more freedom to explore and find the most important problems that are most relevant to people in Washington, different agencies and Congress,” Murdick said. “We’re able to spend enough time to get insights that are not easily available.”
The most recent donation to CSET is not the first from Open Philanthropy, as the donor organization contributed a $55 million grant to launch the think tank in January 2019. Two separate organizations, the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation and the Public Interest Technology University Network, also have contributed to CSET since its founding.
The grant shows donors trust CSET to effectively steer the funds toward meaningful research and make returns on the initial investments made to create the think tank, according to Tessa Baker (COL ’07, GRD ’08), director of operations at CSET.
“I think the fact that Open Philanthropy can trust that when they give their money to Georgetown that CSET will work to achieve the mission that’s stated in the letters of the grant agreement is pretty fundamental to our ability to expand the grant,” Baker said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya.
Since its founding, CSET has produced over 120 reports on various topics including military artificial intelligence, robotics patents and small data. Over 70 Georgetown student research assistants from the SFS have worked to support these reports, according to Murdick.
The opportunity for students to study the role new technologies are playing in global politics aligns perfectly with the mission of the SFS, according to Joel Hellman, dean of the SFS.
“Since we are the oldest school of international affairs in the United States, we were kind of designed to be thinking about what was driving the changes in the global security landscape,” Hellman said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “We were excited to welcome CSET because it is doing exactly what we think is critical to be thinking about in the future.”
Some of the new reports funded by the recent donation will focus on artificial intelligence, biotechnology and the interplay of intelligence and emerging technologies. The new reports will enable Georgetown students to further engage with CSET, according to Murdick.
The increase in long-term grants provides Georgetown with the potential to inspire students to become involved with technology and security policy research, according to Hellman.
“As the premier school of international affairs in the U.S., it’s really critical for us to have the kind of capacity that CSET brings in order to understand where international affairs is going in the next century,” Hellman said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

