
March 18, 2021 by Campus News Editor 2 Comments 
Georgetown University students are calling for the university to establish a Latino studies minor program to promote cultural and historical education and demonstrate Georgetown’s commitment to diversity.
The petition, which was published March 7, was drafted by the Georgetown University Student Association and the Georgetown Latinx Leadership Forum, a group of student leaders who advocate, organize and celebrate Latinx culture. Students are also demanding increased onboarding of Latinx professors, engagement with Latinx communities throughout Washington, D.C., and a student and faculty committee to advise the program, allowing students to learn about Latinx people’s history, culture and narrative within the United States, according to the petition.
“The Latino Studies Minor will provide Georgetown students with the opportunity to learn more about the history of a currently marginalized, under-studied group of Americans,” the Latino Studies Policy Proposal published with the petition reads. “More importantly, Latinx students will finally be afforded the academic space to learn about their identity and all students will now have the opportunity to pursue their intellectual interests in this field of study.”
As of March 16, the petition had over 100 student signatures. LLF and GUSA intend to resend the petition to administrators once it garners 300 signatures, according to Yaritza Aguilar (COL ’22), facilitator chair of the LLF board.
In addition to the establishment of a Latino studies minor, the program should have a sufficient budget to bring in speakers and host events to celebrate Latinx history and to encourage students to visit the local communities of Columbia Heights and Mount Pleasant, according to the petition.
Several other universities, including Cornell, Harvard, Stanford and the University of Southern California offer various options for students to pursue a major, minor or certification in Latino studies.
While students in the LLF and GUSA have spent recent months researching, writing the petition and finding possible professors and courses, the idea for the program has been around for longer, according to Aguilar.
“Having a Latino Studies program is not a new thing that students have advocated for,” Aguilar said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “This has been going on for fifteen, twenty years.”
The program would be an interdisciplinary educational experience that would amplify the Latinx perspective in part through the inclusion of more Latinx professors, according to Aguilar.
“We realized we wanted more Latinx professors not just in history or American studies, but in sociology, government, anthropology, in women and gender studies,” Aguilar said. “Latinx students do deserve to learn about their history, and they deserve to learn it from faculty and professors who are Latinx.”
Students can further explore their identities and connect with the Latinx community through the program, according to Elisia Bendy (COL ’23), a former LLF member. 
“I think having a Latino Studies minor would provide a space for Latino students to study their histories (which are often obscured/hidden). We could be able to connect a huge part of ourselves to what we study,” Bendy wrote in a testimonial for the Latino studies policy proposal.
“Many of us have not had that opportunity whether it be because of our previous secondary school experience, family dynamics, language barriers, etc. This would also be a great minor for non-Latino people to study and contribute to as well” 
Protest for the inclusion of a diversity requirement happened alongside an effort for establishment of La Casa Latina that lasted multiple years. Through student efforts to support Georgetown’s Latinx community, the LLF advocated for La Casa Latina, which was created in 2016 as a safe and inclusive space on campus for Latinx students. 
In 2010, the Diversity and Inclusiveness Initiative, a collective effort from faculty, students and staff to examine ways to strengthen Georgetown’s commitment to diversity on campus, recommended the university explore the possibility of Asian American studies and Latino studies programs, which University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95) affirmed. 
However, while the university announced the African American studies department and major in 2016, they have yet to establish programs for either Asian American studies or Latino studies.
The proposed minor would include six courses, or 18 credit hours, that center around Latinx culture, history and politics, including Introduction to Latinx Studies and a senior seminar — a similar format to the African American studies program, according to the Latino Studies Policy Proposal published with the petition. 
The petition advocates for creating an Asian American studies program as well that, along with Latino studies, is important in order to address wide-ranging issues of insufficient cultural education, according to William Leonard (COL ’23), GUSA executive chief of staff.
“This project would be part of a broader support for more ethnic and cultural studies at Georgetown. We are very much in support of creating an Asian American studies program just as there is an African American studies department already,” Leonard said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “We really want this to be a part of a broader movement and we don’t want anyone to think that once we have the Latino studies we’re done. There is a lot more work to be done.”
Georgetown has shown a greater commitment to racial justice with the establishment of the Racial Justice Institute, an interdisciplinary institute aimed to address racial injustice inequities on campus. The institute will encourage research and scholarship across departments as it works to reform Georgetown institutions that uphold racial disparities and raise awareness about racial justice. 
Georgetown encourages courses and programs that promote diversity, according to a university spokesperson.
“The University is extremely supportive of exploring course options that share our diversity, equity and inclusion values, and reflect the broad interests of our students,” the spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
Creating a Latino Studies program would be an extension of the university’s mission and values, according to Leonard.
“I think [Latino studies] is a field of study that has not been given as much dedication or support as older fields of study in the academy and higher education,” Leonard said. “As we’ve seen with [the university’s] establishment of the Racial Justice Institute, they are trying to use higher education as a way to promote racial justice, to promote voices that have been left of the academy. I think this is what this program will do.”

hoyalum says 
March 22, 2021 at 1:24 pm
Why not call it “Latinx” Studies?  
How does the Hoya know the person quoted said “Latinx” and not “Latino”?

Randy Watts says 
August 19, 2021 at 11:35 am
I think this is very cool, since education is very important in our time, and unfortunately not all children can get it, we need to help with this. I am a writer, my goal is to help students, to simplify their lives, so I write essays on various topics and put them in the public domain so that anyone who needs them can use them. In my works, I raise such important topics as racism, social class, adoption, and so on.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 18, 2021 by Samantha Sinutko Leave a Comment 
Women hold the five highest-ranking positions in the newly elected board of Georgetown University Law Center’s student government, with Jade Baker (LAW ’22) becoming the first Black woman to serve as student body president.
The top leadership positions elected March 11 to the 2021-22 Executive Board of the Georgetown Student Bar Association, the student government at the Law Center, president, day vice president, evening vice president, treasurer and secretary consist of five women, three of whom identify as women of color. The board’s first priorities upon entering office are to ensure a safe, swift return to campus and to promote diversity, equity and inclusion within the Law Center, according to Baker, who formerly served as the day vice president during the 2020-21 academic year. 
The new representatives will enter office with a commitment to strengthening the Law Center’s student government, according to Baker.
“I knew that I wanted to be a part of the SBA, and I wanted to help in any capacity that I could, but I didn’t necessarily think I would ever get elected to this role; I’m really proud to be a part of that,” Baker said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “I’m happy to be the first but not the last in that role, and I’m especially proud because my vice president is also a Black woman.”
The SBA’s main goal is to act as a conduit between the Law Center student body and the administration, with the board meeting bimonthly with the law school administration and relevant graduate programs to raise concerns about certain issues, such as grading, student funding and issues related to the COVID-19 pandemic, according to Olivia Hinerfeld (SFS ’17, LAW ’21), the outgoing president of the SBA.
The growing diversity of the Law Center student body is exhibited by the new members of this year’s board, according to William Treanor, dean of the Law Center.
“Importantly, the new board and delegate body are highly diverse, which reflects the increased diversity of our student body,” Treanor wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Over the last several years, we have welcomed our most diverse incoming classes ever. I look forward to continued partnership with our remarkable student leaders.” 
Law students are condemning racism at the Law Center following the release of a recording in which professor Sandra Sellers made racist statements regarding the performance of Black students in a conversation with professor David Batson. The Law Center terminated Sellers on March 11, and Batson announced his resignation the following day. Several student organizations and affinity groups, including the Black Law Students Association, are calling for structural reform within the Law Center to include updates to the current grading system.
The board’s election brings attention to increased representation in the Law Center’s student government, according to Suzanne Dabage De La Espriella (LAW ’22), the reelected treasurer of SBA.
“I think it highlights the fact that the student body is changing and the fact that new voices are coming through, and I think that is extremely significant in its own right,” Dabage said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “I am so excited to see how they bring their voices to the table and are able to make hopefully some real, real change in the administration and in SBA generally, in how we interact with students and get students from all backgrounds represented.”
During protests in the summer of 2020 against the police killings of Black citizens, the SBA worked closely with the BLSA to develop a set of concrete proposals to affirm the Law Center’s commitment to racial justice, according to Hinerfeld. The three proposals included implementing a diversity requirement to the curriculum that is modeled after that of the main campus, faculty training on creating inclusive classroom environments and establishing the university’s Racial Justice Institute. 
GULC is supported by various student-faculty committees consisting of one tenured faculty chair, faculty members, staff and SBA-elected student representatives that advise the dean’s office regarding specific topics of interest within the policies of the Law Center, such as admissions, the COVID-19 pandemic, finances and professional responsibility. The board intends to foster diversity, equity and inclusion at the Law Center by restructuring the student-faculty committees, according to McCall Wells (LAW ’23), who was elected as the day vice president, the vice presidential role that represents the law school’s day program. 
“I will advocate for all student committee members to have a vote and for committees to appoint student co-chairs to increase students’ agenda-setting power,” Wells wrote in an email to The Hoya. “This way, students, many of whom possess concerns about D,E&I, will have a reliable venue to voice their concerns.” 
The current structure of these bodies distributes unequal voting power between faculty and student representatives, according to Wells, who said that faculty members have a nearly uniform say on voting for policies, and the committees should instead empower students to voice their concerns over issues at the Law Center, such as discussion surrounding the Title IX sexual misconduct policy and hiring new faculty. 
Another focus for the SBA will be to help transition the Law Center back to in-person operations, according to Hinerfeld. 
“I think Jade and her team are excited to hit the ground running to help the Georgetown Law community have a safe return to campus hopefully in this next year and restore more of a sense of normalcy,” Hinerfeld said in a phone interview with The Hoya.
The Law Center community has demonstrated resilience and resourcefulness in joining together to overcome obstacles related to the COVID-19 pandemic, according to Wells.
“I’m confident that we as a community will be able to develop creative ways to transition safely back to campus while carrying forward the positive lessons we’ve learned through the pandemic, such as the importance of achieving work-life balance and providing unwavering support for one another,” Wells wrote.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 18, 2021 by Liana Hardy and Rachel Won 1 Comment 
This article directly references racist content that is potentially upsetting. Please refer to the end of the article for on- and off-campus resources.
Georgetown University Law Center students are calling for structural reform within the Law Center after a viral video revealed a law professor voicing racist views about Black students.
The 43-second clip of adjunct professors Sandra Sellers and David Batson, posted by a Law Center student via Twitter on March 10, showed Sellers complaining about the academic performance of the Black students in her joint negotiations class with Batson. The video sparked outrage on social media as well as a petition from the Black Law Students Association that amassed over 1,900 signatures and a statement from the Law Center’s Black faculty. The Law Center terminated Sellers on March 11, and Batson announced his resignation the following day.
In the video, Sellers made several racist comments about Black students who have taken her and Batson’s class.
“I end up having this angst every semester that a lot of my lower ones are Blacks. Happens almost every semester,” Sellers said in the Zoom class recording. “It’s like, ‘Oh, come on.’ You know? I get some really good ones, but there are also usually some that are just plain at the bottom. It drives me crazy.” 
Students found the video of what Sellers believed to be a private conversation with Batson at the end of class on Canvas the weekend of Feb. 19. It remained on Canvas for two weeks before students discovered it March 7 and reported it to the Law Center deans the following day, according to Hassan Ahmad who shared the video on Twitter.
Several student organizations and affinity groups responded to the video on social media over the weekend, calling on the Law Center to cut ties with Sellers and demanding a public apology from Batson. In the statement released March 11, BLSA demanded the immediate termination of Sellers and a commitment from the university to improve its current grading system, including an audit of Seller’s past grading, and the hiring of more Black professors. 
GULC currently implements a mandatory curve in its grading, which allows conscious and unconscious systemic bias in its grading system, historically enabling professors to grade Black students subjectively, according to the statement.
“The difference is that Sellers was caught and her racism was broadcast for the world to see,” the statement reads. “These racist statements reveal not only Sellers’ beliefs about Black students in her classes, but also how her racist thoughts have translated to racist actions. Professor Sellers’s bias has impacted the grades of Black students in her classes historically, in her own words.”
While Sellers’ termination was the right step, the Law Center’s delayed response was disappointing, according to BLSA President Maxine Walters (LAW ’21).
“Because everything was recorded, we were unclear as to what exactly was taking so long for the school to take action, especially since it’s been revealed that they had this video several days before we actually got it,” Walters said in a phone interview with the Hoya.
The university is committed to addressing all instances and allegations of racism by effectively evaluating and pursuing the appropriate response, according to a Georgetown Law spokesperson.
“When the University is made aware of any conduct that may violate institutional policies, it addresses the reported conduct, including by investigating the allegations thoroughly,” the spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
In response to the video, the Law Center’s administrators terminated all relations with Sellers and had planned to launch an investigation into Batson’s actions before his resignation, according to a statement from William Treanor, dean and executive vice president of the Law Center. 
“This is by no means the end of our work to address the many structural issues of racism reflected in this painful incident, including explicit and implicit bias, bystander responsibility, and the need for more comprehensive anti-bias training,” Treanor wrote in the statement.
The administration has also implemented a “fair and compassionate” grading system in which anonymous professors familiar with the course subject will finish all grading for the course, according to Treanor.
Without structural reforms, such as implementing a formalized bias reporting system, beginning to change the racist structural foundations of the Law Center will be difficult, according to the Student Bar Association President Olivia Hinerfeld (LAW ’21).
“It’s very much word-of-mouth type stories that are passed down from affinity group member to affinity group member and mentor to mentee, and I think that’s part of the problem,” Hinerfeld said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “Just in the last 48 hours, I’ve been hearing anecdotally from alums that there are lots of other stories and complaints, even just about these two professors from this one class.”
The incident had immediate consequences for Black students at the Law Center who already struggle with racism, according to Quincey Wilson (LAW ’23).
“It’s already hard as it is being a law student in general,” Wilson said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “But to have other pressure on you as a Black student, to feel that no matter how hard you’re working, some professors like professor Sellers can look down on you or give you a worse review just because of the color of your skin — it’s depressing is what it is.”
In addition to facing the challenges of racism at the Law Center, Black students are an underrepresented group at the Law Center. In 2018, Black students accounted for only 9.2% of Juris Doctor candidates at the law school. 
In response to the video, Black professors at the Law Center condemned Sellers’ remarks and supported the Law Center’s Black students in a statement tweeted by professor Alicia Plerhoples on March 11.
The statement aimed to show support for students rather than seek repercussions for the involved professors, according to Plerhoples.
“It really was a matter of making sure that our students know that they’re supported, that when they have claims laid against them deriding their capabilities and their intellectual capabilities, those claims wouldn’t stand unconfronted by people in positions of authority,” Plerhoples said in a phone interview with The Hoya.
BLSA and the SBA proposed a resolution calling for a critical race theory unit in all first-year criminal justice courses, mandatory faculty training on implicit bias and a bias reporting system last July, in the wake of George Floyd’s murder and a nationwide racial reckoning. 
The Law Center has yet to implement any of the initiatives demanded by the SBA in July, which could have prevented the incident in the video, according to Wilson. 
“I think that this incident is representative of that failure to act, because it could have been avoided if they would’ve taken the measures to prevent this kind of thing from happening, but like we saw last year, this incident is not happening in a microcosm,” Wilson said. “This is a continuation of a reckoning, a racial reckoning. We are really just seeing for the first time this happening on video, but there are countless other conversations that we would never see.”
Black students’ belonging at the Law Center must be emphasized following the incident, according to Wilson.
“I think that anyone who is Black and has seen this incident needs to know that their worth is not diminished,” Wilson said. “I feel that they just need to pursue and pursue and pursue because the end goal is what matters. The fact that we are in these spaces is the goal. We need to be in these spaces to bring change, and I feel that we just need to boost each other up and tell each other that we belong here.”
Resources: On-campus resources include Health Education Services (202-687-8949), Counseling and Psychiatric Services (202-687-6985) and the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access (202-687-4054); additional off-campus resources include Crisis Text Line (text 741741) and the District of Columbia ACLU (202-457-0800).

Hoyalum says 
March 19, 2021 at 11:37 am
Article does not describe what was racist about the exchange, but the authors said so.
Doesn’t the Law Center use anonymous grading?  That was omitted from the article. 
Professor was not “complaining” she was “lamenting”.  In other words, she was expressing concern that SOME black students were not performing as well, which may be due to affirmative action policies.  
Ofentimes some wealthy or legacy students who were admitted with the help of “connections” and who have lower qualifications, do not get good grades, and would have done better, and perhaps been happier, elsewhere.  
Are those underperforming students being targets by hateful professors for being wealthy?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 18, 2021 by Paige Kupas 5 Comments 
The meteoric rise in the video game retailer GameStop’s stock price, driven by a surge of interest from individual investors, reflects a changing stock market that is becoming more accessible to the average person, panelists said at an online event March 15. 
The event, titled “Power to the Players? Free Speech and Finance on Wall Street and Main Street,” was hosted by the Free Speech Project at Georgetown University and moderated by the project’s director, Sanford Ungar. Panelists included James Angel, an associate professor at the McDonough School of Business, Felix Salmon, the chief financial correspondent at Axios, and Jennifer Schulp, director of financial regulation studies at the Cato Institute.
Panelists discussed how WallStreetBets, a popular forum on Reddit on which users discuss stock picks and option trading, caused the sudden and frenzied rise of GameStop stock in January by directing a mass of retail traders, non-professional investors who purchase, buy and sell securities for their own personal accounts, to buy the stock.
WallStreetBets has ushered in a new era of trading in which the general public has the power to cause a stock market disruption on its own, according to Salmon.
“The WallStreetBets crowds on Reddit started coalescing around GameStop and realized that it was heavily shorted and realized that if they just kept on buying it with all of their stimmies, their stimulus checks, then it would go up,” Salmon said at the event. “That’s the new game. It’s called playing meme stocks on the stock market.” 
Months before WallStreetBets users got involved, hedge funds began heavily “shorting” GameStop by betting that the stock’s price would go down because it was a brick-and-mortar video game store struggling to survive the COVID-19 pandemic. Noticing this trend in shorting,  users in WallStreetBets encouraged each other to invest in the company, arguing that the stock was actually undervalued. By banding together to buy shares of GameStop and increasing its value, WallStreetBets helped trigger a “short squeeze.” This shift forced the hedge funds that shorted the stock to buy more shares in order to cover their losses, further skyrocketing the price of the stock.
After the surprising rise in price of GameStop stock, some financial analysts began to question whether the WallStreetBets users’ involvement could be classified as illegal manipulation of the stock market by bots or financial investors pretending to be Reddit users. However, the Reddit posts were not manipulative or illegal, according to Schulp.
“There is not evidence of people deceiving or spreading false information about GameStop,” Schulp said at the event. “In fact, it was somewhat refreshingly open and clear.”
Although the Reddit users involved in the stock’s price change are likely ordinary people exercising their right to freedom of speech, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission should still investigate the incident as a precaution, according to Angel.
“Unless they find armies of Russian bots that are sending out fake messages, I don’t think they are going to find anything that they can prosecute,” Angel said.
The rise of GameStop has also revealed the tensions between traditional professional investors, who work for hedge funds and companies, and retail investors, a class of relatively inexperienced traders who invest small amounts of money in their own personal accounts. However, for the stock market to operate effectively, these two groups should not antagonize each other, according to Schulp.
“It’s definitely become part of the public consciousness that we think about this as a little bit of a rebellion of the little guy against the big guy,” Schulp said.
Financial analysts have characterized the GameStop incident as a financial populist revolt in which average Americans are motivated at the opportunity to tear down the elite and institutional hedge funds and institutions, which are run primarily by wealthy individuals to accrue more wealth. Wealth inequality and anger toward Wall Street increased during the pandemic, as the economic shock of COVID-19 left millions unemployed at the same time the stock market reached record highs.
While it is important for the general public to be more represented in the stock market, hedge funds and short sellers still play an important role in the market despite negative public opinion, according to Angel.
“An overpriced stock is nobody’s friend,” Angel said. “The short sellers are actually doing everybody a favor by preventing more misvaluations.” 
The rapid ascent of GameStop stock not only proved to be extremely costly to short-selling hedge funds, but it also disrupted the services of brokerage firms such as Robinhood, a popular online brokerage known for offering commission-free trading. Robinhood sparked outrage when it temporarily prohibited the purchasing of GameStop and other highly volatile shares on Jan. 28, the same day its value hit a high of $483 per share.
Many retail investors accused Robinhood of colluding with hedge funds such as Melvin Capital to prevent the GameStock price from rising even further. However, Robinhood had good reason for its decision to halt purchases, according to Angel.
“It was not some grand conspiracy to bail out Melvin Capital,” Angel said. “It was basically the fact that they were being required to put up tons of collateral, much more than they normally had to put up.”
Although platforms like WallStreetBets and Robinhood helped contribute to a tumultuous period for the stock market, getting more people involved in trading is ultimately a good thing, according to Schulp.
“We’ve seen more people, more retail investors, enter trading over the course of the last year, and the people that have opened accounts and started trading have looked different than the people that have traditionally had stock trading accounts,” Schulp said. “They’re younger, they’re lower income, they’re more racially and ethnically diverse, and I think there’s a lot to be said here for the fact that folks are getting involved in the market.”

Anthony Holcomb says 
March 19, 2021 at 1:27 pm
Because GameStop is not a business essential to improving or sustaining life or human wellbeing, the whole GameStop, Reddit,  WallStreetBets, and Robinhood debacle has been treated as a stock market chess match between hedge funds and retail investors. The is a unfortunate because it covers up the real tragedy of greedy hedge fund managers trying to destroy small companies that can be extremely  valuable in improving the quality of human life. Look at Bionano Genomics Inc. This small company is uniquely qualified to possibly change the course of mankind’s future but that may not keep it from being eliminated by greed.

Marina (NMPL) says 
March 21, 2021 at 11:28 am
Bots and financial investors can just pretending to be a Reddit users? Its very interested theory. Paige, could you please tell me where you hear that in the first time and when?

Uttam Sharma says 
April 7, 2021 at 8:03 am
I always believed that they both are the same, but thanks to this informative article. I really appreciate the efforts you’ve put in this blog post.

Keri Jaehnig says 
June 8, 2021 at 2:26 am
good post

Jack (TGL) says 
September 8, 2021 at 3:31 am
In a few years to come  people will be kicking themselves in regret if they miss this opportunity of buying and  investing in bitcoin and other crypto currency
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 18, 2021 by Kirsten Garino Leave a Comment 
Foxtrot Market, an upscale convenience store and cafe, opened a new location in Georgetown on March 1, the company’s first in Washington, D.C. 
The store, located at 1267 Wisconsin Ave. NW on the corner of N Street, is the 11th location for the Chicago-based chain and offers on-site shopping as well as delivery throughout the District in under an hour through its website and app. Occupying a space formerly held by furniture store Jonathan Adler, Foxtrot features a coffee bar, cafe and interior and outdoor seating and sells groceries, wines, craft beers and more. 
The shop hopes to elevate the convenience store experience by creating an inviting space with a curated selection of food and drink and an emphasis on locally sourced products, according to CEO and co-founder Mike LaVitola. 
“We have a pretty deep partnership with Vigilante Coffee, this amazing local roaster. If you go around the store, you’ll see some highly local brands across craft beer, in our pastries, in our breads, in our cookies,” LaVitola said in an interview with The Hoya. “That’s something that’s really important to us as well.” 
Local sellers and woman-owned products are highlighted throughout the store. Foxtrot also recently announced its 2021 Up and Comers, a program that highlights products made by small businesses, according to Foxtrot’s website. Surprisingly Baked, a cookie company launched during the COVID-19 pandemic, is featured on the website as the Best of D.C. Up and Comer.
Georgetown was a natural choice for the new location because of its lively population, which will help Foxtrot to become an all-day community gathering space, according to LaVitola. 
“I think we always knew that we had to launch with Georgetown first so that we could introduce ourselves to the most amount of people in D.C.,” LaVitola said. “We love the proximity to the university but then also all the local people who live close by. We thought we could create a really energetic atmosphere with that.”
The arrival of new establishments in Georgetown highlights the strength of the neighborhood’s small business economy, according to Lauren Boston, communications director for the Georgetown Business Improvement District. 
“The past 12 months have been undoubtedly difficult for everyone, including our businesses, but we’re encouraged by all of the new life coming back to Georgetown,” Boston wrote in an email to The Hoya. “There are many new businesses opening — from retail hybrids hosting a series of local entrepreneurs, to established concepts like Foxtrot — and that’s a vote of confidence for this commercial district, and the future of Georgetown.”
Other establishments that have opened in Georgetown during the pandemic include Call Your Mother bagel deli on 35th and O Streets, which welcomed its first customers in July, and Levain Bakery, a popular New York City cookie chain, which moved into an M Street space in September. 
Due to COVID-19 capacity limits, Foxtrot employees monitor the number of customers inside the store at once, often holding a line at the door to promote social distancing. Despite these restrictions, Foxtrot has seen a busy first week with roughly equal numbers of in-person and online orders, according to LaVitola. 
Although the pandemic presents difficulties for new businesses, it has also given Foxtrot the opportunity to create new jobs in the Georgetown area as well as the opportunity to give back to a community still being affected by the coronavirus, LaVitola said. 
“It’s certainly more challenging than it would otherwise be, but you know, it creates all these jobs, which is super great for everyone working, and I think the neighborhood’s responded really well,” LaVitola said. 
All delivery fees from the storefront’s first two days of operations were donated to the Power of 10 Initiative, a nonprofit that hires out-of-work chefs to feed food-insecure D.C. residents, according to the Power of 10 Initiative’s website. 
Foxtrot is set to open a second D.C. location in Mount Vernon Triangle on March 22 with other D.C. storefronts to follow, according to LaVitola. 
“We have another two opening up in D.C. later this year and hopefully a bunch more next year, so we are really focused on staying in D.C. for quite a while. We’re excited to expand here,” LaVitola said. 
Hoya Staff Writer Ella Kohler contributed reporting. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 18, 2021 by Grace Buono Leave a Comment 
As a fifth-grade student, Toella Pliakas (SFS ’21) always carried a small denim handbag holding an array of pens, pencils and paper so she could write on the go. The bag was too grown-up for a young girl to carry, however, according to her elementary school teacher. 
The teacher’s comment stuck with Pliakas. Though she was unaware at the time, Pliakas now realizes this comment was an example of adultification bias, a phenomenon in which adults treat young girls, especially young Black girls, as older than their age. 
Pliakas’ experiences as a Black girl inspired her to join the Georgetown University Law Center’s Initiative on Gender Justice and Opportunity, which aims to focus on marginalized women and girls in research and policy development. Now, Pliakas works as an intern at the center with an interest in understanding the twin goals of racial justice and gender equality, she said. 
“I was immediately intrigued because I wanted to learn more about how racism and sexism intersect to create not analogous but specific pressures and inequities for women and girls of color, specifically Black women and girls,” Pliakas said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. . 
In her role as an intern, Pliakas works alongside Rebecca Epstein, executive director of the Center on Poverty and Inequality.
In January, Pliakas and Epstein co-authored an article for The Washington Post addressing adultification bias. The article responded to an incident in Rochester, N.Y., in which police officers, responding to a call for “family trouble,” handcuffed a nine-year-old Black girl and told her she was acting like a child. 
The incident in Rochester is consistent with existing research on the relationship between police officers and the harmful perception of Black women and young Black girls as threatening and aggressive, according to Pliakas and Epstein. 
“The consequences of such adultification biases are profound,” they wrote in the article. “Rather than showing Black girls leniency or compassion in keeping with their age, authorities punish them in ways that are wholly out of proportion to their developmental stage. This occurs in many of our public systems, including schools, where young people spend the majority of their time.”
In 2017, the Initiative on Gender Justice & Opportunity published research highlighting the effects of adultification bias on Black women and girls. The study found that adults in society viewed Black girls ages 5 to 14 as more adult than their white peers. Two years later, the initiative released a follow-up study, reporting that an additional component of adultification bias includes the belief that Black girls ages 5 to 19 require less nurturing, support and comfort compared to their white female peers. 
Understanding how adultification bias exists, especially in education, is often an individual process that builds on personal experiences, according to Pliakas.
“I think once you put a name to adultification bias, a lot of people recognize it and can identify experiences that they’ve had or that friends have had or things like that,” Pliakas said.
In addition to her advocacy for education around adultification bias, Pliakas has also written about broader police reform. In June, amid nationwide protests calling for police reform, Pliakas was grappling with how she could share her knowledge about alternatives to policing with a broader community and, therefore turned to writing, she said. 
“I try to bound myself in a reminder that I didn’t start writing just to shout into the nothingness,” Pliakas said. “I started writing because I felt that I had information that I wanted to be shared and information that I think other people should have access to and, hopefully, information that leads to a conception of community safety that works for more people, that works more broadly and effectively for people.”
During this time, Plikas wrote a number of pieces for The Washington Post, including articles about alternatives to calling the police in Washington, D.C., the shortcomings of D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) on police reform, and the importance of Black churches in the District as a source of community. 
To further her advocacy, in 2017, Pliakas joined Georgetown United Against Police Aggression, a group formed to push back against Georgetown University Police Department’s discriminatory practices on campus. The group aims to combat aggressive policing practices against students of color and support any students who have had negative experiences with the police, according to Hannah Levine (COL ’21), a student organizer with GUAPA. 
Pliakas’ work with GUAPA and her broader advocacy for police abolition, particularly her writing, speaks to her dedication to spreading all she has learned about policing, according to Levine.
“I think it’s fabulous that she’s able to have this outlet for her voice,” Levine wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Her perspective as a student organizer at Georgetown is super important and I’m glad that the DC community and the country at large is able to hear it, especially in this current moment in which issues of policing are getting more attention.”
As she considers how she can continue to share information about police reform and alternatives, Pliakas said she hopes police and educator training about concepts like adultification bias will be adopted at Georgetown and more broadly to reframe the narrative about young Black girls and women. 
“I think that those types of things are pretty unacceptable, and I hope that, through training, people could recognize how their thought processes are affected by, frankly, the legacy of slavery,” Pliakas said. “Police officers just shouldn’t have as many interactions with children as they do, if any.” 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

