
October 29, 2021 by Eli Blumenfeld Leave a Comment 
For eight teams of undergraduate and graduate entrepreneurs, five minutes stands between them and a shot at $100,000 in cash prizes.
The groups are set to compete in “Bark Tank,” an annual entrepreneurship competition that provides cash prizes for undergraduate and graduate students looking to launch business ventures. Announced Oct. 21, this year’s eight finalists will compete Nov. 4 for the title, with the overall winner receiving $30,000.
Bark Tank gives students the opportunity to solve problems that affect their communities, according to Jeffrey Reid, a Georgetown University professor and founder of the Georgetown Entrepreneurship Initiative, which oversees Bark Tank.
“The reality is entrepreneurs are solving problems and creating value in society, but sometimes there is a mistake in the belief that it’s all just about making money,” Reid said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “Our competitions really highlight the fact that these students and these companies, they’re trying to solve a problem that’s really meaningful to the world.”
The Georgetown Entrepreneurship Initiative first established Bark Tank in 2009 after Ted Leonsis (COL ’77), CEO of sports entertainment company Monumental Sports & Entertainment, created the Leonsis Family Entrepreneurship Prize, which directly funds the annual cash prizes to Bark Tank competitors.
The Leonsis Family Entrepreneurship Prize allows more Georgetown students to launch their own businesses, according to Reid.
“The fact we have so many great student entrepreneurs competing for this prize is a sign that our overall community is more and more engaged in entrepreneurial activities,” Reid said. “Georgetown should be one of the world’s best universities for entrepreneurship, and I think we’re quickly becoming that with Bark Tank becoming one of the biggest, high-profile events that really celebrates student entrepreneurs.”
In order to take part in the pitch competition, students must meet certain criteria, including specific rules around eligible business ventures. Prior to the competition, members of the Georgetown community nominate candidates to compete. Nominated candidates are then required to complete a written application, which is reviewed by an internal committee that ultimately selects finalists for the pitch competition.
Once selected as finalists, groups are given three weeks to create a final three-minute presentation with the help of mentors from the Georgetown Entrepreneurship Initiative. After giving the final presentation, the group undergoes a five-minute question-and-answer section before a judging panel ultimately names the winner and allocates cash prizes to finalists.
The 2021 Bark Tank finalists include Bibti, a mobile application that provides women with travel buddies; Joylet, an online baby gear renter; Chow Corp, a company helping veteran families find careers using food trucks; and Bellavant, a wedding platform matching couples with qualified vendors.
The group of finalists also includes DAIGON, a server that fosters friendly competition and hosts training games for video game users; Map-Collective Inc., a carbon-tracking and supply chain transparency platform; STAFM Technologies, an innovative axial flux electric motor; and Compost’d LLC, an in-home compost initiative.
The competition has brought together great student entrepreneurs to present innovative and unique ideas within the wider community, according to Rory Brogan (MBA ’22) of STAFM Technologies.
“In terms of looking at the whole scope of the competition, I think it’s an incredible group of people. I am very, very honored to have been included in it — very humbled by that. And I’m excited to see what everyone else is thinking, what they come up with, and think it will be a great competition,” Brogan said in a phone interview with The Hoya. 
Participating in Bark Tank has also provided competitors with valuable mentorship opportunities from the Georgetown Entrepreneurship Initiative, according to Elliot Mack (SFS ’22), founder of DAIGON.
“We wouldn’t be where we are today without our co-founder or the university,” Mack said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “The entrepreneurial ecosystem here at Georgetown has been great. The Summer Launch Incubator helped us take this project from an idea to a reality.” 
Ultimately, the Georgetown Entrepreneurship Initiative hopes to continue to expand the impact of Bark Tank in the future, according to Reid.
“It seems to be growing bigger every year in terms of excitement around it. We hope to keep this going for a long time,” Reid said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 29, 2021 by Minoli Ediriweera Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University School of Medicine (GUSOM) will launch a new academic track focused on improving diversity, equity and inclusion in medical education.
The Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) program focuses on promoting anti-racism and social justice within the medical community. The DEI track will begin spring 2022 as one of the optional Longitudinal Academic Tracks students are able to participate in alongside their medical education. The tracks aim to promote interdisciplinary learning, collaboration and intellectual curiosity. The program, across all tracks, requires students to participate in leadership development, experiential learning, training modules and a capstone project.
The DEI track was first developed by Dr. L. Tamara Wilson (MED ’21) as her capstone research project after she noticed a significant lack of equity and diversity training for students in medical schools across the nation.
The track begins with foundational modules and leadership training centered around anti-racism, cultural humility and overcoming bias, followed by experiential learning, in which students will work directly with community organizations to tackle a specific problem. Students will focus on the roles of discrimination, bias, microaggressions and racism as barriers to equitable health care. The program will culminate in a capstone project to address a DEI issue in the medicine field. 
The tracks will create leaders that value diversity, equity and inclusion, who will be able to impact others through their roles and experiences, according to Ann Jay, co-director of the program and associate professor of clinical radiology and otolaryngology.
“Having a dedicated track shows that the medical school is 100% committed to diversity. The unique part of this track that Dr. Wilson put together is that the goal is not just to learn about diversity issues, but learn how to be a leader in the diversity, equity and inclusion space,” Jay said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “When we teach our students how to be leaders, then their impact on the world goes well beyond the walls of GUSOM.”
The program is one of the first DEI medical tracks of its kind in the country, making the research and creation process more difficult, according to Colin Stewart, associate professor of clinical psychiatry and co-director of the DEI track.
“Part of the issue is that there aren’t really any similar programs at other medical institutions,” Stewart said in a phone interview with the Hoya. “When Dr. Wilson was doing her research on these kinds of programs, she wasn’t really able to find a model program, so it’s not like the curriculum she developed was adapted from blank other school’s program.” 
In selecting the first cohort of the track, the directors will work to give students from underrepresented backgrounds opportunities to use their experiences in the program and create change, according to Jay.
“We will look at students that are traditionally underrepresented in medicine, have had lived experiences that will help them fulfill the goals of the track, have evidence of previous experiences in DEI and are passionate about making a difference in the DEI space,” Jay said.
Through experiential learning modules and real-world work, students participating in the program will be able to build leadership skills in DEI that will be valuable in all workplaces, according to Stewart. 
“If people don’t feel like they can be authentic in the workplace, then you can have that representational diversity, but you’re not really able to capitalize on it to develop real organizational excellence,” Stewart said. “People are looking for leaders who are able to really enact anti-racist policies, bring about equity within the workplace and vigorously close the gaps in terms of health care inequities.”
In addition to creating leaders focused on DEI, the longitudinal track will exemplify Georgetown’s Jesuit values, according to Lee Jones, dean for medical education. 
“At Georgetown, training physicians to care for the whole person — cura personalis — is an essential part of who we are and what we do, and it is a significant reason why students chose to come to Georgetown,” Jones wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
The track will also allow students to better serve diverse communities and create positive change in the medical field, according to Jones. 
“Our students also want to serve their communities and are eager to learn skills to help them create an inclusive environment for patients and their families — especially one that promotes social justice,” Jones wrote. “We are deeply grateful to Dr. Wilson for her dedication to developing this special track and for her many other lasting contributions to Georgetown.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

