
November 12, 2021 by Sophia Epley Leave a Comment 
Public servants have a responsibility to deliver concrete benefits to constituents and work to include and protect marginalized groups, according to Julián Castro, former secretary of housing and urban development and 2020 presidential candidate. 
At the Nov. 10 in-person event, titled “An America for All,” Castro argued policymakers should focus on local action and hot-button issues and encouraged students who care about social justice to become involved in public service. The Georgetown University Institute of Politics and Public Service hosted the event moderated by GU Politics Fellow Charlotte Clymer (COL ’16).
Politicians on the state and federal levels should work to create real change in the lives of their constituents through policy, according to Castro.
“What moves people a lot of the time is what directly impacts their lives. The thing about local government is that you did not have to wait to see the impact of your work,” Castro said at the event. “If I had that pothole fixed or saw the sidewalks built or got more public safety investment, people could measure it. People could see the difference that you made or the lack of a difference you made.”
Prior to working as U.S. secretary of housing and urban development from 2014 to 2017, Castro served as mayor of San Antonio from 2009 to 2014 and a member of the San Antonio City Council from the 7th district from 2001 to 2005. Castro announced a bid for president as part of the 2020 elections; however, he suspended his campaign Jan. 2, 2020.
In addition to delivering measurable benefits to constituents, policymakers should also address wider hot-topic issues, according to Castro. 
“When we address the issue of race or trans rights or everything else that gets put under the rubric of culture wars, we are also standing up for people who oftentimes have been vilified and have been some of the most vulnerable folks in our country,” Castro said. “We don’t want to slide backwards.”
According to Castro, politicians must include transgender people in conversations regarding effective policy around transgender rights.
“We were primed more from the get go, not only to be more accepting, but to try to be stronger allies — asking how we can be better allies and translate that into policy and be supportive of that policy, And to help move along what still needs to be moved along. That’s what I tried to do on the debate stage — to be more inclusive,” Castro said. “And in being inclusive hopefully to help set a blueprint for where the party and the country need to go in the years to come in how we think about issues.”
State legislators around the country introduced a record number of bills to limit transgender peoples’ rights, with lawmakers in 28 states considering 93 bills targeting the rights of transgender people, including health care restrictions and bans on participating in sports, according to a Human Rights Campaign report.
According to Castro, in addition to advocating for the transgender community, politicians should also focus on supporting immigrants, esepcially undocumented people living and working in the United States.
“It disappoints me to no end that we live in a country where it’s so easy to stoke fear and division based on someone’s status. And also underneath that, not for everybody but underneath that, a lot of times, based on the color of their skin and their nationality. It is a deeply, deeply disappointing part of this country,” Castro said.
As part of Castro’s bid for the presidency in 2020, his campaign largely focused on immigration, drawing from his personal experience as the son of a Mexican immigrant. His platform included policies like a streamlined path toward citizenship for undocumented essential workers.
As lawmakers across the United States continue to debate transgender and immigrant rights, students who care about domestic issues should take initiative and get involved in politics and advocacy, according to Castro.
“We desperately need people who have a passion for public service and want to be in it for the right reasons. People that have integrity. People that are idealistic — that doesn’t mean unrealistic — but idealistic. And when I say go in for the right reasons, what I mean is that you want to do something to help other people,” Castro said.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 12, 2021 by Giulia Testa Leave a Comment 
Students are calling on Georgetown University to reinstate late night hours at the popular campus restaurant Epicurean and Company (Epi) on the weekends.
The Georgetown University Student Association (GUSA) Senate passed a resolution Nov. 7 calling for Epi’s hours to be extended until 3 a.m. on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights in order to provide more food options on campus. Prior to the shutdown of the university’s campus in the spring of 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Epi operated 24-hours Thursday through Sunday and was a popular location for students to dine late on weekends. Currently, Epi closes at 10 p.m. daily.
Epi’s former hours provided students a consistent and easy option for late-night meals, according to GUSA Senate Speaker Leo Rassieur (COL ’22).
“As those who were on-campus in previous years can attest, Epi was an important, reliable dining spot on campus well into the late night, and it has been disappointing not to benefit from that since our return to campus this semester,” Rassieur wrote in an email to The Hoya. “With the new, strict meal plan requirement, we need more ways to use Flex dollars to have an actual meal on a schedule that works for all students.”
As part of the resolution, the organization agreed to sign on to a student-launched petition created Nov. 2 calling on Aramark, the university food service provider that manages Epi, to reimplement the restaurant’s late-night hours. All Georgetown dining locations, including Epi, are serviced by Aramark. As of Nov. 11, more than 150 students had signed the petition.
Epi provides accessible late-night food options, and it is a campus tradition to eat there after a night out, according to the petition.
“The time is now! Epi’s hours are not what they used to be. Everyone loved grabbing a quesadilla at 2:30am after coming home from a night out in AdMo. What happens if you need a late night snack in Lau and everything else is closed,” the petition reads. “That’s why it is time to work with Epi’s management to restore its hours to 3am on Thursdays, Fridays, and Saturdays.”
Epi’s former late-night hours provided students with a space on campus to socialize with friends, according to Josue Oros (MSB ’22), who launched the petition.
“It was like a different way of socializing,” Oros said. “You would see most of the people in your grade, or you would see a lot of familiar faces, so it was very nice because sometimes when everybody has different schedules, you haven’t seen people in a while. It was a very nice time. I think that’s where I made a lot of new friendships.”
Epi was also a cost-friendly option for students to gather after nights out, according to Daniel Arenas (MSB ’22), who signed the petition. 
“Everyone has their own things to do every weekend; we’re all in different clubs and we all go to different parties,” Arenas said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “For that reason, this was sort of like a place where everyone could come together after every different event and see each other. It was always a good place to catch up with people. It was also just a great post-game because if you don’t have too much money to go out to eat or order UberEats, that was always there and you could use your flex.” 
Since Epi no longer operates past 10 p.m. on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights, students now typically frequent the Wawa located on Wisconsin Ave. for late night food options, according to Oros, who says Wawa’s distance from campus presents a safety risk for students, especially if students were drinking.
“Wawa is obviously a little bit far away,” Oros said. “I saw Epi as a better choice than Wawa. I’d rather have somebody pass out in Epi or outside of Epi, closer to everybody’s dorm, than out by Wisconsin, which is very far away.”
The university set Epi’s hours to best accommodate the campus community, according to a university spokesperson. 
“We appreciate student support of Epicurean and welcome community feedback about on-campus dining,” the spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Epicurean’s hours are selected to best meet the needs of the campus community based on utilization rates.” 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

