
March 5, 2021 by Campus News Editor Leave a Comment 
Journalism continues to play an indispensable role in the functioning democracy even as the industry transitions to an online format, Marty Baron, former executive editor of The Washington Post, said at an event.
The virtual Zoom event, titled “The Role of the Fourth Estate,” took place March 3, just three days after Baron officially retired from his role at The Washington Post. The event was jointly hosted by the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service and the journalism program. In the conversation, moderated by GU Politics Executive Director Mo Elleithee (SFS ’94), Baron reflected on his own career, the role of the press in a democracy and the future of journalism.
Baron has earned a reputation as a fierce advocate for a free and independent press. Over a 45-year career, Baron spent the last eight as executive editor at The Washington Post and previously served as executive editor at The Boston Globe and the Miami Herald.
The fourth estate, a term that refers to the press’ nongovernmental watchdog role, continues to have a crucial responsibility in upholding democracy as the medium through which news is interpreted and disseminated, according to Baron. 
“There is a reason our job is called journalism and not stenography,” Baron said at the event. “Stenography is recording what people say and disseminating it. We have to say who was behind these decisions, what kind of influence was brought to bear and who may be affected.”
In recent years, the phrase “fake news” has become a familiar term in the political lexicon as public trust in the media has slowly eroded. The phrase, originally used to describe misleading news stories spread on social media, was co-opted by former President Donald Trump to call out news outlets and articles he did not like. Trump used the phrase roughly 900 times on Twitter before his account was permanently banned. The share of U.S. adults who found the nine leading media outlets credible dropped to a record low 51.2% in April 2020, according to a poll conducted by the Morning Consult.
Truth has become so devalued that even elected officials are no longer held to a standard of knowing basic U.S. history, according to Baron, who referenced Sen. Tommy Tuberville’s (R-Ala.) misidentification of the three branches of government as the House, the Senate and the executive branch.
“I do think that we, in this country at least, need to restore civic education in our schools, because it’s atrophied, no question about it,” Baron said. “People don’t even understand how the government works.”
Baron said the nature of politics over the course of the last few years has made it difficult for journalists to report the objective truth because of the increase in misinformation being circulated.
“I believe in journalistic independence. I believe there are such things as facts. There is such a thing as objective truth,” Baron said. “One of the big problems we have now is that people can’t — it’s not just that they don’t agree on the facts, it’s that they can’t even agree on what constitutes a fact.”
The shift from print to digital and social media-based journalism has also contributed to the spread of misinformation, making it difficult for legitimate reporting to stand out, according to Baron.
“When you’re posting on social media there’s no editor, there’s no intermediary,” Baron said. “That means that people should edit themselves, and sometimes people don’t. And it causes all sorts of problems for us as an institution.”
Despite the increased potential for spreading misinformation, Baron also highlighted the positive effects of online journalism and the rise of smartphones. 
“It resulted in a dramatic loss in revenue for our business, which led to significant cuts in the staff, but it also meant that we could reach people we wouldn’t otherwise reach,” Baron said. “People could see us on their phones, which they now had for the first time.” 
As the American public turns to social media to voice their critiques of popular media outlets, however, top newspapers have moved to address the diversity of their own newsrooms and coverage.
At an internal town hall during the peak of the 2020 Black Lives Matter protests, Baron apologized for failing to properly address inequity in the newsroom. The Washington Post’s union responded with its own email criticizing management for its lack of diversity.
There is immense journalistic value in having writers and editors who have different lived experiences, according to Baron, who said it is important to embrace the changing demographics of the industry.
“We have to have people who come from very different backgrounds so that people can point things out to us that we don’t know,” Baron said. 
Although the media landscape is continuously evolving, journalists will continue to serve in their essential roles as arbiters of truth in a democracy, according to Baron. 
“I do say to journalists and aspiring journalists: We should be more impressed with what we don’t know than with what we think we know,” Baron said. “The reality is that there’s more that we don’t know than we actually do know, and that if you continue to ask questions, you learn new things.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 5, 2021 by Anna Ferrazzi 1 Comment 
A seemingly endless line of cars marked with red and yellow balloons and flags made its way down Wisconsin Avenue on Feb. 27 in protest of the ongoing conflict in the Tigray region of Ethiopia.
Protesters honked their horns, leaned out of windows and sunroofs, carried signs and drove cars emblazoned with phrases like “Eritrean Troops Out,” “#defundtigraygenocide” and “STOP WAR ON TIGRAY.” Conflict in the Tigray region began in early November as tension between the federal government and the ruling faction in the region of Tigray turned into a military confrontation. The violence has led to over 1,000 deaths, according to Ethiopian state television.
For those who have relatives back home in the East African nation, an ongoing communication blackout caused by internet restrictions in the Tigray region has prevented contact with family members, according to Marta Nigse, a Washington, D.C.-Maryland-Virginia representative of Stand With Tigray, an organization that helped organize the weekend’s events. 
“Personally, my family lives in Western Tigray,” Nigse said. “We have not heard from my family for 119 days.”
The District is home to the largest Ethiopian population outside of Africa. Adams Morgan, Columbia Heights and Shaw contain Ethiopian shops and restaurants. Silver Spring, Md., and Alexandria, Va., are also home to large Ethiopian communities. 
The car procession was the culmination of a three-day protest, according to Nigse.
“We wanted to make sure the State Department has heard us, so Thursday was in front of the State Department,” Nigse said in a phone interview with The Hoya.
The caravan route began in Rock Creek Park and went through Georgetown and other D.C. neighborhoods with impressive turnout, according to Nigse.
The conflict has exacerbated tensions within the Ethiopian diaspora, with disagreement over the military’s airstrikes and blockades of essential supplies in Tigray, which began when Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed ordered the national military to open an offensive against the region’s ruling faction.
Abiy was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2019 for his efforts to achieve peace and international cooperation and was recognized in particular for his handling of the border conflict with Eritrea, according to the Nobel Prize Organisation. However, the Norwegian Nobel Committee issued a rebuke of Abiy in November. 
While Stand With Tigray’s website does not list Saturday’s protest, Ethiopian news website Aigaforum posted information about the three-day protests. The listing highlighted that the protests were meant to push the United States and international community to motivate the Ethiopian government to enact a variety of changes to promote peace and safety for the people of Tigray.
With most of the protesters’ mobilization taking place on social media, there is hope that the use of digital platforms can continue to spread awareness about the Tigray conflict, according to Nigse.
“Some of us are students, some of us are early in our careers, young immigrant Americans,” Nigse said. “We are asking the American public to know and help us amplify what is going on.”

Carl says 
March 10, 2021 at 5:57 pm
Loved this content Anna, very well-written and informative. Thank you for sharing.
Peaceful protests are the greatest weapon of destruction devised by man itself. Protests must be with good intentions and not just a rebellion or resistance to the government.
Check this out Why Do People Protest hope this will help. Thank you.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 5, 2021 by Julia Staley Leave a Comment 
A new certificate program is connecting students with a cohort of Black public administrators from across the country to focus on innovative leadership skills. 
The Georgetown University School of Continuing Studies launched the Innovative Leadership in Public Administration Certificate Program in February in partnership with the National Forum for Black Public Administrators, a nonprofit organization that promotes leadership development for Black professionals working in public service. The five-month program, taught by adjunct lecturers from SCS, includes a curriculum that focuses on fostering leadership and professional development skills, according to Dean Kelly Otter.
The certificate program’s curriculum is a unique approach to leadership development, according to Otter.
“The idea is to focus using the leadership coaching strategies that allow the participants to develop as a manager and a leader by understanding the contemporary best practices in leadership coaching,” Otter said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya.
This year’s inaugural cohort included 13 students, based in various locations across the United States, who began coursework in January and will complete a capstone project to receive their certificate in May, according to Otter. Students will design their capstone projects by applying module topics and covered concepts to a real world situation. 
Through choosing their own focus for their capstone projects, students have the opportunity to think about the impact of social justice issues in their communities, according to Otter. 
“I would like to see 13 capstone projects that show how these 13 individuals in their unique ways can make transformational change, and can make the world a better, more inclusive place,” Otter said.
Participation in the program has developed leadership skills that benefit both administrators and the constituents they serve, according to David Gray (GRD ’21), a student in the program who works as the economic recovery program project manager for the City of Austin, Texas. 
“I think the program is outstanding as a public administrator and as someone whose job it is to serve the community every day,” Gray said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “It’s really important to make sure my management style, my leadership style and my work style is adaptive and can change and be responsive to the needs of the communities that we’re serving.”
The Executive Leaders Institute, a professional development program in the NFBPA, has instructed students over the past 30 years, but those who graduated from the program did not receive any certificate that acknowledged their newly acquired skills, according to Otter. Brandon Daniels, an adjunct lecturer at SCS and a member of the NFBPA brought up the idea that Georgetown should partner with the association so people who complete this development training would receive official certification for their work. 
The program unites a unique cohort of people who come from different public administration backgrounds, according to Daniels.
“I think there is nothing like this in the country. Even though it’s the NFBPA, we have people from all walks of life coming in and being part of the program. There is nothing like this that focuses on Black leaders in city government getting leadership coaching and being able to work with Georgetown to do this,” Daniels said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya.
The certificate program includes monthly modules that cover topics like mindful leadership, data-driven decision-making, budget management and approaches to sustainability and economic development, according to Otter. Students will participate in one-on-one leadership coaching sessions throughout the program’s duration.
While personal improvement is often overlooked in the practice of professional leadership, it is a necessary skill for successful management and administration, according to Julia Murillo, senior director of custom programs at SCS.
“We start here because this is the foundation — the values and the principles on which we want to encourage our students to make strategic decisions,” Murillo said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “We want to help and to guide people on this approach of making budgetary decisions, strategic decisions, economic decisions, from a place of social justice and looking at how to make social change, looking at how our current structures might be inhibiting fairness and inclusion, and to redesign those structures to maximize fairness and inclusion.” 
The first course module, which focused on mindful leadership, introduced participants to self-care strategies that incorporated Georgetown values, like cura personalis, or care of the whole person, according to Murillo.
“I do hope that this program exemplifies cura personalis and how it does pull not just our emphasis on people’s academic history but really their personal, professional and all walks of life history,” Murillo said. 
A module focused on practices like mindful walking and mindful eating provided stress management techniques for the group, according to Murillo.
“Many of these participants are involved in a high stress, crisis-oriented profession in which they don’t take time for themselves and are constantly prioritizing the needs of others,” Murillo said. 
While the new program is a learning experience for both students and faculty alike, the growth of its inaugural students demonstrates a promising future for the program, according to Otter.
“I really would like to see this grow, because I think we’re doing a wonderful service to people who are eager to become more engaged leaders and to get the best out of themselves and their work, and there’s a lot of people who want to do that,” said Otter.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

