
January 12, 2021 by Clara Grudberg and Moira Ritter 18 Comments 
Many Georgetown University students and organizations across the political spectrum have condemned any student involvement in the Jan. 6 coup attempt on the U.S. Capitol and are asking the university to fully investigate any incidence of student participation following a series of GroupMe messages posted by a student who was on Capitol grounds Jan. 6.
The student, Jaron Pensinger (SFS ’21), attended President Donald Trump’s speech on the White House Ellipse that preceded the insurrection and then made his way to the Capitol with a large group of attendees. During the ensuing riot, Trump supporters, many openly championing white supremacy and defending objections to the 2020 presidential election, breached the Capitol, vandalized the building and threatened several high-ranking members of the nation’s government, including Vice President Mike Pence. As of Jan. 11, five people had died as a result of the attack, including a Capitol Police officer who succumbed to injuries inflicted by the mob.
While on the grounds of the Capitol, Pensinger said he did not enter any buildings, bypass any security perimeter or interact with law enforcement. A Jan. 6 screenshot of Pensinger’s location from Snapchat’s map feature obtained by The Hoya placed him between the Capitol Reflecting Pool and the building itself. The screenshot does not have a time stamp. Pensinger said he left Washington, D.C., at 4 p.m., prior to the 6 p.m. curfew imposed by Mayor Muriel Bowser (D) and returned to his home outside of the District.
In a private  GroupMe, Pensinger sent messages the morning of Jan. 7 detailing his experience at the Capitol. 
“Take this unsolicited message as you will. Today was a peaceful occupation of the capitol and our people were provoked with tear gas and flash bangs!” Pensinger wrote in the GroupMe. “I took in a breath of tear gas and I was completely unarmed how is that even right.”
Almost immediately after Pensinger sent messages in the GroupMe, another member of the chat, Dominic DeRamo (COL ’23), removed him from the group and denounced his statements on Instagram. Pensinger’s messages were frustrating, disheartening and dehumanizing, DeRamo said. 
“I thought that there was no way that a Georgetown student could do something like this. After the person continued with their rhetoric, I decided to remove them from the chat, because I felt that it was incredibly unfair for everyone else in the chat to have to experience that,” DeRamo said in an interview with The Hoya.
DeRamo said Pensinger has since threatened to sue him for defamation. 
Other students joined DeRamo’s condemnation of Pensinger’s messages and his proximity to the riots on Twitter. Many have since taken down their posts, however. A petition was also created asking that Pensinger be brought before Georgetown’s Honor Council. The petition has since been removed by its creator.
In an interview with The Hoya, Pensinger said he attended the rally where Trump spoke primarily because of his opposition to COVID-19 lockdowns. 
“I’m not a white supremacist,” Pensinger said. “One of the biggest reasons why I was there was because of the COVID crisis. There have been many doctors who have come out and said that these lockdowns are unjustified.” 
COVID-19 lockdowns and stay-at-home orders are effective and recommended measures for decreasing the spread of the virus, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
The insurrection, where most participants were unmasked, was potentially a virus superspreader event, according to The Washington Post. Pensinger did not comment on whether he or those around him were masked. 
The Georgetown University Student Association Senate published a statement Jan. 10 urging university leadership to investigate any university community member whose involvement in the attack violated criminal law or university policy. 
The university must take appropriate actions to safeguard the community, according to a separate statement from GUSA Press Secretary Jacob Bernard (SFS ’23).
“While GUSA will never condemn individual Georgetown students, the behaviour of those who supported or participated in the riots is fundamentally at odds with the spirit of justice and inclusivity that animates our administration,” Bernard wrote in a statement to The Hoya.
Vice President for Institutional Diversity and Equity Rosemary Kilkenny (LAW ’87) and other university administrators have been notified of messages supporting the insurrection in GroupMe, according to Bernard. 
GUSA released a separate statement condemning the violence at the Capitol. The statement, signed by GUSA Vice President Bryce Badger (MSB ’21) and GUSA Provost Advisory Representative Nile Blass (COL ’22), called out the racism and antisemitism displayed by the insurrectionists and listed resources for students to donate to or access. 
The university will follow up on allegations of misconduct and investigate any potential violations of the Code of Student Conduct, including those that may have occurred during the coup attempt, according to a university spokesperson.
“Any student found to be participating in criminal activities or violations of our Code of Student Conduct would be subject to disciplinary actions, which could include suspension or dismissal from the university,” the spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “When we receive reports of bias or violations of the law or our Code of Student Conduct, we respond to them and follow up through appropriate actions.”
According to the Code of Student Conduct, students can face university disciplinary action for property destruction, disorderly conduct that disturbs others, public incivility or violation of local laws. 
“When alleged violations of University regulations or local laws take place off campus and come to the University’s attention, the University reserves the right to take appropriate action when, in the judgment of University officials, the alleged conduct has a negative impact on the University community, the pursuit of its mission, or the broader community in which we live,” the Code of Student Conduct reads.
As of Jan. 8, Pensinger said the university had not contacted him. 
“I see there to be no reason for me to be expelled, Pensinger said. “I did nothing violent. I was entirely peaceful.” 
Both Democrats and Republicans on campus have condemned the insurrection and any student involved in trespassing or vandalization of federal property. 
Any student who participated in the Capitol breach Wednesday and partook in criminal activity has undermined Georgetown’s values and should be dismissed, according to the Georgetown University College Democrats Executive Board. 
“Those who find themselves sharing a platform with the hateful have a duty to themselves, peers, and any principles they represent to either remove those hateful voices from their platform or remove themselves from the platform,” the board wrote in an email to The Hoya. “To stand with white supremacists is to stand by white supremacy. To stand with insurrectionists is to stand by insurrection.”
The university must fully examine any community member’s potential involvement in attacking the Capitol, a Georgetown University College Republicans spokesperson said.
“While we support the right of all Hoyas to peacefully protest, the University has an obligation to investigate any individual involved in this attack on our nation’s seat of government,” the GUCR spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
This article has been updated to clarify the name of a GroupMe chat. 

John Machir says 
January 12, 2021 at 8:22 pm
Georgetown is not a police state. If a student  charged and convicted of committing a crime, then they may choose to take action.

John's Machir's brain has left the conversation says 
February 1, 2021 at 4:58 pm
Your comment shows how you clearly don’t know how a university works… Regardless of “If A sTuDEnt ChARgeD & CONvicteD of CoMmITTing a cRime” the university can take action through the conduct office… but you get “A” for effort in trying John…

Tom David says 
January 13, 2021 at 3:43 am
Any of these bitches asking if any students were involved in the BLM riots this summer? What an embarrassment Georgetown has become.

Tom David eats cat food says 
February 1, 2021 at 5:02 pm
Lolol he said “Any of these bitches asking if any students were involved in the BLM riots this summer?” Okay WYT(e) settle down over there before you embarrass yourself anymore.

SHAY says 
January 14, 2021 at 2:42 am
Yeah your right. What about BLM. DO WE Count.

Shay(meful) says 
February 1, 2021 at 5:04 pm
1) *you’re… 2) That’s not English… 3) yes, we can count.

The Village says 
January 14, 2021 at 6:47 am
The BLM protest is to bring awareness to unarmed people of color being shit and killed by police. The protest on Jan 6th turned out to be white supremacists beating/killing cops, threatening our elected lawmakers, trespassing/destroying and stealing federal property, as well as attempting to overturn the government…all because the klansman lost in a fair election. In other words, you creeps were angry because you continue to lose in the system you created. The same system that has stolen land from indigenous people while an enslaved people built this country’s infrastructure labor free.  Big difference. So do us all a favor and do a little research on the short comings of your own tantrums before you attempt to bash a movement that millions around the world were part of.

Peter Polachi says 
January 15, 2021 at 3:40 pm
Classic. You don’t even realize the absurdity of what you say, and you operate with the absolute certainty that somehow you or anyone else has the right to be the arbiter of which sides beliefs are more just and valid.  FYI, there were hundreds of thousands of people at the protest and less than 1,000 idiots that stormed the capitol.  If you want to establish a standard of judging an entire group worthy of condemnation based on the actions of a few on the lunatic fringe, that standard has to apply evenly.  There’s nutjobs to the right and left and sadly both extremes tend to have violent outbursts but it’s not some inherently right wing thing, it happens just as much with the far left.  We’re at the point where the far left and far right are so far around the bend of insanity they’re pretty much in the same spot.

Peter Polachi's Mom is not happy with Petey. says 
February 1, 2021 at 5:12 pm
lol peter… Protesting and rioting “Police reform” and civil rights isn’t the same as your “hundreds of thousands of people at the protest”. Mind you those “hundreds of thousands” were protesting an election that wasn’t fraudulent… but I guess tomato, tomato.
Keep listening to that crap you hear on Fox News and Friends (OAN, Breitbart, etc…). The world laughs at who you are and what you believe.

Richard Stanaro says 
January 14, 2021 at 11:39 am
I was stunned to see such a fascist frontpage article in The Hoya.  GT claims to be an institution of higher learning but its campus newspaper acts like its the Chicom Cultural Revolution. Protest is a sacred American right protected by the First Amendment.  You directly name a student and suggest for association that he is a rioter and should be castigated.  Those are the tactics of Communists. Shame on you.  You should publish a front page retraction and apology for promoting such vile thinking.

Tricky Ricky says 
February 1, 2021 at 5:14 pm
I was stunned to see such a dumb post from Richard Stanaro. The press should apologize for writing an article. Wahhh, big ole baby.

entrepreneur test says 
January 14, 2021 at 11:47 am
Leadership and commitment: Are you able to stimulate and cause others to follow along with you and present your
sight? And can you delegate try to other people?

Peter Polachi says 
January 14, 2021 at 7:46 pm
The irony of the disingenuous morons who wrote this calling others “fascists” and speaking about oppression is rich.  The nouveau left aren’t liberals, they’re authoritarians.  So many atrocities in the history of civilization have begun with one political group deciding that their positions and beliefs are so unassailably correct that they’re justified in using any means necessary to silence and punish those who disagree.  There’s a reason that socialism has negative connotations, curtailment of free speech obviously being a particularly significant one.  Performative social outrage is the newest danger to the republic.

Aline Marcel says 
January 18, 2021 at 10:47 pm
I’m really stunned by the comments on this article. Knowing right and wrong isn’t political. Trying to plot to overthrow the government is wrong regardless of your stance. Instead of using a bunch of words you clearly don’t understand the meaning of to somehow justify a violent assault on our democracy, start thinking about where you’re getting your information from, if they’re reputable sources.
Think about who’s really lying to you, the pot calling the kettle black is the synthesis of fake news. Everything they claim about the other side is what they’re actually guilty of, and they’re just trying to throw you off the scent. Try to be critical of the sources you agree with, not just the ones you don’t agree with.

hoyalum says 
January 22, 2021 at 10:54 am
It is a lie to say that their intention was to overthrow the government.  
Where did you get that from?  I heard the DC Mayor say that, too.

SomeHoya says 
February 1, 2021 at 5:16 pm
Do you actually live under a rock, or do you get all your information from like ireadfakenews.com or trumpismyboy.com?

Hoya2022 says 
January 21, 2021 at 7:26 pm
Let me just say that this isn’t directed at the writers of this article, they did fine, I like how they included a quote from the student in question, generally very professional.
This issue is pertaining to a larger cultural problem at Georgetown. Our student senate literally condemned a student for voicing opposition to BLM this summer in his own platform and on facebook, for just voicing republican talking points. Georgetown is not a place for free expression of ideas. Much of the student body, or at least the dominant culture see anyone that disagrees with them as attacking their identity. Further, they attach these labels of white supremacist, racist, bigot etc… in order to demonstrate to others that this person is lesser and doesn’t deserve a voice. There were white supremacists at the capitol, doesn’t mean this kid is a white supremacist, which is what many people were jumping to.
I have seen the messages that this kid posted and I will admit that they’re bizarre, but they should in no way represent a means to kick him out of school or call for condemnation. He blatantly states that there was no violence and it was a great demonstration and says some off-color things like that he’s not fully white as a defense against being associated with racists. Further I have no idea why you would go to this protest (which later turned into an act of sedition) in the first place, to me it was a demonstration of conspiracy supported by the President of the United States. But there is no evidence the student in question took part in the actual violence or entered the capitol complex and to start petitions condemning him and asking for admin to get involved is very dangerous. 
The hypocrisy of gtown political culture is immense and very distasteful, it is a far-left echo chamber that is unkind to political moderates and people on the right. Universities and life in general are filled with idiots and people you disagree with, that doesn’t mean you get to silence them or expel them no-matter how outlandish their language is. The line is direct evidence of violence or a direct call to violence with the means to act. If Georgetown is the progressive college of America where only progressive ideas are allowed unless you wish to be condemned, advertise it as such, otherwise let’s carry on.
[…] specifically asked me to use his name because his school newspaper, The Hoya, ran a hit piece on him this week, badly mischaracterizing his presence at the protests, which the paper described as […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

