
January 23, 2021 by Caitlin McLean Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association Senate voted in favor of the creation of a disability cultural center on campus and the extension of the 2021 spring tuition deadline during a Jan. 10 meeting.
The disability center resolution signs the GUSA Senate onto a petition that calls for the establishment of a university-funded center for students with disabilities that would provide academic, social and supportive programming and create a designated space for the disabled community. The petition, created by GUSA’s Accessibility Policy Team, has garnered over 700 signatures as of Jan. 17. 
Students with disabilities face unique challenges that require attentive support, something which Georgetown has fallen short on, according to GUSA Senator Eric Perez (COL ’23), who introduced the resolution.
“It’s demanding the university take more into account the needs of the disabled community on campus and then committing to working with administrators,” Perez said during the senate meeting. 
In addition to the petition, the Accessibility Policy Team has also launched an Instagram account, which currently has more than 1,300 followers, and has advocated for the creation of the center in several GroupMe channels.
The center will work to foster a sense of community for students with disabilities on campus, according to GUSA Accessibility Chair Nesreen Shahrour (NHS ’23).
“Our goal is really just to center the lived experiences of disabled people and encourage socialization and community, and I think this is something that we don’t see anywhere on campus,” Shahrour said during the meeting.
At the meeting, the senate also passed a resolution demanding Georgetown extend the spring tuition deadline from Jan. 24, one day before classes start for the spring semester, to the end of February. 
Georgetown has failed to explicitly communicate the spring payment deadline, leaving students to speculate about when the payment is due, according to GUSA Senator Rowlie Flores (COL ’22), who introduced the legislation. 
“Even with changes to the academic calendar, the University failed to communicate the new deadline of 01/24 to the student body and students have often had to rely to GroupMe to find out information about the current payment deadline,” Flores wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Many low-income students do not qualify for a payment plan and rely on financial aid options like work-study to pay for tuition, which makes it impossible for them to pay for tuition before the semester starts, especially given the financial strain of the COVID-19 pandemic, according to the resolution.
After the Jan. 10 resolution was passed, the university responded with changes to make the spring deadline more manageable for students on Jan. 12. These changes include a reduction in the minimum balance threshold, the introduction of a grace period for payments and an appeals process, according to Rico Marea, senior director of revenues and receivables.   
The university did not extend the deadline for the spring semester because GUSA’s concerns were mainly with undergraduate financial aid, which includes only about 3,000 undergraduate students, according to Marea. 
“The deadline applies to all undergraduate, graduate, and professional students at Georgetown University (numbering upwards of 18,000). Many have already made payment or payment arrangements based on the deadline, and changing the deadline at this point would be unfair,” Marea wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
In the fall, the deadline was extended because financial aid packages came later than usual. However, financial aid packages were delivered on time for the upcoming semester, according to Marea. 
“We know that the Financial Aid office is working tirelessly and thoroughly to respond to student inquiries and address confusion about the changes in aid packages,” Marea wrote. 
While the university should have extended the deadline for payment, the changes they implemented will still help students, according to Flores.
“I still wished that the University agreed to the extension but I think reducing the threshold for payment plan eligibility is helpful,” Flores wrote. “I see it helping the entire student body and not just low-income students.”
Low-income students still need support and access to federal work-study options, according to Flores.
“For myself and other GUSA officials, we must ensure that there are enough work-study options for all students eligible for federal work study and that students are accommodated for their time zones, and this is something that I will have an eye out for in the coming weeks,” Flores wrote.
The senate also discussed the time and manner of GUSA elections during the meeting and unanimously passed a resolution combining the GUSA Executive and the first-year GUSA Senate elections to both occur in November. Currently, first-year senators are elected in September, while GUSA president and vice president are elected in February. 
Reducing the number of elections will allow the student body to be more engaged in GUSA elections and will ease the burden placed on the Election Commission for having to manage three elections a year, according to the resolution.
The resolution also argues that with the new election schedule, first-year students will hopefully be more knowledgeable on issues faced by Georgetown students before running and the executive will have more time to come up with the annual budget.
The earlier election of the executive will also ensure that senior executive members, whose terms end in March of their senior year, will remain active in their positions, according to Flores.
“A lot of our presidents are seniors and most of them don’t want to do work for the spring semester, so moving that to November is a great precedent and I really support this bill,” Flores wrote.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 23, 2021 by Breandan Gibbons Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association recently reignited a push to establish a university-funded space for disabled students on campus.
GUSA’s Accessibility Policy Team will submit a proposal to university administrators in upcoming meetings, outlining the need for a Disability Cultural Center. A DCC would collaborate with other advocacy and diversity-centered organizations both on campus and in the greater Washington, D.C. area, and it would coordinate educational, social, academic and support programming for disabled students and allies, according to the proposal.
“Students with disabilities have been needing and striving for an institutional community dedicated to the lived experiences of disabled people to encourage socialization and community building around these shared experiences for over a decade,” the proposal reads.
The goal of a DCC is to create a space in which disabled students feel safe to discuss their disabilities and nondisabled students can learn about and engage with disability culture, according to Gwyneth Murphy (SFS ’23), a member of GUSA’s Accessibility Policy Team.
“Disabled people have an enormous culture, and it’s how they thrive, and it’s how they allow themselves to be healthy — connecting with other people who understand that culture,” Murphy said in an interview with The Hoya. “And that’s something that is absolutely missing from our campus.”
The proposal, which has been shared on social media platforms including Twitter, Instagram and GroupMe, is accompanied by a petition addressed to university administration. The petition has garnered over 1,000 signatures as of Jan. 20. 
The Accessibility Policy Team plans to use the petition to demonstrate community support for the initiative during meetings with university administrators over the coming weeks, according to Murphy.
The university continues to consider accessibility for all students in its planning, but it appreciates ideas from students and the community, according to a university spokesperson.
“We have made significant progress expanding accessibility and it remains at the forefront of campus planning for facility improvements and construction. In addition to our overall efforts to improve campus accessibility, we respond to special student needs as they arise, as well as soliciting input from students with disabilities on these issues,” a university spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
Lydia X. Z. Brown (COL ’15), who was the GUSA Undersecretary for Disability Affairs and co-founder of the Washington Metro Disabled Students Collective, led the advocacy for a Disability Cultural Center at Georgetown in 2012 and called for its establishment as one of five steps the university could take to combat ableism in a 2014 Viewpoint in The Hoya. 
Although the number of disability cultural centers on college campuses has risen, Georgetown still has yet to develop a DCC for students, according to Brown.
“When I started this work, there were only three disability cultural centers in existence in the country,” Brown said in an interview with The Hoya. “Other colleges began creating them and now there are more — not a whole lot — but there are more around the country now than there had been at the time I started this work. Georgetown is still not among them.”
Many universities across the country have established DCCs in recent years, including Syracuse University, University of Illinois at Chicago, Duke University and Stanford University. These centers foster community while providing important programming and accomodations, aspects that a Georgetown DCC should include, according to the proposal. 
If the Georgetown administration does not accept the proposal for a DCC, the university will fail to live up to its ideals, according to Brown.
“Georgetown still has an opportunity to be what it had always claimed to be: innovative, a leader, forward thinking, on the cutting edge. But it has to move quickly, or it will lose that opening,” Brown said.
Georgetown’s Academic Resource Center currently provides accommodations for disabled students that facilitate equity and access, according to Joseph Fisher, the director of the ARC. 
“Access challenges affect a broad swath of our community and range from the need for new or different academic accommodations for students with disabilities and learning differences, to disparities in access to technology, to new responsibilities for dependent care,” Fisher wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The ARC is working collaboratively with other organizations to provide accessibility resources for faculty, according to Fisher. These organizations include the Center for New Designs in Learning and Scholarship, which promotes new technologies and teaching strategies, and the Georgetown Disability Alliance, a student group that aims to encourage accessibility and education on disability.
Students have struggled, however, with access to ARC resources and support from ARC staff  recently, as the center continues to grapple with underfunding and a universitywide hiring freeze.
A DCC would provide much needed resources to disabled students on campus, including advocacy, career advice and many services the ARC is unable to provide, according to Dominic DeRamo (COL ’23), a researcher for GUSA’s Accessibility policy team.
“There is so much room for improvement within the Academic Resource Center, within the medical housing application process, and filing a bias report or discrimination report,” DeRamo said in an interview with The Hoya. “Those barriers are actually what I find most challenging at times.” 
A DCC is necessary at Georgetown, so disabled students are able to receive direct support from the university, according to Murphy. 
“It has been a long battle,” Murphy said. “I think oftentimes because there is no center, all of the advocacy falls on the students’ shoulders. When you’re already dealing with a disability, you’re trying to get access to resources, you’re doing that all on your own with no support, no guidance at all. That is way too much to be asking students for.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

