
April 23, 2021 by Claire Stowe and Paige Kupas Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University released the results from its first cultural climate survey April 16, providing an assessment of the campus environment and undergraduate students’ experiences with issues such as diversity and inclusion.  
The survey, which took place between Feb. 24, 2020, and April 24, 2020, included questions about institutional diversity, sense of belonging, student support and university responsiveness to student needs. The results of the survey are divided into reports for undergraduate and graduate or professional programs. For coverage of The Hoya’s takeaways about the graduate student experience, please reference this article. 
Of the 6,636 undergraduate students invited to participate in the survey, 2,465 responded, yielding a 37% response rate. The findings were compared with results provided by the National Institute for Transformation and Equity, the organization that developed the questionnaire Georgetown’s survey was based on. 
Here’s what you should know about the results.
“Cultural Relevance:”
The survey found that a higher portion of White students believed that cultural relevance, the extent to which campus environments reflect and value students’ own cultural communities, backgrounds and identities, at Georgetown was sufficient compared to students of other racial and ethnic groups.  
“Cultural Responsiveness”: Responding to diverse student needs and offering support
The survey reported a significant difference in the perception of the university’s responsiveness to the needs of diverse students between racial and ethnic groups.
“College Experience”: Student experiences when first entering Georgetown
Students were also asked about their college experiences compared to when they first came to Georgetown, and about their satisfaction with college experience. For many of these questions, Georgetown’s results differed significantly from the NITE-reported results.


“Institutional Diversity”: Safety, prejudice, discrimination and commitment to diversity
Students were surveyed about their experience with discrimination, campus safety and the university’s commitment to diversity and responsiveness. In general, Black/African American students and Hispanic/Latinx students reported more prejudice and found less welcome classroom environments, according to the results.
“Georgetown-specific topics and issues”
The survey asked students about issues specific to Georgetown, including encounters with police, campus facilities and accessibility, student services, food options and affordability and documentation status.  
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 23, 2021 by Gabe Fleisher 5 Comments 
This article references racist content that is potentially upsetting. Please refer to the end of the article for on- and off-campus resources.
A Georgetown University professor is facing backlash from students after quoting the N-word during a lecture on free speech last Thursday.
Michele Swers, a professor of American government, read out the racial slur in her “U.S. Political Systems” class while quoting Clarence Brandenburg, a Ku Klux Klan leader. Swers did not censor the racial epithet when reading the quote off a PowerPoint slide presented to the class. The incident has since sparked a formal bias complaint to the university and a classwide letter from students to Swers.
According to students in the class, after Swers read the quote, students began to send messages using Zoom’s chat function, expressing their discomfort. In response to the students’ messages Swers said that although the quote is racially offensive, it has value in an academic context, according to a class recording obtained by The Hoya.
“I should certainly apologize for it,” Swers said in class on Thursday. “I myself am uncomfortable using that language. But I feel from an educational standpoint that I owe it to you all to try and lay out these issues.”
Students in the class were shocked when Swers used the word, according to a student in the class, who chose to remain anonymous for fear of retribution.
“I sat there for a second and I was like, did I hear this correctly? Like, what? What did I just hear,” the student said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. 
After addressing the Zoom chats, Swers said she continued with the remainder of her lecture. 
“After apologizing, I then moved to the rest of the class material, including hate speech, hate crimes, and how social media should be moderated,” Swers wrote in an email to The Hoya. “When the class ended, I quickly e-mailed my department chair to ask for a meeting in the afternoon to discuss what I could do to restore student trust.”
Later that day, Swers sent a classwide message on Canvas, an online assignment platform, announcing the offending word had been removed from the uploaded PowerPoint slides on Canvas, and the class’ next reading quiz would be canceled.
Several students found Swers’ response in class unsatisfactory. After class on Thursday, students in the class created a shared Google Doc and began writing a letter to send to Swers. In their letter, students criticized Swers’ justification and her continuation of class.
“Professor Swers, you did not take responsibility for your contribution to any harm students might have sustained in hearing you read the word aloud, nor did you commit to discontinuing your use of the word in future classes,” the letter reads. “Following this inadequate response, you continued the class without pause.”
The letter also alleged that Swers referred to Brandenburg as “not a terribly sympathetic figure.” 
“In this vein, to call Clarence Brandenburg, a leader of the KKK, ‘not a terribly sympathetic figure’ trivializes the threats that white supremacy and domestic terrorism continue to pose in our country,” the letter reads. 
Mirka Sosa (COL ’23), a student in Swers’ class, sent a bias complaint to the university’s Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity and Affirmative Action, formally notifying the Georgetown administration of the incident. 
In no scenario should Swers have used the slur, even in an educational setting, Sosa wrote in her complaint, which she shared with The Hoya.
“Professor Swers, as a white person should not say that word at all,” Sosa wrote in her complaint. “This incident was very harmful to many students, especially students of color in this class, and I do not feel like she took full accountability for that.” 
Using the slur during class did not add any educational value, but instead detracted from the lecture, since so many students were distracted by the incident, according to Sosa.
“A professor saying that, it almost gives the precedent that it’s okay to say this word, even if it’s taken in an educational standpoint,” Sosa said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. 
A staff member from the IDEAA office replied to Sosa’s email, thanking her for the report and offering to set up a meeting.
All complaints filed with IDEAA are investigated fully, according to a university spokesperson.
“Following an IDEAA investigation, the university can hold known community members accountable for acts that violate our institutional policies through the imposition of sanctions and educational remedies if a policy violation is identified,” the spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The university respects faculty members’ teaching discretion but encourages all faculty members to take advantage of university resources to “develop inclusive pedagogy and foster difficult discussions,” according to the spokesperson.
“Georgetown is committed to being an inclusive campus that provides welcoming learning spaces for students of all backgrounds while ensuring faculty members and students can openly pursue scholarship, critical thinking, and discussion,” the spokesperson wrote.
The students emailed the joint letter they drafted to Swers on April 16. On April 18, Swers sent a classwide apology email. After considering student feedback about last week’s class, Swers apologized for using the slur and said she changed her curriculum for future semesters.
“While I indicated at the beginning of class that you may find the material on free speech to be offensive and upsetting to hear, by reading from the Supreme Court’s Brandenburg decision, I clearly failed in my goal of creating a class climate where all can express their views in a safe place and learn about and discuss complex and difficult issues,” Swers wrote in the email. “As this language is painful to you, it is also painful to me. I am deeply and sincerely sorry for the pain this has caused you, my students.”
On Tuesday in class, Swers apologized directly to her students and gave them time at the beginning of class to fill out a Google Form to share their thoughts on Thursday’s incident.
Anita Gonzalez, a professor of African American studies at Georgetown and the incoming co-leader of the university’s newly created Racial Justice Institute, said the “moment of failure” was when Swers moved on with her lecture without addressing the gravity of the epithet she had just uttered.
“The failing was not in the use of the word, but in the failure to provide context to the word, both socially, politically and historically, and the failure to actually have continuing conversations about the meaning and impact of racism on primarily white campuses,” Gonzalez said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “If you don’t ever talk about the history and the way that the history impacted people, how will people ever know what the history is?”
Students have previously faulted professors for using the N-word in class. In April 2019, four Black students reported Georgetown associate professor Timothy Wickham-Crowley to IDEAA for comments made in a sociology class, including using the N-word when reading a quote. 
In August 2020, Georgetown Law professor emerita Carrie Menkel-Meadow used the N-word while reading aloud from an article on hate speech in a class at the University of California, Irvine Law School. At the time, the Georgetown Black Law Students Association condemned Menkel-Meadow’s usage of the epithet and called on Georgetown Law to suspend her status as a professor emerita; Menkel-Meadow remains listed as holding that role. 
Given recent incidents of use of racial slurs at the university, the university should thoroughly respond to Swers’ use of the N-word, according to the student letter. 
“We cannot allow this to be glossed over or normalized given the historical and institutional racism that Georgetown has been party to and often turned a blind eye to,” the letter reads, pointing out that the use of racial slurs is prohibited in the Georgetown Faculty Handbook.
The Georgetown community should engage in more dialogue about racial inequity, according to Gonzalez.
“If there’s no space to talk about it, the students who are feeling hurt by it are just going back to their rooms and talking to their friends and writing a letter of protest,” Gonzalez said. “I know that everybody wants her to apologize, but I feel like what she should do is have a conversation. And I think that academics too often don’t make space for conversations about race to happen.”
This is a developing story. 
Resources: On-campus resources include Health Education Services (202-687-8949), Counseling and Psychiatric Services (202-687-6985) and the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access (202-687-4054); additional off-campus resources include Crisis Text Line (text 741741) and the District of Columbia ACLU (202-457-0800).

Hoya Saxa says 
April 26, 2021 at 12:25 pm
The fact that this is news at all goes to show how pathetic this generation has become. Reading a quotation of the N-word should not and does not “trigger” any reasonable individual, particularly when these people hear the same word use derogatorily in music daily. 
We need to stop this woke kabuki theater which limits our ability to explore important academic topics. This professor has nothing to apologize for.

Lou S. says 
April 26, 2021 at 4:58 pm
Snowflakes at their finest.

Bruh says 
April 26, 2021 at 8:14 pm
It’s students like these that make higher education and activism a joke

hoya420 says 
April 26, 2021 at 8:20 pm
“If you don’t ever talk about the history and the way that the history impacted people, how will people ever know what the history is?”
I don’t know if ya heard, but every US high school & middle school in this country teaches its students about slavery…
You cannot seriously suggest that a class full of Georgetown students don’t understand the historical context of the n-word. Literally any average person on the street knows.
The funniest part is the student who submitted the report isn’t even African-american lol
What a waste of everyone’s time.

Bessie Zhu says 
June 4, 2021 at 10:12 am
Why no complaints about NWA? Or multiple uses of the forbidden word in rap lyrics?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 23, 2021 by Samantha Sinutko and Sanjana Nayak Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University released the results from its first cultural climate survey last week, providing an assessment of students’ experiences with diversity and inclusion within the university’s graduate programs.  
The survey, which took place between Feb. 24, 2020, and March 24, 2020, included questions about institutional diversity, sense of belonging, representation of marginalized groups and satisfaction with university action and responsiveness. The results of the survey are divided into categories for undergraduate and graduate or professional programs. For coverage of The Hoya’s takeaways about the undergraduate student experience, please reference this article. 
The response rate for graduates was 33%, with 3,064 students submitting valid survey responses. The findings were compared with results provided by the National Institute for Transformation and Equity, the organization that developed the questionnaire Georgetown’s survey was based on. 
Here’s what you should know about the results. 
Cultural Relevance:
The survey results showed that a greater number of white students believed there were significant opportunities to learn and engage with people from their cultural communities than other demographic groups. 
Cultural Responsiveness:
The survey evaluated cultural responsiveness by asking students about the degree to which campus environments responded to the needs of and provided support for students of different identities. 
Graduate School Experience:
According to the survey results, White and Hispanic/Latinx students were more likely to report  feeling a sense of belonging and overall satisfaction in their graduate school experience than other demographic groups. 
Institutional Diversity:
About 3.9% of graduate students reported that they often experienced discrimination because of their identity on campus.
Culturally Responsive Support Systems:
The survey evaluated graduate students’ experiences with faculty, staff and administrators’ effectiveness at providing holistic, proactive and humanized support. Black/African American students reported a statistically significant lower rate of interacting with faculty who often or always effectively provided support to students. 
Culturally Relevant and Responsive Pedagogy:
About 37.4% of all graduate and professional students highlighted that in the last year their instructors often or always included readings in their syllabus from authors who represent diverse communities. 
Engagement with Diversity:
About 42.6% of overall graduate and professional students agreed or strongly agreed that Georgetown faculty were skilled at facilitating conversations about inequality. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 23, 2021 by Laetitia Haddad 5 Comments 
Law students working in experiential clinics have secured the release of over a dozen incarcerated people while working on compassionate release cases.
After Washington, D.C. courts indefinitely suspended their misdemeanor prosecutions in March 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Georgetown University Law Center professors John Copacino, Abbe Smith and Vida Johnson shifted their students’ clinical work toward focusing on active compassionate release cases. These occur when a judge decides that a person’s sentence will be reduced if they meet certain criteria such as old age or medical conditions. Since April 2020, students and fellows at the Law Center have secured the release of 16 formerly incarcerated people, according to Johnson. 
Prisons in the United States have seen some of the highest rates of COVID-19 transmission, with an average infection rate of 34 out of 100 — more than three times as high as the U.S. infection rate — because of the facilities’ often overcrowded conditions, the near-impossibility of social distancing and ineffectual health systems, according to The New York Times.
Following the passage of a statute that allows application for reduction of sentences, students at the clinics have worked over the past year to write petitions on behalf of incarcerated people who would be medically vulnerable to the prison environment, according to Copacino.
“It’s interesting because there was no other vehicle after 120 days to challenge your sentence except for habeas corpus, which is really hard to do,” Copacino said in a phone interview with The Hoya. 
After the D.C. Council passed the April 2020 statute on compassionate release, this allowed people to file motions on felony cases that specifically address clients with health conditions who would be at greater risk to COVID-19 in prisons. Compassionate release represents one of the few ways that incarcerated people can have their cases revisited other than habeas corpus, which occurs when cases are appealed on the basis of unlawful detention.
In addition to living in crowded spaces, people who are incarcerated frequently interact with people who are coming from outside environments, according to Johnson.
“All of our clients who are in prison live in a congregate setting,” Johnson said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “They are sharing rooms with other people, they are not in control of how they get food, they are not in control of when they bathe, they are not in control of how they access medical care. They are just kind of at the whim of others, and we’ve found that a number of the staff in these prisons haven’t even been wearing masks.”
Judges can reduce felony sentences under compassionate release if they determine that a defendant is not a risk to anyone’s safety and that this person has a debilitating medical condition from which they will not recover. In other cases, judges will reduce a felony sentence if the defendant is at least 60 years old, has served at least 75% of their sentence and has a serious medical condition that puts them at high risk for medical complications as a result of COVID-19, according to the statute’s compassionate release criteria.
The Criminal Justice Clinic and the Criminal Defense & Prisoner Advocacy Clinic are both yearlong, 14-credit intensive programs at the Georgetown Law Center where enrolled J.D. student pairs represent people charged with misdemeanors. 
Though the clinics’ students were expecting to advocate on behalf of clients charged with misdemeanors, the expanded D.C. Council law allows people to file compassionate release motions on felony cases, which address more serious crimes such as murder, rape or burglary.
This year, students in the clinics have gotten experience representing clients who have committed more serious crimes, according to Copacino.
“When they came into the clinic, we told them that we were switching to these compassionate release cases,” Copacino said. “One pair of students had a client who was convicted of four murders, 40 odd some years ago. They got that person out after serving 44 years for four murders. It was quite a switch for them but they’ve all adapted to it really well.”
The students prepare written petitions to submit to the court about their clients’ backgrounds, which include factors such as their personal history, context of the offense, their not currently being considered dangerous to society and their medical conditions, according to Copacino.
The clinics present opportunities for law students to get hands-on experience in the professional legal setting while representing the university’s values, according to William M. Treanor, dean of Georgetown Law.
“It’s not that they’re working with a faculty member who is the lawyer, the law student is the lawyer,” Treanor said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “The clinics provide an extraordinary opportunity for people to learn while doing.”
Within the J.D. students’ experiential work in representing clients, an important facet of their research process includes analyzing their medical records to demonstrate that their clients’ conditions make them more vulnerable to COVID-19.
Fourth-year students from the Georgetown University Medical Center have partnered with the clinics, according to Copacino. Medical students have supported law students’ advocacy for their clients by reviewing medical files and writing letters that attest if clients have certain preexisting conditions that make them more vulnerable to COVID-19, according to Copacino.
Students’ advocacy for clients during this year has almost literally become a matter of life or death for their clients, according to Treanor.
“All of us at the Law Center are so proud of what our students have done this semester, and it has made a difference in so many lives,” Treanor said. “While the pandemic continues, their focus on compassionate release is going to be key and lifesaving.”

Jennifer says 
April 25, 2021 at 4:10 pm
I love this! Would love to chat with students in both legal and medical about internet crimes!

Janet Brown says 
April 26, 2021 at 11:18 pm
I wish some of your students could look into my brother’s case. We are in Georgia. My brother will be 60 in November. He has served the max of 10 years for involuntary manslaughter. He is now serving 5 years for a bullet hole in the wall of his own home. This is his first offense. The judge used him for an example. He has earned 12 PIC points and works a job everyday. Any help would be greatly appreciated!

Troy says 
May 2, 2021 at 12:07 am
I pray for the Compassionate of a veteran that pled guilty to Child Abuse when he mistakely left a child in a vehicle. He was 64 years old when this happened. He’s 78 today. He ran a Day Care, and unfortunately while making a stop to deliver another child he forgot he had left a child behind.
He’s had Covid 19 which he has thankfully recovered from but he’s also had a stroke that he has not been able to fully recover from. He can barely sign his name so i know he can hardly take care of himself.

Harri D Cox says 
May 13, 2021 at 8:24 pm
My son was sentenced to 38yrs for sex trafficking and has served almost 14 yrs.  He has a resentencing  hearing and judge removed the gun charge and remove 7yrs from his sentence but he said even through his not had any problems and used he time to classes and even got his GED  the judge would wouldn’t use the recommendation of the DA lawyers which were 15yrs.  He said my son has not suffered enough.  My son requested a compassionate release and it took over two months to get a reply and the same judge denied it saying he wants to make and example of him.  My son has asthma all his life and multiple drug allergies and a herititary skin disease call Healey-Healey.  A few years ago he was caught up in a storm at fort Dix and a large branch fell on top of him and the inmates had to pull him out. He was unconscious.  They would not give him pain medication nor did the get any images to examine his pain.   My son came down with the virus while waiting on the judge’s response but the medical staff would not give him any breathing treatments. The inmate had to share their medicine with him.  The nurse would say his lungs sound terrible. The doctor didn’t treat my son until he got worst. He than did the X-ray and said his asthma was exacerbated by the virus.

Harri Dean Cox says 
May 21, 2021 at 10:30 am
Do you reply to all the messages you received.  Is there a way I can talk to you about my son’s case.  I  need someone to see him as a man that made a bad choice in his twenties and now he is 40yrs old and the Judge said he has not suffered enough and he wants to make an example of him so others will think twice and not make the choice that he did.  Every time he file for motions they are denied.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

