
January 27, 2021 by Jemima Denham Leave a Comment 
Twelve Georgetown University Law Center graduates and four faculty members have been tapped to serve in President Joe Biden’s administration. 
These 16 add to the list of Georgetown community members already selected by the administration, including White House Chief of Staff Ron Klain (CAS ’83) and 10 other Georgetown faculty members or teaching affiliates.
The Law Center is very proud of their faculty members’ accomplishments and leadership, according to Georgetown Law Dean William Treanor.
“Georgetown Law is well known as a school whose faculty are leaders in thinking through the most important issues of public policy and who have deep practical experience. I am not surprised by the possibility that a number may go into the Administration,” Treanor wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The new administration’s cabinet now includes Avril Haines (LAW ’01), the first woman to serve as the Director of National Intelligence, and Vicki Arroyo (LAW ’94), who was appointed as Associate Administrator for the Office of Policy at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 
A bipartisan national security agenda is essential for the intelligence community, according to Haines’ statement at her Jan. 19 Senate confirmation hearing. 
“To be effective, the DNI must never shy away from speaking truth to power, even — especially — when doing so may be inconvenient or difficult. To safeguard the integrity of our Intelligence Community, the DNI must insist that when it comes to intelligence, there is simply no place for politics — ever,” Haines said at the hearing.
Just hours after the inauguration last week, the new Senate convened and confirmed Haines, making her the first cabinet member confirmed since the inauguration. Previously, Haines served as Deputy National Security Advisor and Deputy Director of the CIA during the Obama administration. 
Arroyo, who has served as the executive director of the Georgetown Climate Center since 2008, has led groundbreaking work to confront climate change and has influenced action at the federal level while at Georgetown. In her new role, she will work in the Office of Policy at the EPA in accordance with the Biden campaign’s commitment to a greater focus on environmental policy in the United States.
Other Georgetown Law faculty and staff appointed to the Biden administration include Joshua Geltzer, who served as executive director of the Law Center’s Institute of Constitutional Advocacy and Protection, Regina LaBelle, the program director of the Addiction and Public Policy Initiative at the O’Neill Institute for National and Global Health Law at Georgetown, and Martin Lederman, professor from practice at Georgetown Law. 
Serving as Special Assistant to the President and Special Advisor to the Homeland Security Advisor on Countering Domestic Violent Extremism, Geltzer will join the administration’s work to address the serious and growing national security threat of domestic violent extremism, according to a statement by White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki in a Jan. 22 briefing. 
LaBelle will serve as Acting Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, and Lederman will join the U.S. Department of Justice’s Office of Legal Counsel as Deputy Assistant Attorney General. 
The group of Law Center graduates nominated to join the administration includes Elizabeth Alexander (LAW ’08), who is now the communications director for first lady Jill Biden, and Jaime Harrison (LAW ’04), who is now the Chair of the Democratic National Committee. 
Georgetown Law’s unique access to Washington, D.C., makes faculty and students from the Law Center more inclined to answer the call to government service, according to Treanor. 
“This is what we call our ‘D.C. difference’ in action. It is a great joy to see former students take what they learned at Georgetown Law and use it to address some of the most urgent issues facing our nation,” Treanor said in a Jan. 22 Law Center news release.
As Law Center affiliates join the Biden administration, the first second gentleman, Douglas Emhoff, has joined Georgetown Law’s Institute for Technology Law and Policy to teach a course on “Entertainment Law Disputes” this semester.
With so many faculty members joining the administration, Georgetown Law is looking forward to the knowledge and experience that will be brought back to the classroom, according to Treanor.
“It is good for the nation, and it will be good for Georgetown Law because they will eventually return from their government work with a deep understanding of cutting edge issues and how they are being addressed,” Treanor wrote.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 27, 2021 by Jemima Denham and Ella Kohler Leave a Comment 
In contrast to the typical crowds and celebrations that usually mark Inauguration Day for the Georgetown University community and Washington, D.C. residents, the District saw deserted streets and a large National Guard presence following the Jan. 6 breach of the Capitol.
Heightened security procedures reflected concern for further violence after a rally in support of former President Donald Trump on Jan. 6. After demonstrators from the rally stormed the U.S. Capitol in an attempted coup, the university was forced to adapt as the events unfolded, planning ahead to ensure community members were kept out of harm’s way.
University officials closely monitored information about the riots as the day developed, according to a university spokesperson.
“When we become aware of situations in the region, our first priority is the safety of all of our Georgetown community members,” the spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “Internal planning and coordination meetings across all Georgetown DC campuses took place before the planned event and continued both during and post event as the situation evolved.”
In anticipation of the inauguration, the National Mall and many downtown streets were blocked off from the public as outlined by the public access map released by the U.S. Secret Service. Other safety measures included screening people entering the downtown area, blocking off bridges and closing parking garages. About 25,000 National Guard troops assisted state and local law enforcement in their efforts to ensure a smooth inaugural ceremony. 
The university prepared for the inauguration by cooperating across campus agencies, according to the spokesperson.
“GUPD and University officials will continue to coordinate with representatives across campus and remain prepared to respond with any circumstances that arise in relation to the presidential inauguration in the coming weeks,” the spokesperson wrote. 
Georgetown students also changed their plans in response to the new security measures and unrest. In past years, attending a presidential inauguration has been a Georgetown tradition. In 2017, students watched from the National Mall as Trump was inaugurated, witnessing both supporters gather and protests erupt. Given the limitations on attendance, however, students were forced to stay home this year.
Missing the inauguration was disappointing but warranted, according to Katherine Gage (COL ’24), who lives off campus.
“I was upset that I didn’t get to go to the inauguration because I feel like it’s a rite of passage as a Georgetown student, but considering the circumstances, it was probably for the best that I didn’t go,” Gage said in an interview with The Hoya. 
Political unrest brought a new sense of alarm to life in the District, according to Elise Gallentine (COL ’23), another off-campus student, who shifted her travel plans to return to D.C. after the inauguration. 
“As a student living in DC, I was nervous for my return before the semester began,” Gallentine wrote in a message to The Hoya. “Although the National Guard was stationed in neighborhoods close to me, it created an aura of fear around the upcoming presidential inauguration.” 
The significant presence of the National Guard during the inauguration came after efforts to defend the Capitol on Jan. 6 were widely criticized for failing to respond with appropriate force. 
Comparisons of the police response to Black Lives Matter protests this summer and the riots at the Capitol highlight a double standard, according to D.C. Councilmember Janeese Lewis George (D-Ward 4).
“We saw several federal law enforcement agencies crack down on nonviolent Black Lives Matter protesters with tear gas, flash bangs, and rubber bullets at Lafayette Square,” George said in a statement to Buzzfeed News. “Meanwhile, the violent extremists who rushed the Capitol today met little resistance.”
Some businesses continue to take security measures not required or advised by city authorities. Boards in front of businesses’ windows should be taken down, according to D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser. 
“DC, let go of your boards. If you know a business that still has boards up, please remind them to pull them down,” Bowser wrote in a Jan. 27 tweet.
Both Republican and Democratic leaders have condemned Trump’s incitement of the insurrection, which led to five fatalities. More than 100 people have been arrested so far for crimes related to the riot, and the FBI is engaged in an effort to track down others involved.
President Joe Biden also discussed the police response and language used to describe the mob at a Jan. 7 speaking event. 
“They weren’t protesters,” Biden said. “Don’t dare call them protesters. They were a riotous mob, insurrectionists, domestic terrorists.”
The insurrection highlighted the issue of racial injustice in the country and was uniquely harmful toward marginalized communities, according to a statement from Georgetown’s Counseling and Psychiatric Service. 
“This assault on democracy was horrific and only exacerbated pre-existing tensions from the COVID-19 pandemic and ongoing racial injustice,” CAPS wrote in a statement posted on the university’s website. “We understand that this negatively affects everyone in different ways, but in particular, affects vulnerable communities who have been marginalized, oppressed, and denied full participation in our democratic processes.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 27, 2021 by Giulia Testa 1 Comment 
The MedStar Georgetown University Hospital has vaccinated over 4,000 physicians, staff and patients in the Washington, D.C. community against COVID-19, according to a MedStar Georgetown spokesperson.
The first batch of vaccines arrived at MedStar Georgetown on Dec. 15, nine months after the first recorded case of COVID-19 in the District. MedStar Georgetown began vaccinating frontline workers the following day, in accordance with a directive issued by the D.C. government.
Workers in health care settings who are unable to telework and are directly or indirectly exposed to infectious materials were the first group in D.C. to get the vaccine. 
Andrea Valdez was the first person at MedStar Georgetown to receive the vaccine Dec. 16. As a labor and delivery nurse, getting the vaccine was crucial to protect herself and others, as physical distancing is not possible in a hospital setting, according to Valdez.
“I had Covid earlier in the year and understood the real fear of potentially passing it on to others while still asymptomatic,” Valdez wrote in an email to The Hoya. “If there is a safe and effective way to minimize this risk of infection, I’m all for it, so once the vaccine was available, I immediately signed up after well educating myself on it.”
She hopes her decision to get the vaccine will help convince others of the vaccine’s efficacy and safety, Valdez said.
“It was very humbling to be able to receive something so important and needed! I felt so lucky to be able to have access to this and set an example for anyone watching, especially my friends and family,” Valdez wrote. “I would encourage anyone who is hesitant to receive the vaccine for health reasons to make an individual evaluation with their healthcare provider.”
MedStar Georgetown is distributing a two-shot vaccine developed by Pfizer-BioNTech, which requires three weeks between the first and second shot. Pfizer was one of two vaccines granted emergency use authorization by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, along with the Moderna vaccine. Both vaccines are about 95% effective. 
Students from the Georgetown University School of Medicine have volunteered at MedStar Health to help administer the vaccines, allowing for successful and efficient distribution, according to a spokesperson from the School of Medicine.
“Almost 160 third and fourth year students at the Georgetown University School of Medicine are volunteering with MedStar Health to administer COVID-19 vaccines to the DC community,” the spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “These students, already in the clinical portion of their education, complete a training series and a competency test prior to administering vaccines.”
The D.C. government announced Jan. 11 that it is moving into Phase 1b of the vaccine distribution, offering inoculations to residents aged 65 and older. MedStar Georgetown is prepared to continue meeting the vaccine demand even with the expanded regulations, according to the MedStar Georgetown spokesperson.
“MGUH is following CDC guidelines for vaccine distribution,” the spokesperson wrote. “As we receive vaccines, we will continue to open vaccine appointments for the community who meet the criteria outlined by the D.C. Department of Health.”

Clayton Old Elk says 
February 11, 2021 at 8:41 pm
I am a DMV resident with chronic medical conditions associated with Diabetes Type2 and heart disease. In addition, I qualify for priority 1C as I am 74 years old DOB 12/15/1946.  Although I currently qualify for the COVID-19 vaccine I cannot find a vaccination site to obtain the necessary vaccination. Please let me know if I can be considered to receive the COVID-19 19 vaccine.
I would appreciate your consideration
Thank You
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 27, 2021 by Liana Hardy Leave a Comment 
Leonardo Teixeira (COL ’21), speaker of the Georgetown University Student Association Senate, resigned from his role Jan. 7, leaving Senate Vice Speaker Melanie Cruz-Morales (COL ’22) to fill the speaker position.
Teixeira, who joined the GUSA Senate as a Class of 2021 senator in 2019, was elected to the speaker position in September 2020. The senate will continue to improve under the leadership of the new speaker, Teixeira wrote in his resignation letter.
“I am incredibly proud of my tenure in the senate, and especially of my time spent leading it. My goal has always been to depart from this having left it in a better state than it was once I entered in the spring of 2019. I can say with certainty that this is the case,” Teixeira wrote. “The caliber and character of the senators remaining in this body convince me that I am both tremendously proud of the direction I helped this senate to go in and tremendously confident that I leave the body in good, capable hands.” 
Teixeira did not cite any specific reasons for his resignation from his speaker and senate positions in his letter, and he did not respond to The Hoya’s request for comment. 
GUSA Senator Eric Perez (COL ’23) was elected to fill the senate vice speaker position at a GUSA meeting Jan. 10.
The GUSA Election Commission will not be holding elections to fill Teixeira’s senate seat, however. Many seniors have no interest in running for GUSA so late in the year and holding another election may cause unnecessary commotion, according to Cruz-Morales.
“This decision was not made lightly, but we all came to the conclusion that this was probably for the best,” Cruz-Morales said at a GUSA Senate meeting Jan. 10. “It would also cause a commotion to create another election, and thus it would be a distraction from the productivity the senate needs to be doing.”
Teixeira’s work as senate speaker this past semester has helped make the senate more accessible and welcoming, according to Cruz-Morales who has her own agenda for her term. 
“As speaker, I am committing to work to take down the barriers that inhibit entry for people who are interested in GUSA work, especially for those from marginalized communities,” Cruz-Morales wrote in an email to The Hoya. “I want to help uplift the voices of those in the Senate and ensure that all the women of color in the Senate get the recognition that they deserve.” 
Cruz-Morales said she hopes to restructure the senate, removing any unnecessary hierarchies and titles to focus the senate on community.
“One of our main projects that the 15th Senate is trying to figure out, is how GUSA can actually remove all of the deadweights that have prevented us from creating actual change, restructure it, and aim to create a structure that isn’t hierarchical but revolves around community, that way we can truly make a difference and do what we were elected to do, which is to create progressive change and progressive legislation,” Cruz-Morales wrote.
The senate needs to undergo major changes, including massive restructuring and the elimination of Robert’s Rules of Order, a formal set of guidelines that restricts how the senate can run meetings and vote on legislation, to actually be helpful for the student body, according to Perez. 
“My goal as vice speaker isn’t to just take up a title, or just be assistant to the speaker, but to use the role’s larger capacity for advocacy to deconstruct a lot of the body’s tendency toward toxicity, facilitate more informal honest discussions with folks about how they’re feeling, how leadership can best support them, etc., and make sure radical voices and solutions are in meetings with admin,” Perez wrote in an email to The Hoya.
The current hierarchical senate structure fosters a more competitive environment since many students are motivated to join the senate out of personal ambitions rather than an actual interest in making change, according to Perez. 
“The work that I am doing now is to address how the senate breeds this sort of toxicity structurally by creating more opportunities for informal interactions and communication, removing any barriers to entry for anyone interested in senate work, and just generally getting folks in the mindset of thinking of us as a community,” Perez wrote. “We can’t get work done if we don’t know each other.”
Perez said he is looking forward to working with Cruz-Morales to break down existing hierarchies in GUSA.
“Speaker Melanie and I have a great relationship. We’ll be working alongside one another, but we’re also best friends,” Perez wrote. “Because the relationship between speaker and vice speaker often ends up with one person working as the leader and the other as a sort of secretary, I felt we had a really unique opportunity to redefine the relationships between senate leadership.” 

Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 27, 2021 by Claire Stowe 6 Comments 
Over 600 Georgetown University community members have signed a petition circulated by pro-abortion rights student group H*yas for Choice in anticipation of the 22nd Cardinal O’Connor Conference on Life.
The OCC, which is scheduled to be held virtually Jan. 30, was founded by Georgetown students in 2000 and is the largest student-run anti-abortion conference in the United States. The conference’s namesake, Cardinal John J. O’Connor (GRD ’70), was an archbishop of New York who took a strong anti-abortion position while promoting homophobic views and policies, according to the petition.
The petition is the latest development in student advocacy against the conference and asks the university to publish a communitywide email by Jan. 29 condemning Cardinal O’Connor’s actions and the racist, misogynistic, homophobic and transphobic rhetoric of the speakers and panelists. The petition also asks the university to require student organizers to change the conference name by December 2021. 
Georgetown should not endorse the discriminatory views and ideas the conference promotes, according to the petition.
“Year after year, this conference glorifies Cardinal O’Connor – an infamous homophobe and misogynist – and provides a platform for extremely racist, sexist, anti-LGBTQ speakers to indoctrinate hundreds of impressionable teenagers with their hateful ideologies,” the petition reads. “The fact that Georgetown continues to host COCC demonstrates its lack of regard for marginalized students and their interests.”
Aimee Murphy, the founder of Rehumanize International, an organization against all violence, is the conference’s keynote speaker. Other panelists include Reggie Littlejohn, Valerie Huber, Alveda King and Sister Dede Byrne (MED ’84), all advocates in the anti-abortion movement.
Panelists have promoted anti-LGBTQ and anti-abortion beliefs in their advocacy work, according to the petition.
Huber, who was appointed by former President Trump to serve in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office, has promoted abstinence-only sex education programs and argued teaching about consent and sexual assault preventation encourages tennage sexual behavior. 
In 2015, King, who is Martin Luther King Jr.’s niece and currently serves on the pastoral team of Priests for Life, opposed legalizing same-sex marriage in Georgia, and in 2010, she compared same-sex marriage to genocide in a speech to the National Organization for Marriage.
The petition chiefly focuses on the conference’s speakers and namesake as they threaten the well-being of the student body and conference attendees, according to Lauryn Ping (COL ’23), a member of the HFC Advocacy Board and the primary author of the petition.
“We decided to focus on the problematic use of the speakers and the namesake, because I think those are the most pressing issues that we have with the conference,” Ping said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. “Given our current political climate, I think it’s more important than ever to really reject homophobia and transphobia and racism outright.”
The OCC board maintains support of these panelists and finds their advocacy to be positive to the anti-abortion cause, according to OCC co-directors Luke Lamey (SFS ’21) and Joey Yacovone (COL ’22).
“Our speakers are leaders within the pro-life community and strong advocates for women and children,” Yacovone and Lamey wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
O’Connor was a vocal anti-abortion advocate who often reaffirmed the Catholic Church’s stance against the right to choose. Many Catholics have lauded the cardinal for his work defending organized labor, his advocacy for homeless people and his opposition to the death penalty in his pro-life advocacy. 
O’Connor also condemned a 1986 New York bill that would grant legal protection to the LGBTQ community and supported a ban on LGBTQ members from holding masses on the property of the Diocese of Brooklyn. 
Student run organizations can invite any speaker to campus, according to Georgetown’s speech and expression policy, a university spokesperson wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
“An appearance of any speaker or guest on campus is not an endorsement by Georgetown University,” the spokesperson wrote. “Georgetown is firmly committed to the Catholic Church’s teachings and values, including those about the sanctity and dignity of life, and we strongly support a climate that continues to provide students with new and deeper contexts for engaging with our Catholic tradition and Jesuit identity.”
Since its creation in 2000, the conference has garnered significant student criticism. In the past, students have protested outside the conference and shared fliers around campus in the days leading up to the event. 
The OCC’s student organizers, however, remain committed to the conference’s mission and core beliefs, according to Yacovone and Lamey.
“In his first year as archbishop of New York, Cardinal O’Connor made an offer that any woman in need should come to him for help rather than abort her child, recognizing the need to care for the dignity of both women and children,” they wrote. “The Cardinal centered women in his pro-life argument.” 
More than 30 Georgetown student organizations have signed in support of the petition, joining HFC’s condemnation of the conference, including the Georgetown University Student Association, Georgetown University College Democrats and the Georgetown University American Civil Liberties Union. 
The rhetoric of the OCC is harmful to many of Georgetown’s marginalized communities and should not be endorsed by the university, according to GUSA Press Secretary Jacob Bernard (SFS ’23).
“Georgetown University’s symbolic commitments to supporting equality and racial justice are not enough–we would like to see the University take meaningful action to support women and the LGTBQ+ community by supporting Hoyas for Choice initiatives, combatting homophobia, and investing in improved mental health services,” Bernard wrote in an email to The Hoya.
Until Georgetown denounces the speakers, platform and namesake of the conference, the administration is not fully supporting all students, Ping said.
“The conference also provides a platform for extremely racist, sexist, anti-LGBTQ+ speakers to basically indoctrinate hundreds of teenagers with their hateful ideologies, and I’m sure Georgetown has repeatedly proclaimed that it supports racial justice, gender equality and LGBT rights,” Ping said. “It’s active support of this conference, despite the problematic speakers and its namesake, that demonstrate that the university is falling woefully short of its espoused ideals.” 
This article has been updated to correct a quote.

Senior says 
January 27, 2021 at 8:36 pm
Genuine question–is there a general editorial policy to use the descriptor “anti-abortion” over “pro-life?” Would be interested to hear the thought process behind this.

Jane Hoya says 
January 27, 2021 at 9:07 pm
Not surprised. Another piece of mediocre reporting done by The Hoya in a totally one-sided article.

Elizabeth says 
January 27, 2021 at 11:57 pm
To call the O’Connor Conference and its speakers “racist, misogynistic, homophobic and transphobic” is to severely misunderstand the true and immense gravity of these terms. 
The late Cardinal, and the OCC’s speakers, are none of these horrific things. He regularly volunteered at a Catholic hospital, tending to HIV/AIDS-infected LGBTQ patients at the height of the epidemic. In 1988, he condemned a spate of brutal beatings and stabbings perpetrated against LGBTQ individuals in New York; in fact, he was praised by an LGBTQ legal support group for his response. Rather than stunting or shunning women, he offered private counseling to those in need, offered his personal help to expectant mothers, and founded the Sisters of Life – nearly 100 women and counting who directly minister to post-abortive women. 
H*yas for Choice is fond of taking things out of context and using them to further their goal of shutting down a conference whose pro-life ethos is inherently anathema to the pro-choice movement. They argue that he was homophobic because he didn’t distribute condoms and that he “prevented homosexual Roman Catholics from holding masses.” Anyone remotely familiar with Catholicism should know that a Cardinal cannot – even if he wanted to – distribute condoms to *anyone* – it has absolutely nothing to do with homosexuality. They should also know that no Roman Catholics can unilaterally hold masses – a priest’s presence is required, and it is wrong for *anyone* to hold their own service. 
The O’Connor Conference does not discriminate against individuals of any race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, political affiliation, or religious denomination. Pro-life Hoyas diligently seek to invite students of all backgrounds to engage in the programming and welcome open discourage, including and especially regarding how it can be more inclusive. 
It is shameful to diminish the meaning and gravity of the derogatory terms used in this petition – racism, misogyny, homophobia, transphobia – by tossing them blithely out, devoid of substance and replete with buzzwords and an astounding incomprehension of Catholic church teaching. The Hoya merely abets H*yas for Choice by routinely publishing one-sided articles such as this, refusing to dignify the substantial efforts made by pro-life Hoyas each year to bring light to the true nature of the OCC.

Elizabeth says 
January 27, 2021 at 11:59 pm
Hi, sorry, can you please change “discourage” to “discourse”?

Lou S. says 
January 28, 2021 at 4:21 pm
Interesting to witness the “open-mindedness” for allowing differing points of view.

Greg says 
February 4, 2021 at 12:56 am
You wrote this in the newspaper’s voice. Please add quotes if this is what HFC wrote. As written, The Hoya is labeling conference speakers as “racist, misogynistic, homophobic and transphobic.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 27, 2021 by Daya Benami Narasimhan 3 Comments 
When Anna Landre (SFS ’21) began her first full-time, paid summer internship after her first year at Georgetown University, she was expecting a fun and educational summer experience. Instead, she came close to losing the disability services she relied on to live on her own.
In 2018, Landre received Medicaid insurance through her health care provider in her home state of New Jersey. The state, however, eventually revoked her access to Personal Care Aide services, which provided the funds and support Landre required to live independently while away from home.
Landre was not the only New Jersey resident suffering from these restrictions, so she decided the only solution to the state’s unjust disability regulations was to pressure lawmakers into making a change, she said.
“I rallied disabled New Jerseyans having the same problem, I contacted local reporters, and I worked with my local representatives. Eventually, the State resolved my individual situation, but I demanded they do so for everyone else, too,” Landre wrote in an email to The Hoya. 
In November, Landre was named one of Teen Vogue’s 21 Under 21 for her advocacy and legislative work on disability rights. The annual 21 Under 21 list recognizes girls who have worked against the odds to innovate, create, connect and inspire, according to Teen Vogue.
Alongside advocates for police reform, COVID-19 therapies and mental health, Landre was acclaimed for her commitment and work to change the physical, legal and social barriers disabled people often face. 
“Many of these spaces — whether it’s college, the workplace or something else — are not built for us,” Landre said in an interview with Teen Vogue. “That means many of us have to forge our own paths and push past a lot of ‘nos’ along the way. It’s frustrating, but this is the work that needs to get done in order to pave the way for people who come after us. There’s still much more work to be done.”
In February 2020, Landre’s hard work came to fruition when New Jersey state senators introduced a package of legislation, including five bills Landre developed, to support disabled students who receive Medicaid support to help with their cost of independent living. If passed, the legislation will provide full state Medicaid health coverage to disabled individuals regardless of whether their workplace earnings qualify them for Medicaid programs. The bill, introduced in January 2020, has yet to be passed and is pending further action in the Senate Health, Human Services and Senior Citizens Committee, one of the New Jersey Senate’s subcommittees. It is included as part of the 2020-21 legislative session’s agenda. 
Medicaid currently covers up to 40 hours of personal care assistance a week for disabled people, a program that benefits disabled individuals who are able to live at home with family support more than students who need to live independently, according to a press release from New Jersey state Senator Vin Gopal, a representative involved in the legislation to better serve disabled New Jersey residents. 
Landre has taken her activism beyond her community in New Jersey, too. She currently serves as an advisory neighborhood commissioner for district 2E in Washington, D.C., as well as co-chair of the Democratic National Committee’s Youth Disability Council. She is also working with the Partnership for Inclusive Disaster Strategies, a disability-led nonprofit that supports individuals before and after natural disasters or other emergencies, on creating disability-inclusive pandemic relief policies.
Landre is pleased her work has been recognized by Teen Vogue and hopes it will catalyze greater exposure for disability activists, she wrote. 
“It’s such an honor to be featured among so many young women and femmes doing important work to break down barriers and fight for our communities,” Landre wrote. “Teen Vogue has had some awesome coverage of disability issues over the last several years, and I hope this makes it even better. I’d love to see multiple disability activists in the next iteration of 21 Under 21.”
At Georgetown, Landre is a founding member of the Georgetown Disability Alliance, a campus group founded in 2019 that aims to help disabled students socialize, learn and support one another. 
Kiki Schmalfuss (NHS ’22), a GDA board member, said Landre has played a crucial role in the development of the organization. 
“Anna kind of does everything. She knows everything; she’s there to help you with anything. and as the oldest board member we have right now, she’s been really integral in guiding us and advising us,” Schmalfuss said in a phone interview with The Hoya. 
Landre’s recognition in Teen Vogue represents an important moment for the disabled community both at Georgetown and beyond, according to Angelene Leija (COL ’23), a GDA board member. 
“We’re all really proud of her. I’m not surprised because she’s really inspirational, and she’s worked really hard for not only herself, but for each member of the club and the community in general,” Leija said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “She is working for future generations of college students at Georgetown because this type of work is not just for today’s students, but also for future students.”
As a senior at Georgetown, Landre is continuing her work on a number of research and advocacy projects this year before attending graduate school, where she will be one of 62 recipients of the Truman Scholarship, a graduate school fund for students dedicated to a life of public service. 
“I’m working on several exciting research projects on the creation and implementation of disability policies across the globe. I’m writing an Honors Thesis on the implementation of disability laws in Brazil and writing an academic article on the rise of disability policies in Latin America,” Landre wrote. 
Progress for disability rights requires breaking the stigmas that surround disability, Landre wrote. 
“We need to make people realize that disability is a universal experience. Almost everyone will be at least temporarily disabled for at least some time in their life, and 15-20% of people across the globe are estimated to be disabled,” Landre wrote. “We also need to break down the myth that disability is inherently a bad, tragic, and limiting way to live. Most people with disabilities face far more challenges from discrimination and societal barriers than our own bodies.”

Jake says 
January 27, 2021 at 10:44 pm
New Jersey needs more people like Anna!

Amanda Mitchell says 
January 28, 2021 at 4:56 pm
If you are familiar with The Spoon Theory that many people with disabilities use, please check out my Network. I’d love for you to use your voice to help us promote it if you would be interested.

Michele Mulligan says 
February 1, 2021 at 5:55 pm
way to go jersey rocks, i am grew up in jersey shore, i am deaf and deaf plus too, i live near dc area right now !!   yes need more disabled speak it out there ! its good to be rough cookie ~ whiz
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

