
April 21, 2021 by Ella Kohler Leave a Comment 
Following a year of hardship and darkness during the COVID-19 pandemic, a glowing art exhibition is illuminating the streets of Georgetown.
Georgetown GLOW, a free annual outdoor light-art experience presented by the Georgetown Business Improvement District, kicked off its 2021 edition April 9. The exhibition features eight installations that are visible in the daytime as art pieces and illuminated installations at night. 
Most years, GLOW lasts for a single month in winter. However, this year’s exhibition begins later in the year and lasts longer — a change that may perfectly fit the moment, according to Chris Combs, one of two collaborating artists behind the light installation “Madness Method,” a 200-lantern display inspired by technology and the human desire to find patterns. 
“To me, it seems perfectly timed with things starting to break free a little bit with the pandemic. It’s a chance to go outside and get some sunlight, and even at night, it brightens the night a little bit,” Combs said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “I hope that it brings a little extra special to people’s lives in this very challenging time.”
A two-part experience, GLOW will last until June 27 and return in July. Following Spring GLOW, Summer GLOW will last from July 2 to Sept. 26 and feature three installations located in public alleys around Georgetown. 
Spring GLOW artworks range from shining sky lanterns celebrating hopes and dreams, as in “The Wishes Within” on Wisconsin Ave., to dangling rainbow lights highlighting a cappella LGBTQ+ voices, as in “The Weight of a Rainbow” in the Georgetown Park Plaza. “The Beginning of Everything” in Washington Harbor replicates the largest recovered fragment of an asteroid, considering the connections between the cosmos and human society. “Light Pavilion” in the Georgetown Waterfront Park looks at the relationship between the historic and the contemporary in its hologram-style work.
The Business Improvement District is thrilled to bring this new, safer, more comfortable season of light to Georgetown, according to Nancy Miyahira, vice president and marketing director of the BID. 
“The last year has taught us to rediscover and appreciate the people, places and experiences in our own backyard. GLOW celebrates each of those,” Miyahira wrote in an email to The Hoya.
GLOW’s accessibility provides a unique opportunity to present art to those who do not necessarily identify as artgoers, according to Combs.
“I think that it’s really special to be able to just put a piece out in public, have people consider it or not — maybe you just walk by it every day. Even so, that is an opportunity to have a sort of communication with that person, to have a bit of a conversation with them through the piece,” Combs said. “And to me, that’s the best kind of setting for art, to be able to have art that isn’t necessarily obviously art or to have art that is in a place that is not necessarily an art place. To me, that’s the best kind.”
The exhibition offers both in-person and virtual programming opportunities, including walking tours and Q&A sessions with GLOW artists. Different artists will be available to speak from 7 to 9 p.m. most weekends while the installations remain on display.
GLOW will be a success even if it only makes a small difference in the days of passersby, according to Combs.
“It’s always nice as an artist to have these sort of like high-minded goals, but to be honest with you, I’ve just been so thrilled to see people look at it and smile. Just the idea of having something that’s a little bit bright and interesting and unusual in appearance,” Combs said. “It just brings a little bit of extra special magic to someone’s day. That’s enough for me.” 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 21, 2021 by Emily Hardesty 2 Comments 
All Georgetown University undergraduate and graduate students returning to campus for the fall 2021 semester will be required to receive the COVID-19 vaccination. 
The decision to mandate the COVID-19 vaccine for students returning to campus was guided by consultations with Chief Public Health Officer Dr. Ranit Mishori, the university’s public health advisory group and leaders in the Georgetown community, according to an April 14 announcement from President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95). The university has yet to decide whether faculty and staff will be required to receive a COVID-19 vaccination before returning to campus, according to Georgetown’s COVID-19 vaccine FAQ webpage. 
Vaccines will enable the university to protect the health and safety of the Georgetown community in anticipation of a full return to campus in the upcoming academic year, according to DeGioia. 
“We will require undergraduate and graduate students at the Main Campus, Medical Center, and Law Center to receive a COVID-19 vaccination for the fall semester,” DeGioia wrote in an email announcement to the Georgetown community. “Vaccination rates have already begun to have an impact in decreasing the number of COVID-19 cases, hospitalizations, and deaths.”
Most students support having a COVID-19 vaccine requirement for the fall, according to a survey circulated by the Georgetown University Student Association Senate on April 12 that received 121 responses. According to survey results obtained by The Hoya, 58.7% of respondents supported requiring COVID-19 vaccination for any student living, working and/or learning on campus, while an additional 24.8% would support requiring vaccinations if Georgetown became a vaccination site. The remaining 16.5% of votes were against requiring COVID-19 vaccinations for students on campus.
While GUSA leaders are supportive of the vaccination requirement and are encouraging students to get vaccinated, they hope the university will ensure accessibility, according to the executive GUSA Chief of Staff William Leonard (COL ’23).
“We also support the University taking all measures possible to alleviate issues of access, especially for international students, and we hope the University obtains clearance to become a COVID-19 vaccine distribution site,” Leonard wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The COVID-19 vaccine requirement is an admirable and sensible step to ensure that our campus is healthy and fully functioning in the fall.”
All adults in the United States will become eligible to receive the COVID-19 vaccine April 19. Georgetown does not currently have its own supply of vaccines, but the university is in conversation with the Washington, D.C. government and hopes to receive a vaccine allotment.
For students who do not have access to the COVID-19 vaccine in their home state or country, the university has said it will provide guidance about the process of getting vaccinated upon their arrival in the District. 
The university, however, is still determining a COVID-19 vaccine policy for international students, according to the university announcement.
If the university requires international students to be vaccinated, students will be challenged with the additional stress of returning to the United States earlier than usual to get vaccinated before the start of the semester, according to Renato Llontop Calosi (SFS ’24), an international student who is currently living at home in Peru. 
“This creates a need to create new schedules to be in the U.S. before the fall semester starts and maybe could cause financial constraints because not so many students are able to pay for their plane tickets to be in the U.S. by then,” Calosi said in an interview with The Hoya. “Where are they going to live if the campus is still not open, and they are still not vaccinated to be allowed on campus?”
A COVID-19 vaccination will not be required for students completing summer coursework on campus. This includes students attending the Summer Hilltop Immersion Program, a new program introduced to provide first-year and transfer students with the opportunity to experience an in-person, on-campus experience for five weeks after a year of virtual learning because of the COVID-19 pandemic.
In addition, students with religious and medical exemptions who cannot receive the vaccine will still be allowed to return to campus in accordance with federal and local law, according to the university announcement. Members of Georgetown’s religious communities, however, have urged students to receive the COVID-19 vaccine if they are able to, according to Arianna Turner (COL ’21), president of the Georgetown Latter-day Saints Student Association.
All members of Georgetown’s community have an obligation to protect and care for one another, which includes getting vaccinated against COVID-19 when possible, according to Turner.
“While we certainly support the expression of religious freedom on Georgetown’s campus, there are few if any major religions that recommend against vaccination,” Turner wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We therefore believe that everyone who is able to get the vaccine should receive it when it is their turn to do so.”
In addition to Georgetown, American University will also require all students to be vaccinated before the fall semester. As the first two D.C. universities to mandate the vaccine, American and Georgetown have shown leadership in the D.C. community, according to D.C. Mayor Muriel Browser (D). 
“I applaud them,” Bowser said in an interview with 7News DC. “We want them to be able to get open, have in-person experiences, have college life, and we know that vaccinations will help them do that.”
Update: This article was updated to correct a misspelling of  Arianna Turner

Mark Johnson says 
June 4, 2021 at 8:12 am
It is sad and immoral that a formerly Catholic institution should mandate that young adults, who have effectively zero risk of dying from covid, must undergo experimental vaccination. Have university officials looked at CDC statistics? Only 345 people aged 18 and below have died while testing positive with covid. 
That is 0.06%, or 0.343 deaths out of every 1,000. The CDC bizarrely then lumps 19-44 year-olds together in the next age group, but obviously young people aged 19-22 will have similarly negligible problems with the Chinese lab virus. 
On the other hand, there is a slight chance that the vaccine itself will kill you, and a good chance that it will make you sick for at least a day or so. Alternatively, you could catch the real thing and have no symptoms, or be sick for 4-5 days in a really bad case. So, frankly, injecting an experimental gene modifier into a healthy young person for no imperative reason is questionable at best and stupid at worst. 
Furthermore, anyone can foresee that the covid virus will mutate like every other corona virus, so GU will be forcing young students to undergo vaccinations every year.
Given this invasion of private space and intrusion into personal medical histories, one can only hope that GU will be consistent and demand that all homosexuals identify themselves and show proof of hepatitis vaccine and experimental HIV vaccines.
I also trust GU will happily cover all liabilities for vaccine side effects.
[…] will require the vaccine includes Stanford, Rutgers, University of Notre Dame, Duke University, Georgetown University, Johns Hopkins and Yale. Other colleges and universities have said they will require athletes or […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

