
October 6, 2021 by Paige Kupas Leave a Comment 
This article is part of our 2021 contribution to the D.C. Homeless Crisis Reporting Project in collaboration with other local newsrooms. The collective works will be published throughout the day at DCHomelessCrisis.press. 
Casa Ruby, an LGBTQ social services and programs center, has been forced to shut down important services after the District pulled funding for the shelter. 
Casa Ruby is being forced to slash key services, including its low-barrier shelter, after the Washington, D.C. Department of Human Services (DHS) pulled an $850,000 funding grant that sustained its operations. Because the DHS canceled funding, Casa Ruby can no longer offer overnight stays at the Georgia Avenue shelter nor maintain 24-hour drop-in services for those seeking services. Following the Sept. 24 DHS announcement, Ruby Corado, the shelter’s founder, resigned from her role as executive director. 
According to Alexis Blackmon (GRD ’21), interim executive director of Casa Ruby, staff first learned the grant was being pulled when the DHS sent the shelter a letter notifying them that they were defunding the shelter, offering no explanation. 
“The letter that we received basically stated that it was in the city’s discretion to remove grants as they see fit,” Blackmon said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “They didn’t give us a specific reason.” 
The DHS did not respond to The Hoya’s request for comment. 
Corado launched a GoFundMe page Sept. 25 in an effort to raise funds to keep remaining beds in other Casa Ruby shelters — such as its transitional living program for LGBTQ youth — for individuals in need across the District.
The page has received over $100,000 in donations as of Oct. 6, which will go toward preventing other services and resources at Casa Ruby from shutting down in the future, according to Blackmon. 
“That money is for us to focus on how to be self solvent,” Blackmon said. “We can build something so that this won’t happen to us in the future.”
Casa Ruby is the only LGBTQ, bilingual and multicultural organization in Washington, D.C., according to its website. Founded in June 2012 by Corado and a small group of volunteers, Casa Ruby now has approximately 50 employees and provides assistance to an estimated 6,000 people annually.
The same week the DHS discontinued Casa Ruby’s funding, the agency awarded Covenant House Greater Washington, a nonprofit that provides housing and resources to youth experiencing homelessness, a $648,000 grant to fund its program SHINE, which provides short-term housing for LGBTQ youth.
SHINE opened Oct. 1 in Northeast Washington. The location has 24 residential beds and residents can stay for up to 90 days. SHINE offers services tailored specifically to be helpful for LGBTQ youth, such as workforce development curricula, according to Angela Jones Hackley, chief executive officer at Covenant House Greater Washington.
SHINE aims to help LGBTQ youth ages 18 to 24 in the District who are experiencing homelessness find opportunities and independence, according to Hackley.
“Our goal is to work with these youth, their passion and promise, such that are able to move out of the homelessness and sustain themselves after they leave us,” Hackley wrote in an email to The Hoya.
According to Hackley, SHINE will ensure that individuals are treated with the love and respect they deserve while they are residents in the housing program. 
“We don’t tolerate our young people; we celebrate them, all of them, including youth who identify as LGBTQ,” Hackley wrote. 
According to Blackmon, the agency’s decision to defund Casa Ruby will take away a key resource for LGBTQ individuals experiencing homelessness in the District. 
“This is a program that has been around in the city for a long time, and it’s one of the first trans-run and led operations in the District,” Blackmon said. “It’s very sad that the city, instead of trying to help this specific population keep the things that they have, that they are just willing to dismantle it and tear it apart.” 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 6, 2021 by Paige Kupas 6 Comments 
This article is part of our 2021 contribution to the D.C. Homeless Crisis Reporting Project in collaboration with other local newsrooms. The collective works will be published throughout the day at DCHomelessCrisis.press. 
Hostile architecture blocks unhoused people from sleeping and using bathrooms, among other necessities, throughout the Georgetown neighborhood. 
Examples of hostile architecture include park benches with partitions that make it impossible for someone to lie down and sleep or metal spikes on a heating grate that prevent people from sitting or lying on it to warm themselves. In an effort to contribute to existing documentation of hostile architecture throughout Washington, D.C., The Hoya identified multiple instances of anti-homeless design in the Georgetown neighborhood. 
In 2018, students at American University debuted a project called Hidden Hostility DC, which documents over 70 instances of hostile architecture throughout Washington, D.C. on an interactive map. However, student contributors did not have the capacity to track all the hostile architecture in the District, including the Georgetown neighborhood, according to Asia Cutforth, an undergraduate contributor to the project. The Hoya located slanted heating grates, benches not designed for sleeping and a lack of public amenities — such as public restrooms — in the Georgetown neighborhood, specifically along Wisconsin Avenue and near the Georgetown Waterfront. 
Dana Stevenson, an undergraduate student contributor for Hidden Hostility DC, said some developers make hostile architecture blend into the city to obscure prejudices against unhoused people. 
“When you google the companies that are marketing these benches, sometimes they’re marketed as anti-vagrant benches,” Stevenson said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “Then it becomes very clear what the intent is.”
The Hoya also located a heating grate at a 45-degree angle near the intersection of Wisconsin Avenue and M Street, which prevents people from sitting or lying on the grates. In cold weather, heating grates can provide lifesaving warmth for those at risk for hypothermia. 
Throughout the Georgetown neighborhood, and particularly between O Street and Glover Park, The Hoya also identified that WMATA Metrobus stops along Wisconsin Avenue as well on 35th Street that have slanted metal benches preventing people from lying down unsupported. 
WMATA did not respond to The Hoya’s request for comment. 
According to Ward 2 Council of the District of Columbia Councilmember Brooke Pinto (LAW ’17), resources for unhoused people throughout the District are lacking.
“The challenge of homelessness in DC is not new and the causes are myriad — lack of affordable housing, mental health challenges, and domestic violence among others,” Pinto wrote in an email to The Hoya. “The need for increased and stronger homelessness supports were made even more clear to us during the pandemic.”
According to Julie Turner, senior outreach worker for the Downtown Cluster of Congregations Homeless Services Unit, hostile architecture is inhumane and takes away both dignity and comfort from people experiencing homelessness who already face daily hardships. 
“People who sleep outdoors or in shelters or even couchsurf have so many obstacles,” Turner said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “They’re at the mercy of the system, and they’re at the mercy of neighborhoods. Now they can’t even take a nap.”
Hostile architecture is typically noticeable in public, highly populated areas, according to Uwe Brandes, faculty director of the urban and regional planning master’s program at the Georgetown University School of Continuing Studies. 
“These conditions are generally seen in areas that receive heavy foot traffic and typically are in places where there are pedestrian plazas and parks,” Brandes said in a Zoom interview with The Hoya. 
According to Turner, when urban planners and architects implement hostile architecture, they are focusing on preserving the aesthetic, affluence and appeal of a neighborhood at the expense of unhoused individuals’ humanity and dignity. 
“I am convinced this is not a result of a broken system; quite the contrary,” Turner wrote in an email to The Hoya. “This is a carefully crafted system that keeps the rich, rich, neighbors white and affluent, and offers them an aesthetic they can feel comfortable living with.”
A subset of hostile architecture are ghost amenities, or the absence of resources in a public space. Examples include a lack of benches, tables and restrooms in public areas, many of which are services that people experiencing homelessness rely on for comfort and survival. 
Although the District has public spaces that could house public amenities, ghost amenities are rampant, with the exception of the National Mall, according to Cutforth.
Ghost amenities in Georgetown include the area’s lack of public restrooms in parks and other gathering spaces. There is only one public park restroom in all of Georgetown, located in Montrose Park, according to Google Maps. 
According to Turner, hostile architecture accomplishes no goal other than preventing people experiencing homelessness from sleeping and resting.
“Everyone in the District of Columbia who’s homeless should have a place to sleep,” Turner said. 

Hoya says 
October 7, 2021 at 9:29 am
Good. Keep them out of Georgetown. They pose a danger to students (overwhelming number have mental health issues), would ruin Georgetown’s charm (many smoke cigarettes, use drugs, or are alcoholics), and would decrease property values. Better for them to be in a homeless shelter, you know the place our tax dollars go to house them.

Jim says 
October 7, 2021 at 9:48 pm
Hmm. Option 1: Allow all bus shelter benches to become homeless encampments so that riders don’t feel safe and the metro becomes unusable at night for women in particular. Option 2: Let the bus bench be a bus bench. That’s a real head scratcher

Tina says 
October 8, 2021 at 4:43 pm
Oh. Wow. I mean, I know comments sections are horrible places. But… You guys realize that unhoused people are still people, right? Have you bothered looking into how the shelters work in DC? It’s not always easy to find a spot in one.
All I can say is, I’m glad that my well-being isn’t reliant on the previous posters here.

Linda says 
October 8, 2021 at 11:17 pm
Like Georgetown U is so friendly to unhoused people?

dmv says 
October 20, 2021 at 8:03 pm
The comments on this are so ignorant. It’s like they only saw the article name, skimmed through it, then  ran straight towards the comments. Ignorant approaches to issues that affect people’s lives are so harmful. These comments made me sad. Ignore the close-minded, and keep up the good work and question of authority, HOYA!!

Jahni says 
November 26, 2022 at 9:09 am
Anti homeless anything is lame. People really live their lives mistreating people living in poverty and with mental illness. Yall are so lost I could vomit.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


October 6, 2021 by Noelle Cook 3 Comments 
A new team member has joined the Washington Capitals: Biscuit, a ten-week-old chocolate Labrador retriever. 
Biscuit, who will participate in media and team events with the Capitals, became the Capitals’ team dog Sept. 22 as part of a partnership between the Capitals and America’s VetDogs, a nonprofit organization that trains service dogs for veterans and first responders with disabilities, according to a Sept. 27 press release from the Capitals. Under the partnership, Biscuit will simultaneously undergo basic service dog training and be socialized.
Biscuit will meet and play with teammates and fans during his time with the Capitals, which will prepare him to be a service dog, according to the press release. 
“The Capitals will host Biscuit in the front office, at community events, practices and select home games to assist in raising Biscuit to be a confident and calm future service dog,” the press release reads. 
Partnerships, like that with the Washington Capitals, provide a special opportunity for future service dogs because they learn to be comfortable around loud noises, groups of people and unfamiliar environments, making them better service dogs in the long run, according to Allison Storck, associate director of public relations at America’s VetDogs.
“It’s really important to expose our dogs to these types of experiences so that when they do come across these things in the future with their handlers, they’re already prepared and exposed to them so they won’t have a reaction,” Storck said in a phone interview with The Hoya. 
This is the second time that the Washington Capitals have partnered with America’s VetDogs. In 2019, the team partnered with the organization to welcome Captain, a yellow Labrador retriever, to the Capitals. Captain’s tenure ended in June 2021 when he finished training as a service dog and was placed with U.S. Marine Corps Master Sgt. Mark Gwathmey.
Service dogs help people with disabilities by assisting with balance and mobility and retrieving items, among other tasks. Before being placed with their owner, service dogs must be trained by a certified service dog instructor to recognize health issues, such as seizures, and to develop basic obedience skills.  
As the first partnership between the Capitals and America’s VetDogs was successful, the Capitals are looking forward to seeing the impact Biscuit ultimately makes as a service dog, according to Amanda Tischler, vice president of marketing for the Washington Capitals.
“Following Captain’s successful journey and placement with retired Marine Corps veteran Mark Gwathmey, the Capitals organization is excited to once again partner with America’s VetDogs to begin Biscuit’s journey as an integral part of Capitals Canine programming,” Tischler said in the Sept. 27 press statement. “America’s VetDogs has an incredible impact in the military and first responder community, and we look forward to being a part of Biscuit’s formal training over the next season as he begins to learn how to best serve his future partner.” 
Partnerships with well known organizations, such as the Washington Capitals, are essential for America’s VetDogs’ mission, which relies on press and social media coverage of their service dogs to gain support, Storck said. 
“Having a platform and the notoriety behind partnering with the Washington Capitals and having an Instagram account and social presence has really boosted our ways to research new folks, new clients, new supporters, prospective donors, sponsors and volunteers,” Storck said. 
As part of the partnership, the Capitals maintain an Instagram account for their service dogs, which has nearly 100 thousand followers. Posts feature Biscuit on the hockey rink and posing with Capitals players.  
Biscuit’s social media presence further helps to educate the public about service dogs and the work of America’s VetDogs, according to Storck.
“They really have embraced the mission, and it shows throughout his social accounts,” Storck said. “They really have brought some educational awareness to what we do and the importance that service dogs have for our veterans and first-responders with disabilities.” 
Biscuit will work with the Capitals for 14 to 16 months before returning to America’s VetDogs campus for further training with certified service-dog instructors at the organization. 
According to Storck, Biscuit will be an extremely helpful service dog thanks to the experience he will get with the Washington Capitals.
“When you have partners like the Washington Capitals, who are willing to open their doors and their support to allow these dogs to come in, the experiences they get is second to none,” Storck said. 

Margaret says 
October 8, 2021 at 7:19 pm
Great article!

Melissa Carrington says 
October 12, 2021 at 5:27 pm
Great Article Noelle! Love hearing stories like this : ))
[…] the one piece of news, which is frankly the best kind of news is the addition of the new Capitals team puppy. I obviously saved the best for last, because I don’t care how great hockey is – puppies are […]
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

