
April 29, 2022 by Akashdiya Chakraborty Leave a Comment 
When Jenny Park (COL ’24), reflected on her experience at Georgetown, she realized the key to fostering solidarity for the undocumented community was student action.
“Oftentimes, I have found that at Georgetown, it is up to the students to create safe spaces for each other to feel heard and seen,” Park wrote to The Hoya.
Following this sentiment, Park — programming director of the student-run organization Hoyas for Immigrant Rights (HFIR) — worked alongside her fellow HFIR leaders to organize UndocuWeek, a week of programming April 18 to 22 dedicated to raising awareness for the challenges undocumented students face at Georgetown and beyond. 
HFIR logistics director Katherine Hawes (SFS ’25) said a primary focus of UndocuWeek was to recognize the challenges undocuments students face and connect undocuments students to resources through programming including community building events, dedicated conversation spaces and workshops.
“We wanted to bring attention to obstacles that still exist for undocumented students in our community, as well as to highlight resources available to undocumented students,” Hawes wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We also examined the barriers faced by undocumented students at Georgetown.”
Community events included a film screening, an arts and crafts session at the La Casa Latina Center for Multicultural Equity Access in which participants made butterflies as a sign of support for the undocumented community, and a Tea Talk with the GU Vietnamese Student Association (GUVSA).
Ashley Nguyen (NHS ’24), a member of GUVSA, said this event allowed students to collectively share their experiences with immigrant identity.
“Immigrants and children of immigrants experience certain stigmas, expectations, and adversities that have not been recognized and empathized within a PWI like Georgetown,” Nguyen wrote to The Hoya. “Finding people who resonate with these experiences and being in a casual environment where vulnerability is appreciated and allowed brings about social awareness, camaraderie and the normalization of the discussion of such topics.”
Mikhail Floresca (NHS ’24), co-President of HFIR, was encouraged by the engagement he saw from across the Georgetown community.
“A highlight for us was definitely the support and compassion other students showed for our cause,” Floresca wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We had really genuine contributions to each event, some of which made us proud to be a part of Georgetown’s community of acceptance and care.”
Besides creating spaces for internal dialogue, some programming aimed to raise awareness about campus resources for undocumented students. 
Jennifer Crewalk, associate director for undocumented student services within the Center for Multicultural Equity and Access (CMEA), organized a Know Your Rights training session and compiled a list of campus resources, while Juan Belman Guerrero from the Kalmanovitz Initiative for Labor and the Working Poor gave advice on applying to graduate school as an undocumented student. 
Floresca said resources like the HOYA Clinic, Cawley Career Education Center, and the Center for Social Justice Research, Teaching and Service are available for undocumented students, but many students refrain from taking advantage of them for fear of revealing that their documentation status.
“Exposing yourself as an undocumented students is as worrisome as it is dangerous,” Floresca wrote. “We want students to be open to reach out and engage with the plethora of resources available on campus.”
Georgetown hopes to break down the barriers undocumented students face when accessing institutions of higher education, according to a university spokesperson. 
“As a Catholic and Jesuit institution, Georgetown University values the dignity of all members of the university community, regardless of immigration status,” the spokesperson wrote to The Hoya. “We are a university in the heart of the nation’s capital and believe in educating the whole person through exposure to different faiths, cultures and beliefs.”
Nguyen said the discussion events helped her reflect on her own identity as an immigrant. 
“It’s especially important to have a space where people feel comfortable talking about their experiences as an immigrant,” Nguyen said. “I think some of the best highlights of that event were moments where I realized how having an immigrant-tied identity intersected with so many other aspects of our lives, especially our relationships with others.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 29, 2022 by Liam Scott Leave a Comment 
Rangila, Georgetown University’s annual, student-run philanthropic showcase of South Asian dance, returned in person to Gaston Hall following a two-year hiatus due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Following months of preparation, nearly 350 students gathered to perform an array of South Asian dances to a sold-out Gaston Hall on April 22 and 23, raising at least $20,000 for charity. “Rangila” is Hindi for “color,” a reference to the colorful costumes that dancers wear as they perform dances from countries including India and Sri Lanka. 
This year’s show was themed “Revive,” a reference to Rangila’s in-person return following pandemic-related delays. 
The name alluded to how this year, Rangila focused on rebuilding internal knowledge of the tradition among students and organizers, according to Rangila co-Coordinator Sanjana Malla (COL ’22). 
“For this Rangila, the main purpose of it was to bring Rangila out of its two-year hiatus and reset that institutional memory, which I don’t think previous Rangilas had to do,” Malla told The Hoya. “We did revive Rangila back to the same height that it was.”
Because the class of 2022 was the only remaining class that had helped organize Rangila in the past, there was a risk that if Rangila did not happen this year, no one would know how to organize it in the future, according to Syona Hariharan (SFS ’22), one of Rangila’s three coordinators.
“The stakes were high,” Hariharan told The Hoya. “It was a challenge for us because there was no institutional knowledge.” 
The relative lack of institutional knowledge among the organizers was also reflected among Georgetown’s broader community. Typically, around 700 students sign up for about 350 existing spots, Hariharan said. This year, only around 400 students signed up, which was likely because fewer Georgetown students knew about Rangila this year than in previous years, according to Hariharan. 
For many months, it looked like Rangila would not happen this year at all, according to Hariharan. Because of the pandemic, Hariharan said holding Rangila in the fall, when the show is typically held, was not possible, and it wasn’t until mid-January that Georgetown’s South Asian Society, which oversees Rangila, found out that the showcase could take place in April. 
That condensed a typical preparation period of about seven months into only three months, but Hariharan said it was all worth it. 
“That might have been the coolest thing I’ve ever done. I’m really proud of the work we did to bring it back,” Hariharan said. “I wish I could do it again. I would do it every year if I could.” 
Cate Walter (COL ’25), who has a background in ballet, attended the show and said the performance was very clean, something she said is hard to achieve with such a large group and with dancers who don’t have much dance experience.
“I feel like I have a more critical eye as a dancer, and I was still really impressed by all of the pieces,” Walter said. “All of the movement was super different from everything that I’m used to, but I actually definitely want to do it next year.”
Walter said the performance differed from the more formal, noninteractive ballet shows she is used to watching.
“Right from the beginning, there was a lot of cheering and yelling in support of all the dancers and it made it a very lively and fun atmosphere that engaged the audience very well, which I really enjoyed,” Walter told The Hoya. “That was probably my favorite part of it.”
Rangila is not just about dance — Philanthropy Chair Shevani Tewari (SFS ’24) said philanthropy is central to the organization’s mission. Last year’s virtual Rangila raised money for Bethesda-based charity Edu-GIRLS, which helps girls living in poverty in South Asia access education. 
Since the performance was held virtually and raised only a few thousand dollars, Rangila decided to partner with Edu-GIRLS again this year, according to Tewari. 
“We really like Edu-GIRLS’ mission,” Tewari told The Hoya. “Instead of just throwing a lot of money at a general cause, they really invest a lot of money specifically in a handful of girls and make sure that their lives fundamentally change for the better.” 
The money that Rangila raised this year will support Edu-GIRLS’ Reach For The Stars Scholarship Program, which will cover all expenses for girls to study engineering at top colleges in India. It costs $1,000 to cover the yearly expenses for one girl. 
Rangila coordinators are still tallying the total amount of funds raised, but Tewari said they raised at least $20,000 of their $30,000 goal. 
The scholarship program specifically targets girls who come from poor backgrounds, according to Edu-GIRLS Founder and Chair Anand Seth. 
“Rangila will provide us with much needed resources to extend the RfS program to exciting careers in medicine, law and public administration in 2022,” Seth wrote in an email to The Hoya. “We are grateful to the Georgetown University South Asia Club for choosing to help EduGIRLS take the REACH FOR THE STARS program to new heights.”
Malla said this performance was different from others she has done, as it combined her passion for dance with a focus on philanthropy. 
“It was especially important to me because dance is something that I’ve been passionate about since I was little,” Malla said. “Using dance as the outlet to raise so much money for an organization that does so much for girls around the world is really special.”
Malla said emotions among the organizers and performers were running high, especially at the end of the second show. 
“I broke out in tears because I was so proud of how the show came together,” Malla said. “It’s something that meant a lot to all of us, and just doing it with your best friends by your side made it all the better.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 29, 2022 by Adora Zheng Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Student Association (GUSA) released a petition demanding the university provide summer housing for students with housing insecurity. 
The petition, which was released by the GUSA Summer Housing Committee on April 25 demands the university immediately establish summer housing for students in need, provide adequate food and utilities for students who are given housing and create a permanent summer stability housing system. As of April 28, 308 students, five faculty members and 17 student organizations have signed on to the petition.
Georgetown has a duty to ensure all of its students have access to housing for the summer, according to the petition. 
“As students at Georgetown, an institution which hosts one of the wealthiest student bodies in the world, it is incumbent upon us to ensure that no Hoya need worry about access to safe and stable housing during the summer,” the petition reads.
The Georgetown Scholars Program currently provides a sponsorship for summer housing, but GUSA Socioeconomic Advocacy Chair Axel Abrica (COL ’25) said the program does not have enough spots to accommodate all the students who require housing. Other organizations on campus like Residential Living and the Center for Social Justice offer housing for student workers, but Abrica said the committee wanted housing insecure students to not be forced to apply for a job.
Ace Frazier (MSB ’24), a member of the committee, said they have been provided free summer housing in the past through their job as a Residential Living manager.
“They gave me my own living space with an apartment, so I didn’t have to really pay for anything — I was lucky in that aspect,” Frazier said. 
Frazier said creating a system of consistent summer housing support would benefit all students.
“You never know what’s going to happen because anyone can become homeless or not have parents the next day — that’s my personal situation, and anyone can end up in a situation of abuse,” Frazier told The Hoya. “Having summer housing is more than just for the people who need it right now. It could also be for you, so I think that this is an issue that reaches every student.” 
GUSA Senator and Housing Committee member Joshua Anderson (COL ’25) said GUSA released a petition to pressure the university into acting on summer stability housing issues. 
“Drafting a petition was not our first option, but our committee collectively agreed that it was the best option given the lack of progress in securing summer housing,” Anderson wrote to The Hoya. “We also hope it helps to bring us to the table with University leaders in the coming days.”
GUSA has pushed the university to provide summer stability housing in years past, especially after the university raised summer housing costs from $1,500 to $4,485 in 2021.
Abrica said a permanent summer stability housing plan will help ease many students’ anxiety about where they will live for the summer each year. 
“Every single year, we have to keep doing the same thing and advocate for free summer housing,” Abrica said in an interview with The Hoya. “What is different about our initiative is that we want to make this permanent, so that future generations of GUSA students and advocacy groups on campus don’t have to go through this again.”
A university spokesperson said the university is working with GUSA and housing insecure students to find a solution.
“We are in the process of discussing this issue with students who have expressed an interest, including GUSA representatives,” the spokesperson wrote. “Leaders in the offices of Residential Living, Student Affairs and Student Financial Services work with students who won’t be enrolled in classes this summer and who face housing insecurity and other challenges, to determine how to assist them.”
Abrica said the group hopes to create a streamlined application process that students can use to request summer housing. 
“We don’t want students who fill out the application to have to basically pour out their trauma on the page,” Abrica said. “We want students who fill out the application to maintain their own sense of dignity as they’re doing it and not feel indebted to the school.”
Earlier this semester, the GUSA senate passed a resolution written by GUSA Senator Otice Carder (COL ’23) and co-sponsored by Abrica demanding many of the same things as the petition, including a permanent summer housing system. Abrica said GUSA decided to move forward with the resolution and petition after over 100 students expressed their need for summer housing in a survey released by the GUSA Inclusion and Equity team in early March.
While GUSA resolutions like these express important student perspectives, the university is not required to act on them, according to the spokesperson. 
“The continued safety and security of our students is a top priority for the University,” the spokesperson wrote. “We appreciate GUSA’s advocacy in that area.”
Anderson said all students should sign the petition as every signature matters. 
“For every person that signs the petition, our movement toward establishing housing becomes more credible, more robust,” Anderson wrote. “When you sign the petition, you’re not just offering your support for marginalized communities, but telling the University that you see the problem, and you expect it to be fixed.”
This article was updated on April 30 to correct the name of the author of the resolution.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

