
August 30, 2022 by Eli Kales Leave a Comment 
A decade after Austin Tice (SFS ’02, LAW ’13) was last seen in Syria covering the Syrian civil war, President Joe Biden has demanded information about Tice’s whereabouts and reaffirmed his commitment to working with the Syrian government to ensure Tice’s release.
Tice was kidnapped Aug. 14, 2012, just days after his 31st birthday, while he was working as a freelance journalist in Syria after completing his second year at the Georgetown University Law Center. Over a month later, Tice was shown blindfolded and surrounded by armed and masked men in a video published anonymously on a website that supports the Syrian government. Debra and Marc Tice, Tice’s parents, have demanded Tice’s release since his disappearance.
Debra and Mark published an open letter in The Washington Post in October 2021 calling on Biden to work with diplomats to work towards Tice’s release. On May 2, Tice’s parents met with Biden, asking for continuing diplomatic engagement and “transactional negotiation” with Syria.
On August 10, Biden demanded Syrian officials release Tice and reaffirmed the United States’ belief that the Syrian government is holding Tice.
“We know with certainty that he has been held by the government of Syria,” Biden said in the statement. “We have repeatedly asked the government of Syria to work with us so that we can bring Austin home.”
McClatchy first reported the Biden administration has engaged directly with Syrian officials multiple times to negotiate Tice’s release. Despite these negotiations, the administration has failed to make progress in securing his return as Syrian officials have refused U.S. senior officials’ offers to hold meetings with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. 
Biden said Tice’s release is a top priority of his administration as they work to return those wrongfully detained abroad.
“I am calling on Syria to end this and help us bring him home,” Biden said in the statement. “There is no higher priority in my Administration than the recovery and return of Americans held hostage or wrongfully detained abroad. We must name them, keep them in our hearts and our minds, and make their recovery and return a priority.”
U.S. officials must continue to work toward Tice’s release and work to raise awareness about their efforts, Georgetown journalism department director Rebecca Sinderbrand said.
“There are reportedly several active lines of official outreach at work in the effort to secure Austin Tice’s freedom,” Sinderbrand wrote to The Hoya. “While there is no expectation that those will be detailed publicly, there should certainly be a push to further widespread awareness of the fact that this brave journalist’s welfare and imminent release are top priorities for the U.S. government. 
On August 17, Syrian officials released a statement denying Tice was being held. The Syrian Foreign Ministry called Biden’s claims invalid and redirected blame for Tice’s disappearance to American officials encouraging foreigners to enter Syria illegally. Tice and other journalists covering the Syrian war without an invitation from the government could only cross into Syria illegally through Turkey.
U.S. State Department spokesperson Ned Price said the U.S. still believes the Syrian government has the power to release Tice and reiterated calls for the Syrian government to do so in his daily briefing August 17.
“We believe, to this very day, that Syria still has the power to release Austin Tice,” Price said in the briefing. “That is why we are calling on the Syrian regime to do just that.”
Walsh School of Foreign Service (SFS) Dean Joel Hellman praised Biden’s efforts to work towards Tice’s release and said the Georgetown community longs for the day when Tice can be welcomed back to campus to celebrate his freedom.
“We at SFS welcome President Biden’s commitment to bringing Austin Tice home after a decade of captivity,” Hellman wrote to The Hoya. “In his efforts to show the world the atrocities of the war in Syria, Austin Tice has always embodied the true spirit of women and men for others.”
Although Biden’s renewed demand for Tice’s release is an important step, senior officials must work toward Tice’s release, Sinderbrand said.
“The question remains the same as it has under three presidents so far, as those responsible for Austin Tice’s captivity continue to ignore baseline international norms and stonewall legitimate communication: what the next steps to secure his freedom might be,” Sinderbrand wrote.
Sinderbrand said Tice’s case is an important reminder of attacks on press freedom.
“The Tice family has suffered for far too long, and tragic cases like this are a direct assault on press freedom that cannot be forgotten,” Sinderbrand wrote.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


August 30, 2022 by Adora Zheng Leave a Comment 
Two Georgetown University graduates are among the Georgetown University Institute of Politics and Public Service’s (GU Politics) cohort of fellows for the fall 2022 semester.
The 15th class of fellows, which was announced Aug. 18, includes Terry McAuliffe (LAW ’84), the 72nd governor of Virginia; Karoun Demirjian, a Pulitzer winner and Pentagon correspondent for The Washington Post; Katie Harbath, former director of public policy at Facebook and CEO of Anchor Change, a civic technology strategy firm; Xochitl Hinojosa, former senior advisor and communications director of the Democratic National Committee (DNC); Alex Lundry (GRD ’04), the co-founder of Tunnl, an audience analytics firm; and Mary Elizabeth Taylor, the former assistant secretary of state for legislative affairs, former special assistant to the President and current Vice President, and head of external affairs for Robinhood Markets. 
The new cohort of fellows aims to collaborate with students and explore how to better participate in politics, according to the GU Politics announcement posted on their website.
“The Fall 2022 Fellows bring decades of experience in politics, government and journalism to the Hilltop, and come from different places on the ideological spectrum,” the statement reads. “While each Fellow has their own area of focus, they share a common goal to work with students to advance the common good, bolster democratic institutions and lead with a service-oriented passion for a purpose larger than oneself.”
For eight weeks, each fellow will host a discussion group covering a different political topic, ranging from McAuliffe’s “The Secret Recipe to Successful State Government” to Lundry’s “Data in a Digitizing Democracy.” Students and faculty can also sign up for office hours to speak with the fellows one-on-one beginning Sept. 12. 
Before serving as Governor of Virginia from 2014 to 2018, McAuliffe served as co-chair of Hillary Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign, chair of the DNC from 2001 to 2005, chair of the 2000 Democratic National Convention and co-chair of President Bill Clinton’s re-election campaign and inauguration in 1996. During his tenure as governor, he conducted a record 35 trade missions and visited 24 countries, making him the most traveled governor in the U.S.
Demirjian is currently a reporter for the Washington Post’s national security team and a member of the Washington Post teams that won the 2022 Pulitzer Prize Gold Medal for Public Service and the 2018 Pulitzer Prize for National Reporting. Before joining the Washington Post, she worked as the Washington correspondent for the Las Vegas Sun and as a freelance reporter in Moscow for the Associated Press.
Outside of her role as CEO of Anchor Change, Harbath serves as the director of technology and democracy for the International Republican Institute and a fellow at the Bipartisan Policy Center, the Integrity Institute and the Atlantic Council. Previously, she was a public policy director at Facebook, where she built and led a 30-person global team responsible for managing elections. 
Hinojosa recently served as the senior advisor and communications director for the DNC, where she led the communications strategy for the Democratic presidential nomination process in 2020 and served as a spokesperson for the party during the general election. Now, she works as a managing director at Bully Pulpit Interactive, an outcomes agency where she leads policy advocacy and brand purpose campaigns. She has more than a decade of political communications experience, and also served as a spokesperson for the Department of Justice and the Department of Labor.
Lundry is a leading expert on electoral targeting, voter analytics and political data-mining. Beyond his work as co-founder of Tunnl, Lundry has worked as a campaign data scientist for presidential candidates, national organizations and Fortune 50 companies. He ran the analytics for both Mitt Romney’s 2012 presidential bid and Jeb Bush’s 2016 primary campaign. 
Taylor served as assistant secretary of state for legislative affairs in 2018, and was the youngest and first Black person to ever hold the position. She has extensive experience in high level public service, technology and international relations, and has an esteemed reputation for building bipartisan consensus in polarized political environments. Taylor is also a native Washingtonian, and she was selected for Forbes’ 30 Under 30 and Business Insider’s list of 8 Most Influential Women in 2018. 
GU Politics will host its semesterly Meet the Fellows Open House, where students can meet and speak with this new cohort of fellows, on Thursday, Sept. 8 from 4:00 to 5:30 p.m. in Copley Formal Lounge.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

