
February 23, 2022 by Eli Kales Leave a Comment 
New data from OpenTable, an online service for restaurant reservations, shows that Washington, D.C. diners are returning to restaurants at a lower rate than in most other states.
OpenTable recorded indoor dining levels in the District over the past two months and found that the levels were up to 79% below that of the same days in 2019. Local restaurants have adopted COVID-19 mitigation strategies to ensure the safety of customers in an effort to increase the amount of customers that dine indoors.  
Following record-high COVID-19 cases in the District in December and January, reservations for indoor restaurant seats fell daily compared to 2019. Although every state in the United States — with the exception of Hawaii — saw a surge of indoor diners on Valentine’s Day, District restaurants experienced just 2% more sales than the second Monday of February in 2019, the second-lowest rate in the country.  
According to Jenn Crovato, the owner of 1310 Kitchen & Bar, a popular American restaurant in the Georgetown neighborhood, the omicron variant proved to be a major setback for diners who were just beginning to feel comfortable dining in restaurants again.
“Business was booming up until mid December, then it took a nose dive when Omicron hit,” Crovato wrote to The Hoya. “All of our events scheduled both at the restaurant or outside the restaurant canceled. The dining room went from reservation only (meaning we were not accepting walk-ins) for both brunch and dinner to almost empty.”
Uncertainty surrounding the number of people returning to indoor dining made it difficult to determine staffing needs for days that in typical years would be very busy, like Valentine’s Day, according to Crovato. 
“Valentine’s Day did fall on a Monday this year, but we did 3 times the sales in 2020 as we did this Year in 2022 on the 14th,” Crovato wrote. “We also still have significant reservation cancellation / no show levels (91 this past Saturday night) which makes it incredibly difficult to staff and order.”
Nearly 75% of the staff at 1310 Kitchen & Bar was sick or exposed to COVID-19, which forced the establishment to close for a week in January due to staffing shortages.  
District residents who may have started feeling comfortable with dining in restaurants seem to have been discouraged by the rise in COVID-19 cases, according to Crovato.
“If Omicron had not happened, I think we would be much closer to where we were pre-pandemic,” Crovato wrote. “People were just beginning to feel comfortable with going out.”
Juan Dromgoole, director of operations at Chaia Tacos, a vegetarian Mexican restaurant near the Georgetown waterfront, also found that sales plummeted yet again because of the omicron variant this winter.
“We were not necessarily busy, but we were happy with the number of people visiting us every day,” Dromgoole wrote. “Right after Thanksgiving, the number depleted and we noticed how people were just not eating outside their homes again.”
Chaia Tacos implemented strategies to ensure customer safety, which Dromgoole hopes will make customers feel safe returning to the restaurant.
“All of our staff is fully vaccinated. We require everyone to wear masks, gloves, and we sanitize every table during service,” Dromgoole wrote. “We try to be as careful as possible to make sure every person that visits Chaia feels safe.”
Despite the concerning data, there is reason for optimism, Crovato said, as jurisdictions throughout the country begin rolling back COVID-19 restrictions after grappling with the idea that the virus may not become fully eradicated. 
“I think dining will increase by April,” Crovato wrote. “We have had an overwhelming number of inquiries for group events. People want to get back out.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 23, 2022 by Eli Kales Leave a Comment 
A mother-daughter artist duo was selected by a panel to build a public art piece made up of multicolored arches at 11th Street Bridge Park.
Martha Jackson Jarvis and Njena Surae Jarvis will create the first of five artworks to be commissioned for the park. Located on old concrete piers along the Anacostia River in Ward 8, 11th Street Bridge Park is set to become Washington, D.C.’s first elevated public park. The artwork set, titled “Anacostia’s Sunrise/Sunset Portals” will serve as gateways to the entrance of the park and is slated to open in 2025.
The piece imitates different portals of a sunset and sunrise between the river and the community, according to Surae Jarvis.
“We want you to step off the beaten path and transport yourself somewhere else, some magical being where you are intrinsically your exit,” Surae Jarvis said in an interview with The Hoya. “As far as the sunrise and sunset, as you enter from the community entrance and move towards the 11th Street Bridge as the colors lead you through greenery, and then the palette of a sunrise as you move through the different portals, making your way from the river and back into the community.”
The use of old concrete piers along the Anacostia River in the creation of the 11th Street Bridge Park serves as an optimistic sign for urban renewal around the nation, according to Jackson Jarvis.
“It’s a beacon for the nation, that these things can be reinserted back into the community,” Jackson Jarvis said. “They can be reused in an innovative, creative way that does not cut people or communities off, but bridges the gap and becomes a real nexus for urban space.”
The park, a project supported by the D.C. government and Building Bridges Across the River (BBAR), a nonprofit supporting District residents who live east of the Anacostia River, will create over one hundred jobs and $3.5 million in income for community members. 
The art and the artists represent the vision of the Anacostia community, according to Scott Kratz, vice president of BBAR, in a Feb. 16 press release. 
“The 11th Street Bridge Park is a community-imagined space and it was important that the art and artists selected for our largest commissioned piece be reflective of this community,” Kratz said in the press release. “We’re ecstatic to see Jackson Jarvis Studio’s vision for ‘Anacostia’s Sunrise/Sunset Portals’ come to life and bring a welcoming energy to the park’s eastern entrance while helping expand equitable access to art East of the River.”
A group of residents, artists and community stakeholders, many of whom live near the park, selected Jackson Jarvis and Surae Jarvis’ piece, while the park’s remaining four artworks will be announced in the spring.
Jackson Jarvis has worked as an artist for over 50 years and looks to connect nature with individuals through public art sculptures.
“Public art is really very much a part of my practice as a sculptor, my interest has been the notion of public space, what is it that belongs to the commons or to all of us,” Jackson Jarvis said. “My interest in producing sculptures oftentimes talks about bridges between nature, and the kind of urban or man-built sites and spaces.”
Jackson Jarvis hopes that “Anacostia’s Sunrise/Sunset Portals” will act as a landmark for the Anacostia community and will provide something new to viewers each time they visit the park.
“This is a site that you could visit and return to season after season, year after year, and bring the children,” Jackson Jarvis said. “This is to form a communal memory, celebrating this extraordinary natural resource that we have here.”
Surae Jarvis said that sculptures will mark a space in which the members of the Anacostia community can create their own experiences in connection with the art and each other.
“I hope that as they move through their lives, people will interact with the sculpture differently,” Surae Jarvis said. “I hope they play with their children. I hope they meet a potential date there when they’re a little older. I hope as people age their interaction will be with different pieces, and we want it to be an almost magical space.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

