
September 1, 2022 by Nina Raj Leave a Comment 
The Inclusive Innovation Equity Impact Fund (IIEIF) will invest $1.25 million in 16 Washington, D.C. businesses owned by entrepreneurs who are economically disadvantaged or have experienced racial prejudice. 
The fund, which was launched October 2021, is a combined effort between the D.C. government and 1863 Ventures, a business development nonprofit. Ventures was founded by Georgetown adjunct professor Melissa Bradley, who is a professor of practice at the McDonough School of Business (MSB). Small businesses qualified for the fund by being owned by a D.C. resident and being at least 51% owned by individuals who face hardship due to socioeconomic status or race. The goal of the fund is to address the gap in capital for businesses that do not receive early-stage funding through conventional financing. 
All 16 businesses aided by the IIEIF, which range from luxury hair studios to dance institutes, will contribute to the vibrant economy and culture that strengthen the District. Selected enterprises will be rewarded with investments between $30,000 and $150,000.
Bradley said she was inspired to create the fund to help combat the systemic barriers people of color often face when seeking financial support for their business endeavors.
“The fund was created to address the fact that new majority entrepreneurs receive less than 1% of venture funding, and access to debt capital is limited as well due to slower decision times, higher interest rates and greater likelihood of denial for Black and Brown businesses,” Bradley wrote to The Hoya. “The IIEIF is designed to support growing businesses who lack access to capital to help fill the gap and support their revenue growth, job creation, and access to capital down the line.”
Despite Black residents representing 45% of the D.C. population, Black-owned businesses make up less than 14% of total businesses. Not only are there fewer Black entrepreneurs, but access to capital is more difficult for Black-owned businesses. The average annual revenue of Black-owned businesses is less than 15% of white-owned businesses.
According to Bradley, 1863 Ventures is helping to combat racial disparities in the District by prioritizing partnerships with historically marginalized entrepreneurs. 
“We provide the necessary capital for local businesses to grow and scale to increase wealth creation in the District. We help businesses attract outside capital to increase the value of small business in D.C.,” Bradley wrote. “The access to capital fuels business growth which creates jobs in the region.” 
Among the 2022 recipients of the fund is Mackenzie Loy (GRD ’22), a graduate of the MSB and the McCourt School of Public Policy and founder of Homemade in D.C. (HiDC). 
HiDC, an online marketplace that connects consumers with female entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs of color in their area for catering and custom gift box services, sources its products entirely from ​​women, BIPOC and LGBTQ+ individuals. The service also provides customers with a quarterly impact report on how the money they spent is helping local food entrepreneurs categorized by gender, ethnicity and ward.
According to Loy, the idea for HiDC emerged over the power food has to foster relationships.
“Food has always been incredibly important to me and my family — everything revolves around food,” Loy said in an interview with The Hoya. “I love food. I think food is so important; we all need to eat. It creates community.” 
John Falcicchio, deputy mayor for planning and economic development in D.C., said the fund is an asset to bolstering opportunities for Black-owned businesses and, subsequently, for workers in the District.
“The Inclusive Innovation Equity Impact Fund has not only benefited local entrepreneurs but also District residents. New businesses like these make D.C. a unique destination to visit and to live,” Falcicchio wrote to The Hoya. “When it comes to culture, D.C. has a hospitality and tourism industry like no other city. That’s why we are the best place to start a business and grow a business over time.”
With the financial support she receives from the IIEIF, Loy said she is planning to pay off personal expenses and expand HiDC into other cities.
“Nobody talks about it, but you need to pay your own bills, right? And that funding has allowed me to do that,” Loy said. “And I want Homemade in D.C. to be a platform. I want there to be a Homemade in D.C., a Homemade in Baltimore, a Homemade in Kansas City. So, turning this into a scalable, repeatable platform that can also continue to hire local people.”
When HiDC first opened in January 2022, a food entrepreneur who was part of the marketplace informed Loy that a single catering order made through HiDC enabled her to pay her rent for the month and keep her business running, Loy said. 
Loy said this moment reminded her about why she founded HiDC. 
“She said we had kept her afloat, so that was a moment of like, ‘Yeah, that’s why I’m doing this,’” Loy said. “The food entrepreneurs are why I’ve started Homemade in D.C. The mission is to close the racial and gender wealth gap through food entrepreneurship.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 1, 2022 by Ahmad Jandal Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Law Center (GULC) appointed its first full-time director of the Resilience, Innovation, and Sustainability through Education (RISE) program.
Itunu Sofidiya was appointed as the director of the RISE program for the 2022-23 academic year, which will see the largest cohort of RISE students. Sofidiya will oversee the RISE program, which provides support for incoming students from backgrounds underrepresented in law schools and the legal profession and helps them thrive at GULC. First-year law students admitted into RISE go through a pre-orientation program followed by workshops and guidance from senior staff and graduates throughout their first year on campus.
Granting students support for their dreams and goals is a priority of the RISE program, according to Sofidiya.
“Our goal is to help our students reach their greatest potential, and we do it by cultivating a safe space for students to be the best possible versions of themselves,” Sofidiya said. “We encourage our fellows to be bold, dream big, and to take action to make those dreams a reality.”
Sofidiya, a graduate of the Thurgood Marshall School of Law at Texas Southern University in Houston, has practiced law in multiple fields including working on cases related to immigration, capital punishment and domestic violence. Before becoming the director of RISE, she was a reference librarian and adjunct professor at GULC.
RISE creates a support network in which marginalized students can find solidarity among their peers, according to RISE Executive Director Maura DeMouy.
“Through the program, we spend a lot of time de-mystifying the law school experience. We introduce them to students, staff, faculty and alumni invested in their success,” DeMouy wrote to The Hoya. “And, probably most important, we help them find a community of people who look like them, often have similar lived experiences and unquestionably will be there for them throughout their time at Georgetown.”
Sofidiya said this role grants her the opportunity to work with students on both a leadership and individual level.
“They are truly an amazing group of people and I am excited to see the changes they will make both at Georgetown and in the world,” Sofidiya wrote. “As the Director, I have a lot of space to further develop programming that will help RISE students as a whole, but I also get to personally know each of the students individually. I really get the best of both worlds.”
GULC Dean William Treanor said the RISE Program was founded to empower incoming GULC students who often find themselves excluded from the legal field.
“We started the RISE program in 2018 to ensure that students from underrepresented backgrounds have the opportunity to find community and access the resources and ongoing support they need to thrive on campus and in their legal careers,” Treanor wrote to The Hoya.
As of October 2020, around a quarter of GULC students identify with minority groups. This falls below the nationwide percentage of 28.5% of racial minority students in law schools from 2020. Programs like RISE provide support to these students who are navigating a predominantly white field.
DeMouy said Sofidiya’s background and leadership skills will enable the RISE Program to succeed.
“With her on board, we now have additional capacity to serve RISE Fellows, which is much needed because the program is growing every year,” DeMouy wrote. “In addition to her professional preparation, as a first-generation Nigerian American, and the first lawyer in her family, Professor Sofidiya brings unique insight and passion for helping RISE Fellows.”
Programs like RISE allow the Law Center to fulfill its commitment of offering equal opportunities to all students, Treanor said.
“The Law Center has long been committed to building a diverse student body and to diversifying the legal profession,” Treanor wrote. “We know that admissions — admitting students from underrepresented backgrounds to law school — is just the beginning of this work.”
Treanor said he is proud of the program’s growth and believes RISE is crucial to promote diversity and inclusion at GULC.
“By helping this cohort thrive, RISE furthers Georgetown Law’s abiding commitment to graduate students from diverse backgrounds who will become the lawyer-leaders of the future and improve the quality of justice across the nation and the world,” Treanor wrote.
Sofidiya said one of the greatest parts of her role will be seeing what students in the RISE program accomplish while at GULC and beyond.
“I tell my students all of the time, I love this work,” Sofdiya said. “I am so grateful to be in a position where I love my job. I get to help wonderful people achieve their goals.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


September 1, 2022 by Priyasha Chakravarti Leave a Comment 
After a week-long strike involving over 600 American University (AU) employees, students and allies, administrators have reached a tentative contract agreement with staff, a first since the union’s formation.
The strike — led by the AU staff union — began Aug. 22 and ended Aug. 26 when the bargainers announced that administrators had reached a tentative agreement with union members. 
AU administration resumed negotiations with staff members Aug. 26 after previous contract negotiations failed due to disputes over raises. 
Since then, the administration and staff have reached agreements which included a 4% salary raise for all staff, an increase in university contributions to health insurance benefits and the establishment of a joint-labor management committee that will devise standard protocols for disciplinary actions and more. 
AU Staff Organizer Aubrey Hill said the atmosphere of the strike was one of excitement and determination but also some nerves. Several students joined the union walkout during new student convocation. 
“Ultimately, this was not a violent action to hurt anyone. It would stress people out but real systemic change usually doesn’t happen in a comfortable way,” Hill said in an interview with The Hoya. “It was extremely necessary. We communicated with students and first-year advising offices beforehand so that they would know what would be going on.” 
Samuel Sadow, press coordinator for the AU staff union, said the administration agreed to almost all their concerns.
“No contract is perfect but our strike and our refusal to work and our ability to bring critical aspects of campus to a halt, including freshman move-in, brought the administration to the table and allowed us to achieve meaningful movement towards our position on virtually every aspect,” Sadow said in an interview with The Hoya. “This includes increasing the length of the contract to two years, changing the low-wage approach, providing higher guaranteed raises and offering affordable health care and more.”
Sadow said the university has neglected the concerns of AU staffers in recent years, failing to reach proper compromises, delaying negotiations and even discriminating against unionized employees. 
“In bargaining, it started to become clear sometime this spring that the discussion of wages and the economic condition of our working lives was not going to be easily solved,” Sadow said. “The catalyst was this summer, when they withheld raises from unionized employees, but not from other employees.”
The AU staff union has been mobilizing for community support and facilitating bargaining sessions with the university since its formation in November 2020. The union, a chapter of the Services Employees International Union Local 500 (SEIU Local 500) consists of 550 staff members in the AU provost’s division, including program coordinators, advisors, library workers, counselors, academic coaches, front desk staff, library staff, center for teaching and learning staff and financial aid staff.
Their demands include better job security, more bargaining power, affordable healthcare, formal layoff procedures, guaranteed raises and better compensation for part-time staffers.
Union members felt the university was neglecting employee input during the bargaining process, according to Hill, who said such conditions led to the strike. 
“Their lack of understanding or willingness to confront power as a key component of our conversation was really disheartening a lot of times,” Hill said in an interview with the Hoya. “We wanted to show the university that we were an increasing force to be reckoned with. We eventually started to take some disruptive movements — marching through buildings on campus and such. Soon, the only way to get them to budge was to strike.”
Previously, the union has had targeted conversations with staff, hosted bargaining meetings with the administration and raised awareness about their cause through public campaigns, but none came to fruition. 
AU Vice President and Chief Communications Officer Matthew Bennett said the university is devoted to maintaining an equitable environment for all workers.
“Our focus, as it has been, is on our people,” Bennett wrote to the Hoya. “We look forward to implementing the agreements and our overall budget framework, which includes enhanced compensation for our faculty and staff.”
While many staffers feel that their work is not yet complete, Sadow said the union still sees this as a “transformative victory” not just for AU but for higher education institutions across the nation.
“We were aware that we weren’t just bargaining for ourselves, but for the common good for all higher education workers,” Sadow said. “This should send a signal that if you want it you can get it, and through collective action and hard work, you can organize yourself and you can win major gains.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

