
December 3, 2022 by Julia Butler Leave a Comment 
The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) rolled out prototype faregates Nov. 17 to make it harder for riders to evade Metro fares.
WMATA installed two types of new gates at the Fort Totten station as part of an effort to make up for tens of millions of dollars of lost revenue from fare evasion this fiscal year. Half of the new faregates feature saloon-style doors that rise higher than the previous barriers, and the other half include rounded additions to the sides of the gates to prevent riders from using their hands to push up and over the barrier. 
Randy Clarke, WMATA’s general manager and CEO since July, said the new faregates will make the transit system more fair.
“The idea is how do we make the system as fair as possible, try to actually not have people do fare evasion, and at the same time, be realistic that we are a transit system,” Clarke said at the Nov. 17 Metro board of directors meeting.
Fare evasion affects WMATA’s ability to operate, according to a WMATA press release from Oct. 28.
“Revenue from fares allows Metro to keep buses, trains, and MetroAccess serving our community,” WMATA wrote in the press release.
Amy Zhou (COL ’22, MED ’26) takes the Metro often and said she frequently sees passengers avoiding the fares on the Metro with no consequences. 
“I see people doing it and jumping over the gate, and there’s a security officer right there,” Zhou told The Hoya. “They don’t seem to care that much.”
Metro launched a warning campaign Oct. 4 to raise awareness about citations and fines that riders who evade fares can receive from Metro Transit Police (MTPD) officers. MTPD officers began issuing these citations to anyone they saw jumping the faregates, using the emergency gates or not tapping fare boxes on Metrobuses starting Nov. 1.
According to Clarke, WMATA considered several criteria when creating both designs. 
“So a) we want to make it so whatever we put on there didn’t cause a potential safety hazard, and b) it can’t collect trash and debris and other things of that nature, and it couldn’t obviously protrude into the gate itself because that could be an ADA or safety issue by catching someone’s bag or coat or whatnot,” Clarke said at the meeting.
The board approved two different faregate designs in order to collect rider feedback on both versions, said Clarke. 
“We need to be a learning organization — acknowledge where we’re doing something well, where we’re not, modifying, then keep moving forward,” Clarke said.
The first prototype, which features taller gate doors, will be more expensive to implement because it requires WMATA to alter the entire gate motor system, according to Clarke.  
WMATA said it is exploring ways to keep the Metro affordable, and as part of the campaign, WMATA is partnering with local organizations to implement a low-income fare pilot program and to offer residents up to $100 in metro fares per month. 
Clarke said the board will take their knowledge from this trial program and use them to improve WMATA’s offerings moving forward. 
“We’re going to make mistakes,” Clarke said. “We’re going to own that mistake. That’s how we get better.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


December 3, 2022 by Michelle Vassilev Leave a Comment 
Former President Bill Clinton (SFS ’68) and former presidents of Uruguay, Mexico and Colombia spoke about the state of affairs in Latin America at Georgetown University’s first “Americas Symposium.”
The Nov. 30 event that took place in Gaston Hall was an initiative by the Georgetown Americas Institute (GAI), an organization dedicated to researching and discussing the challenges impacting Latin America. Former president of Uruguay Luis Alberto Lacalle Herrera, former president of Mexico Ernesto Zedillo and former president of Colombia Juan Manuel Santos, who joined the conversation virtually, tackled discussions on poverty, inequality and organized crime in Latin America in a conversation moderated by Diana Kapiszewski, an associate professor of government at Georgetown University. Clinton, who intended to attend in-person, delivered a speech on U.S. ties with Latin America remotely, after testing positive for COVID-19 just hours before the event.
Clinton said it is vital for students at Georgetown to learn about the conflicts taking place in Latin America so that they are equipped to tackle them.
“They need to know that it’s not just a phrase to say we need to be involved with the rest of the world, that getting a Georgetown education which teaches you about other countries and cultures, particularly in the Americas, is not just something that should help your career,” Clinton said. “It has to build a state of mind among our people that what we have in common is more important than our interesting differences.” 
He said the United States cannot walk away from Latin American countries like Colombia and Venezuela at a time when they are facing a reemergence of narcotics trafficking and gang violence. 
“We need to be there with them side by side,” Clinton said at the event. “All of us.”
Alejandro Werner, the founding director of GAI, said the goal of the event was to mark the institute’s inaugural year and to foster dialogue about the living standards in Latin America. 
“With this event, we celebrate our inaugural year and we gather to reflect the social and economic challenges that Latin America faces, as well as the need to strengthen and redesign its regional ties and its relationship with the U.S. and Canada,” Werner said at the event. 
University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95) announced the GAI’s establishment in August 2020. Werner was appointed as the institute’s first director in October 2021. 
In the 2020 announcement, DeGioia said the institute would focus on four spheres: governance and the rule of law, economic innovation, social and cultural inclusion and sustainability and the environment. He said he looks forward to the contributions the institute will make to the Georgetown community.
“I would like to thank our institute staff, the institute’s faculty committee, its advisers for their work to guide this new endeavor,” DeGioia said at the event. “We look forward to the contributions of this new institute and the collaborations and partnerships it will foster.” 
Zedillo, who served as Mexico’s president from 1994 to 2000, said that many Latin American countries are facing a regression of democracy. 
“Once they are in power, the first thing that they like to do is to start undermining democracy within the institutions that allowed them in the first place to compete and to win power,” Zedillo said. 
Following the event, students condemned the inclusion of Zedillo at the event. Zedillo was charged with the 1997 killing of 45 Tzotzil indigenous people. In January 2012, he claimed that his status as a former president granted him immunity for his crimes. 
Lacalle, who served as president of Uruguay from 1990 to 1995, said that Latin America is placed in a difficult position as its ideals and economics are tied to several different foreign alliances. 
“If we take the side of the values, of course we are with the United States, with the European Union and with the Christian civilization,” Lacalle said at the event. “On the other side, the reality of trade and prosperity comes from the relationship with China.” 
Santos, who served as Colombia’s president from 2010 to 2018, said the biggest problem Latin American countries are facing is the war on drugs. 
Drug traffickers and organized crime have permeated Colombia, according to Santos.
“Colombia lost our best journalists, our best judges or best political leaders and our best policemen in this war, and I personally had the responsibility of fighting this war when I was minister of defense,” Santos said at the event.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

