
November 4, 2022 by Emily Han Leave a Comment 
Eight teams of Georgetown University students and recent graduates pitched their startups at the Bark Tank pitch competition.
Teams competed in the Nov. 2 competition, which was hosted by Georgetown Entrepreneurship,  a sector of the McDonough School of Business (MSB) that empowers student entrepreneurs, and funded by the Leonsis Family Entrepreneurship Prize, an annual $100,000 donation by Monumental Sports & Entertainment CEO Ted Leonsis (COL ’77). Judges evaluated each finalist based on the feasibility of their startup, the team itself, how well the project aligns with Georgetown’s values and how they plan on using the prize money.
Each finalist worked with two mentors who provided feedback on its ideas and pitches during the three weeks leading up to the competition. While individuals who are not members of the campus community are able to compete in the competition, only current students and recent graduates are allowed to present the final pitch.
A panel of judges, including Leonsis, decided how much of the total prize each finalist received. 
The top winners, Mackenzie Loy (GRD ’22) and Panos Kostopoulos (GRD ’22), were each awarded $30,000 for their startups. Loy’s startup, Homemade in DC, seeks to elevate local food entrepreneurs, especially women, people of color and members of the LGBTQ+ community. Kostopoulos’ business, Proxy Foods, is the first business-to-business artificial intelligence service developing alternative proteins.
According to Benjamin Zimmerman, managing director of Georgetown Entrepreneurship, Bark Tank has awarded $700,000 to 50 different ventures, helped Georgetown entrepreneurs raise more than $220 million and enabled the creation of hundreds of jobs.
“We also pride ourselves on some of the more intangible metrics that stem from impact of the ventures on the communities and clients they serve, which don’t fit well into typical numbers but have far reaching benefits,” Zimmerman wrote to The Hoya. 
Loy said she plans on using the funding to make her first hire and expand her business to reach more entrepreneurs throughout the Washington, D.C. area. 
“We’ve got our website today, but we want to upgrade it to become a true marketplace that connects the food entrepreneurs to these businesses,” Loy told The Hoya. “So that’s where some of the money will go.”
Kilian Liptrot (LAW ’23) won $15,000 for his photography company Tessen, which develops lightweight camera technology that allows photographers to travel more conveniently. 
Liptrot said being a Bark Tank finalist has encouraged him to pursue entrepreneurship more seriously.
“It just changes the way you view yourself,” Liptrot told The Hoya. “To be a finalist in Bark Tank is a pretty validating event. I think now I’d like to lean into as many student related entrepreneurship competitions as possible to be able to raise as many non-dilutive funds as I can.”
Victoria Gomes-Boronat (GRD ’22) pitched her social gaming platform LUCIO, which aims to connect gaming users based on shared interests, experiences and location, at the competition, winning $15,000 as well as the People’s Choice Award, which granted an additional $5,000 to one venture chosen by the audience. 
Gomes-Boronat said her participation in Bark Tank has changed her perspective about entrepreneurship and her personal path.
“I’m not usually a business person — I’m a creator. I’m a researcher,” Gomes-Boronat told The Hoya. “But Georgetown’s community really helped me grow in my entrepreneurship journey. I want to create a platform that helps people find those connections in those communities that really light up your life.”
Liptrot said his mentors provided valuable input on how to improve his pitch and align it with his business model.
“They looked at my materials, and they get a sense for the business model that we have and the product that we’re hoping to bring to market,” Liptrot said. “They bring so many decades of experience.”
Loy said her mentors helped her craft a stronger narrative for her business.
“It’s also about the story, which is a big part of Homemade in D.C.,” Loy said. “With the food, we always give you the face of the food entrepreneur behind it and their story, and that helps you really connect with and appreciate the food.”
Zimmerman said Jesuit values are important to the initiative’s mission of emphasizing creativity and promoting projects that improve the community.
“We enable students to see the world as entrepreneurs do while providing them with the knowledge and skills they’ll need to act on their insights and provide value to society,” Zimmerman wrote. “We foster an entrepreneurial mindset in and out of the classroom and create a supportive environment that pushes students to think creatively.”
Gomes-Boronat said she was inspired by her fellow competitors and the connections she made at the competition.
“Georgetown Entrepreneurship really taught me about how welcoming and collaborative entrepreneurship is and that it’s not about using people,” Gomes-Boronat said. “It’s really about making connections with people and hearing about their problems and seeing how that could be incorporated into your business and seeing how you could help address different problems for different demographics.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 4, 2022 by Olivia Macaulay 1 Comment 
The Smithsonian Institution has selected two sites for the National Museum of the American Latino and the American Women’s History Museum to be built over the course of the next 10 to 12 years.
The proposed sites, which were announced Oct. 27, are located in the southwest section of the National Mall in Washington, D.C. The first site is located across from the National Museum of African American History and Culture, and the second site is next to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. The National Park Service owns the undeveloped land where the museums will be located, but the Smithsonian has yet to decide which museum will be built on which site.
After Congress approved the museums in December 2020, the Smithsonian’s Board of Regents had until December 2022 to propose official building sites, according to David Coronado, the senior communications officer for the National Museum of the American Latino. The Board of Regents chose from a pool of over 24 potential sites, including the current FBI headquarters. Coronado said construction may take up to 12 years to complete, an estimate guided by the construction timelines of museums such as the African American History and Culture Museum, which was established in December 2003 and opened Sept. 24, 2016.
Madeleine Weyand-Geise, a public affairs assistant for the Smithsonian, said the new museums are part of the institution’s plan to create a more complete narrative of American history.
“To deepen the understanding of our shared history, the Smithsonian engages the public with a wide range of exhibitions, programs, and research,” Weyand-Geise wrote to The Hoya. “We aim to tell a fuller, more complete American story, a narrative so complex and expansive that it requires multiple museums to tell it.”
District residents and members of Congress like Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-N.Y.) spoke out in the months after Congress approved the museums, part of a years-long effort to see the new museums constructed along the National Mall, where other museums dedicated to American culture and history already stand. 
“When I walk around the Mall, they have museums for everything — but not women,” Maloney said in a March 17, 2021 press release. “And it is hard to empower women if we don’t even recognize them.” 
President Joe Biden also called for Congress to authorize the museums’ construction on the Mall, saying the location of the museums has symbolic significance to the groups they represent and the role they have played in shaping the nation.
“Congress should take action to honor the Latino community and women with their own museums on the National Mall — it’s time — as a reflection of the important role each plays in the fabric of our Nation,” Biden said at the White House’s Hispanic Heritage Month Reception on Sept. 30.
Smithsonian executives first considered the idea for a museum similar to the National Museum of the American Latino in the mid-1990s, and Congress established a commission to study the potential creation of the museum in 2008, according to Coronado.
The National Museum of the American Latino opened its first exhibit “¡Presente! A Latino History of the United States” at the National Museum of American History in the Molino Family Latino Gallery on June 18.
The gallery gives visitors to the National Museum of American History a first look at the project’s future, according to Jorge Zamanillo, director of the National Museum of the American Latino.
“The Molina Family Latino Gallery is the first iteration of the National Museum of the American Latino,” Zamanillo said in a June 14 press release. “It will take 10 to 12 years to open a museum building, but the gallery gives the public a preview of the museum’s potential.”
Eduardo Díaz, the acting deputy director of the National Museum of the American Latino, said the gallery’s opening comes at a landmark time, marking the 25-year anniversary of the foundation of the Smithsonian Latino Center, which was established in order to increase Latino representation across the Institution.
Coronado said he believes the museum will be an important reminder of the cultural and historical impacts Latino communities have made on American history. 
“The National Museum of the American Latino is essential to preserving the history and culture of the Latino communities that make up 19 percent of the U.S. population,” Coronado wrote to The Hoya. “The museum reminds us that Latino history is intrinsic to American history.”

gender studies says 
November 5, 2022 at 1:25 pm
LATINX!!!!! not latino!!!! stop opressing trans folx!!!!!!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

