
January 10, 2022 by Adora Zheng Leave a Comment 
In response to the surge of COVID-19 cases across the United States caused by the highly transmissible Omicron variant, Georgetown University is taking extra health precautions for the spring semester.  
While students are permitted to return to campus beginning Jan. 11, the university will begin operations virtually with all classes, events and other campus programming held online until Jan. 31, according to a Jan. 5 email sent to campus community members from University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95).
All campus dining locations will operate on a grab-and-go basis and Yates Field House, a main campus recreation site, will remain closed. 
Students are advised to consider the plan, including high transmissibility of the Omicron variant and the possibility of limited isolation space in the Leavey Center Hotel — which was used for isolation space in the fall — when deciding when to return to campus, according to an email sent to students from Vice President and Chief Public Health Officer Ranit Mishori (MED ’02) on Jan. 5. 
“We urge you to consider these factors when making your decision regarding the best time for your return to campus. As a reminder, you are not required to move back to campus on January 11, unless there are specific circumstances that require you to return by then,” the email reads. 
To ease the transition to campus for the spring semester, The Hoya has compiled a list of these new procedures and policies. 
Pre-arrival and Arrival Testing 
Students, faculty, and staff who will be on campus for the spring semester are required to take both a PCR lab test and rapid antigen test upon arrival on campus, according to an email sent by Vice President and Chief Public Health Officer Ranit Mishori (MED ’02) to campus community members Jan. 5. 
Students traveling to campus from outside the Washington D.C., Maryland and Virginia region should take either a PCR test or a rapid test 24 to 48 hours before departing for campus and those who test positive should isolate where they are, according to a second email to students from Mishori sent later in the day Jan. 5. 
Individuals are exempt from PCR testing on campus if they tested positive for COVID-19 within 90 days of their scheduled campus arrival and have already sufficiently quarantined, according to the email. These individuals still must take a rapid test upon arrival to campus. If they have not done so already, recovered students should email their positive COVID-19 test results to [email protected]. 
Prior to arriving on campus, students should schedule a PCR test at the Healey Family Student Center (HFSC) or the Leavey Center via the One Medical app for the date they expect to arrive on campus. Upon their arrival, students should proceed to their testing site where they will take a PCR test and rapid antigen test. 
Those who test positive will receive guidance on isolation and next steps from staff. Students who test negative will move into their on-campus residences as usual. 
If students need to return to campus during the weekend or after COVID-19 testing, which operates Monday through Friday from 9 am to 4 pm, is closed, they should go directly to their residence hall and wear a mask while inside university owned buildings, according to Mishori’s Jan. 5 email to students. These students should pick up a rapid antigen test the next morning at the Leavey Center Hotel and schedule a PCR test for when testing reopens, according to the email.
Isolation 
In the case that there is an overflow of students who test positive for COVID-19, students should expect to be isolated two to a room in the Leavey Center Hotel or in their on-campus residence hall, according to the email. 
“We may not be able to provide isolation space at the Georgetown University Hotel and Conference Center for all residential students who test positive if we continue to have a significant positivity rate on campus,” the email reads. 
The university has acquired additional isolation rooms at an external hotel near campus, according to an email sent by Mishori to students on Jan. 10.  
In the case of limited space in the Leavey Hotel, COVID-19 positive and negative students may be housed in the same room or apartment. 
Masks 
Students, faculty and staff are required to wear masks in indoor public places on campus and should wear properly fitted high-grade masks such as N95s, KN95s or KF94s, according to the university’s COVID-19 FAQ page. Students should not wear cloth masks or masks with valves or vents because they do not sufficiently reduce transmission, according to the page. 
Students will be able to pick up free N95 masks when they get tested for COVID-19 upon arrival, according to Mishori’s email. Free high-grade masks will all be available at entrances to most campus buildings and employees can receive masks from their departments, according to the FAQ page.  
Although current university guidelines allow for fully vaccinated individuals to remove their masks indoors while speaking or lecturing, due to current pandemic conditions faculty and staff are strongly discouraged from doing so, according to the FAQ page.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 10, 2022 by Paige Kupas Leave a Comment 
This is a developing story. Check back on our website and social media (@thehoya) for updates.
Georgetown University, along with 15 other top schools, is being sued for using shared methodology to limit and calculate applicants’ financial aid packages.
The class action lawsuit, which was filed Sunday night in Illinois, alleges antitrust violations because the manner of collaboration between schools in determining applicants’ financial aid packages ultimately led to price fixing. The practice, which was intended to eliminate or decrease financial aid as a form of competition in the admissions process, harmed applicants by artificially increasing the cost of attendance for students who receive financial aid, according to the lawsuit. The plaintiffs in the lawsuit are five students who formerly attended some of the schools accused of antitrust violations, according to The Wall Street Journal (WSJ). 
Schools are legally permitted to work together on financial aid formulas. However, federal law states that admissions offices must be need-blind — that is, disregard applicants’ financial circumstances when making admissions decisions — in order to qualify for an antitrust exemption that allows them to collaborate on financial aid formulas. The lawsuit alleges that at least nine of the 16 universities, including Georgetown, are not abiding by need-blind policies by systematically favoring wealthy applicants. As a result, all 16 universities have violated antitrust law by collaborating and giving an advantage to applicants from wealthy donor families, according to the WSJ.
Georgetown claims to practice a need-blind admissions process for all applicants. 
“Georgetown University admits and enrolls students without regard to their financial circumstances and is committed to meeting the demonstrated financial need of eligible students through a combination of aid programs that include grants, scholarships, employment and loans from federal, state, private, and University resources,” the financial aid page of Georgetown’s Office of Undergraduate Admissions website reads. 
The lawsuit aims to end collusion between the schools when determining and awarding financial aid packages to admitted students. 
In addition to Georgetown, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Brown University, Yale University, the University of Chicago, Northwestern University, Columbia University, Vanderbilt University, the California Institute of Technology, Cornell University, Dartmouth College, Duke University, Emory University, the University of Notre Dame, the University of Pennsylvania and Rice University are included in the lawsuit. 
The defendants are members of the 568 Presidents Group, whose members determine a set of methodology used for financial aid calculations. Georgetown University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95) is the president of the 568 Presidents Group’s steering committee, according to NBC News. 
According to the WSJ, former undergraduate students who did not receive a full financial aid offer from any of the 16 schools accused of collusion in the past 18 years are eligible to join the lawsuit.
The lawsuit aims to help more than 170,000 students who did not receive a fair or accurate financial aid package, according to Robert Gilbert, one of the attorneys on the plaintiffs’ legal team, in a press release.
“We have conducted a multi-year investigation of these practices, which we allege are unlawful, and we plan to vindicate the rights of more than 170,000 financial aid students and their families whom we believe have been overcharged by these elite universities,” Gilbert wrote in the press release.
Georgetown has been involved in admissions scandals in the past. Former Georgetown tennis coach Gordon Ernst, who was charged with accepting bribes from parents to designate their children as recruits for the Georgetown tennis team in a 2019 indictment, agreed to plead guilty for his involvement in the college admissions scandal Sept. 15. As of Aug. 16, nine Georgetown parents also pleaded guilty to admissions related fraud charges.
A Georgetown spokesperson did not provide a comment in time for publication.
This article was updated on Jan. 10 to include University President John J. DeGioia’s involvement in the 568 Presidents Group.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 10, 2022 by Paige Kupas and Caitlin McLean Leave a Comment 
Georgetown undergraduate and law students expressed mixed opinions about the university’s plan to begin the spring semester virtually. These opinions include concerns of safety and uncertainty. 
University administrators announced classes will be held virtually through Jan. 30, dining locations will operate on a grab-and-go model and Yates Field House will be closed until Jan. 30. Students will be allowed to move in Jan. 11 as originally scheduled, but may opt to delay their arrival until in-person classes resume. 
The announcement comes as the Omicron variant surges through Washington, D.C., and the world, accounting for 95% of new COVID-19 cases in the United States as of Jan. 4, according to models. 
The university’s plan does not provide enough protection against the Omicron variant, according to Melsenia Vergin (COL ’24). 
“I wish there was more clarity on how we’re going to be protected from the virus even though we’re back on campus and living in such close proximity to one another,” Vergin said in a phone interview with The Hoya. “Honestly, I don’t really feel like it’s enough or it’s adequate in actually protecting anyone or any workers from the virus spreading at all.”
In addition, the uncertainty regarding whether classes will be able to return to an in-person model Jan. 31 poses concerns for students’ housing plans, according to Vergin.
“We don’t know if we’ll be able to come back after that, especially for someone like me — I don’t last minute have the money to figure out where I’m going to be living at and having somewhere to stay,” Vergin said.
At a Jan. 2 meeting of the Georgetown University Student Association (GUSA) Senate, senators Spencer Woodall (MSB, SFS ’24), John DiPierri (SFS ’25) and Alyssa Hirai (SFS ’24) introduced two resolutions opposing a virtual start to the spring semester and the closure of Yate’s Field House and campus dine-in options such as Leo J. O’Donovan Dining Hall. 
The virtual aspect of the plan poses a barrier to students who struggle with online learning, according to Woodall. 
“I caught COVID back in November that left me with brain fog and a piercing headache that turned online learning from very difficult to nearly impossible and because of the medium I feel that I’ve lost a step mentally and it’s been very draining and anxiety-filled for me,” Woodall said in a phone interview with The Hoya. 
The bill opposing a virtual start to the semester, which was tabled at the meeting, would give students the option to choose their learning plan for the spring, according to Woodall. 
The resolution also demands a tuition reimbursement for classes that are held online at any point and suggests the university reimplement the pass/fail option for online classes, similar to the policy implemented for the 2020-21 academic year when the university operated fully remotely.  The bill that opposed the closure of Yate’s and Leo’s failed to pass by one vote, but demanded that students receive a discount for fees paid for those facilities and suggested that students who have federal work study jobs at Yate’s receive compensation for wages they miss. 
The university is prepared for the arrival of undergraduate students who plan to move in Jan. 11 and does not plan to offer refunds for students who arrive later in January, according to a university spokesperson. 
The Conservative and Libertarian Student Association (CALSA) at Georgetown Law Center sent a letter to the university urging the administration to reinstate in-person classes for the entirety of the spring semester or provide students with a tuition discount if classes are virtual, citing the university’s COVID-19 vaccine and booster mandate, as well as the fact that the Omicron variant appears to be less severe. 
The university’s spring plan will disrupt the education of students, according to Luke Bunting (LAW ’22), co-president of CALSA. 
“If they’re jeopardizing or compromising the education they’re providing, we just kind of expect a good reason, and so far we haven’t been provided with a good, rational explanation for this,” Bunting said in a phone interview with The Hoya. 
The university cited transmission rates, vaccine efficacy, the milder severity of Omicron, hospitalizations and the current projection for the duration of the surge as justifications for beginning the semester virtually, according to a Jan. 5 email sent to campus community members from University President John J. DeGioia (CAS ’79, GRD ’95).
Virtual learning environments create additional challenges for law students, who rely on experiences in the field and relationships with professors for future jobs, according to Bunting. 
“I think for a lot of students, and myself included — we have externships, we have other things going on, especially after being virtual for a whole year,” Bunting said. “A lot of people had plans for what they were wanting to do during their 3L or 2L year on campus, and that gets thrown into jeopardy.” 
However, according to Finn Thompson (COL ’22), in-person instruction would jeopardize the health and safety of the campus community. 
“Although I am disappointed about the current COVID situation, I’m not disappointed by the plan. It’s the right call,” Thompson wrote in an email to The Hoya. “With record numbers of cases at the moment, it wouldn’t be safe for thousands of us to return to in-person classes right now after traveling from around the country.” 
Health precautions in the spring plan will keep students safe, according to Thompson. 
“I’m glad that the university is allowing people to come back to campus with added precautions in dining halls and campus spaces, and if campus testing remains as widely available as it was last semester, then campus will be safe,” Thompson wrote. 
The university will update COVID-19 related public health guidelines as needed, according to the university spokesperson.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

