
April 1, 2022 by Samantha Sinutko Leave a Comment 
Two representatives from the Georgetown Alliance of Graduate Employees (GAGE) attended the second annual Higher Education Labor United (HELU) summit to develop policy proposals and coordinate with unions from universities across the United States. 
The summit, which took place from Feb. 23 to 27, included a series of events surrounding topics of anti-racism, social justice and HELU’s three program areas: coordinated organizing, policy development and advocacy and national political engagement. At the summit, HELU and participants from unions across the country built on the organization’s framework, contributing to the platform’s growth in member organizations since its first summit in July 2021.
The summit highlighted the shared beliefs and goals of unions across the country, according to Naomi Williams, program committee coordinator for the summit, rank-and-file member of HELU and labor historian at Rutgers University.
“The programming was inspiring,” Williams wrote to The Hoya. “I appreciated hearing of the work people are doing across the nation to help make campus jobs, good jobs and to support student learning. It was exciting to hear how aligned we are, across unions, with the things we are working toward. It was also great to be part of helping to shape the future of higher ed organizing and advocacy work.”
HELU, a national committee representing over 525,000 student workers, postdocs, staff and tenured faculty at universities across the country, has proposed enacting federal legislation to stabilize higher education employment with fair terms, safe working conditions and a living wage for workers. 
GAGE is a signatory on the HELU platform. 
It is important for unions to share their knowledge, according to GAGE representative and former GAGE President Jewel Tomasula (GRD ’22), who attended the summit.
“HELU gives me a lot of hope that these unions in higher ed are sharing their knowledge and resources to build a coordinated movement,” Tomasula wrote to The Hoya. “Unions improve conditions for workers on their own campuses, but together our unions can impact state and federal policies to improve the whole higher ed system.”
GAGE ratified its first contract with the university in May 2020 after months of negotiations over the rights and protections of graduate student workers, including pay, workload and time off. The contract is set to expire June 30, 2023, meaning the union must begin a new bargaining process with the university in fall 2022.
The summit brought a feeling of connectedness and shared purpose among union representatives, according to Tracy Berger, media and communications coordinator for the summit and a member of United Campus Workers Colorado, a union for employees in the University of Colorado system. 
“For us, working with other unions across the country is extremely important,” Berger wrote to The Hoya. “We’re a very young union and value being able to learn from others’ experiences. HELU gives us an opportunity to learn and share what we’re doing. UCW is a wall-to-wall union and I think more fragmented unions can learn a lot from our model, just as we can learn from them.” 
The summit also allowed GAGE to connect with members of unions at other universities, according to Maggie Weng (GRD ’24), who attended the summit.   
“GAGE was proud to be a contributing union that helped sponsor the summit, so our members were also able to attend the weekend sessions,” Weng wrote to The Hoya. “The summit generated a sense of solidarity with other higher ed labor unions, and it made me appreciate that the struggles we face at Georgetown are part of a larger dynamic that many people are fighting to change.”
The downward trend in public funding to universities has damaged the U.S. higher education structure, according to Tomasula.
“Despite college-level education becoming more and more important for the U.S. workforce, fewer and fewer public funding is being invested in institutions of higher education,” Tomasula wrote. “Instead of state and federal governments funding higher education, the cost is put on individual students and their families and this is evident in tuition rates that have skyrocketed more than inflation and average salaries.”
In 2018, the federal government invested $149 billion in colleges and universities through federal student aid, grants and contracts, representing 3.6% of federal spending. In 2022, states allocated a combined $105.5 billion for higher education institutions. 
A lack of investment in higher education has created a cycle forcing many young people to take on student loan debt to attend college, according to Tomasula.  
HELU’s hope is to coordinate university union efforts and remain adaptive to changing demands, according to Williams.
“We are an organization of organizations, so coordination takes transparency and coming together around shared values,” Williams wrote. “We are using the summit materials (where voting member unions shaped a path forward based on our continued commitment to our vision platform and agreement around the 3 core program areas) to shape an organizational structure. And we continue to get feedback from member organizations. It is a work in progress.”
Connecting in spaces like this summit provide inspiration for collective change, according to Weng.
“I think collective spaces like the HELU summit are a really great way to reinforce what we’ve all found to be true from union work: our voices are stronger together than apart,” Weng wrote. “Change comes from bringing people together and putting all of our individual efforts into something much larger to break down insurmountable problems into attainable goals.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 1, 2022 by Akashdiya Chakraborty Leave a Comment 
Two women will assume the roles of Georgetown University Graduate Student Government (GradGov) president and vice president for the first time in the organization’s history following  executive board elections. 
The elections for the 10 executive board positions took place March 4. GradGov released the results in their March 18 newsletter to graduate students. The election process included staggered deadlines for voting on each position throughout the day and the chance for candidates to give speeches to GradGov members and field questions from senators. The new executive board, including incoming GradGov President Nadia Sarfraz (GRD ’24) and incoming GradGov Vice President Micaila Curtis (GRD ’25), will be sworn into office April 13. 
Sarfraz and Curtis will be the first two women to hold the roles concurrently, according to Sarfraz.
As president, Sarfraz said she hopes to improve the accessibility and inclusivity of GradGov.
“Some initial goals are as follows: strive to make serving on GradGov feasible for any graduate student in regard to time commitments and responsibilities, work with each director and division of GradGov to streamline processes, support senators in developing communication and relationships with constituents to ensure all voices have a direct channel to being heard, strive to make serving on GradGov feasible for any graduate student in regard to time commitments and responsibilities, and strictly uphold full transparency,” Sarfraz wrote to The Hoya.
Curtis said that she will focus on improving communication between GradGov and the students it represents. 
“Putting communication at the foundation of my role will help us be more transparent and responsive to students, as well as be respectful of their perspectives and opinions as we move forward with major decisions,” Curtis wrote. 
The election turnout was higher than usual, with three times more Senators voting this year than last year and candidates running for every vacant position, according to Jonah Klempner (GRD ’22, LAW ’22) the outgoing president of the GradGov executive board.
“We had the first GradGov Presidential Debate that was live streamed and recorded. We had absentee voting, electronic voting and in person voting,” Klempner wrote to The Hoya. “Each candidate was given an opportunity to announce their candidacy which was followed by a campaign event for voters to come and get to know the candidates. Every candidate submitted a public letter of objectives, made a speech, fielded questions from the Senate.”
GradGov now represents a broader spectrum of graduate students. A Nov. 2021 referendum, which granted students from the School of Continuing Studies (SCS) full participation in GradGov, allowed students like Teresa Garcia-Bautista (GRD ’23), the newly elected Director of Communications, to run for executive board positions.
Eric Saldanha (GRD ’23), the newly appointed Chief of Staff, said that communication and representation of all graduate students are two of his top priorities for the next year.
“It’s vital that graduate students can trust and verify that their Student Government is actually working on their behalf. Ensuring that the graduate student voice is part of University decision-making across the administration,” Saldanha wrote to The Hoya. “This includes ensuring that relevant University committees have graduate student representation and that graduate students can contribute to University decision-making that impacts graduate students.”
Luopeng Zheng (GRD ’24), who ran for GradGov President, made unfounded allegations of candidate misconduct that questioned the legitimacy of the elections. Zheng sent out an email to all GradGov senators claiming that an unnamed presidential candidate was discouraging individuals from running in opposition to them, according to a Feb. 19 email obtained by The Hoya. At the time the allegations were issued, Zheng was the only candidate officially running for president, according to Sarfraz and Curtis. 
When Klempner asked for clarification and more details surrounding the nature of these allegations, Zheng did not comment any further on the issue, according to a Feb. 19 email obtained by The Hoya. 
Zheng did not respond to a request for comment from The Hoya.
David Zumbrennen (GRD ’23), the new director of programming, said that the election process was legitimate and fair.
“I believe that the elections were conducted fairly and accurately,” Zumbrennen wrote to The Hoya. “There was no fraud or any impropriety. Based on my knowledge I believe all accusations of fraud and impropriety to be false and designed to either undermine GradGov or the current or incoming leadership.” 
GradGov plays an essential role in connecting graduate students across the university, according to Sarfraz.
“GradGov is unique — it brings together people from across campus with different disciplines, interests and goals,” Sarfraz wrote. “Herein lies the most valuable part of the organization, and when organized efficiently, the possibilities are ample. Graduate school is all about time management, development and interest. I have always been a huge advocate that given the right tools and support, anything or anyone can go above and beyond.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

