
November 11, 2022 by Evie Steele Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University students will vote to elect seven Class of 2026 representatives and four at-large representatives in the Georgetown University Student Association (GUSA) Senate this week. 
Ten first-year and four at-large candidates have campaigned for the upcoming GUSA elections. Common issues appearing on candidates’ platforms included improving transportation, expanding dining options and increasing awareness about GUSA’s role on campus. Polls open Nov. 10 at 10 p.m. and will close Nov. 12 at 10 p.m.
First-year candidates include Meriam Ahmad (COL ’26), George Currie (COL ’26), Dylan Davis (COL ’26), Seth Edwards (COL ’26), Rhea Iyer (COL ’26), Taeeon Kong (COL ’26), Ryan Lee (SFS ’26), Hilary Orozco (COL ’26), Dylan Phan (COL ’26) and Andrew Wong (SFS ’26). 
Joshua Bernard-Pearl (SFS ’25), Rob Arzano (COL ’24), María Victoria Almeida Vazquez (SFS ’25) and incumbent Manahal Fazal (SFS ’24) are running uncontested for the at-large seats.
Iyer said she wants to ensure that Georgetown administrators better consider student concerns.
“At Georgetown, there’s a culture of the university administration ignoring student voices,” Iyer wrote to The Hoya. “But, there is also a thriving community of students who are working to uplift each other. I’m running for GUSA to ensure student voice is centered in all projects the university embarks on.”
Orozco said her goal is to better represent first-generation and low-income students if elected to GUSA. 
“I want to assist the first-generation community by allocating some of our resources to GSP (Georgetown Scholars Program) and cultural clubs that help minority students feel welcome within our community,” Orozco wrote to The Hoya. “As a first-generation and low-income student, focusing on the group that I am associated with allows me to connect closely with students on a personal level.”
Lee said ensuring that administrators are aware of GUSA’s actions and take resolutions seriously is important, suggesting that GUSA should routinely send resolutions to relevant administrators.
“Right now, passed resolutions aren’t even read by relevant administrators,” Lee wrote to The Hoya. “This is an issue when it comes to actualizing objectives outlined in a given resolution, because Senators and administrators aren’t on the same page. While Senators have lobbied and deliberated to get a resolution passed, administrators have no idea what’s going on.” 
Multiple candidates, including Phan and Ahmad, have called for the extension of hours at Leo’s until 9 p.m. Alternatively, Edwards said GUSA should consider the ways that change would affect campus staff. 
“I have avoided calling for longer Leo’s hours because from what I have heard from workers at Leo’s, it will put more weight upon them when they are already overburdened and underpaid,” Edwards wrote to The Hoya. “We need to place pressure upon the administration to meet workers’ demands, including hiring more workers, pushing for improved raises, and encouraging retention of existing staff over the usage of outside contractors.” 
Davis said his campaign is focused on creating more support for first-years through increasing funding for health services and advocating for more efficient responses to work orders.
“I have experienced firsthand the lack of support that many of us freshmen are facing during this crucial period of transition,” Davis wrote to The Hoya. “Whether in terms of the inefficient work order system, underfunded health resources like GERMS and CAPS, or lack of freshmen-specific resources, I know that I have the wherewithal, fortitude, and passion to be a strong advocate for the class of 2026.”
Ahmad, Iyer and Currie all said they want to expand Georgetown University Transportation Shuttle (GUTS) bus services to weekends and increase the geographic boundaries of SafeRide accessibility.
Currie in particular said it is important to listen to students’ concerns and expand GUTS services in accordance with their needs.
“It is essential to provide GUTS bus access on the weekends and expand the SafeRide program to make it more useful for students,” Currie wrote to The Hoya. “It will be difficult to bring about these programs, especially in a way that is sustainable and considerate for our Georgetown transportation workers.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


November 11, 2022 by Olivia Macaulay Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University Student Association (GUSA) senate and executive candidates spoke to students about their plans for future legislation and answered questions from voters during a Nov. 4 town hall event.
At the town hall, the three executive tickets — Camber Vincent (SFS ’24) and Alyssa Hirai (SFS ’24), Chijioke Achebe (SFS ’25) and Devon Pasieka (MSB ’25) and Spencer Woodall (MSB, SFS ’24) and Anya Caraiani (SFS ’24) — participated in the first of the three one-hour long discussions. Candidates responded to individual questions, and other candidates were allowed to respond if mentioned by name. The second session featured 10 first-year candidates who are vying for seven class of 2026 senate positions, while the four at-large senate candidates who are running uncontested spoke in the third session. The town hall took place in White-Gravenor Hall.
Moderators and students asked candidates about what strategies they will use to improve GUSA’s reputation, diversify student representation within the organization, improve the efficacy of GUSA’s communication with the student body and promote free speech on campus. 
Vincent, who currently serves as speaker of the GUSA Senate, said it is important that GUSA consider student voices when drafting resolutions.
“You don’t earn students’ trust by saying ‘you should give me your trust,’ you earn students’ trust by proving that you have earned it,” Vincent said at the event. “You do it by meeting with administrators, creating results and actually publicizing those results to make sure that students know that these resources are here for them and that their voices are being heard.” 
Pasieka said her and Achebe’s ticket has built their platform around reaffirming GUSA’s purpose to focus on improving students’ lives.
“Our platform is really centered around getting back to the core of what GUSA should be,” Pasieka said. “It should be about the students and making sure that every student at Georgetown should be able to have the most impact possible over however many years they have here.”
Caraiani is the only candidate who does not currently hold a position in GUSA, which Woodall said is an advantage for their ticket.
“I would like to point out that I’m the only ticket running with someone who’s a complete outsider to GUSA, so I bring new blood to the table, and I want to work with new senators and new people to make sure they can do whatever they can to implement their new ideas and bring new ideas to the table,” Woodall said at the event.
During the class of 2026 town hall, candidates discussed getting the Georgetown University Transportation Shuttle (GUTS) buses to operate on weekends, expanding GUSA’s budget and extending hours of operation at Leo J. O’Donovan Dining Hall.
Class of 2026 senate candidate Andrew Wong (SFS ’26), said underfunding of GUSA is a critical problem within GUSA that limits the body’s ability to create positive change on campus.
“Many of my candidates here will say ‘GUSA has lost trust,’ and ‘it’s an ineffective institution,’” Wong said. “I agree with that to a point, but I think the main issue here lies with the fact that GUSA is under-resourced and simply can’t fulfill all students’ expectations.”
Class of 2026 senate candidate Seth Edwards (COL ’26) said it is important to take into account the impact on Georgetown employees, not just on students, when working with the university to enact changes like extending dining hall hours.
“I think that what we often ignore running for GUSA is that some of our policies are going to have effects on workers,” Edwards said. “If we are extending Leo’s hours, that means that there’s gonna be another hour of a shift added to workers’ here. Listening to what they were saying, they are already treated poorly by the university, and they don’t need students to be pressuring them into a higher workload.”
Audience member Kayla Barnes (SFS ’26) said many of the first-year candidates seemed dedicated to making real differences if elected.
“I’m not going to lie, most of the time when I think of GUSA I think of wannabe politicians,” Barnes wrote. “However, there were quite a few people like Ryan, Dylan, Hilary, and Seth who changed my mind. I felt like they genuinely wanted to make a difference.”
At-large candidate Rob Arzano (COL ’24) said GUSA should work to prevent the university from further raising tuition costs after 11 straight years of tuition hikes.
“I feel like GUSA has not done enough to put pressure on the university for raising tuition, so that we can try to get the alumni to understand that we want them to withhold dowries or donations or any sort of funds from the university so that they go directly to clubs,” Arzano said at the event.
The other candidates running for Class of 2026 senate positions alongside Wong and Edwards are Meriam Ahmad (COL ’26), George Currie (COL ’26), Dylan Davis (COL ’26), Rhea Iyer (COL  ’26), Taeeon Kong (COL ’26), Ryan Lee (SFS ’26), Hilary Orozco (COL ’26) and Dylan Phan (COL ’26). Besides Arzano, the other at-large candidates, all of whom are running unopposed, include María Victoria Almeida Vazquez (SFS ’25), Joshua Bernard-Pearl (SFS ’25) and Manahal Fazal (SFS ’24), who is an incumbent.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

