
April 8, 2022 by Adora Zheng Leave a Comment 
After spending three days in the Houston library archives, watching hours of film and reviewing 4000 pictures of newspaper clippings, manifestos and letters, Catherine Shonack (COL ’22) was ready to tell the story of the Huelga schools.
The Georgetown University Mask and Bauble Dramatic Society’s play “Huelga!” tells the story of a group of Latinx advocates’ fight for recognition as a minority group in Houston, alongside two other productions in its annual Donn B. Murphy One Acts Festival on April 7. 
The production was written by Shonack, who first read about the Huelga schools in a history class in the fall of 2020 and decided to go to Houston to do further research for the play in December 2021. 
Shonack said the show covers the advocates’ efforts to secure a better education for Mexican American students in Houston.
“It’s really centered on the activists doing the best that they can to fight for the education that they think their kids and their community deserve,” Shonack told The Hoya. “They’re seeing that the school district is taking advantage of the fact that some Mexican Americans have white skin and had fought to be white previously to force unequal integration in the schools and pair disadvantaged communities together as opposed to giving kids the chance for equal education.”
Maggie Cammaroto (COL ’22), director of “Huelga!,” said viewers can expect singing, dancing and a staged reading of firsthand accounts by the activists.
Shonack and Cammaroto prioritized including students who identified as Latinx in “Huelga!” While the original version of the show had seven Latinx characters, only three Latinx-identifying actors auditioned, with just two opting to stay as part of the cast. As a result, Cammaroto and Shonack decided to restructure the script around the Latinx actors that they had on board.
Cammaroto said that “Huelga!” now takes the form of a reading set in a modern school. 
“I actually appear on stage as a professor in the very beginning and the very end saying, ‘We’re going to learn about Huelga schools today. Open your books up, and we’re going to be reading firsthand accounts of what happened,’” Cammaroto told The Hoya. 
Ulises Olea Tapia (SFS ’25), festival publicity director, said that Georgetown’s predominantly white population made casting Latinx actors more difficult. 
“Because Georgetown is a PWI, it is hard already to find Latinx people, and then to find the subset within the subset, like Latinx people who like theater, who are willing to give that type of time commitment, is even harder,” Olea Tapia told The Hoya. “There were even talks about possibly not doing ‘Huelga!,’ but we truly believe that telling these stories is fundamental.”
The change forced the cast to start from scratch after learning choreography and scenes that would no longer be included, but Cammaroto said it was necessary to preserve the authenticity of the history.
“I knew that was the right decision and that would be in the service of the story,” Cammaroto said. “It’s been quite a journey — I’ve had to switch things around and the cast has been so patient and resilient through all of that, and I think it’s finally starting to feel like we’re comfortable with the material.”
Shonack said having Latinx-identifying actors play the advocates was essential, even if that meant having to cut some characters. 
“As a writer, it’s always difficult to get rid of characters — I feel like after doing all the research and reading about their lives and experiences I got to know them so well, so to pick and choose between them, it feels like picking and choosing between your kids,” Shonack said. “I think for me, having people of Mexican American heritage or Latino heritage playing these characters was something that was really important to me.”
Olea Tapia said the production is important for the representation of Latinx people in theater.
“Next time, more people will show up because they will see themselves represented in the stories we tell,” Olea Tapia said. “Continuing to tell these stories is hugely, hugely important.”
Shonack said she is excited for the community to see a show that features Latinx actors and tells Latinx stories.
“I think in my time at Georgetown, I’ve never seen a play that really starred Latina actors,” Shonack said. “I’m just excited for everyone to see the story and really feel the passion and the struggles that these activists faced. It’s these people going out there, everyday people doing what they believe is best for their future because they didn’t get the same opportunities as other people do. And I just really hope that their story resonates with people that come and see it.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 8, 2022 by Caleb Richmond Leave a Comment 
In an increasingly interconnected and polarized world, intergovernmental organizations and powerful nations must uphold international law and respect the sovereignty of smaller states, Samoan Prime Minister Fiamē Naomi Mata‘afa said at an April 4 virtual event.
The event, titled the “Peter Tali Coleman Lecture on Pacific Public Policy,” consisted of a lecture hosted by Georgetown University’s Center for Australian, New Zealand and Pacific Studies (CANZPS) in commemoration of the legacy of Peter Tali Coleman, the first ethnically Samoan and popularly-elected governor of American Samoa. 
The event was part of the Blue Pacific Futures lecture series, hosted jointly by CANZPS and the Center for Pacific Island Studies at the University of Hawai‘i at Mānoa. 
Mata‘afa, a member of the new Fa‘atuatua i le Atua Samoa ua Tasi Party, became Samoa’s first female prime minister in July 2021, putting an end to the 40 year rule of her opponent’s party, the Human Rights Protection Party. 
Samoa is a Polynesian island country consisting of two main islands, two small inhabited islands and several small uninhabited islands. The country is 1,093 square miles in size and has a population of 198,410 people as of 2020.
Mata‘afa said that Samoa’s voice on the global stage is crucial, particularly when it comes to handling issues that distinctly impact islands and their inhabitants. 
“The objectives of Samoa’s foreign policy are to protect Samoa’s independence and sovereignty, to expand opportunities for our citizens to overcome our geographic limits, and notwithstanding the current challenging environment, to leverage our strong relationships with global partners to Build Back Better post-COVID-19 and to continually address the formidable challenges of climate change, considered the single greatest threat to small island countries of the Pacific and our peoples’ livelihoods,” Mata‘afa said.
International relationships help overcome difficulties that arise with Samoa’s status as a small country, according to Mata‘afa.
“These have facilitated the negotiation of our positions, the implementation of our obligations, as well as developed new opportunities to expand trade for Samoa through development cooperation,” Mata‘afa said. “Our ministry of foreign affairs and trade is very small. Our overseas representation is even smaller. One can therefore imagine the strain on our limited resources from the many complex structures and processes of multilateral diplomacy.” 
Mata‘afa said that a strong alliance of Pacific island states is key to amplifying all of their respective voices on the global stage.
“The common and united nature of island countries often represents a formidable voting bloc in the United Nations, and the ability to influence the shaping of global decisions facilitated by the United Nations,” Mata‘afa said. “Given our obvious limited resources, diplomacy is vital in our approach to ensure our place and role in international peace, security, cooperation, prosperity and the protection of human rights.”
Even if all Pacific island nations work in collaboration and partnership, Mata‘afa said that international laws regarding each nation’s sovereignty must be upheld for the voices of small nations to be heard. 
“The expansion of Samoa’s presence overseas is important in sustaining our international relationships to achieve the objectives of our foreign policy and to ensure our priorities and interests remain high on the agenda of the region and the U.N.,” Mata‘afa said
An example of Samoa’s increasing international presence is the recent opening of the Samoa High Commission to Fiji, which aims to create a point of contact between Samoa and other nations in the Pacific Islands Forum. Samoa plans to continue to expand by opening a permanent mission in Geneva in the coming months.
Mata‘afa believes in diplomacy as a means to further the interests and well-being of Samoa, as well as other small nations. 
“We want practical benefits. We want to achieve real outcomes. We want to improve the way we interact in the international arena,” Mata‘afa said. “We may not be a powerhouse in the global order, but we will not be discouraged or compromised in our determination and commitment to inspirational leadership of Samoa, and of our Blue Pacific continent, and the maintenance of peace and security, prosperity and wellbeing of all Pacific peoples.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 8, 2022 by Adora Zheng 1 Comment 
More than 240 students have signed on to a petition urging Georgetown University to expand South Asia-related curricula and institutional support.   
The petition calls on the university to increase its offerings of South Asian languages, South Asia-related courses and university sponsored academic programming. The petition, which was written by Nikash Harapanahalli (SFS ’24), Suhani Garg (SFS ’23) and Shevani Tewari (SFS ’24), also calls on the university to hire more faculty members who are experts in the region of South Asia. 
South Asian students deserve the opportunity to study their diverse heritage at Georgetown, the petition says.  
“Academic discussions about South Asia must reflect this innate diversity of the region and its people,” the petition reads. 
The university currently offers 14 languages that students can pursue as a major or minor, none of which are South Asian. Next fall, students can take coursework in Sanskrit and seven Hindi classes, according to the fall 2022 class schedule.   
Despite South Asia being home to hundreds of languages, the university has failed to expand offerings to include South Asian languages, Harapanahalli said.    
“South Asia has over 650 languages. It has every single major world religion. It has a history stretching back to the first civilizations. Yet at the best institution for international relations, there is almost nothing for a structured and long-term degree program or certificate program,” Harapanahalli told The Hoya. “My freshman fall, there were no South Asian languages offered.”
According to the MyAccess records of the fall 2020 course offerings for undergraduate students, Georgetown did not offer any South Asian language courses.   
Professor C. Christine Fair, who was the first professor to sign the petition, said this effort is a step in the right direction.
“This is the first real show of force among our students, the first and most significant push towards the university leadership,” Fair told The Hoya. “I’m here to support it. I’ll do everything I can to support these students.” 
However, Fair said language expansion efforts can be complex and costly, requiring student commitment to enroll from the introductory level until reaching proficiency. 
“We have an obligation to get those who want proficiency to proficiency, and you can see how that’s a geometric expansion of manpower with each additional year,” Fair said. “To get the university to invest in that commitment, we need students who are going to vote with their feet and take those classes.”
The petition also calls for the creation of an interdisciplinary academic program that would focus on all of South Asia. This program, according to the petition, should replace Georgetown’s “India Initiative” which only advances research and teaching around India with relation to global affairs.
Georgetown is committed to exploring course options that reflect the broad interests of students, according to a university spokesperson. 
“Georgetown thrives by sharing our extraordinary range of life experiences and learning from our differences, and is committed to making sure that campus programs and services respond to the needs of all students,” the spokesperson wrote to The Hoya.
The university is working to increase South Asian course offerings, as well as creating a more diverse faculty, according to the spokesperson. 
“Our Asian Studies program recognizes the need to deepen engagement with the South Asia region and is actively working on efforts to expand our course offerings, convenings and opportunities to understand the critical importance of South Asia to global affairs,” the spokesperson wrote. 
Professor Shareen Joshi, an India and South Asia scholar, said the petition will show the university how much student support there is for South Asian studies.  
“At Georgetown, if you want to see a new curriculum and you want to see change, you can certainly have your voice heard,” Joshi told The Hoya. 
Harapanahalli said it was meaningful to see so much support from students and faculty for South Asian studies. 
“Seeing faculty support means that there are people in our community that want to see this happen, that want to see South Asia and South Asian dignity honored, that want to see the vibrancy of this subcontinent — home for our parents and for hundreds of students here at Georgetown — being meaningfully studied and discussed,” Harapanahalli said. “The petition would have allowed us to show that our community, whether you’re South Asian or not, deserves better.”
Joshi said the student and faculty support is there, and that the university has the resources to make this change. 
“We have the expertise, we have pretty much everything we need to do this,” Joshi said. “When the will is there, I believe it will happen.” 
This article was updated on 4/8 to remove a quote for factual concerns. 

SFS'23! says 
April 13, 2022 at 4:16 pm
Great work by the students! SFS must be more diverse it espouses to be global!
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

