
February 11, 2022 by Kirit Minhas and Samuel Yoo Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University Student Association (GUSA) presidential candidates discussed how to best address the needs of the campus community during the executive presidential debate Feb. 8. 
Thomas Leonard (COL ’23) and Kole Wolfe (SFS ’24), candidates for the presidency of the GUSA Executive, answered questions about the GUSA budget, COVID-19 policies and campus safety. The GUSA Election Commission moderated the Zoom debate while both audience members and commission members asked questions. 
Leonard, who is running alongside vice presidential candidate Nirvana Khan (SFS ’24), currently serves as the vice president of the GUSA Executive and is involved in the transfer council, Georgetown Collegiate Investors (GCI) and intramural basketball. 
Wolfe, who is running alongside vice presidential candidate Zeke Ume-Ukeje (COL ’24), has no previous GUSA experience and is a writer for Thompson’s Towel, a student-run website devoted to covering Georgetown basketball. He is also a founder and board member of GEMA, the undergraduate function of the Georgetown Entertainment and Media Alliance, and a member of GCI. 
[Disclaimer: Kole Wolfe served as a Staff Writer for The Hoya in spring 2021.]
Marcella Wiggan (COL ’23), who is running as a write-in presidential candidate, answered questions through the Zoom chat function because write-in candidates who are not on the official ballot cannot participate in the debate. Wiggan, who is running with vice presidential candidate Otice Cander (COL ’23), is the MOSAIC Outreach Director, as well as the site visits committee chair for the Social Responsibility Network (SRN), a mentorship program for Georgetown College students interested in pursuing service-based careers. 
The Wolfe-Ume ticket plans to use approximately $20,000 to concentrate its efforts on student engagement, including funding for the Center for Social Justice (CSJ), according to Wolfe.
“It’s actually very similar to the previous administration’s plan, which was passed, so we don’t really think we’ll encounter many issues there,” Wolfe said at the debate. “A few changes here and there, but basically all the direct impact initiatives will remain, and we’ve added some CSJ-related funding.”
The Leonard-Khan campaign hopes to expand the budget to better support organizations both on and off campus, Leonard said.
“We have increased a number of funding as it relates to social programming,” Leonard said at the debate. “A big focus for Nirvana and I is working outside of the front gates of Georgetown to ensure that we are supporting mutual aid organizations, such as GU Mutual Aid.”
The candidates answered questions regarding residential safety concerns after a series of intrusions into residence halls last semester. Each candidate, including those involved in write-in campaigns, expressed a desire to improve current policy on residential safety concerns. 
Georgetown should adopt similar safety measures to other universities in an effort to increase campus safety, according to Wolfe.
“I’m not exactly sure what my stance is on abolishing GUPD,” Wolfe said. “I think that might be a bit ambitious at the moment, but just a few miles down the road at American, they’ve been implementing some safety measures that I think would be very useful at Georgetown. One example of that is the Rave Guardian app.”
The Rave Guardian app, as Wolfe suggested, turns cell phones into personal safety devices equipped with a panic button, anonymous crime tip texting and the ability for selected individuals to see a user’s location in the event of an emergency. 
Cases of discrimination must be addressed when taking campus safety into account, according to Wiggan.
“Expose and condemn racial disparities in administration of disciplinary measures as they pertain to drug-related charges against students and how such charges disproportionately impact financial aid,” Wiggan wrote in the Zoom chat during the debate. “Disciplinary measures for drug-related charges against students are administered with racial disparity- we pledge to challenge this. Activists on campus are working to cut ties with the Metropolitan Police Department.”
Although Georgetown is largely supervised by GUPD, its own police force commissioned by the city, GUPD still works closely with the Metropolitan Police Department (MPD) to prevent and deter crime on campus and in the surrounding area. 
The university should emphasize protecting and prioritizing the needs of the victims of dangerous campus incidents, Leonard said.
“As we continue to navigate our administrative responsibility to address GUPD, we simply need to ensure that they’re held accountable and that voices are supported and that victims have a much more substantial relationship with GUPD, and that harassment, of course, does not continue to persist at our university,” Leonard said.
All candidates agreed that reparation efforts for the descendants of the GU 272 — the 314 enslaved people sold by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus in 1838 to financially sustain Georgetown — should continue and that GUSA and students should continue to pressure the university to take action. 
Candidates also answered questions pertaining to COVID-19 policies, as the pandemic continues to impact life at Georgetown with the spring 2022 semester starting with virtual instruction and limited on-campus amenities and facilities. 
The university should prioritize the needs of immunocompromised populations on campus and provide hybrid learning options, according to Leonard.
“Our utmost priority is that the decisions the university makes are in line with making sure our immunocompromised populations on campus are protected, and I think that that has already been demonstrated by the university in their hybrid learning option,” Leonard said. “That’s something that we absolutely want to bring back as we continue to navigate the coronavirus pandemic.”
While the Wolfe-Ume campaign is also committed to protecting immunocompromised students, Wolfe contends that a hybrid learning option takes away from the traditional learning experience.
“At Georgetown, we’ve been online for a year now, and we’re all college students,” Wolfe said. “One of the main reasons we go to college is to meet new people and have traditional experiences associated with going to college.”
Voting opens Feb. 10 and closes Feb. 12.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 11, 2022 by Brooke DeLucia and Samuel Yoo Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University Student Association (GUSA) vice presidential candidates discussed plans to better represent the Georgetown community at this year’s GUSA vice presidential debate. 
At the Feb. 7 debate, candidates Nirvana Khan (SFS ’24) and Zeke Ume-Ukeje (COL ’24) answered questions about GUSA’s relationship with the campus community, student outreach and their policy platform priorities. Campaigns also discussed whether previous GUSA experience was valuable for much of the debate. The Zoom event was moderated by the GUSA Election Commission and included questions asked by both the audience and members of the commission. 
Zeke Ume-Ukeje, who is running with presidential candidate Kole Wolfe (SFS ’24), has no prior GUSA experience and is currently a member of the men’s club soccer team and the African Society of Georgetown. 
[Full disclosure: Wolfe previously served as a Hoya Staffer] 
Khan, who is running with presidential candidate Thomas Leonard (COL ’23), currently serves as the GUSA Senate’s policy and advocacy chair, the multicultural chair for the South Asian Society, and secretary for the Philodemic Society. Khan previously served as GUSA’s senate outreach chair and as a member of the Finance and Appropriation Committee. 
Not having previous experience with GUSA gives the Wolfe-Ume ticket a valuable outsider perspective, according to Ume-Ukeje.
“I don’t come from the GUSA pipeline, but that doesn’t mean that we still can’t be effective and really trying to institute serious change,” Ume-Ukeje said at the debate. “I’m not part of GUSA right now. I consider myself a normal student who has no experience in GUSA, but is interested in meeting students’ needs.” 
In the past, GUSA has been criticized for being hierarchical and senators have resigned citing that the GUSA senate is toxic and unsupportive. Last fall, these criticisms led to efforts within the organization to restructure how GUSA operates, including a proposal to abolish the senate. However, these efforts ultimately failed when too few students voted in the November election. 
If elected, the Wolfe-Ume ticket would use their existing network to motivate more students to become involved in GUSA, according to Ume-Ukeje.   
“We believe that based on our social network, our professional network, our relationships with faculty and staff, we can certainly get a larger majority, a larger group of students to get involved in GUSA,” Ume-Ukeje said.   
Khan responded that involvement in GUSA does not mean she cannot reach the broader student population to address their needs. 
“I definitely do work in GUSA but I feel I’m really connected to people outside of GUSA and most of the communities I’m a part of aren’t a part of GUSA and have the same concerns,” Khan said during the debate. 
If elected, the Leonard-Khan campaign will build on the work done by the preceding administration with president Nile Blass (COL ’22) and former vice president Nicole Sanchez (SFS ’22), who resigned last fall, according to Khan.
Khan said if elected her administration will build on the work she has already done within GUSA. 
“Advocacy, advocacy, advocacy. That’s the most important thing I’ve done, I think in my senate career with the Georgetown Coalition for Workers Rights, we did letter writing campaigns, we reached out to campus media for GU272. Putting pressure on the administration happens inside and outside meetings,” Khan said. “And I don’t think anybody has more experience or knowledge of that or ability to do so than Thomas and I.” 
Following the mistreatment of workers by the university during the COVID-19 pandemic, students and staff created the Georgetown Coalition for Workers’ Rights, which advocates for better working conditions and increased safety. 
In 2019, GUSA passed a referendum in support of a reconciliation fund, which would be allocated to descendants of the GU272, the 314 enslaved people sold by the Maryland Province of the Society of Jesus in 1838 to financially sustain Georgetown. In November 2021, following inaction from the university, GUSA held an event titled “Georgetown F*cking Lied” to demand the enactment of the referendum. 
The Leonard-Khan ticket is also campaigning for student needs including working with the student health center to provide STI testing, creating a new cultural climate survey that centers the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on student mental health, advocating for more sustainable practices on campus, and pushing for the implementation of Latinx, Asian American, South Asian, and environmental studies.  
While he acknowledged the work done by the current administration, Ume-Ukeje said GUSA is out of touch with students. 
“We think that there’s been some inefficiency in GUSA, so far. We think that we represent a new demographic of students and voters at the school,” Ume-Ukeje said. 
The Wolfe-Ume ticket is dedicated to uplifting the voices of all students and bringing awareness to the GU272, according to Ume-Ukeje. 
“People have criticized us for our seriousness or qualifications and whether we deserve to be candidates on this ticket,” Ume-Ukeje said. “We’re dedicated to reaching out to groups of people who haven’t been involved in just stuff. We’re dedicated to bringing more awareness to GU272, working and making new and efficient direct impact initiatives, and continuing on the great work that has already been done, but also acknowledging that there’s still more to be done.” 
Wolfe and Ume-Ukeje have centered their campaign on making campus clubs easier to join; collaborating with Georgetown Center for Social Justice to create low barrier to entry clubs targeted towards direct action; allocating funding for SNAPS, a student neighborhood patrol organization, and toward grants for low income students; and pressuring the university to act on the GU272 referendum. 
Despite believing her opponents are not serious, Khan said both campaigns hope to change the relationship between GUSA and the student body. 
“Being willfully ignorant, not attempting to get involved, not reaching to those marginalized communities at all. I would say that’s the biggest weakness I see in my opponents’ campaigns,” Khan said. “I think a strength is realizing that GUSA doesn’t reach out to the student body enough and that it needs to change.” 
In her closing remarks, Khan urged all students to participate in the GUSA executive election. 
“I know a lot of people don’t think this, but GUSA is incredibly important because it has a huge impact on the lives of marginalized populations at Georgetown,” Khan said. “I know this because I’m low income and without student advocacy, I wouldn’t be able to attend this school. So even if you think GUSA doesn’t matter, this election is so important.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

