
January 29, 2023 by Michelle Vassilev and Nina Raj Leave a Comment 
CW: This article discusses antisemitism and violence against Jewish communities. Please refer to the end of the article for on- and off-campus resources.
A Georgetown University community member reported the presence of a swastika on the second floor of first-year residence building Darnall Hall. 
The Georgetown University Police Department (GUPD) received notice of antisemitic graffiti on the wall of the dorm, prompting Jewish students to express concerns about feeling safe and welcomed on campus. The graffiti is not the first instance of antisemitism at Georgetown this academic year. Various campus buildings, including Jewish Living Learning Community Bayit, found antisemitic pamphlets outside their doors Nov. 18, 2022. A few days later, on Nov. 21, 2022, students reported a swastika painted on the sidewalk along Reservoir Road. 
Darnall second-floor resident Naomi Gould (CAS ’26), who is Jewish, said simply reading headlines about antisemitism does not compare to seeing a swastika so close to her own bedroom. 
“I have seen antisemitism in the news, vandalism in the news,” Gould told The Hoya. “It’s just another thing when it is right in front of your face, in the place where you live, so it felt way more intrusive.”
Gould said the swastika negatively impacted the campus Jewish community by increasing feelings of fear and marginalization. 
“Anything, whether it seems big or small, does add up, especially being such a small minority on this campus,” Gould said. “It can kind of make you feel uncomfortable in your own skin.”
Other universities, including George Washington University and Cornell University, have also reported a rise in antisemitic hate crimes on their campuses. This is in the wake of a 14% increase of antisemitic vandalism in the United States from 2020 to 2021, according to the Anti-Defamation League (ADL). Furthermore, the ADL found that antisemitic incidents in the United States reached an all-time high in 2021. The ADL has not yet released statistics on antisemitism in 2022. 
Jewish Student Alliance (JSA) co-President Chloe Schneider (CAS ’24) said public symbols of hatred deeply impact the well-being of Jewish students at Georgetown.
“My initial reaction was definitely shock and disgust, but mostly sadness,” Schneider told The Hoya. “I just knew immediately the implications that this kind of thing would have for students in the Jewish community.”
Rabbi Daniel Schaefer, interim director for Jewish Life, condemned the incident and expressed his dismay over the act of hate.
“When I first heard about the antisemitic graffiti in the dorm, I was shocked and upset, but mostly concerned for the students who live in Darnall,” Schaefer wrote to The Hoya. “While antisemitism is on the rise nationwide, it’s still hard to believe it can happen here. When you see a symbol of hate in your home or your friend’s home, there’s no doubt it is scary and upsetting.” 
After receiving the complaint of the antisemitic graffiti, GUPD alerted members of the campus community, according to a university spokesperson.
“We strongly condemn antisemitism in all its forms, and acts of hatred have no place in our community. We stand together with our Jewish community and its allies,” the spokesperson wrote to The Hoya. 
JSA co-President Joseph Abergel (CAS ’23) said antisemitic graffiti on campus like the recent swastika makes him feel less comfortable openly expressing his Jewish identity around other students.
“It decreases the opportunity for Jews to actually express their Judaism on campus,” Abergel told The Hoya. “If there is an environment where there are a lot of stereotypical antisemitic tropes, then, as a Jew, would I want to put my kippah on?”
Gould said she has since taken time out of her week to speak with an on-campus rabbi to cope with the impact of the incident.
“Personally, the past few days I have been having trouble focusing on my school work, whether that has been because there is so much happening on social media or just trying to process my emotions,” Gould told The Hoya. “It is physically disruptive to just being a Georgetown student.”
Schneider said she and other JSA board members opened their apartments to house Jewish students who feel afraid in their own living spaces in light of the graffiti. 
“No student should feel afraid on their own campus,” Schneider said. “We should not have to house students outside of their own dorms so that they feel safe.” 
In response to the most recent incident, multiple on-campus groups, including JSA, Georgetown University College Democrats and Georgetown University College Republicans, have taken public stands in solidarity against antisemitism.
Schaefer said students have come together to support one another as they process their emotions following the event.
“There’s a range of understandable feelings amongst students — fear, anger, indifference, and exhaustion,” Schaefer wrote. “However, what has amazed me is the way that our students have responded — by caring for each other, organizing a response, and building solidarity with other groups and communities on campus.” 
The swastika’s location in a first-year dorm amplified its negative effect on the community, according to Schneider. 
“To me it was especially sad that it was in a freshman dorm because I think it is such an unwelcoming feeling for people who have just started off at Georgetown and do not know just how rich the Jewish community here is,” Schneider said. 
Addressing root causes of xenophobia through a more inclusive and diverse curriculum is the best response to incidents of antisemitism, according to Gould.
“Combating ignorance is the best way to combat bigotry,” Gould said. 
Schneider said groups like JSA will continue to celebrate their Jewish identity and culture despite these acts of hate. 
“We are here, and we are not going away,” Schneider said. “While this may have happened, that does not take away from the strength of the Jewish community here at Georgetown.”
Resources: On-campus resources include Health Education Services (202-687-8949) and Counseling and Psychiatric Service (202-687-7080); to report an incident of hate or bias on campus, refer to the Georgetown University Bias Reporting website. Off-campus resources include the Metropolitan Police Department (MPD). In the event of an emergency, dial 911. To report a hate crime, contact the MPD Hate Crimes Voicemail (202) 727-0500 or the Hate Crimes Coordinator ([email protected]).
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


January 29, 2023 by Michelle Vassilev and Nina Raj Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Institute of Politics and Public Service (GU Politics) fellows for the Spring 2023 semester sat down with The Hoya to explore the political lessons the next generation can learn, highlights of their careers and predictions for the future of the U.S. government.
This semester’s fellows include MJ Lee (COL ’09), senior White House correspondent for CNN; Elaine Luria, former U.S. representative (D-Va.); Michael Ricci, former director of communications for former House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.); Mike Shields, former chief of staff of the Republican National Committee (RNC); Chris Stirewalt, senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute; and Jonae Wartel, former director for the Democratic U.S. Senate runoff elections in Georgia.
All fellows will host discussion groups with students throughout the semester to discuss current events and share their insights on politics.
If there was one lesson about politics you could impart to college students, what would it be?
Shields: I would say take part in it. Even if that’s not what you’re studying, it’s still going to impact your life. There’s almost nothing that you’re going to do when you leave here that won’t be impacted by politics, government or public service.
Lee: Staying open-minded. I know that the way I see politics now is very different from what I thought American politics was when I was an undergrad here. 
Wartel: As much as we focus on the national political landscape and the big headlines, I think also focusing on local politics and state politics. I think that often gets overlooked in the major headlines. 
Luria: Having had a bit of a different career and serving two decades in the military, people often don’t think of their jobs as political in nature. But politics influences the daily lives of every American, and the decisions that are made by those elected officials impact everything from our national defense to turning on your faucet and having clean water. So being engaged in the process is going to make sure that you have the right people at every level of government who share your values and can help make those decisions that will make a better environment for your family and the community. 
Stirewalt: Politics is not the point of anything. Politics is what we do so that we can have nice things. Politics is what we do to resolve our disputes and resolve our differences. It’s not the purpose of life. It is something that we do to make the other parts of life better and possible.
Ricci: I would say make it as much about the journey and the process as possible, as opposed to the outcome. I know it sounds quite cheesy, but I can say this on the back end of 18 years as a staffer, you want to enjoy it as much as possible because a lot of people make it miserable. You should get fulfillment out of what you’re doing and making a difference.
What has been the most memorable or exciting moment of your career thus far? 
Shields: I’d say probably the most exciting was election night in 2010. I’d run the House Republican television ad campaigns, the best way to describe it, for us to win Congress. And we did, and a smashing victory, so that was probably the most exciting. 
Lee: I recently went on a White House trip to cover President Biden traveling to Korea, and I think that was extremely meaningful for me. I was born there, all of my family is still there other than my immediate family members, and the first day I got there, I got to see my grandfather, some of my aunts and my uncles, and it was this very surreal moment. My parents didn’t have anything growing up. They dreamed of a life for me and my brother in the United States, and I dreamt of being a journalist my entire career or my entire life since I was little.
Wartel: I was the runoff director for the Senate runoffs in Georgia. Obviously, that was a huge election, both for our country and for the state of Georgia. But also, it had a lot of personal meaning for me. I think that was one of those moments where you really see your career come full circle. I started in Georgia politics because I wanted to make a difference at home. I had worked on the Obama campaign, and I saw us have this huge national victory, and it was such a big moment for our country, being the first African American president. I wanted to do something that had impact for my family and the communities that I grew up in.
Stirewalt: I grew up in West Virginia, and I treasure the fact that people from my hometown in my home state think that I’m a good representative of my state. That’s something that means a lot to me. 
What do you think America’s political climate will look like in 10 years?
Luria: I think each of us has a level of optimism. We know it’s a difficult time, and we feel that to students here at Georgetown, this is all they’ve known. This, essentially, since they’ve been of an age to pay attention that this is how politics looks to them. But we know, being a little older, that it’s not how it should look. And we kind of have seen an arc or trajectory to get back to a place where there’s political discourse without the hatred and vitriol that we see today.
Stirewalt: I do think there’s lots of reasons for hope. The best way to get good at something fast is to play for more than you can afford to lose. And we have experienced in 2020, in 2021 and subsequent events that this last best hope of earth could go away and that the liberty and safety and freedom that we enjoy in this country, we could lose. And I think that awareness is itself the remedy.
Lee: We will, in part, still be reeling from the moment we’re in now and the period that we’ve just lived through. The optimistic part of me thinks that we will be looking back and knowing and realizing that everything that is fundamental to this country is stronger than a moment in time.
Wartel: My hope is that we have a democracy that is in, whatever ways it needs to be, more representative of the people that it serves. I think we’re still a long way away from people really seeing their ideas and their ideals reflected in our elected bodies, both at the local level and at the national level. 
How can bipartisan dialogue be facilitated, and what is the media’s role in enabling it, if any?
Lee: I think it’s our responsibility to, sometimes, as appropriate, cover the planes that do land, not just the planes that don’t land; cover the bills that do pass, not just the bills that don’t pass; and cover the stories when the two parties work together and not only when they are in conflict.
Stirewalt: The incentive structure for us in the media is to play to the worst impulses, the quickest click, and we have propagated cruelty. We have rewarded vitriol, and we have done all those things. And some of that’s just a byproduct of free expression and a free society. That’s just what you’re gonna get. When you have information, you will have misinformation and malinformation. That’s part of the price of freedom, but, as I said before, we’re aware of the cost now. 
Shields: Social media in particular is profiting off of conflict amongst a few people that drown out the majority of other voices, so that people are titillated by it, and they then make money from advertising to that. So I think when people can break out of that, they are relieved. When they get to have face-to-face interactions, the temperature always goes down.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

