
April 14, 2023 by Evie Steele Leave a Comment 
Four months into their term, the Georgetown University Student Association (GUSA) executive team is focused on building institutional knowledge and implementing long-term change within GUSA’s internal structures and Georgetown’s administrative processes, according to GUSA President Camber Vincent (SFS ’24) and Vice President Alyssa Hirai (SFS ’24). 
Vincent and Hirai have overseen the implementation of short-term policies including the return of weekend Georgetown University Transportation Shuttle (GUTS) services and longer-term initiatives, such as planning for the new Capitol Campus in downtown Washington.
Vincent and Hirai sat down with The Hoya to discuss their administration’s successes thus far, ongoing projects and goals for the remainder of their term. 
The following has been edited for length and clarity.
Give us a rundown of your term so far. 
Vincent: The term so far has been a little bit hectic. A lot of it has been oriented around rebuilding institutional knowledge and our structure. I feel like we’ve gotten a decent amount of good work done during our time so far. A lot of time that I’ve spent both last semester and this semester has been really focused on projects that will largely only impact students long after I’m gone, and after a lot of these students are gone. That’s the other part that’s a little bit hectic, is just being unable to clearly dictate what the impact of my work is going to be, because it won’t be realized for several years. 
In terms of policy, what would you say has been your administration’s biggest accomplishment so far?
Vincent: Getting GUTS buses back on weekends. I like to highlight that one just because I think that it directly impacts students’ daily lives the most out of the work I’ve been able to do, which is one of the things that the Student Association struggles with a lot. It’s just kind of hard to directly impact day-to-day lives with the policy work that you can do. So whenever we have successes like that, it’s great. Finalizing the collegiate readership program. Financial Accessibility’s established a fully fledged bridge summer emergency housing program. With Capitol Campus planning, we took the plan from a very rough stage to a far more developed stage. I’ll hope to come back in four years and ask, “Do you guys know about Capitol Campus? Do you like it?” And I hope people say yes. Our general expectation is that most people are going to say no. 
The other thing that I’m proud of is the work that we’ve done building out of the GU Protects Racists movement. We’ve taken a lot of demands that were argued for in these protests, the larger demands about Black students on campus. Envisioning a new communal space for Black students on campus outside of the Black House. Revamping how we do bias response on campus. Bias navigators, people who are there to walk you through part one all the way through part 100 of the entire bias process system. 
Hirai: For me, it’s not one specific policy, but reestablishing relations and reestablishing lost institutional memory. A lot of things that used to be normal on campus were lost completely during COVID. So I think reestablishing those relationships with admin and clubs and trying to revive and make sure that we pass it down to the next administration, I think is the most important project.
What has it been like working with university administration throughout your term? 
Hirai: I think it’s been a positive experience so far. We’ve been having a lot of different meetings this semester with the new student affairs vice president.
Vincent: She’s been really great. She has been a phenomenal resource. At the end of the day, you can ask and ask and advocate and plan and do all the work for admin themselves, but unless an admin actually says yes, nothing gets done. Generally speaking, it’s been a really good working relationship with them that I appreciate. 
What more do you hope to get done during the rest of your term? 
Vincent: Our big focus is on the upcoming election — we have a referendum on increasing the student activities fee. Clubs currently have to go so far, harass every single department on campus to try and get a couple extra hundred dollars for events. It’s just not a good system right now. We also want to try and get back to what GUSA used to do. We used to have a lot more events that were public-facing that could bring the community together. 
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


April 14, 2023 by Julia Butler Leave a Comment 
Georgetown University students may soon give their last wave to the Optimus Prime and Bumblebee Transformers statues that line many Hoyas’ walks to class. 
The Old Georgetown Board (OGB), a Washington, D.C. government advisory board of three architects who review Georgetown projects, recommended the removal of two popular Transformers located on Prospect Street between 37th Street and 36th Street in Georgetown. The Transformers statues, which stand at almost 7 feet tall, are located outside the house of Newton Howard, a cognitive neuroscientist at Georgetown University, who commissioned the creation of the Transformers. 
Howard said he put out the statues because they represent the relationship between human and machine and are meant to be enjoyed by community members and neighbors.
“I wanted to share it with the wider majority of children that are just passing around,” Howard told The Hoya. “Kids just love them. And the neighborhood.”
Other neighbors did not find the Transformers as charming as the visitors did. 
Catherine Emmerson, neighbor and co-chair of the Prospect Street Citizens Association, a group that represents and advocates for the interests of Prospect Street residents, said this attention from tourists was just the reason why she advocated for the removal of the Transformers. 
“We have motorcycle gangs that show up and block the middle of the street to take photos,” Emmerson said at the April 3 meeting of the Advisory Neighborhood Commission (ANC) 2E, which oversees the Georgetown, Burleith and Hillandale neighborhoods. “We have cars at idle. We have tour buses, we have pedestrians, off the street, in front of the house, on our sidewalk, across the street, you name it, we have it.”
Howard disagreed with Emmerson and said it’s important for the Georgetown neighborhood to be welcoming to others, instead of pushing them out.
“That’s not who we are,” Howard said. “We welcome people from abroad. We welcome people from out of town. We welcome people from other neighborhoods. We welcome people from next door to us, from the 100 doors down from us.”
The OGB declared in April 2021 that the statues, which are made up of spare motorcycle and car parts, did not fit with the neighborhood’s historical feel and required Howard to submit a permit for temporary installation, which the OGB granted for six months. After the six-month period concluded, the statues remained under Howard’s wishes. 
Joe Massaua (SFS ’25), a representative of ANC2E representing Georgetown University alongside John DiPierri (SFS ’25), said the statues should be recognized as public art.
“John and I have listened to neighbors and students for their opinions on the statues,” Massaua wrote to The Hoya. “In our most recent meeting on the ANC, we worked to remove language labeling the statues as disruptive, and view the statues as Public Art.”
“That being said, I think there is room for robust discussion with the homeowner and neighbors on the placement of the statues,” Massaua added. “Historically, homeowners follow the rules of Public Space Permits for art in Georgetown, since it is a historic district with firm statutes. I think the statues are a benefit for the community, and I look forward to engaging with the homeowner on placement moving forward.”
Gwendolyn Lohse, an ANC 2E representative who found issues with the statues, said they lack adherence to the OGB permit process. 
“I don’t care if it was the most federal-heavy historic piece,” Lohse said in the meeting. “If they weren’t respecting the process, they weren’t respecting the process. The type of art does not matter to me in some way.”
Howard said he will continue to defend the statues.
“We’re leaving them there,” Howard said. “We’re fighting. We are in the trenches.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

