
February 3, 2023 by Karenna Warden Leave a Comment 
CW: This article references sexual assault. Please refer to the end of the article for on- and off-campus resources. 
A sexual assault survivor advocacy group expanded a site that compiles statistics on sexual and interpersonal violence from over 750 colleges and universities across the United States and Puerto Rico on Jan. 25.
Data on the site, titled the Campus Accountability Map & Tool (CAMT), is pulled from on-campus, off-campus, public property and local police reports from 2018 to 2020. The tool includes data from 17 colleges in Washington, D.C., including Georgetown University. 
Created by End Rape on Campus, an organization working to end campus sexual violence, the app focuses specifically on collecting data covering underrepresented communities, including data from historically Black colleges and universities and tribal colleges and universities, according to a Jan. 25 report from the organization.
“End Rape On Campus’ Centering the Margins framework focuses on and centers historically underserved and marginalized student survivors in the campus anti-rape movement and attends to the particular needs of those survivors,” the report said. 
Lily Howard (CAS ’23), a clinic volunteer coordinator for reproductive justice organization H*yas for Choice (HFC), said the website could provide helpful insight into the rates of sexual violence being perpetrated nationwide on college campuses.
Howard said identity plays an important role in contextualizing conversations and information surrounding sexual assault.
“I think a major theme to unpack is identity and how it affects sexual safety and power-based dynamics,” Howard wrote to The Hoya. “The intersection of one’s identities create a unique vulnerability to sexual violence. People from underrepresented communities are more likely to be at risk of sexual violence because of their unique circumstances of oppression.”
The site allows users to compare rates of perpetration of various forms of sexual violence, including rape, domestic violence and stalking, across universities. It also simplifies university policy on sexual misconduct and provides users with various resources on sexual misconduct, including information on Title IX, supporting survivors and one’s legal rights as a survivor. 
Of the schools in the CAMT, 36% reported zero rapes, 37% reported zero incidents of domestic violence and 35% reported zero incidents of stalking between 2018 and 2020. Various factors may influence lower rates of violence that appear on the site — violation of required reports of data as mandated by the Clery Act, investigations that have yet to be concluded or student discomfort with disclosing incidents of violence. 
“I think the app gives a good holistic view of sexual violence on US campuses,” Howard wrote. “It recognizes that instances of power-based violence often go unreported and so the data collected is probably underrepresentative of the actual number.”
CAMT data shows that 34 rapes, five instances of domestic violence and 56 incidents of stalking occurred on Georgetown’s campus from 2018 to 2020. Compared to the neighboring American University (AU) and George Washington University (GWU), Georgetown experienced more incidents of stalking but fewer incidents of rape and domestic violence. 
All three schools, as well as Howard University and the University of the District of Columbia David A. Clarke School of Law, are currently under investigation for Title IX violations, according to the CAMT. 
Amid this continued violence, students at D.C. universities, including AU, GWU and Georgetown, have protested the responses of their school administrations to high rates of sexual violence.
In November 2022, 1,000 AU students signed a list of demands related to survivor protections that was sent to university administration. In February 2020 at Georgetown, the Black Survivors Coalition, a group dedicated to empowering sexual assault survivors, Black women and nonbinary people in particular, voiced their frustrations through protest.
Howard said the app bolsters the work of HFC and other student advocacy groups on campus.
“HFC has always strived to provide Hoyas with educational tools and guidance on issues like sexual assault and sexual health,” Howard wrote. “This app is a great supplement to our ongoing work to generate awareness of these issues and also a great example of why organizations like H*yas for Choice and many others are so integral to the wellbeing of college students.”
Howard said she hopes there will be more opportunities for both education and accountability around sexual assault in the near future.
“I hope we start shifting our language to power-based violence to better capture the wide array of harms caused by situations in which one actor or actors holds power over the other through a variety of factors (wealth, status, race, etc.),” Howard wrote. “I hope to see Georgetown work harder in the coming years to incorporate bystander training into its core curriculum and create a more survivor-centered process for incident reporting.”
On-campus resources include Health Education Services (202-687-8949) and Counseling and Psychiatric Service (202-687-6985)); additional off-campus resources include the D.C. Rape Crisis Center (202-333-7273) and the D.C. Forensic Nurse Examiner Washington Hospital Center (844-443-5732). [If about clerical assault: Individuals can also report sexual misconduct by a Jesuit by contacting the province’s victim advocate at [email protected].] If you or anyone you know would like to receive a sexual assault forensic examination or other medical care — including emergency contraception — call the Network for Victim Recovery of D.C. (202-742-1727). To report sexual misconduct, you can contact Georgetown’s Title IX coordinator (202-687-9183) or file an online report here. Emergency contraception is available at the CVS located at 1403 Wisconsin Ave NW and through H*yas for Choice. For more information, visit sexualassault.georgetown.edu.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 3, 2023 by Catherine McGuire Leave a Comment 
Previously incarcerated citizens in the Washington, D.C. area from Georgetown University’s Prisons and Justice Initiative (PJI) participated in an employment preparation program with career coaches at the McCourt School of Public Policy from August to December 2022.
The McCourt Career Development team worked with 16 PJI students from the 20-week MORCA-Georgetown Paralegal Program, a partnership between Georgetown, the Mayor’s Office on Returning Citizens’ Affairs and the D.C. Department of Employment Services, to allow participants to earn a certificate in paralegal studies from Georgetown. 
PJI students received career coaching for interviews with District law firms and personalized feedback from McCourt’s career team during the program. 
PJI Deputy Director Caitlin Chamberlain said McCourt’s experts sought to make the 16 PJI participants confident in their abilities and to ease their transition into employment. 
“We were fortunate to have members of the McCourt Career Development team come work with the MORCA-Georgetown Paralegal Fellows to hone their interview skills by leading an interview prep workshop, conducting mock interviews and providing feedback,” Chamberlain wrote to The Hoya. “This prepared the Fellows for their next steps after the program and to build their interview confidence.”
According to a McCourt School press release, the program will welcome its next group of fellows in the coming months.
“This spring, the Prisons and Justice Initiative will welcome its next Paralegal Program cohort and continue its partnership with McCourt’s Career Development team,” the release said.
Chamberlain said the paralegal program gives fellows access to resources that break down employment barriers for returning citizens pursuing careers in law. Many PJI students have gone on to obtain and succeed in full-time positions, according to Chamberlain. 
McCourt’s director of career development and alumni engagement Briana Green said she worked with the fellows both individually and in teams during the advising sessions.
“These types of projects are really near and dear to my heart when it comes to the work that I do,” Green told The Hoya. “That to me is empowering students with the confidence and the ability to really talk about what they have to offer and the value they have to offer to employers.”
Eighty percent of graduates from the previous cohort are employed or continuing their education full-time, according to Chamberlain. Agencies, organizations and firms currently employing graduates from the program’s three past cohorts include the DC Office of the Attorney General, Legal Aid Society, Mid-Atlantic Innocence Project, Rising for Justice, Wilmer Hale, Outten & Golden, Relman Colfax, Kirkland & Ellis and Covington & Burling. 
Green said interview skills are essential for candidates who are trying to communicate what they are capable of bringing to a new job.
“There’s this expectation that if you re-enter into society, you have to be a citizen that has a job and does all of these things,” Green said. “But if you don’t have access to the resources to be able to do those things, it makes it even more difficult. Programs like this really can bridge that gap.”
The PJI’s paralegal program generates positive effects throughout the local community, according to a university spokesperson.
“The Prisons and Justice Initiative’s goal is to empower students through higher education and create a lasting foundation for academic, professional and personal growth and achievement moving forward,” the spokesperson wrote to The Hoya. “In doing so, it also creates a larger impact that benefits society as a whole.”
Green said programs such as the paralegal program hold institutional importance for Georgetown, as they enable the university to expand its reach beyond the Hilltop as a form of fulfilling its Jesuit mission of being people for others.
“A lot of times, you hear about the ivory tower,” Green said. “We are up on this hill, a separate thing, but universities are community builders. Whether the people in the neighborhood or the surrounding area are going to the university or are engaging in some other way, it is really important for schools to be able to do that.”
Chamberlain said she hopes to extend resources from the paralegal program to returning citizens in the D.C. community as a whole.
“It is critical that returning citizens be able to access education, training and opportunities to build rewarding careers,” Chamberlain said. “Re-entry programs like this one prepare returning citizens to take the next step in their professional lives and give them the tools to overcome the many barriers to employment that exist for people with past convictions.”
Special to The Hoya
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 3, 2023 by Hayley Young Leave a Comment 
A new report from the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) named Washington, D.C., on Jan. 17 as the 2022 national leader in green building, a measure of efficiency, sustainability and carbon emissions in a building’s construction and design.
The USGBC released the report Jan. 17 based on each state’s gross square footage per capita of buildings that are Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certified, a widely used green building rating system. D.C. had 46.06 LEED-certified gross square feet per capita in 2022 and certified over 115 green building projects, more than all 50 states, according to the report.
The state of Massachusetts had the most green building in the 2022 state rankings, despite its numbers being significantly below those of D.C. Massachusetts had 3.76 LEED-certified gross square footage per capita and 96 green building projects in 2022.
The USGBC did not rank D.C. because it is not a state, despite all of its work in creating green buildings, according to a Jan. 17 press release.
“As a federal territory, Washington, D.C., does not appear in the official top 10 list of states, but it consistently leads the nation in LEED-certified square footage per capita, in part because of the federal government and the District’s ongoing commitments to green building,” the press release said.
The rest of the top 10 in the USGBC ranking included Illinois, New York, California, Maryland, Georgia, Colorado, Virginia, Texas and Oregon. In total, the top 10 states in the ranking contained more than 353 million certified gross square feet over 1,225 green building projects within the past year.
USGBC developed LEED in 1994 to provide a system for buildings to reach environmental health and sustainability goals. LEED-certified buildings earn a certain number of points and are assigned to a corresponding level within the rating system, ranging from regular certified to platinum, with USGBC naming D.C. as the first LEED Platinum city in the world Aug. 31, 2017.
USGBC said its ranking system has expanded to a global standard for sustainability.
“The LEED rating system is the world’s most widely used green building program and was created by USGBC as a leadership standard defining best practices for healthy, high-performing green buildings,” the press release said.
D.C. has outpaced the rest of the country in LEED-certified square footage per capita every year since 2010, the earliest available ranking from USGBC. The Green Building Act of 2006 contributed to D.C.’s sustainable building development, as it required all nonresidential public buildings to achieve LEED certification, according to a recent USGBC article.
“This policy has ensured high-quality spaces that benefit all residents, like the 801 East Men’s Shelter, which was certified at the Gold level this year under LEED v4 for Building Design and Construction,” the article said.
Georgetown University has also contributed to D.C.’s LEED-certified area with at least eight LEED-certified buildings and nearly 900,000 square feet of LEED-certified building space on campus. Georgetown’s School of Continuing Studies (SCS), Regents Hall and the Healey Family Student Center (HFSC) are all Georgetown LEED Gold-certified buildings.
Dan Guilbeault, Georgetown’s director of sustainability for campus and community, said Georgetown has worked to achieve their LEED goals over the past several years.
“In 2009, Georgetown committed to meeting the U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Silver certification level in new buildings, which we have generally surpassed with recent buildings often achieving Gold and Platinum certification,” Guilbeault wrote to The Hoya.
Guilbeault said that LEED rankings are important to consider because buildings play a large role in greenhouse gas emissions.
“Buildings are usually one of the largest contributors, if not the largest contributor, to greenhouse gas emissions,” Guilbeault wrote. “In the District, nearly 75 percent of emissions are from buildings and related energy usage. Reducing the energy required to heat and cool, light, and operate buildings is a foundational aspect of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.”
USGBC President and CEO Peter Templeton said LEED-certified green buildings have benefits beyond the environment as well, according to the Jan. 17 press release.
“LEED buildings are environmentally friendly, cutting their emissions and waste, and use less energy and water,” Templeton said in the press release. “At the same time, they also help reduce operational and maintenance costs, contributing to the bottom line.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

