
February 5, 2023 by Jack Willis Leave a Comment 
The Georgetown University Berkley Center for Religion, Peace and World Affairs, a research center dedicated to fostering religious dialogue, hosted a panel discussion on protecting religious freedom in Ukraine on Jan. 30.
Eric Patterson, president of the Religious Freedom Institute, an organization focused on the acceptance of religious liberty as a human right, moderated the Jan. 30 discussion. The panel featured José Casanova, professor emeritus in sociology at Georgetown University; Borys Gudziak, an archbishop in the Ukrainian Catholic Church; Nadieszda Kizenko, a professor of Russian and East European history at the University at Albany; Frank Sysyn, a professor of history and classics at the University of Alberta; and Catherine Wanner, a professor of history and anthropology at Pennsylvania State University.
Gudziak said that religious freedom is under threat in Ukraine due to the Russian invasion.
“Everytime there is a Russian aggression, historically over the last three centuries, and over the last years, a Russian involvement, a Russian occupation, leads to some kind of religious oppression,” Gudziak said at the event. “Particularly this is true for Ukrainian Catholics.”
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky recently announced that his government would be seeking to prevent religious organizations with ties to Russia from operating within Ukraine. Zelensky specifically targeted the Ukrainian branch of the Orthodox Church, ordering an inquiry into the organization’s relationship with the Russian Federation.
While Patriarch Kirill, the leader of the Russian Orthodox Church, has voiced the church’s support for Vladimir Putin and the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Gudziak said it is important to question whether his views reflect  that of the church’s followers and the religion as a whole.
“If an Orthodox person says something, is that Orthodox teaching? In other words, if Patriarch Kirill is saying something, does that make it Orthodox theology?” Gudziak said.
Wanner said that the scope of the problem of religious persecution goes beyond just the Russian Orthodox Church, though.
“The support for this war is not only audible but visible, it has been actively demonstrated not just by Patriarch Kirill, but by other members of the Russian Orthodox Church, and even by, for example, some of the other religious denominations that similarly pledge an allegiance to the Russian state,” Wanner said at the event.
Gudziak said that although war is a sin in Christianity, defending Ukraine with military force is imperative.
“If you don’t include complete pacifist conviction, the Christian position is analogous: war is terrible, war is sin, starting war is the greatest sin, but you are called to defend the innocent,” Gudziak said. “Somebody who is defending the innocence, who is defending one’s self, one’s land, one’s freedoms, one’s dignity, has not only the right but the responsibility to do so.”
Wanner said that it is natural for Ukrainian authorities to want to use all possible strategies to win the war, including by suppressing Russia-affiliated religions, but holding back could prove to be a stronger choice in the long run.
“In the heat of a nearly year-long, punishing war that promises to be unrelenting, it’s very tempting for leaders in Ukraine to react politically for short-term advantage, and to try to transform all potential forms of soft power into weapons to try to fortify Ukrainian sovereignty,” Wanner said. “However, it’s never really been more important than it is now to make decisions strategically, not necessarily reactively.”
Casanova said the Ukrainian government and religious organizations have a responsibility to create and maintain spaces for diverse religious traditions and dialogues, even in times of war. 
“We must be careful, we must be vigilant and critical to protect the unique model of religious pluralism that has emerged in Ukraine,” Casanova said. “This is a task, and in this aspect I think all the religious communities and all the churches have something positive – a contribution to make.”
Gudziak said that as long as the Russian invasion persists, religious freedom will remain under threat in the country.
“The biggest threat to religious freedom in Ukraine is Russian occupation,” said Gudziak. “We’ve seen it happen with our own eyes in recent years, in recent months.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


February 5, 2023 by Sophia Lu Leave a Comment 
CW: This article discusses gun violence and racial violence. Please refer to the end of the article for on- and off-campus resources.
The Georgetown University Asian American Student Association (AASA) organized a candlelight vigil to honor the victims of two recent shootings in Monterey Park and Half Moon Bay, Calif.
Dozens of members of the Georgetown community attended the Jan. 29 event in Red Square, which AASA co-Presidents Ed Shen (MSB ’23) and Maggie Lin (CAS ’23) organized in an effort to create a safe space for Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) students to mourn those killed in the back-to-back mass shootings. 
The Jan. 21 Monterey Park shooter killed 11 and injured nine, and the Jan. 23 Half Moon Bay shooter killed seven and left one injured. The majority of the victims were Asian American, and both shootings occurred in majority Asian American communities; Monterey Park has long been considered America’s first suburban Chinatown, and Half Moon Bay is located just miles away from Silicon Valley, where Asian Americans make up the largest ethnic group. 
Shen said it was important to organize the vigil because it allowed members of the Georgetown community to mourn together.
“During tumultuous times, it is important to take care of each other and feel that we are not alone,” Shen wrote to The Hoya. “We figured that a vigil would be an opportunity to stand in solidarity with other AAPI students, reflect upon these tragedies and consider their larger implications for gun control in the United States and violence within communities of color.”
The shootings coincided with the first weekend of Lunar New Year, a time when Asian Americans often throw elaborate celebrations and travel long distances to be with their families. 
Shen said the timing of the shootings, along with the growing frequency of anti-Asian violence, made them especially painful.
“During the vigil, members of our community shared how difficult it was to process these tragedies during a period of time that was intended for celebration,” Shen wrote. “We discussed the rising rates of violence within our community and how it often feels like there is nothing we can do in the face of tragedy.”
Hate crimes against Asian Americans increased 339% nationwide in 2021, especially in large cities including New York, San Francisco and Los Angeles. Many Asian American community leaders linked the rise in violence against the AAPI community to anti-Asian racism during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Aria Nimmagadda (CAS ’26) attended the vigil and said events like it help reinforce a sense of community among students.
“What happened in California is incredibly tragic and horrible,” Nimmagadda wrote to The Hoya. “I thought the vigil was a really strong show of support within the Georgetown community and hearing people share their grieving processes was very inspiring and helpful in knowing that no one needs to go through this difficult time alone.” 
At the vigil, Max Zhang (SFS ’23, MSB ’23) spoke about how sharing his initial reactions with those around him allowed him to better process the shootings.
Zhang said events like the vigil are a necessary outlet for students to share their collective experiences of trauma and loss.
“Forums for communal mourning are critical when we face community grief, and I was grateful I got to be there,” Zhang wrote to The Hoya. “It’s important to pursue connection and show solidarity in this time where so many communities on-campus feel affected by violence.”
Georgetown stands in solidarity with members of the AAPI community and condemns the acts of violence, according to an email sent to community members Jan. 23. 
“We recognize that in recent years, we have seen growing violence and hatred against our Asian American community in the United States,” the university wrote in the Jan. 23 email. “This is deeply concerning to all of us.”
In the wake of the shootings, Zhang said Georgetown must better support its AAPI student community.
“Translate ‘solidarity’ into material change. Establish the Asian-American studies program we deserve and need to study violence within and towards our communities,” Zhang wrote. 
“Create mental health services catered to serve Asian students better. And bolster programs for marginalized students in general — the popular narratives forget sometimes how much supporting Asian people also means supporting first-generation and low-income students, undocumented students, queer students, international students, and more,” Zhang wrote. 
Resources: On-campus resources include Health Education Services (202-687-8949) and Counseling and Psychiatric Services (202-687-6985). Additional off-campus resources include the Crisis Text Line (text 741741).
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

