
March 18, 2023 by Sophia Lu Leave a Comment 
The newest recipient of the Georgetown University College Academic Council’s Honors Teaching Award, which honors professors for instructional excellence, is professor Marissa Fond, an applied sociolinguist who focuses on the management of knowledge, beliefs and emotions in language.
Every fall, students nominate up to three professors who they believe contributed to their Georgetown experience in positive ways. Fond, an assistant professor in the department of linguistics, received the popular vote of students in the College of Arts & Sciences to become this year’s honoree and will receive March 20 the official award at the 17th Annual College of Arts & Sciences Honors ceremony.
Fond said the Honors Teaching Award is especially meaningful because it relies on student endorsement.
“Receiving the College Honors matters to me because, of course, the award comes from the students,” Fond wrote to The Hoya. “And as a teaching professor, I am here at Georgetown only for the students, they are my priority and my motivation.”
Fond’s academic interests lie in the intersection between linguistics and facets of society including health, gender and sexuality. 
Fond said she encourages students to identify real-world applications of their classroom learning. 
“Linguistics requires us to be observant and attentive to nuance as language shapes our realities; in my teaching, I try to remind students that they have a role to play in our work, and I encourage them to share bits of language in use that strike them as notable,” Fond wrote.
The classroom is a reciprocal instructional environment for Fond, as she enjoys teaching but has also learned from her students about the evolving nature of language.
“A former student alerted me to a morphological phenomenon popular on TikTok that—years later—became the American Dialect Society’s Word of the Year,” Fond wrote. 
Sebastian Cardena (CAS ’26), a first-year representative on the College Academic Council, said he hopes the award will show Fond how much her students appreciate her.
“I think a lot of professors don’t realize how much students enjoyed a class or their teaching style,” Cardena wrote to The Hoya. “We really just want to make sure that professors realize the positive impact they have on their students, and to recognize the work that they do.”
Addison Basile (CAS ’26), another first-year representative on the College Academic Council, said the Honors Teaching Award pinpoints excellence among faculty and ensures it does not go unnoticed.
“I think the award is an important tradition that allows us to honor members of our College faculty who are going above and beyond to make an impact on Georgetown College of Arts & Sciences undergraduates,” Basile told The Hoya.
Elyse Kelly, an adjunct lecturer in the department of art and art history, received the award in 2021 and encouraged new recipients to continue teaching at a high level to support students however they can.
“You always hope that you can make an impact on at least one student; to learn that there was an entire group of students who all felt I was deserving of the award blew me away,” Kelly wrote to The Hoya. “Being recognized by your students is the best form of encouragement, so clearly they should just keep doing what they’re doing!”
Fond said she has a deep appreciation for all her students and the support Georgetown and her fellow faculty have provided her.
She said she hopes to continue drawing more students into linguistics and teaching them about the nuances of the field of study through problem-solving.
“I’m always telling – and, I hope, showing – students that humans are messy, language is messy, and our best way forward is to accept this reality and embrace the mess in our research,” Fond wrote. “I want students to be frustrated, to try something out and have to try again, and to work iteratively to get to where they want to be. I know they are up for the challenge, and I hope I’m up for the challenge of continuing to improve my own teaching and research.”
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative


March 18, 2023 by Sophia Lu Leave a Comment 
Three Georgetown University professors were named as the 2023 recipients of the President’s Awards for Distinguished Scholar-Teachers on March 8.
English professor Jennifer Natalya Fink, government professor Marc Howard and classics professor Josiah Osgood were this year’s honorees. The university will host March 21 an awards ceremony honoring the three new distinguished scholar-teachers in Gaston Hall, and as part of their distinction, Fink, Howard and Osgood will each receive an annual grant of $10,000 for three years to support their research and instruction.
Fink said she was incredibly enthusiastic about receiving the award and looks forward to dedicating the funding to her upcoming projects.
“I was shocked, elated, and humbled to receive this fantastic acknowledgement of my work — and grateful to receive the material support for my future scholarship,” Fink wrote to The Hoya. “To have my radically queer, crip, experimental, interdisciplinary work formally recognized by this institution means the world to me.”
Fink specializes in feminist, queer and crip studies, which examines the intersection of disability studies with queer studies, within the department of English. She has led the English honors program, designed new interdisciplinary courses and launched the master’s and doctoral certificate in disability studies.
Fink’s impact on students has been a great source of encouragement to her throughout her career. 
“What is most rewarding is seeing my students themselves become artists, thinkers, world-changers and status-quo-shakers,” Fink wrote. “I love hearing from former students, sometimes decades after they took a class with me.”
Howard directs the Georgetown University Prisons and Justice Initiative, an initiative that provides educational resources for incarcerated students and returning citizens, and co-founded the Georgetown Pivot Program, a custom business certificate program for formerly incarcerated individuals.
Howard is also known among students for teaching his popular “Making an Exoneree” class in which undergraduate students reinvestigate likely wrongful conviction cases and build legal defenses for exoneration. Howard also established Georgetown’s college-credit program at the D.C. Jail and has published several books on the U.S. penitentiary system.
Howard said he is extremely proud of both his undergraduate and formerly incarcerated students’ real-world accomplishments.
“This award to me is really a reflection of my incredible students, both at Georgetown and the sites of our two prison education programs — the D.C. Jail and the Patuxent Institution. Incarcerated students have proven to the wider community and to themselves that they can hold their own in a Georgetown classroom and have so much to teach and share with their classmates and professors,” Howard wrote to The Hoya. 
“And undergraduate students have shown how they can change the lives of wrongfully convicted people while growing into leadership roles within the larger criminal legal reform movement,” Howard added. 
Osgood recently concluded six years of service as the chair of the department of classics. His scholarship focuses on a wide range of Roman history subtopics, from the lived experience of a woman during the Roman civil war to political rivalries of antiquity. 
Osgood said he appreciated the award, especially because it highlights the sometimes overlooked intersection between research and instruction for professors.
“I am currently researching the criminal courts of the late Roman Republic through the casebook of Cicero, Rome’s greatest lawyer. This grew out of a class I have taught and will teach again. My students help me to think harder about the Roman system of justice and what it reveals about our own,” Osgood wrote to The Hoya.
Alison Mackey, the chair of the department of linguistics and a 2019 recipient of the award, led the faculty nomination review committee. 
“I think we all agreed that we lucked out in committee work — what could be a more rewarding task than reading about the multiple outstanding achievements of Georgetown faculty members in research and teaching, in the words of their own colleagues and students? Learning about the multiple kinds of excellence that exist on our campus is truly humbling,” Mackey wrote to The Hoya.
Mackey said she encourages this year’s honorees to celebrate their achievement and continue strengthening their research and instructional endeavors at Georgetown.
“I hope this year’s awardees will take away the knowledge of their colleagues’ and students’ admiration, and the committee’s respect and our gratitude, along with that of the President, for their work at Georgetown,” Mackey wrote.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment 
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




I have read and accept The Hoya's official comments policy. (required)
Copyright © 2023  | Site Design by 3200 Creative

