The 42nd Student Senate met for the first time Oct. 15, 2009, one week after the 41st Student Senate met in the Student Union for the last time. 
The final meeting  of the 41st Senate was held in the Key West Ballroom from 7:09 p.m. to 8:21 p.m. Oct. 8.
After the pledge of allegiance and final roll call, SGA President Brian Peterson talked about how SGA would address several initiatives and announced that there were still several open positions in SGA, including a justice seat.
But the biggest news came from SGA Comptroller Shane Chism, who informed the Senate about a potential 32 cent fee increase, recently proposed by the Fee Assessment committee, which was set to undergo further discussion Friday.
In an e-mail interview with KnightNews.com, Chism explained how the potential 32 cent increase essentially covers the additional operations expenditures that will be needed for the Rec and Wellness Center expansion as well as a 2.5 percent cost of living adjustment that is being factored into all fee proposals. Aside from those two reasons, there were also some minor requests to increase salaries, Chism said.
“Keep in mind, however, that even though an increase is proposed it is far from finalized,” Chism added. “I can guarantee you that the five Student Government representatives on the fee committee will do their best to ensure the only increases to University fees are of the utmost necessity.”
Chism confirmed to KnightNews.com that there is also a pending request to UCF’s Transportation Fee of 35 cents, which stands at about a 4.4 percent increase from last year, but wasn’t able to say much more because the proposed projects aren’t finalized at this point.
The next speaker to address the senate announced that the print shop that will replace the temporary lounge in the Student Union is well underway, and that the computers have already been ordered.
The Election Commission’s representative said that there were 2,700 votes in last week’s runoff election, which is an improvement over past years.
After a ten minute recess, the senators started to address pending proposals.
The issue that sparked the most debate was the “cultural awards ceremony” proposed by the Black Female Development Circle, or BFDC, which started at UCF and now has chapters nationwide.
Multicultural Student Center funding would not cover the event, and they were in the process of dealing with the FAO committee.
Some senators opposed funding it mainly because the event was to be held in the Cypress Room, which costs money to rent, as opposed to the Student Union, where it would be free.
Another issue was that only the winners at the event would get awards, even though the event is open to the entire student body, on a first-come-first served basis.
There were also procedural concerns in the funding, because an organization is typically allowed one CRT allocation per fiscal year and one FAO allocation per semester.
The organization ultimately decided to aim for an allocation and the Senate voted to postpone the bill indefinitely.
Before the meeting ended, then-Sen. William Lusk gave a farewell speech. It marked his last time to address the student legislative body as a fellow senator, as he lost his elections violation appeal to the Judicial Council last Friday.



Expect to see UCF sorority girls walking around campus wearing nothing but watermelons this Sunday.
They’re doing it as part of Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity’s 16th annual Watermelon Bust event, which will help The North American Food Drive feed the hungry.
But on Sunday at 11:30 a.m., a fraternity news release promises “the main event” will be “a showdown for all sororities to battle it out in a series of competitions that will test both their wit and artistic prowess by creating unparalleled costume designs out of only watermelons.”
And, fraternity officials say, the highly anticipated games won’t be a letdown to spectators. UCF senior Robert Witlin expressed his glee and excitement about the event’s costume design portion.
“It’s a great aspect of the event because it brings out the creativity in these sorority girls and the gentlemen of Lambda Chi, but for some reason there always ends up being a naked guy with a watermelon helmet on,” Witlin said.
Even though the costumes are hilarious, organizers point out the reason for this event is serious: more than 35.5 million people — including 12.6 million children — are living in households suffering from hunger or at risk.
“It’s for the kids,” said participant and UCF junior Christina Coward. “Everyone deserves a meal, and I would be happy to provide it for them.”
And Lambda Chi says their national fraternity’s event, which is arguably the largest single-day philanthropic project sponsored by a collegiate organization, will help make a dent in high number of hungry Americans.
“We plan on raising 100,000 pounds of food this year,” said senior Jorge Yero, coordinator of Watermelon Bust.
According to Lambda Chi’s news release: “This Philanthropy is sure to turn out plenty of laughs for a good cause. So come see these ladies strut their melons this Sunday at 11:30 AM at Lake Claire.”



It’s not everyday a story out of Colorado is the No. 1 story on KnightNews.com, but that was the case yesterday as UCF students logged on to watch us carry live video coverage of a hot air balloon flying across the sky — and worried the 6-year-old boy, believed to be inside, wouldn’t make it out alive.
We reported yesterday the boy was never trapped in the balloon, but hiding at home while the nation and UCF watched and hoped the national guard choppers, and hundreds of emergency responders, could somehow rescue the boy whose life they thought was in danger.
Now this morning, there are questions about whether the whole incident was a hoax to bring publicity to a family who has been anything but camera-shy in the past. The father has appeared on ABC’s Wife Swap twice, and the family sent CNN video of the boys chasing a storm with their dad.
On a national live interview with Larry King Live Thursday, the little boy said, “We did this for a show,” when asked why he was hiding during the search.
httpv://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uhhojrxx3Sg
This morning, the boy’s father brushed the statement off to confusion, claiming the boy meant he was showing reporters at the house where he hid during the ordeal.
Adding to the allegations of a hoax, this morning, the family released new home video of the balloon lifting off — they apparently just happened to be rolling on it at the time.
Whether it was a hoax, or happy ending, one things for sure: it’s exhausting for the family and little boy.
This morning, he vomited on live television during an interview with NBC’s Today Show.
Visit msnbc.com for Breaking News, World News, and News about the Economy
You could also see how he started getting sick on ABC’s Good Morning America, which was taped before the Today Show.



