With 2:40 left in the game, Brett Hodges failed to convert on fourth down for the first time in the game and gave the ball to Marshall to essentially run out the clock. A majority of the Knights fans bolted for the exits as it looked like the Knights would drop another close C-USA game.

Unfortunately for Marshall, someone forgot to tell Bruce Miller the game was over as he stripped the ball from Marshall QB Brian Anderson, and Josh Robinson recovered to give The Knights one more chance.
With :26 left and the ball at the Marshall 1, Hodges found Rocky Ross for a wide open touchdown pass to give the Knights the lead 21-20, and jubilation resonated over the remaining fans and UCF players.
“That’s the loudest I’ve ever heard the locker room following a game in all my years here,” Coach George O’Leary said. “These kids have a lot of fight in them.”
Hodges had a great passing game as he went 23 of 45 for 342 yards and 2 touchdown passes. A.J. Guyton caught 5 passes for 100 yards and Ross added 76 yards and a touchdown.
Brynn Harvey couldn’t get things going against a Marshall defense that had given up 5.4 yards a carry coming into the game as he rushed 21 times for 47 yards and a touchdown.
We saw glimpses of Freshman Johnathan Davis, who botched a WR end around but then ran 15 yards for a 1st down. “We may see more of him in the near future,” Coach O’Leary said. “He’s going to be a really good running back in the future.”
Bruce Miller got 2.5 sacks on the night to put him at 9 sacks on the season, passing teammate Jarvis Geathers for the C-USA sack leader. Now, Miller is first with 9 sacks followed by Geathers with 7.
Miller was also named C-USA Defensive Player of the Week. When asked about the forced fumble that led to the game winning touch down, Miller said: “This has to be at the top of my list of plays I’ve made. Were so excited to win and keep our season alive.”
Looking Ahead… The Knights take on #2 Texas Longhorns in Arlington as Colt Mccoy looks to add to his Heisman resume. The Knights look to play spoiler to the Longhorns’ BCS hopes, but that will be a tough task for the Knights.
East Carolina plays non-conference opponent Virginia Tech this Thursday. ECU is the only team ranked in front of UCF for the C-USA Championship. ECU will then travel to Tulsa and will have 5 days rest between games before they take on UAB. Hopefully, for the Knights, the short rest will affect ECU’s play.
If the Knights win their remaining C-USA games and ECU loses twice, the Knights will host the C-USA Championship Game.



UCF’s Health Services will distribute up to about 1,500 doses of the swine flu, or H1N1, nasal spray vaccine this week to students, faculty and staff, a UCF spokesman told KnightNews.com
The initial shipment of nasal spray vaccine is a small portion of the more than 20,000 vaccines that UCF Health Services has requested for the UCF community. The injectable H1N1 vaccine is not available on UCF’s campus at this time.
UCF spokesman Chad Binette warned the nasal spray is not appropriate for everyone.
“Those who cannot receive the nasal spray vaccine include: pregnant women, people 50 years of age and older and people with a chronic medical condition that places them at higher risk for complications from influenza,” Binette said. “Those conditions include chronic heart or lung disease, such as asthma, and diabetes or kidney failure.”
Binette said the vaccine will be distributed in groups at the UCF Health Center on the following dates and times:
Nov. 3, 4 and 5: 10, 10:30, 11 and 11:30 a.m. and 1, 1:30, 2 and 2:30 p.m.
Nov. 6: 10, 10:30, 11 and 11:30 a.m. and 1:30, 2, 2:30 and 3 p.m.
Students can get the vaccine for free, but will first need a voucher for a specific date and time to do so. Only one voucer will be given per person, and UCF says this will allow people to get vaccinated “with a minimal wait time.”
To get a voucher, you can head to the appointments/check-in window inside the Health Center’s main entrance from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday and from 10 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Saturday.  Vouchers also can be picked up between 9 a.m. and 8 p.m. Monday through Saturday at the Knight Aide pharmacy and convenience store next to the UCF Arena.
You must bring your UCF ID to verify your eligibility for the vaccine. Although students can get vaccinated for free, the cost for faculty and staff is $10, which must be paid in cash or by check at the time the voucher is given. Checks should be made payable to UCF Health Services.
Binette pointed out being prompt is important if you want this protection from the swine flu.
“Please choose an appointment time that will allow you to arrive at the Health Center at least five minutes early, as the instructions at each session will begin on time,” he said. “Anyone who arrives late will need to request a voucher for another session.”
He also said that accompanying each voucher will be an information sheet about the vaccine and a consent form that you must complete before you report to the Health Center to receive the vaccine. You can view the information sheet in advance at http://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/pubs/vis/downloads/vis-laiv-h1n1.pdf.
Additional dates and times for distributing the vaccine may be scheduled if doses remain at the end of the week, Binette said.
UCF is advising students, faculty and staff get their seasonal flu shots as well, which  are available by appointment at the UCF Health Center.
We are working with UCF to keep you updated on KnightNews.com about the swine flu, but here are other helpful links to check out to keep up on the latest information:
— UCF Health Services – www.hs.ucf.edu
— UCF H1N1 Web site – www.ucf.edu/flu
— Orange County Health Department flu page – www.orchd.com/Flu/h1n1Flu.asp
— Centers for Disease Control and Prevention – www.cdc.gov
— Florida Department of Health toll-free number: 1-877-352-3581



