After a long second week of runoff Senate elections and relentless campaigning, the final results have been announced. Check back soon for a more detailed look on the last three days of campaigning.
College of Business Administration
Seat 5 (Runoff):	Sarah Bishop – 57.25%
Michael Jacobs – 42.75%
Seat 8 (Runoff):	Jason Bryant – 54.65%
Kyle Lazernik – 45.35%
College of Sciences
Seat 3 (Runoff):	Darren Kaplan – 62.67%
Gabrielle Motto – 37.33%
Seat 4 (Runoff):	Heather Kuhla – 54.88%
Rob Enslen – 45.12%
Seat 7 (Runoff):	Tyler Smith – 58.76%
Alessandra Araujo – 41.24%
Seat 9 (Runoff):	Kevin Wolkenfeld – 51.8%
Seth Rosenthal – 48.2%
College of Education
Seat 2 (Runoff):	Katie Celano – 65.28%
Jessica Price – 34.72%
College of Engineering and Computer Science
Seat 5 (Runoff):	Andrew Pope – 70.48%
Christopher Anderson – 29.52%
College of Health and Public Affairs
Seat 2:	Maggie Gilson – 53.41%
Alissa Pifer – 46.59%
Undergraduate Studies
Seat 1 (Runoff):	David Lawson – 61.29%
Zachary Bamman – 38.71%



On Saturday, October 3, I went to the Bob Carr Performing Arts Centre to see Topol in Fiddler on the Roof. The show is about Tevye, a poor Jewish dairy farmer who lives in a small Russian village where tradition is strictly enforced.  When three of Tevye’s daughters choose to marry against tradition, he must choose between his family’s happiness and his beliefs. 
I thought the show was good overall.  The set was amazing.  The family’s barn house folded out like a doll house.  The house could also twist around and fold out to look like other areas of the village such as a tailor shop and a bar.  It had a tradition, simple look, but was also painted with many colors, which gave it a unique feeling.  The use of neutral worked well in times of happiness and sadness.
The sound and lighting was also very good.  The Fiddler seemed to really play the instrument, which gave it an authentic feeling.  The rest of the music had a traditional Jewish theme to it, making it seem natural in its setting when it was played.  The lighting was beautiful.  Bright colored lighting correctly gave the show a bright, sunny, happy feeling, while the cool lighting gave the impression of sadness, night time, or winter.
The costumes were great.  They were loose enough to dance in, yet retained their traditional, old-fashioned look.  The Jewish villages had more complex outfits, while the Russians very fairly simple and uniform looking so the audience could tell them apart.  I liked how each of Tevye’s daughter’s dresses was a different color so audience members who were sitting in the back like me were able to easily tell the difference between them.  I also liked how the winter costumes had more layers and darker colors so the audience could clearly tell that time had passed.
Of course, the acting can’t be overlooked.  When talking about the cast, one could not mention Topol’s performance.  Although he had performed the same part about 2,500 times, I was not able to tell. His performance was fresh, funny, and original.  The rest of the cast didn’t thrill me as much.  A lot of people, mostly Tevye’s five daughters, seemed very over the top and unnatural.  I am not sure if that is the way it is written or if it was simply the actor’s choice.  The singing and dancing made up for it.  I especially liked the wedding dancers.
Overall, the show was very good.  It is a classic that I recommend everyone to see, especially while Topol is still playing the same part.  While the show is no longer in Orlando, you can still catch it in Ft. Lauderdale until October 18.  It will then continue touring across America until it ends in Seattle on May 10, 2010.  Tickets can be purchased through broadwayacrossamerica.com. 
For those interested in future shows, “CATS” will be playing October 20-25. Students can get rush tickets for just $20 at www.orlandobroadway.com.
 



