UPDATE 10/11:
After former SGA Sen. William Lusk lost his appeal of the major election violation finding by the SGA Elections Commission, KnightNews.com tried asking him about the situation.
He immediately left the room, talked on the phone and then ignored us and quickly walked out of the Student Union while our camera was rolling.

We hoped to ask Lusk tough questions about this cloud of controversy hanging over SGA and College Republicans.
We wanted to ask:
Does he have any regrets about what he did?
Would he have done anything differently?
What does he think about the vicious attacks against CJ Cooper, including falsely accusing her of being a prostitute, his apparent supporters were posting on KnightNews.com and other campus media because she turned him in for alleged bribery?
Does he condone these attacks?  Does he think they should stop?
Is he at all sorry about the difficult time College Republicans, SGA and CJ Cooper are going through as a result of this scandal?
Why would he joke about apparent bribery in the first place?
Does he think it was fair that he brought a lawyer to testify on his behalf, when the other side had no lawyer?
After nearly six hours of testimony and deliberation, the SGA Judicial Council upheld the Elections Commission’s decision to slap former veteran SGA Sen. Will Lusk with a Major Violation which, barring some unforseen outside intervention, has cost him his senate career.
The justices had been deliberating about Lusk’s SGA future for almost two hours.
During the hearing, Lusk brought in an attorney to testify on his behalf and argue that the phone call where Lusk was caught discussing ways in which the Unite Ticket could secure a College Republican endorsement should not be used against him, because he claimed he didn’t hear a warning on the other end of the phone letting him know the phone call was being recorded.
Throughout the hearing, KnightNews.com provided a live video stream over the internet. Due to internet congestion, we had a some blackout periods.
To view portions of this live feed, visit http://www.livestream.com/knightnews.
There, you can click “ON DEMAND” below to watch some earlier footage of the appeal.



