UPDATE: Aug. 11
Friends and family of murdered UCF student Nhat Anh Tran will have to wait longer for justice.
The Orlando Sentinel is reporting a mistrial was declared during today’s murder trial against Loc Tran.
The judge, Jenifer Davis, recused herself from the case when she realized during tesitmony from Tran’s sister that she was a supervisor at the Orange-Osceola Public Defender’s Office, which was initially assigned to the case three years ago, the Sentinel reported.
Another judge will take over the case, but so far, no new trial date has been set.
Prosecutors say he tied up and stabbed his beautiful 20-year-old UCF girlfriend to death hours after she tried breaking up with him.
This week, a jury will decide the fate of Loc B. Tran, 33.
The trial officially began Monday with the selection of the jury that will hear evidence about the heartbreaking 2006 murder of UCF Forensics major Nhat Anh Tran, who went by Anh.
Anh Tran and Loc Tran had the same last name, but they had no relation.
News of the rare student murder shook the UCF community after investigators said Anh Tran’s roommates broke down her door and found her dead body — with Loc Tran lying next to her.
Loc Tran had self-inflicted, life threatening stab wounds, according to investigators, but survived the suicide attempt.
The murder and attempted-suicide happened in a home off campus.
Loc Tran had been in trouble before for heinous acts of domestic violence.
According to reports, a jury found him guilty of hogtying and raping a Clearwater woman after she tried ending their relationship in 1998.
He reportedly dressed as a ninja during the attack, but was never sentenced because the victim refused to testify, and instead sent him love letters to read from his jail cell.
KnightNews.com will follow the trial and report the outcome of Tran’s trial when it happens.



Just days after UCF coped with the sudden deaths of James Saul and Trevor Shipley, another popular UCF student has died.
Katherina Angelina Nomicou died Thursday. She was 18.
Friends told KnightNews.com Nomicou was a proud and active member of Phi Sigma Pi, a co-ed honors fraternity at UCF that prides itself on scholarship, leadership and fellowship.
No foul play is suspected in Nomicou’s death, friends say she became hospitalized with pneumonia recently and was never able to recover.
Nomicou leaves behind two parents, Spyridon Nomikos and Rosemarie Vigilante-Nomikos, according to an obituary.
Nomicou was from Winter Springs, in Seminole County, Fla. She graduated from Lyman High School.



