Welcome Knights! Kickoff is set for 7:30 PM as the UCF Knights take on the #9 Miami Hurricanes. This is the game everyone has been waiting for and hopefully our Knights are up for the challenge.
I’ll be here all night updating the game for you Knight Fans so sit back and enjoy the game. Go Knights!!!
The Knights will kickoff to the Canes and will start on Defense.
Darius Nall sacks Jacory Harris to force a punt by the Canes. Knights ball on the 20 yard line. Knights 0- Canes 0
Nick Cattoi misses a 32 yard field goal after a great drive by the Knights offense. Knights 0- Canes 0
Canes score on a controversial call by the referees. It looked as though the receiver didn’t have control of the ball with a foot in bounds. He brought the ball to his chest well out of bounds but after further review there wasn’t enough evidence to overturn the call on the field. Knights 0- Canes 7
Canes are good on a field goal. Knights 0- Canes 10
Knights will get the ball first in the second half but they need to put points on the board. Knights can move the ball on the Canes defense but can’t seem to get steal their swagger when they get into Miami territory. I expect both teams to come out of this half ready to battle as the Knights desperately need to prove they can beat the Canes defense. Knights 0- Canes 10
A terrible punt by Blake Clingan gives Miami great field position and kils the Knights morale. Miami easily drives the ball down the field and puts it in the endzone. Knights 0 – Canes 17
9: 15 minutes remaining in the 3rd quarter. Knights respond with an 8 yard Touchdown pass to Rocky Ross. Knights 7- Canes 17
Miami over snaps the punter and the Knights have the ball 1st and goal.
6:11 remaining in the 3rd quarter. Interception on 3rd and goal quiets the crowd and is another blown opportunity by the Knights. Knights 7- Canes 17
10:46 remaining in the 4th quarter. Miami has simply proved the Knights don’t have the killer instinct to compete with the big dogs. Knights 7- Canes 27.
UCF falls to Miami, 27-7 FINAL



