The University of Central Florida has more than 350 registered student organizations on campus, and here at KnightNews.com, we will feature at least one each week in our “Knight Spotlight” found in the Campus Beat section. 
This week, we start with some of the biggest clubs on campus.


Campus Activities Board
It’s the job of the Campus Activities Board, or CAB, to put on fun events for students. They plan big concerts, movie nights, comedy events and more. They have a big budget from Student Government and put it to work for students .
Find out more about CAB and how to Get Involved here: http://cab.getinvolveducf.com/
UCF Homecoming
 This group puts one big party — UCF Homecoming Week! Some of our best traditions play out during this week, like Spirit Splash, where we all jump in the Reflecting Pond to get pumped up for the Homecoming Football Game. There’s also concerts, parades, and a big competition between partnering Greek organizations and other partnering clubs on campus to see who can dance the best — and with the most school spirit.
Homecoming’s leadership board is already set, but they usually look for volunteers to toss out t-shirts and more.
Get Involved here: http://www.ucfhc.com/
Multicultural Student Center
The Multicultural Student Center houses many multicultural organizations, and together, they plan tons of fun events like the MSC Cultural Explosion, MLK Day Celebration, Hip Hop Week, International Evening, and Week of the Woman. The MSC welcomes all different cultures to come to their events and learn about the diverse campus we all share.
Stop by their Student Union office in room 153 to Get Involved or else visit: http://msc.getinvolveducf.com/
Greek Life – The Office of Fraternity & Sorority Life 
UCF has a strong group of fraternities and sororities that are very active on campus and known as some of our strongest leaders. Greeks participate in everything from community service to very competitive Intramural Sports. We’ll tell you more about why so many students ‘Go Greek’ in future editions of Knight Spotlight, but for now you can visit individual chapter web sites at the link below, to see where you may fit in the best.
Check out chapter web sites and Get Involved here: http://www.greeklife.sdes.ucf.edu/chapters.html
SGA – UCF’s Student Government Association
 This is the big one. SGA controls a budget of more than $13 million in student activity and service fees. Any student club on campus must be approved by SGA before it can operate as an official registered student organization. SGA has three branches of government: executive, legislative and judicial. A president and vice president oversee the executive branch, a speaker of the senate oversees the legislative branch, and a chief justice oversees the judicial branch.
SGA is exciting and gives students the chance to control big budgets before they graduate. Campaigning can be intense, so SGA offers programs for freshmen to join before election season to get their feet wet and learn right away!
Get Involved with SGA by visiting its office on the second floor of the Student Union. (Sorry, the SGA web site is closed for remodeling now).



This past week our team at KnightNews.com headed to downtown Orlando to catch a glimpse of the American Idol auditions at the Amway Arena.
And although we were originally on the hunt for UCF students, we came across some very interesting acts, like a drag queen named “Natasha” Hilton.
Hilton said he tried out for American Idol before, but was denied. He was hoping the drag would get him noticed. We never found out if he made it through, but judge for yourself whether or not he should by watching our video report. (Feel free to share your comments below).

As we continued our search for UCF students, we found louder than life Gospel groups who belted out in harmony for our cameras.
We found a few proud UCF alumni, and we even found a man in a Zorro cape and mask, who had a sultry voice.
But in the enormous crowd of 10,000 people, where were all the UCF students?
Finally, we found a set of UCF twins named Lisa and Gina Gomez. They sang in beautiful harmony, but they didn’t make it.
“It really is luck, and it really depends on what judge you get and what they want,” said Lisa Gomez. “It has nothing to do with talent.”
Because these two other twins before us…they were horrible,” added Gina Gomez. “But they had another judge and they got through. I guess our judged didn’t like twins, I guess it all depends.”
Then we stumbled across UCF Senior Dani McVey with her guitar who sang a beautiful rendition of “Wonderwall” by Oasis.

Sadly, none of the UCF students we met made it to the next round. But we caught up with a few who did, including a young Russian named Anzrey Youshkevich who now lives in New York, but traveled to Orlando in his overalls and “worker style” outift.
“Don’t be nervous,” he said in his thick accent, “if you want to make it, wear overalls!”
American Idol officials wouldn’t let him sing to us, so we don’t know if Youshkevich made it because of his angelic voice, or solely because of his overalls.
So we’ll have to wait until the show debuts in January to see how he did.
KnightNews.com is teaming up with American Idol producers to put on a UCF American Idol viewing party when the season begins, so sign up on the bottom right of your screen for updates regarding that, and we’ll find out together how all the Idol hopefuls we met did in front of Simon Cowell.
Be sure to watch our “Raw Videos” showing more singing and interviews, and our video story showing our hunt for the UCF Idols.



In the midst of a bad economy, tuition increases and all sorts of fees that students pay, KnightNews.com wants to make sure students are taking full advantage of the services that are rightfully theirs.
In case you didn’t know, UCF students (that includes you) pay fees, like Health fees, Activity and Services Fees, etc., that go toward all the different services on campus. Now that you are aware that you spend hundreds of dollars that you may never have known about, the following list is our way of showing you how to get your money’s worth.
Top 10 Free Things on Campus
1. Condoms – These are given out for free at the UCF Health Center, as well as the Recreation and Wellness Center (the gym) on the first floor in the main office facing the pool. They have a basket of them, so feel free to grab as many as you’d like…no questions asked.
2. Scantrons – The Student Government Association gives them out for free (both pink and brown). The office is located on the second floor of the Student Union. Just walk in and ask the receptionist for one. Sometimes they are out on major test days, so try not to go their with 30 seconds to spare, just in case they have already run out.
3. Cab Rides – These are called “Saferide vouchers.” They are passes that basically give students a $50 cab gift card.. Their intention is for students who are intoxicated to have a safe ride home and to discourage drunk driving. To get one, just go to the SGA ticket office on the first floor of the Student Union. They can only give out “x-amount” per semester, so get one as early as you can and hang onto them (they do not need to be used right away). P.S. Each voucher is only good for a one-way cab ride. Even if the cab ride total comes to $24, the entire voucher must be used. Simply hand it to the driver instead of cash, and the driver redeems it and will be reimbursed. If you don’t drink, a lot of students use them for free rides home from the airport too.
4. STD Testing –  Each year, the Health Center has a mass testing period where they test hundreds of students, absolutely free. Keep your eye out for advertisements. STD’s are a fear of many, so it can’t hurt to go in and get tested. Outside of this mass testing, students can make an appointment or just walk in to the HIV-AIDS Education Office and have an STA test done orally (no blood taken) for just $10.
5. Printing Services – No one likes paying for printing, and many students don’t even have a printer of their own. Just head up to the second floor of the Student Union, and right in front of the staircase, to your right, is the printing lab. Jut bring your student ID, and you are given  use of their computers and printers. Come with your work already completed and hand them the flash drive, or go in their and work on your assignment at a computer and then print. Each student is allowed to print up to 20 double-sided pages per day.
6. Health Services – many students either don’t have health insurance, or do not have a nearby doctor who is covered on their plan. Each semester that a student is enrolled in classes, a health fee of $110 is assessed to their tuition. This gives students free usage of UCF doctors at the Health Center. This does not cover medicine or blood work performed, but if you are not feeling well and want to see a doctor, simply call and make an appointment and see a doctor for free. They also give free masks if you have swine flu.
7. Personal Training Consultation and CHAMP Test – The UCF Recreation and Wellness Center (the gym) provides free CHAMP tests, in which a personal trainer gives you an overall health assessment test to see how you can improve your health. This initial consultation is free. Afterward, if you choose, students can have 60-minute training sessions for $20 each, or buy five sessions for only $80.
8. Tutoring – Students who wish to receive free tutoring service can go to the Student Academic Resource Center (SARC), which is located on the first floor of Howard Phillips Hall in room 113. There is no appointment necessary, but each subject has specific hours in which students can be tutored. The schedule for each subject and the appropriate walk-in hours can be found at this link: http://www.sarc.sdes.ucf.edu/documents/Summer_2009_Tutoring_Schedule.pdf
9. Counseling – The UCF Counseling Center offers free services for students. A free initial consultation is given to all students, where a specialist will sit down with a student and determine the best course of action for their individual issue or concern. Additionally, this offers offers a free Biofeedback course, which is a six-session course taking place in the Counseling Annex in building 27. According to the Counseling Center’s Web site, “Biofeedback helps individuals              become more aware of their body’s reactions to stress and teaches              stress-reducing techniques.”
10. Chinese Food – We knew this one would catch your attention. This one isn’t a UCF service, but just something we here at KnightNews.com have learned over time. All you have to do is go to Asian Chao in the Student Union food court and ask for a sample of any of their different chicken dishes, and they will hand you a piece on a toothpick. Well, simply do this 150 times and you will have yourself a hefty meal for free. You’re welcome.



College students struggling with historic tuition hikes and decreased cash flow from parents hit by the recession have some good news — gas prices are going down!
AAA released a report Sunday saying the sluggish economy and low demand led to the steepest week-to-week drop this year in the price of crude oil — a $6.84 per barrel dip.
Experts with AAA say those conditions that caused the crude price drop will push down prices students pay at the pump here in Central Florida in the weeks ahead.
In the past week, the average price of gasoline in Florida, Georgia and Tennessee declined by 7, 8, and 7-cents per gallon respectively. The national average price of gasoline shed 8-cents per gallon during the same period, according to the AAA release.
On the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) crude oil closed Friday at $59.89 per barrel.
CURRENT AND PAST PRICE AVERAGES
For Regular Unleaded Gasoline
National: $2.537 (Current) |           $2.618 (Week Ago) | $2.639 (Month Ago)             | $4.098 (Year Ago)
Florida:  $2.576 (Current) |           $2.647 (Week Ago) |             $2.632 (Month Ago) | $4.061 (Year Ago)
RELATED LINKS:



Food. College students can’t live without it. And for freshmen without kitchens, Marketplace and Knightros seemed like the only place for meal plan – but not anymore!
“I’m not saying it’s better, I’m just saying it’s something different for them, and something healthy,” said Diana Plata, a manager at El Corral who’s starting a meal plan to compete with those offered on campus.
“We basically have a lot of options,” she said, listing off “rice, beans, salad, (and) chicken.”
Junior McGregor Love has a meal plan at the Marketplace, but prefers eating at El Corral, right across from campus.
“The food here – it’s fresh,” Love said. “I enjoy getting the number 1, it’s their standard meal here. … The chicken is seasoned well, and I think it’s pretty healthy food, especially for around campus.”
Love’s thinking of signing up for El Corral’s plan for the quality, and the cheaper price. But convenience is what mattered most for freshman Thomas Hernandez when we asked him if he’d switch from Marketplace to El Corral.

“If they had transportation there, and a service to bring it to me – yeah,” Hernandez said.
Plata said a delivery service is possible, although it’s in the early stages now. She said students interested in a meal plan from El Corral should call to see if it’s available where they live.
That service could convince Hernandez to switch, because he’s not impressed with Marketplace.
“It’s not really that good, but there’s a lot that you can eat,” he said. “A lot is not that tasty, but I do get full off it.”
But others, like Freshman Jonathan Lieberman might stick with Marketplace – he loves it.
“I can explain it best by RFOC – Real Food On Campus,” Lieberman said. “Cause that’s what you’re getting when you go into Marketplace: delicious food, great friends and always a good time.”
Related Links: 
El Corral Meal Plan Prices 
MAP: 
View Larger Map



