UPDATE 9:25 p.m.
Take a look at our full video package we put together, including reaction from students and shots of the SUV and its owner:

UPDATE 2:20 p.m.
The scene has calmed down now and students and staff are being allowed back into the garage.
Those parked on the third and fourth floors are now allowed to drive their cars out, but no one is allowed to park on the third or fourth floors at this time.
The vehicle that caught fire was a red Ford Expedition owned by an emotional second-year male student who declined to give his name or comment to KnightNews.com. (Officials mistakenly identified it as a Ford Explorer previously).
The official cause of the fire has not been determined, however, the vehicle owner was telling onlookers an engine malfunction may be to blame.
Two sedans parked adjacent to the charred Expedition had minor damage, including possible blown out tires. The Expedition was completely charred with pieces strewn about on the floor.
UPDATE 12:53 p.m.
Students and faculty parked on the third and fourth floors of UCF’s Parking Garage H near the Visual Arts and Education buildings are not being allowed to leave the garage while crews assess the damage.
Those parked on the first and second floors of the garage are being allowed to leave at this time.
Officials on the scene are telling KnightNews.com a Ford Explorer somehow caught fire on the third floor of the garage. The fire damaged two other nearby vehicles, but the Explorer was the only vehicle fully engulfed, officials said.
Right now fire investigators are on scene trying to determine the cause. Physical Plant work crews were also there assessing the damage.
No students or staff were being allowed to drive their vehicle into the garage as of this update.
A vehicle fire broke out on the third floor of UCF’s Parking Garage H, near the Visual Arts building Tuesday around noontime.
A large black mark was visible near the top of the garage.
Fire rescue officials responded and the fire appears to be out right now. KnightNews.com has a crew on the scene gathering information and video.
KnightNews.com crews report yellow tape around at least some portions of the garage, as well as parking services vehicles blocking access to the building.
The entrances to the garage were blocked but the exits were not, but it was not clear whether everyone parked in the garage right now is able to leave.
The cause of the fire is not known at this time.
Check back for updates.
Raw Video of SUV after fire:




