Awards Ceremony

Exclusive Interview with Marcus Jordan on Lip Sync:

Dozens of Greek organizations’ new member classes danced in front of a packed house at The Venue to make difference, and KnightNews.com captured every performance on camera.
Here’s how the fraternities placed in dance:
#1. Phi Delta Theta
#2. Alpha Tau Omega
#3. Kappa Sigma
Here’s how the sororities placed in dance:
#1. Kappa Delta
#2. Kappa Alpha Theta
#3. Delta Delta Delta
The overall winner of the event:
Alpha Delta Pi
Right now we are working to upload dozens of videos of each performance. Check back for updates, we will try and post each video as is it becomes available, and plan to have them all up by sometime tomorrow morning.
The annual philanthropy dance contest, which was co-hosted by Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity for the first time this year, raised money to help fight breast cancer through the Susan G. Komen Foundation, as well as fight hunger through the North American food drive.
Alpha Delta Pi – Overall Winner 

Phi Delta Theta – 1st Place Fraternity

Kappa Delta – 1st Place Sorority 

Zeta Tau Alpha & Lambda Chi Alpha – Hosts

Alpha Tau Omega – 2nd Place Fraternity

 Kappa Alpha Theta – 2nd Place Sorority 

 Kappa Sigma -3rd Place Fraternity

 Delta Delta Delta 3rd Place Sorority 

 Theta Chi 

Pi Beta Phi:

Delta Upsilon

Sigma Chi

Alpha Epsilon Phi

Alpha Xi Delta

FIJI

Delta Tau Delta 

Tau Kappa Epsilon

Sigma Nu

 Chi Omega 

 Sigma Pi 

 Zeta Beta Tau 







The annual philanthropy dance contest, which is being co-hosted by Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity for the first time this year, will raise money to help fight breast cancer through the Susan G. Komen Foundation, as well as fight hunger through the North American food drive.
Leading up to the event, Zeta hosted a “kiss away breast cancer” event in front of the Student Union, where “all participants have fun and kiss our breast cancer banner” for a $1 fee to show support for the cause, according to Zeta’s facebook page promoting the event.
To see the fraternities and sororities compete in front of a panel of judges for best dance, the organizers are requesting $1 to be paid at the doors, which open at 7:30 p.m. The event is scheduled to start at 8 p.m.
After you see the event in person, come back to KnightNews.com to get a close up look at all the performances as part of our video coverage of the event and our commitment to fight against breast cancer during this National Breast Cancer Awareness Month.



