Rob Calabrese is no longer UCF’s starting Quarterback after his disappointing performance against Southern Miss. Saturday, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
O’Leary said Hodges earned it on the field and this is now his team, the report stated.
Offensive coordinator Charlie Taaffe agreed, saying Hodges showed more poise on the field.
Calabrese was benched in the first quarter of the game. As we first reported on our facebook fan page, the Knights fell to Southern Miss. 26-19.
KnightNews.com first reported the UCF quarterback controversy over summer, when Hodges transferred to UCF from Wake Forest.
Read the Sentinel report here.



httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=08W5Os-Wnj0
Disney announced a major overhaul plan for its Orlando and LA resorts at a convention Saturday in California. 
The plans include an all new “Re-Imagined ‘Star Tours’ Coming to California and Florida in 2011 and Major Fantasyland Expansion at Walt Disney World Scheduled for 2013,” according to a company statement. 
Disney is a major employer for Central Florida and many UCF students and graduates, so the good news for park guests is also good news for many students hoping to find work in Central Florida in the future. 
The overhaul marks the largest expansion in the history of the Magic Kingdom at Walt Disney World.
“Storytelling is the DNA of Disney dreams and we’re always exploring new ways to tell new stories in new places,” Walt Disney Parks and Resorts Chairman Jay Rasulo told a crowd at the Anaheim Convention Center in California before taking them on a “behind-the-magic” tour of their favorite Disney destinations.
The new “Star Tours” attraction will include immersive new elements that will take guests to many familiar places in the Star Wars galaxy, Disney said. 
Also coming to Orlando is a new attraction where guests can “visit their favorite Disney Princess in her castle, cottage, or chateau to share a dance with Cinderella; celebrate Sleeping Beauty’s birthday with the Good Fairies; or join Belle in an enchanting story performance in the Beast’s castle library,” according to Disney’s statement. 
Guests will be able to dine in one of three enchanted rooms inside the Beast’s castle, fly with Dumbo high above brand new circus grounds, twice the size of the existing attraction with a new interactive, three-ring circus tent and journey under the sea with Ariel, The Little Mermaid, in her very own attraction, according to the statement. 
Disney says guests will also be able to “meet Tinker Bell and her friends in the magical world of Pixie Hollow.”



