
A fight erupted after twenty or more people swarmed the streets of a UCF area apartment with knives, bats and crowbars. It ended when one teenage male was shot.
Just moments after 5 p.m., Orange County Sheriffs deputies arrived at East Lake Apartments on University Blvd., responding to the reports of violence.
What they found when they arrived was a young Hispanic male in his teens nursing a gun shot wound to his face. All of the suspects had fled.
The call came out shortly after UCF’s historic homecoming win over the Houston Cougars, but even though the shooting happened just down the road from UCF, it does not appear any way related to celebrations of UCF’s win.
During their investigation, deputies soon learned that two families living in the apartments have been fighting over the past couple of days. Residents, who chose to not appear on camera, told Knight News that they saw gangs of kids walking around with bats, but did not think anything of it.
A frantic mother of one of the suspects, stated that a group of people tried to break into her home. She said that’s why her family chased the group out into the street.
The sheriff’s office has reason to believe this is not an actual gang, but merely a large group of people. The victim was hospitalized, and his condition is stable at this time.
Check back to KnightNews.com for more updates.



Brynn Harvey rushed for 139 yards and three touchdowns as UCF beat #13 Houston 37-32 to record the Knights first win ever against a ranked opponent.
Brett Hodges threw for 241 yards, 1 touchdown and 1 interception. Hodges completed 21 of 25 passes to record his highest completion percentage in a game during his career at 84 percent.
“We’re looking to win each game to get to the conference championship,” said Coach George O’Leary. “That’s our goal and we have two games left and some extra help to achieve it.”
This win can be attributed to the Knight’s time of possession. The Knights nearly doubled the Cougars time of possession by a margin of 39:30 to 20:30. During the second quarter the Knights offense managed to only give Heisman candidate Case Keenum four plays.
Freshman wide receiver Quincy McDuffie made some great plays today and showed he has the talent to be a playmaker for the Knights during his career. McDuffie caught a beautiful 24 yard touchdown pass from Hodges to give the Knights a ten point lead in the fourth quarter.
The Knights defensive line put in another great effort holding Houston to its lowest rushing total all year. Defensive back Justin Boddie intercepted Keenum to give the Knights the ball and on the next play Harvey ran it in from 7 yards out.
The Knights have two games left vs. Tulane and at UAB. The Knights need East Carolina to lose to Tulsa this weekend and drop one other game to give the Knights the opportunity to host the Conference USA Championship.
 
Where were the UCF “Fans” today?
This was the biggest win ever in UCF football history but all was not perfect today at Bright House Networks Stadium. There were a bunch of empty seats at the game, including the student section.
The team has been doing their part all year to play their hardest and get the best results they can. Unfortunately, UCF “Fans” have given a lackadaisical effort all year and it was exposed today.
If UCF Football is going to ever be a legitimate football program it needs an amazing effort by the fans, not just the players and coaches. Just imagine, you are a recruit attending this game vs. the #13 school in the nation and you look in the stands to see a ton of empty seats.
I challenge all of you UCF “Fans” to not only attend next week’s game vs. Tulane but to encourage all of your friends to go as well. I look forward to a full stadium next week and the excitement that will surround a potential Conference USA Championship game at Bright House Networks Stadium.



httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JCCA9Waw0Ng
For the first time in UCF history, the Knights have beaten a nationally-ranked team.
They did it at home — and they did it during homecoming.
When the game ended, and the scoreboard read UCF 37, Houston 32, students went wild.

The No. 13 Houston Cougars left in shock.
Armored in black, the Knights came from behind for what a CBS College Sports commentator called “possibly the most collosal upset in college football.”
For the long-time Knights fans, all that patience has finally paid off.
KnightNews.com is covering every angle of the Knights’ Historic Homecoming Win. We had crews on the field and outside the stadium gathering video and reaction. We will upload it here as fast as we can.
Check back for updates and complete coverage of this major UCF news throughout the day and night.
KnightNews.com shot video of this fan, who was apparently arrested, after trying to storm the field to celebrate:




The students at the University of Central Florid have spoken, and at halftime Kyle Schumacher and Caitlyn McManus were announced King and Queen.

They, along with the rest of the court, got on court after an intense application process. Once selected for court, it was up to the students to vote on who the King and Queen would be.
During the week, the court participated in various Homecoming Events. They danced on stage during Skit Knight and appeared at Spirit Splash up on stage.
Congratulations to this year’s King and Queen, and to all the members of court for their accomplishments at UCF.
We have pictures of the entire court below:
Anthony Battaglia
Representing Tau Kappa Epsilon
Andrick Lewis
Representing SGA
Taylor Lochrane
Reprsenting Institute of Transportation Engineers
Kyle Schumacher
Representing Delta Upsilon
Tim Hartzog
Representing Theta Chi
Caitlyn McManus
 
Representing Alpha Xi Delta
Jennie Hayes

Representing College Republicans
Lisa Cunningham
Representing LEAD Scholar’s Association
Kathy Rodriguez
Representing Chi Omega
Sareena Helton
Representing Kappa Kappa Gamma
Become our facebook fan so you stay informed about homecoming!
http://facebook.com/knightnews



At 9:30 a.m. this morning, the Homecoming parade commenced as the floats, created by various organizations from UCF and the surrounding community, drove from Greek Park to Memory mall.

With this year’s circus theme, the floats were sheltered by circus tents and the like, and everyone seemed to be dressed as a circus nut, a carnival freak or, of course, the year’s most overplayed costume: the joker.
For nearly an hour, floats passed by the crowd showing off campus leadership, organizations, politicians, the homecoming court and local organizations such as the Bahia Shriners and the Mustang Club.
Fans were thrown beads, shirts coupons and candy. When it ended, everyone went back to tailgating and getting ready for the game at noon.
Check back for updates and play-by-plays from the game. Good luck Knights!



UCF KNIGHTS MAKE HISTORIC HOMCOMING WIN OVER RANKED OPPONENT. 37-32 FINAL.
Cougars get a touchdown.
16 seconds left in the game. Cougars get a first down after  long pass.
1:30 left in the 4th quarter and UCF still leads. Cougars have the ball. 4th down.
Houston scores on a touchdown pass but fail on the extra point. UCF 37- Houston 26
Justin Boddie intercepts Case Keenum and Harvey scores on a 7 yard run. UCF 37- Houston 20
Quincy McDuffie makes a great 24 yard touchdown catch for to the put the Knights up by 10. UCF 30- Houston 20
Knights defense hold Houston to just a field goal. UCF 23- Houston 20
Harvey scores again on a 41 yard run to give the Knights the lead. UCF 23- Houston 17
Brynn Harvey rushes for a touchdown but fail on the extra point. UCF 16- Houston 17
At the end of the first half the Knights trail the Houston Cougars by a touchdown. UCF 10- Houston 17
Johnathan Davis scores his first career touchdown for the Knights. UCF 10- Houston 17
Houston returns a kickoff for a touchdown. UCF 3- Houston 17
7:03 2nd Qtr. Nick Cattoi hits a 35 yard field goal to pull the Knights within a touchdown. UCF 3- Houston 10
At the end of the First Quarter the Knights trail the Houston Cougars by only ten points thanks to two forced fumbles by the Knights defense.
Michael Greco forces another fumble by Houston to give the knights the ball at the 20 yard line.. UCF 0- Houston 10
Derrick Hallman strips the ball from the Houston RB to give the ball back to the Knights at their own 9 yard line. UCF 0- Houston 10
Knights give up a long Touchdown pass to Houston as the Wide Reciever was wide open by 15 yards. UCF 0- Houston 10
7:36 1st Qtr. Knights fail to make up the yardage after being sacked and are forced to punt. UCF 0- Houston 3
Knights hold off the juggernaut Houston offense to just a field goal after Guton’s fumble. UCF 0- Houston 3
A.J. Guyton fumbles in Houston territory, giving the Cougars the ball at their own 38 yard line.
It’s a blackout today at Bright House Stadium as the Knights take on the #13 Houston Cougars. Kickoff is set for 12:05pm.



