Update: The man deputies accused of growing $300,000 worth of marijuana plants has bonded out of jail. He denied he noticed the 300 plants in the home where he lives. He is presumably back in the home now.
Orange County Sheriff’s Deputies confirmed to KnightNews.com that they busted a suspected pot house Thursday morning in a subdivision off Lockanotosa Trail, right near The Village at Alafaya Club apartments.
Raymond Broomfield, 30, was arrested by deputies after the raid, and booked into the Orange County jail on several charges related to the trafficking of cannabis.
A sheriff’s spokesperson told KnightNews.com they believe as many as 300 marijuana plants are involved in the operation.
The pot was reportedly dry, ready for harvest and about to hit the streets — likely to be distributed throughout the UCF area.
View Larger Map
(Image from google maps, unclear when it was taken)
The exact address of the alleged grow house is at 2303 Northern Leaf Street, deputies said.
Many UCF students live in the area. Deputies reportedly got a tip about the $300,000 worth of pot. There was so much, neighbors said they could smell it from the street.
Check back to KnightNews.com for more information on this developing story.



Universal Pictures is releasing two major motion pictures to DVDs this month, which are being promoting by UCF Junior, Gabbie Motto. The DVDs and their releases are provided below, and anyone interested in contacting Gabbie to win free beer coozies, pens and free copies of these movies can contact her either by e-mail at gab_motto@knights.ucf.edu or by visiting the UCF Universal Pictures Facebook page at http://www.facebook.com/group.php?v=info&ref=ts&gid=27567209537.
Inglorious Basterds: DVD and Blue Ray December 15
Brad Pitt takes no prisoners in Quentin Tarantino’s high-octane WWII revenge fantasy Inglourious Basterds. As war rages in Europe, a Nazi-scalping squad of American soldiers, known to their enemy as “The Basterds,” is on a daring mission to take down the leaders of the Third Reich.
To watch trailer: http://www.ingloriousbasterdsmovie.com/
American Pie: Book of Love: DVD and Blue Ray December 22
When three East Great Falls High buddies accidentally discover the legendary “Book of Love,” penned by some of their school’s alumni, they embark on a hilariously outrageous quest to lose their virginity with the girls of their dreams. Join Jim’s Dad (Eugene Levy) and this lovable and outrageous group of guys in this raucous comedy full of shocking and heartwarming fun!
To watch trailer: http://www.americanpiemovie.com/index.html



