
Even as the hearing ended Tuesday evening with a 7 to 1 vote in favor of a major violation against SGA Sen. William Lusk, there are still many questions surrounding the incident, especially what will happen next.
Amongst all the uncertainty, though, KnightNews.com was able to speak to a few people and clear up a few things.
KnightNews.com was able to get in touch with Senator Lusk, who declined comment at this time. We respectfully acknowledge his decision, and we hope to speak with him in a couple days, when he can release a statement for his plan of action.
He did not confirm or deny whether he would appeal the decision. However, if a senator is charged with a major violation, he or she would be disqualified as a candidate and any votes would not count. It is also important to note, though, that this violation would not affect Senator Lusk’s current sitting in Senate.
We are also hearing from Sen. Casey Jo Cooper for the first time in a statement just released to KnightNews.com, defending why she filed the violation against Lusk.
“As a senator for SGA it was my obligation to turn in possible corruption,” Cooper wrote. “I  take great pride in maintaining the trust of our student body.  They elected me  to represent them and to do the right thing.  Looking the other way would not  have been doing the right thing and would have also violated my value system.   Our generation must take a stand against unethical political activities.”
At the hearing, there were eight commissioners present, and KnightNews.com is working to speak with one of them for an official statement. We do know, however, that the focal point of the hearing was to determine if there was bribery based on the recording.
KnightNews.com was also able to speak with Christina Aiuto, who is the Chairwoman of the College Republicans. For now, she declined any comment about the actual situation for the club’s best interest. However, she did say that if any members of the College Republicans make a comment, it is “not a reflection of the executive board’s opinion”.
KnightNews.com would also like to note that, in no way, is the Unite Ticket connected with the violation against Senator Lusk.
We are still working to speak with those present at the hearing, so check back for updates.



Results were announced today in front of the Student Union for the 2009 SGA Senate election with 9,400 students voting.
Here is the unedited video of the Election Committee announcing the results of the election Wednesday:

Here is the final list of winners in addition to those that will face a run-off election starting Monday of next week.
Below the list is the video of the Election Committee announcing the results, as well as interviews gathered both before and after the results were announced.
College of Arts and Humanities:
1. Marla Spector
2. Samantha Schroeder
3. Ryan Dougall
4. Joshua Miller
College of Business Administration
1. Michael Wiess
2. Samantha Friefeld
3. Jennifer Rionda
4. Cabot Brown
5. Sarah Bishop vs. Michael Jacobs (RUN OFF)
6. Jean-Pierre Gilbert
7. Daniel Wynick
8. Jason Bryant vs. Kyle Lazernik (RUN OFF)
College of Education
1. Samantha Needleman
2. Katie Celano vs. Jessica Price (RUN OFF)
3. David Comolli
4. Alyson Lipensky
College of Nursing
1. Megan Dennis
2. Laura Baker
College of Sciences
1. Jordan Land
2. Jamie Kaplan
3. Darren Kaplan vs. Gabrielle Motto (RUN OFF)
4. Rob Enslen vs. Heather Kuhla (RUN OFF)
5. Jazmine Rodriguez
6. William Lusk*
7. Tyler Smith vs. Alessandra Araujo (RUN OFF)
8. Christina Thomas
9. Kevin Wolkenfeld vs. H. Seth Rosenthal (RUN OFF)
Rosen College of Hospitality
1. April Leverett
2. Jereme Pozin
College of Engineering
1. Williams Fernandez
2. Christopher Cates
3. Brittany Ryals
4. Patrick Stauffer
5. Andrew Pope vs. Christopher Anderson (RUN OFF)
Graduate Studies
1. Adeel Bhutta
2. Brett Ambrosin
3. Richard Skandera
4. Christina Willis
5. Zachary Haber
6. Rafiqul Chowdhury
7. Cecilia Rivas
Undergraduate Studies
1. David Lawson vs. Zachary Bamman (RUN OFF)
2. Jeffrey Popluder
Undeclared Majors
1. Eric Katz
College of Health and Public Affairs
1. Nicholas Gurney
2. Alissa Pifer vs. Maggie Gilson (RUN OFF)
3. Gary Adams
4. Erica DeSanti
College of Medicine
1. Fernando Gonzales
2. Chris Hanley
Here are interviews gathered BEFORE the results were announced.

Below are interviews that were conducted after the results of the election were announced.





A source high within UCF fraternity life told KnightNews.com a parent of an apparent fraternity pledge claimed he came home “bruised and beaten” after spending time with his fraternity.
The parent would not reveal what fraternity was allegedly at fault for fear of retaliation against the pledge, according to the source.
The source asked KnightNews.com shield the source’s name, for fear of retaliation from within the Greek Community for speaking to the media.
According to the source, the parent called a high-level university office, possibly even President John Hitt’s, to reveal the information, and that’s when UCF acted.
Interfraternity Council Spokesman Adam Brock stepped away from a meeting held with UCF’s fraternity presidents at 8:30 p.m. Wednesday in the Student Union to address campus and local television news media regarding the beating allegations.
“We do not believe the that fraternity is part of the the Interfraternity council here at the University of Central Florida, but we would like to have a public record be released so this issue would be cleared up,” Brock said.
If Brock’s information is true, it would would mean a member of UCF’s multicultural fraternity councils, such as the National Pan-Hellenic Council or Diversified Greek Council would still be under suspicion. Those groups could not be reached for comment.
Brock said he received information that this coming Friday UCF will hopefully have everything cleared up and set the record straight as to who may be to blame.
After KnightNews.com broke the details about the pledge being allegedly beaten, we got in touch with UCF Spokesman Grant Heston who released a statement to KnightNews.com Wednesday evening.
“On Sept. 29, an anonymous caller informed UCF about alleged misconduct at an unnamed fraternity,” Heston wrote. “That same day, out of an abundance of caution, the university asked all fraternities to voluntarily and temporarily suspend pledge activities while UCF reviews the allegation.”
His statement went on to point out the positive aspects of Greek life.
“We value the scholarship, service and enthusiasm our Greek community brings to UCF. We will conduct a thorough, timely and fair review of the allegation,” Heston wrote.
Heston also confirmed UCF sent out an e-mail to all fraternities asking them to voluntarily suspend their pledge classes while this investigation continues.
KnightNews.com’s initial e-mails to OSI’s Kerry Welch, who oversees UCF Greek Life, asking how many fraternities are complying with the voluntary suspension were referred to Heston, who has not yet included that information in his official statement.
“We will have more information pending the speed and outcome of the review process,” Heston said.
Brock also did not have the information as to how many fraternities are actually complying with the voluntary suspension.
Stay tuned to KnightNews.com for the latest on this breaking news.



In the past three days, if you haven’t been approached by a person in a purple or yellow t-shirt offering free pizza, you have either been locked in your room, or you have somehow made it to your classes while eluding about 20 tents and countless campaigners.
That’s right. It’s election week: a three day period where t-shirts are everywhere, the pizza is endless, and the voting has commenced. Although it’s now coming to a close, the campaigning has been intense. There have been tents outside of almost every college building, and even more people asking you for “a minute of your time”.
So, KnightNews.com went out right in the midst of all the chaos to see how things were going for each party. That’s right; we beat them to it. We asked them for a minute of their time, instead.
It comes as no surprise that each ticket will set up tents anywhere and everywhere possible. They were outside the Student Union, the Business Administration building, the Psychology building, Health and Public Affairs, and even Marketplace, just to name a few.
First, we were able to speak with Rob Enslen, who is running with the Unite Ticket for a seat in the College of Sciences. “We’ve gotten a lot of traffic,” Enslen said. “I think we’ll do a great job, and I’m looking forward to a competitive race.”
Also with the Unite Ticket is Darren Kaplan, who is running for a seat in the College of Sciences. Campaigning right outside the Student Union, Kaplan was interacting with almost everyone who passed by, and he didn’t hesitate to offer frozen water bottles, smoothies, and popsicles. “It’s going very well,” Kaplan commented. “People are engaged and informed.” He also didn’t forget to mention that everyone who voted got a “I just voted for Unite” sticker, so that “people would stop harassing them”.
We also noticed that some campaigners from the Unite Ticket even thought to set up outside the Classroom I building, where the majors are extremely diverse, and also behind the Student Union, where the buses drop students off from Pegasus Landing.
Additionally, KnightNews.com was able to talk to Michael Jacobs from the BAMF ticket, who is running for a seat in the College of Business. Energetically, Jacobs explained that the campaigning was going great, and it was “really intense”. “There has been a lot of traffic, but both [tickets] have a lot of support,” Jacobs said. However, he didn’t fail to mention a few negatives to the campaigning process. “It’s difficult when the Internet is down, and it’s hard getting people to acknowledge us,” Jacobs stated. “If only students knew how much Senate did, they’d be more willing to vote.”
Also from the BAMF ticket is Alessandra Araujo, who is running for a seat in the College of Sciences. She, too, commented on how high the traffic was. “The students are more interested this year than last year,” Araujo said. “Sometimes the students aren’t so approachable, but others will consider and listen. They [the students] need to know both platforms though.”
KnightNews.com was also able to catch up with William Lively, a co-leader of the BAMF ticket who is also running for a College of Sciences’ seat. “It’s going really well. The students are voting, and the competition is tough,” Lively said.
Now that the campaigning is coming to a close, make sure you go grab the last few slices of pizza, a popsicle, and a t-shirt. So, on your way to class when campaigners ask you for “a minute of your time”, don’t ignore them. Listen to what they have to say. Their platform just might benefit you as a UCF student, but don’t forget that you only have until September 30th at 5:00 P.M. to cast your vote!
The winners of each seat will be announced right after voting closes, so stay tuned for a follow-up article on the results!



KnightNews.com has received several e-mails from parents and students concerned about proposed changes to UCF’s rules of conduct.
After getting the e-mails, KnightNews.com asked UCF for its stance on this situation, and Assistant Vice President for News and Information Grant Heston responded with a statement.
“As we do every year, UCF reviews the Golden Rule for potential clarifications and changes,” Heston said. ”This standard process is ongoing and nothing has been finalized at this time.”
The changes address how the university can discipline student organizations for conduct involving alumni members who are no longer UCF students.
Under the proposed rules, UCF can hold an entire registered student organization responsible when “[o]ne or more members, alumni, or guests allegedly violate an Organizational Rule of Conduct at an organization-sponsored, financed, or otherwise supported activity…”
Darlene Shipley, a parent of a student who was a member of Beta Theta Pi at the time it was found in violation of sexual misconduct, is one of the many people who brought this issue to the attention of KnightNews.com.
In the Beta case, there was controversy about how UCF held the entire group responsible for the alleged sexual misconduct which was reportedly committed by a non-student alumni member, and Shipley believes that’s what prompted this change.
“The new regulations are a direct result of the claims that Beta made throughout its hearing and continues to make in its court appeal: that UCF improperly charged Beta because it had no authority to do so under the Golden Rule, and that OSC committed many significant violations of the Golden Rule in the Beta case,” read a portion of the e-mail Shipley forwarded to KnightNews.com.
Another person who e-mailed KnightNews.com, using the alias “concerned parent,” said the Office of Student Condut is “backdooring” these new rules in without making students aware of the changes or chance to participate in public comment.
KnightNews.com did not receive any press release from either UCF or SGA announcing the proposed changes, however, on the Web site http://regulations.ucf.edu, a memo dated Sept. 16 said comments must be directed to regulations@mail.ucf.edu by Wednesday, Sept. 30 regarding the proposed changes.
The literature KnightNews.com received opposing the changes argues that, under the new rules, “If a guest steals a wallet at a organization’s philanthropic event, the entire organization will be held responsible.”



