Have you been driving down Alafaya lately and stared at what they’re building across from campus?
Have you said, “Hmm, that looks a hell of a lot like an apartment complex”?
Well…you’re right!
It is a brand new apartment complex! But it isn’t your average, run-of-the-mill place to live. This is Sterling Central Apartments, and they say that they’re “Living Beyond Green”.

Sterling Central will be a brand-new, environmentally friendly apartment complex located conveniently across from the UCF campus.
How are they so environmentally friendly you ask?
Here’s what Sterling Central has to say on their Web site: “Sterling University Central will be the first LEED Certified apartments near UCF. This Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design certification means the design, construction, operation and maintenance of Sterling Central follows internationally recognized green building practices to benefit the environment and create a safer, more efficient living environment for residents.”
Not into the whole “save-the-rainforest”  spiel? No problem. Sterling still manages to attract residents that are in it just for the amenities.
Yes, Sterling has all of the regulatory room sizes (1×1, 2×2, 3×3, 4×4) and believe me, upon investigation, they’re quite spacious. But, what sets it apart from the other fabulous housing options around UCF? It could be the two resort-style pools complete with sundecks. It could be the study-geared cyber café/coffee bar combo.
It could be the 2-story gym and volleyball courts. It could be the trash chutes and recycling bins on each floor. Maybe it’s the FREE plasma-sceen TV in each bedroom. Or, maybe it’s the FREE tanning salon (girls did I hear a gasp?). Whatever the reason, this place isn’t just for your vegan-hippie-roommate with the pet fern and Greenpeace shirt.
These apartments are filling up real quick; most of the leases have already been signed. I guess lots of people have been “caring about the environment” lately.
Happy apartment hunting, go green!



