You know that miniature mummy you swore you saw walking across the street Sunday morning?
You weren’t having a hallucination caused by last night’s keg stand, rather you saw a local participant of Trick or Treat on Greek Street.

This annual event brings local families to the UCF campus for a safe alternative Halloween experience.
Thanks to the UCF police and the Pan-Hellenic society’s partnership, the entire Greek Row was blocked off between 12:00pm and 4:00pm this past Sunday.
UCF Greek Life invited the Boys and Girls club of Orlando to enjoy the festivities as well as families from neighboring communities to take part in the many fun-filled games and art projects.
Because of this year’s “Knightro under the Big-Top” homecoming theme, activities were geared toward a circus idea. Events included such things as a clown academy, face painting, a bounce house and an obstacle course.
Besides having a good time, many UCF sororities and fraternities worked together for months to plan this event.
The words of one young trick-or-treater summed it up: “I’m having a lot of fun, it’s really cool to come and play games and get candy before actual Halloween.”
Judging by the smiles from kids and parents alike, Trick or Treat on Greek Street was a success once again.



The University of Central Florida welcomed Florida Governor Charlie Crist to its new shared facility with Valencia Community College Thursday, which will serve to expand access for affordable higher education, according to Crist.  
The facility, located on Valencia’s west campus, will accommodate classes offered by both institutions with more than 40 classrooms, a state-of-the-art testing center, computer labs, study rooms, faculty and staff offices and a café.
“Increasing access to higher education strengthens the overall talent of our workforce and opens new doors to economic opportunity and security,” Crist said. “This innovative partnership will provide Floridians greater opportunities to earn a wide variety of four-year degrees and ultimately achieve great things.”
About 775 UCF students began attending class at the $23 million, three-story, 100,000-square-foot facility in August. UCF Bachelor’s degrees in nursing, electrical engineering, applied science, business administration, interdisciplinary studies and psychology are offered at this new location.
Valencia’s engineering programs are also housed in the building, including programs in electrical engineering and computer engineering.
Crist praised the building for being environmentally friendly.  It is 28 percent more efficient than a conventional building, which results in about $35,000 in annual energy savings, according to the governor’s office. Solar panels installed on the roof provide 10 percent of the electricity that powers the building.



