The UCF Arena will continue to hold a weekly Farmers’ market in Knights Plaza every Sunday.
Way more students than expected have come out to see the fresh produce, cooked meals, and art and crafts from local vendors. Some stands even sell out of their product because of the overwhelming number of customers.
The Arena will hold the market every Sunday from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. There will be nearly 80 vendors at each Farmers’ Market. Admission and parking are free. The event is attracting everyone from students and teachers, to local residents and families.



Ericka Dunlap, who graduated from UCF in 2005 and was crowned Miss America in 2004, will be competing in “The Amazing Race” Season 15. Her husband, Brian Kleinschmidt, a 2004 UCF graduate, will join her.
The couple now lives in Nashville, Tennessee, where Kleinschmidt is a marketing tour manager and Dunlap is an entertainer. “Ericka and Brian are excited to be the first married interracial team on ‘The Amazing Race’”, according to the CBS website.
The UCF grads will be the yellow team on the reality game show. The 15th season of “The Amazing Race” airs Sunday nights at 8:00 on CBS. Be sure to check out Ericka and Brian.
Here’s a clip from one of the recent episodes:




It’s officially the beginning of October, which means that it is also Breast Cancer Awareness Month. We’ve all seen the pink ribbons and donation tables to cancer research, but how much thought do most people give to breast cancer?
Unfortunately, breast cancer is one of the most commonly diagnosed forms of cancer among women in the United States. It affects both men and women, and symptoms can develop as early as in one’s twenties. As students who fall into that category, it can be a scary thought, but it is quite simple to take precautionary measures.
The first thing you can do is monitor your breasts for any unusual changes. Keep an eye out for any abnormalities like hard lumps, changes in shape, dimpling or pain. Having a doctor perform an annual breast examination is the easiest way to make sure you are in good shape.
The UCF Health Center is the perfect place to make an appointment for a breast exam if you are unsure about anything.
Also, don’t panic if you feel an unusual lump, because it does not necessarily mean that you have breast cancer. Cysts and fibrodenomas are common causes of lumps in breast tissue that are none cancerous.
The only sure way to know is to have it checked out by a doctor.
So, for my fellow ladies here at UCF, this is the time to remind ourselves that we should be keeping an eye on our “girls.”
While there is no way to prevent breast cancer, early detection through breast exams could save your life. So, in honor of Breast Cancer Awareness Month, this is your friendly reminder to help Save the Ta-Ta’s
RELATED CONTENT:
Rethink Breast Cancer targets men:
httpv://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oh_i4CDNTeA



