Three people were shot overnight at downtown Orlando’s Independent Bar, and Orlando police say 28-year-old Todd Garland Buchanan pulled the trigger and fled, according to reports.
A shooting in downtown Orlando is unusual enough, but to make things even stranger, the suspected gunman was naked when he was arrested by police hours later at his Orange County home.
“When police called him out of the house, he and his roommates walked out without any clothes,” Sgt. Barbara Jones of the Orlando Police Department told the Orlando Sentinel.
It’s not yet clear why Buchanan and his roommates were naked just after the shooting, but officers handed Buchanan clothes before hauling him off to police headquarters for questioning, the Sentinel reported.
Earlier in the night, witnesses said Buchanan was kicked out of the popular downtown bar for fighting, and returned with a gun and opened fire into the building.
The three people hit are expected to survive.
The Sentinel identified the victims as Natalie McCane, 23, Ricardo Montilla, 26, and 27-year-old Desean Maurice Evans.
Independet Bar is located on Orange Avenue downtown, and is popular among many UCF students.
If you witnessed the shooting or were downtown last night, please comment below or e-mail us to tell us what happened.




Even though James “JP” Saul passed away over summer, the former UCF student who loved to tailgate will still be out before games– at least in spirit.
One of Saul’s best friends, Emily Bell, sent a facebook message saying she’s ordering t-shirts memorializing Saul in time for UCF’s fall tailgates.
According to an e-mail from Bell: “The men’s shirt are a white t-shirt and on the front in gold states: JPs Knight Booze Crew. The back in gold says: RIP James “JP” Saul with the picture from the memorial at Library and underneath reads: Brother and Friend.
“The girls shirts are also black, on the front it says: Knights. The back says RIP JAMES SAUL on the top and then there are two big angel wings, between the wings reads: There’s one in every crowd, brings the party in us out, whiskey bent and hellbound, he’s got the next round, but he always drinks for free, there’s one in every crowd, and in ours it’s JP!”
Bell told the facebook group, RIP James “JP” Saul.. Forever in our hearts!, the shirts will be for tailgating, but also “just to have as a remembrance of JP.”
Shirts are available for both men and women, and are $20 each. Bell said $8 of that fee will go to Saul’s family to help with expenses.
For more information, contact Emily Bell  or Sean Baird on facebook.



