Right before tens of thousands of UCF Knights hit the roads the see loved ones this Thanksgiving, the university is helping to make sure students’ cars are safe. 
From 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. this Friday, Nov. 20, a car care safety program will be held in the open parking lot next to the Zeta Tau Alpha house where certified machanics will help teach basic safety and maitenance features about cars. 
It’s being hosted by UCF police, Parking Services and a UCF Housing and Residence Life committee. 
There will be a number of vendors on site including: AAA, State Farm Insurance, All State Insurance, Florida Safety Council, Knights Against Drunk Driving — and all offering UCF specials and giveaways. 
Organizers say they will also be giving out basic information about how to stay safe if you are in an accident or broken down on the road.
This event is free to all students, staff and faculty.  



Orange County Health Department officials confirmed to KnightNews.com Thursday the swine flu turned deadly for a man in Orange County.
This case, which involved a 57-year-old male, brings the total number of swine flu, or H1N1, related deaths to 12 in Orange County since this new strain of flu was identified in April, officials said.
There’s no indication this person was in any way affiliated with UCF, however privacy rules prohibit KnightNews.com from finding out details about where he may have worked.
While most cases of H1N1 Swine Flu are mild, the health department says there are exceptions. Pre-existing health conditions often play a role in how individuals react to the flu.
“Our hearts and prayers go out to the family and friends of this man,” said Dr. Kevin M. Sherin, Director of the Orange County Health Department. “All of us should continue to be alert and practice good hygiene measures.”
Even though UCF received a smaller supply of swine flu vaccines than initially requested, not all of those supplies have been exhausted.
The UCF Health Center is encouraging encourages students, faculty and staff to get vaccinated against both H1N1 flu and seasonal flu before Thanksgiving so your body has time to build up an immune response during the break. The H1N1 pandemic flu virus is circulating widely, and the number of illnesses, hospitalizations and deaths associated with it continues to rise, according to a UCF release.
The majority of deaths from H1N1 flu in the United States have occurred in persons within the priority groups with underlying chronic health conditions. Pregnant women, cancer patients, people with asthma, diabetes, suppressed immune systems, heart disease, and kidney disease need to pay particular attention to personal hygiene, avoid close contact to infected persons, and consult with their healthcare provider regarding the influenza vaccine, according to an Orange County Health Department release.
Originally, UCF only had only the mist vaccine available, but UCF confirms that, in addition to having the mist vaccine in stock, a small number of injectable H1N1 swine flu vaccines are still available for students, faculty and staff who are in the priority groups established by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
Injectable vaccines will be given Friday, Nov. 20 from 2 to 4 p.m., and Monday, Nov. 23, from 9 to 11 a.m. Those with vouchers can arrive at any time during the hour listed on their voucher to receive the vaccine.
Nasal spray vaccines will be given Monday, Nov. 23 at 1, 1:30, 2 and 2:30 p.m. Anyone receiving the nasal spray vaccine must arrive five minutes before the scheduled time, or he or she will have to request a voucher for another session, UCF says.
Vouchers for either the shot or the nasal spray H1N1 vaccine are available at the appointments/check-in window inside the Health Center’s main entrance from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday and from 10 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Saturday. Vouchers also can be picked up between 9 a.m. and 8 p.m. Monday through Saturday at the Knight Aide pharmacy and convenience store next to the UCF Arena.
You must bring your UCF ID to verify your eligibility for the vaccine. There is no charge for UCF students. According to a UCF release, the cost for faculty and staff is $10, which must be paid in cash or by check at the time the voucher is given. Checks should be made payable to UCF Health Services.
Note that nasal spray is not appropriate for everyone. Those who cannot receive the nasal spray vaccine include: pregnant women, people 50 years of age and older and people with a chronic medical condition that places them at higher risk for complications from influenza. Those conditions include chronic heart or lung disease, such as asthma, and diabetes or kidney failure.
If you get a voucher, each will be accompanied by an information sheet about the vaccine and a consent form that you must complete before you report to the Health Center to receive the vaccine. You can view the information sheets in advance below:
Injectable H1N1 vaccine: http://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/pubs/vis/downloads/vis-inact-h1n1.pdf.
Nasal spray H1N1 vaccine: http://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/pubs/vis/downloads/vis-laiv-h1n1.pdf.
SEASONAL FLU SHOTS STILL AVAILABLE
Students, faculty and staff are advised to get their seasonal flu shots as well. Seasonal flu shots are available by appointment at the UCF Health Center.
KnightNews.com is working with UCF to keep you informed about the swine flu. UCF says it will continue updating the community regularly through campus-wide e-mails and the university’s H1N1 Web site, www.ucf.edu/flu.
FOR MORE INFORMATION
— UCF Health Services –  www.hs.ucf.edu  or 407-823-2701
— UCF H1N1 Web site –  www.ucf.edu/flu
— Orange County Health Department flu page –
www.orchd.com/Flu/h1n1Flu.asp
— Centers for Disease Control and Prevention –  www.cdc.gov
— Florida Department of Health toll-free number: 1-877-352-3581



