Actor Patrick Swayze, best known for his performances in “Dirty Dancing” and “Ghost,” died Monday following a battle with pancreatic cancer lasting more than a year.
Fellow celebrities mourned his death on twitter, including Ashton Kutcher. Demi Moore, who is married to Kutcher, acted alongside Swayze in “Ghost.”
Kutcher tweeted: “RIP P SWAYZE,” along with a link to this YouTube clip showing Swayze in a popular “Saturday Night Live” sketch dancing next to the late Chris Farley shirtless.
httpv://www.youtube.com/watch?v=otlmUWuJSvw
Swayze was one of the top topics on twitter Monday.
He reportedly continued working and shooting shows even though even though he had cancer.
Following the diagnosis, Swayze told Barbara Walters in an interview he expected to live longer than he ended up living.
“I’d say five years is pretty wishful thinking,” Swayze said in early 2009. “Two years seems likely if you’re going to believe statistics. I want to last until they find a cure, which means I’d better get a fire under it.”
He was 57.



The Florida Highway Patrol has just released the names of two people involved in a crash on University Blvd. near the 417 just after 7 p.m. Saturday.
The crash was so severe both lanes of University Blvd. were shutdown so one victim could be airlifted by medical chopper to Orlando Regional Medical Center, according to Kim Miller with FHP.
“It involved a 1999 Jeep SUV, driven by 18-year-old Osama Shishan and a 2001 Ford SUV driven by 28-year-old Amber Burger,” Miller said.

Miller did not have any additional details, including which driver was airlifted or her condition now, because the report was not complete and the trooper who worked the crash is off today, she said.
KnightNews.com crews responding to the scene yesterday discovered one victim inside one of the vehicles was entrapped so badly, firefighters had to cut off the entire roof to rescue the victim.
It is believed that was the person airlifted to ORMC.
KnightNews.com has e-mailed UCF with the names of the victims to try and determine whether they are currently, or ever have been, UCF students.
Check back for updates.



During the weekend a monumental event occured on campus…“My Big Fat Jewish Wedding.”

Hillel at UCF has made big strides in bringing elements of the Jewish tradition to the UCF campus. Here at KnightNews.com, we decided to take an inside look to see what exactly goes on at a Jewish wedding. It was held on Saturday, Sept. 12 in the Venue (the old UCF Arena). Hundreds of students poured in wearing their semi-formal wedding attire ready to bring the Venue to life.
Of course, like most weddings, there is a bride and groom, they say their vows and exchange rings and get wedding dress alterations. We all know that part. But what about a wedding where the to-be-married couple steps on and shatters a glass to symbolize their union? Yea, that really happens. Anyway, as that ceremony finishes, the bride, groom and guests make their way over to the dance floor and buffet. As we spoke with many of the guests, the number one most important part of a Jewish wedding, in these students’ opinions, was the quality and quantity of food. Yes, you heard us: the quality of the food was paramount, more so than the love shared between the bride and groom. Of course, this is not the belief shared by the religion, but just those young and new freshmen who go to every possible event where free food is served.
There were many single UCF students and, believe us, there was plenty of mingling. We caught a few kissing scenes, but decided not to publish them on the site. Instead, they were sold to Girls Gone Wild. That is entirely a joke–they were NOT sold to anyone.
As we moved through the wedding crowd, we were able to meet a few girls who shed some light on why people should get married, one very sweaty sophomore and even a few girls who seemed to never stop talking–we eventually cut their interview short in an effort to save film for the rest of the story.
All in all, the event was quite enjoyable, and the students all clearly had a blast. First Hillel had a Bar-Mitzvah, now they had a wedding and who knows what is next? Maybe next year there will be a circumcision. Only time will tell.
Mazel Tov!
…oh yea, and about that broken glass…well, we will just assume was half full.
________________________________
Event photos are available online:
http://www.definedentertainment.com/orlando-pics/main.php?g2_itemId=74577



With the 2009 Student Government Association Senate Election season now upon us, KnightNews.com is leading the way with exclusive analysis, commentary and coverage of what appears will be a very heated race.
For the first time, a campus news source is bringing in a former SGA senator, with plenty of sources and inside knowledge, to provide historic depth and detail through analysis and commentary of what’s really happening in the race to control the SGA senate — and the more than $14 million of your money in Activity and Service Fees.
Our political analysts are free to share opinions and insight in their columns, however, our news reporters covering the elections are not, and must remain completely unbiased.
Newly named KnightNews.com political analyst and former Sen. Tommy Oreste kicks off our 2009 SGA Senate Race coverage with this exclusive analysis:
———————————
When the dawn breaks and the polls open for UCF’s student Senate elections this fall, one thing is for certain: there will be at least two major tickets battling for control of arguably the most influential and representative branch of Student Government.
If past experience has taught us anything, it is also likely that there may be at least one, if not more, smaller tickets that usually distinguish themselves either by college, or by ideology, as is commonly the case with the Progressive ticket.
For those of you who remember the Presidential elections from last Spring, it appears as though many of this Fall’s election participants have chosen similar sides yet again
Among the many student senators who supported Peterson and Andrick was the current incumbent Speaker of the Senate Patrick Stauffer.
Stauffer, as well as other members of student government have organized a ticket that appears to include himself, as well as current Senate Pro Tempore Josh Miller and several other incumbent Senators.
The Speaker position is highly coveted, not to mention quite well-paid, so it is not a surprise that Stauffer is looking to get his job back. Often times the ticket that wins the majority of the seats, has the ability to elect the Senate leadership, as is the case in all levels of government with a two-party system.
However, it will not be a walk in the park for Stauffer’s ticket to win a majority of the seats this Fall.
It appears as though the formation of a predominantly Greek ticket, with members who were supportive of Stein and Peckham in the most recent presidential election, may be a major obstacle for the incumbent speaker to overcome. Stein, now a KnightNews.com entertainment reporter, says he is not running in this race.
As for the Greeks, it was not long ago when they had a stronghold on Student Government, and it appears as if they are looking to regain some of that prominence this year.
This ticket also appears to have the support and experience of numerous Student Government veterans, including former Sen. Jereme Pozin.
Every year there are Greeks spread throughout the different tickets because the support of their respective organizations makes them great running mates. If they all stand together this year, the status quo could be overthrown and an entirely new 42nd student Senate and leadership could emerge.
Regardless of the outcome of this fall’s election, there is no doubt that it will be hotly contested. Pizza will be bountiful, laptops and tables will be at the entrance to every building and campaigners will nag you to vote every chance they get.
Look forward to Senate elections 2009 as they should be quite the scene!
Our exclusive analysis at KnightNews.com will continue over the next few days with more depth and detail about this election.
Stay tuned for updates.



