
With Swine Flu still affecting many here at UCF, students have been wondering when the H1N1, or Swine Flu, vaccine would become available. Beginning this week the UCF health Center has been providing free vaccines for students. But they may be surprised to know that it is not a needle, but a nasal spray.
The H1N1 vaccine with is self administered has been described as and easy and suitable solution to injection.
But students are still unsure if they will get the vaccine.
“I don’t know, really I might wait till next year,” said sophomore Matt Delatorre. “I’m afraid since I had [swine flu] about a month ago, it might just flare up again.”
Other students believe it is unnecessary.
“I don’t really see swine flu as big a threat as some people do,” junior Eileen Herbert said. “I mean, people die from the regular flu. I think that people really only should get vaccines for stuff like that if they live with children.”
Many students, though, really appreciated how convenient it is to sign up for a vaccination — and that they got them for free.
“My friend told me yesterday that were handing free vaccinations, so I said sure why not,” freshman Haris Moore said. “All I did was walk in and they handed me an application and said show up at 2:30.”
We spoke with Dr. Michael Deichen, Medical Director of UCF Health Services, about what students should know before getting the vaccine.
“The spray is intended for otherwise healthy persons, what we say is if you are under 50 years of age and you’re not pregrant and you are not suffering from a chronic disease, this is a good vaccine for you,” Deichen said.
He also warns that students may experience a runny nose and to take precautions by washing your hands, to decrease the chance of passing on the virus.
For more information on the H1N1 vaccine and when it is being administered, visit www.ucf.edu/flu.



 
Bright House Sports Network reported last night that both Brett Hodges and Brynn Harvey will sit out today’s game at Texas.
Although today’s game at Texas means far less than the rest of the games on the schedule, this game is still worth competing. George O’Leary may be worried about risking a potential injury to our main players but both players may be cold for next week’s game vs Houston.
UPDATE: Brett Hodges has been reported on the injury report with bruised ribs and there is no word on Brynn Harvey yet. Rob Calabrese and Johnathan Davis start in their places today.
At the end of the first quarter, The Knights are tied with Texas 0-0. A conservative game plan has worked out well for the Knights so far. Texas has had trouble with our swarming defense and our offense has been able to pick up some big first downs.
Look for Johnathan Davis to continue picking up big yardage today.
Knights score first as Nick Cattoi is good on a 39 yard field goal. Knights 3- Texas 0
Texas scores on a 20 yard run Knights 3- Texas 7
Texas scores on another rushing touchdown. Knights 3- Texas 14
Texas scores on a passing touchdown. Knights 3- Texas 21
UCF takes the Texas RB down for a safety but the officials turn a blind eye and give Texas the ball at the 1 yeard line.  Knights 3- Texas 21
After the video replay official fails to overturn two plays, Texas scores on a long touchdown pass. Knights 3 -Texas 28
The game is looking to get out of hand as the Knights  let Texas score on another touchdown run. Knights 3- Texas 35
Knights fail to score from the 3 yard line and Texas runs out the clock as the Knights lose 35-3 to Texas. Check back for a full story on today’s disappointing effort by the Knights.



