Thousands of UCF students swarmed the Reflecting Pond on campus for one of UCF’s most famous traditions — Spirit Splash.
This is essentially an outdoor pep rally to pump up UCF students before going into gameday. In addition to the fun and excitement — and free t-shirts — this is the one time all year when students have free reign to jump into the reflection pond and go wild.

This year, however, there was a common concern among students with regards to illness. The Reflection Pond, in essence, becomes a giant cesspool of potential swine flu and other illnesses — not to mention the fact that it was only 60 degrees out.
Either way, students had a blast, Knightro wore a swimsuit and no one appears to have been seriously injured. We all may just have to check back with the health center in the days to come to find out if Sprit Splash should be dubbed “Swine Splash.”
Many students were excited to talk to us about Spirit Splash this year, and our own Andrew Stein was there for them to talk to, along with a camera.


The rubber ducks were a popular handout at the event.
Some pranksters apparently poured some soap into the pond, but it didn’t cause a major problem.
KnightNews.com is working to upload lots of high-quality video of this event. Check back for updates soon.
If you have video or pictures of the event, e-mail them to us at news@knightnews.com and we’ll include them!



Ferrell commons was the venue for the first UCF  Knights student dunk contest, though what took place inside was decidedly uncommon. The new event, which was put on by the Campus Crusade for Christ with help from the Rowdy Knights, gave witness to UCF’s finest student-dunkers and was judged by the university’s supreme ‘ballers,’ the UCF mens basketball team.

Amateur dunkers soared through the air in a two round slam-dunk contest with each dunk scored on a one to ten scale by the knight basketball stars.
Mike O’Donnell, a former standout UCF basketball player, emceed the event. His familiarity with the basketball team and the Speraw family added a new wrinkle to the contest. O’Donnell first challenged coach’s son Dustin Speraw, whom he called the worst dunker on the team, to jump over Mike’s wallet while dunking. O’Donnell later challenged the coach himself, Kirk Speraw, to complete a dunk, which he was able to do while earning applause from both the fans and his players.
The students participating in the competition put on an impressive and entertaining show in the contests’ main event. One student pulled a spectator out of the crowd and jumped over her to complete his dunk. Another student received an alley-oop pass from starting point guard A.J. Rompza, and a different participant tried his luck in dunking over 7’4’’ UCF center Jakub Kusmieruk.
Not all interactions with the team were favorable, however, as freshman power forward Keith Clanton snuck up and swatted away a contestants attempted jam.
The event was the brainchild of Marc-Steve Cerniglia, a member of the Campus Crusade for Christ, who have weekly events called One80 to bring students together. In the end the winners were:
3rd- Michel Westberry (50 dollar prize)
2nd- Devontee Lynch (75 dollar prize)
1st- Evan Lowe and Peter Calixte (Each received a 100 dollar prize)



