A warning to students: Saturday afternoon the UCF police department will be testing their emergency campus sirens.
The four sirens placed around the campus are one of the primary methods the police could use to warn students and faculty of emergencies that may occur around the area.
The UCF police have confirmed that this test will happen around 4:00 p.m.
According to ucf.edu, the sirens will emit a loud tone followed by a message that will clearly inform everyone that there is no emergency and the tone is just a test.
In case of a real emergency, the message would inform students what the emergency is and what procedures they should follow.
So, please don’t be alarmed if you hear tomorrow’s test sirens.




UPDATE 6:08 P.M.
KnightNews.com has confirmed UCF student John Grosso died in Friday morning’s accident. He was 21.
His passenger, Jose Samuel Gonzalez, 21, also died in the crash. Gonzalez was not a student, according to UCF.
A KnightNews.com crew went to the scene of the crash at North Tanner Road near Lake Price Drive, and interviewed an eyewitness who lives right where the crash happened.
We are editing that video story to explain how this happened right now, and hope to have it up soon.
KnightNews.com extends ours sympathies to the victims’ friends and family, and invites anyone who’d like to share their memories to e-mail us at news@knightnews.com, so we can try to include them in the memorial story we are working on producing this weekend, if any of friends are ready to share their thoughts that soon.
UPDATE 2:08 P.M.
KnightNews.com has learned the names of the two college-aged men who died in a tragic car crash behind UCF early this morning.
Sadly, it appears at least one of the victims is a UCF student. We are choosing to withhold the names for a bit, until we can be sure their family, and close friends find out in the proper way during this difficult time.
Both victims were 21-years-old.
Sometime before 4 a.m. reports show the driver, from Plant City, was going down Tanner Road at a high rate of speed, lost control and hit a curve and then a mail box before slamming into a ditch, striking a utlity pole and and ending up overturned on the road.
The 2003 Nissan coup came to rest on Lake Price Drive.
The passenger who died in the crash was from Dover, Fla.
KnightNews.com will continue following this tragic story, and will release the victims’ names once the family members are properly told first by law enforcement.
Troopers are waiting for toxicology results before they will say whether alcohol may have contributed to the crash.
Check back for updates on this sad story.




Local high school soccer star Breanna McMahon, 17, lost her left leg a few weeks ago, in an tragic accident during her soccer’s team car wash. 
 
Bree’s friend was pulling in to get her car washed, when the driver’s foot slipped off the brake and onto the gas. The car sped forward, pinning Bree against a wall and crushing her lower extremities. 
 
Bree’s left leg had to be amputated. In between surgeries, she awoke and told those around her that she forgave the driver, according to reports. 
 
But It is not the tragic part of the story that everyone taking notice of this Freedom High School player — it’s her determination. 
 
“She’s not having a pity party … you know we’ve  talked a lot and we’ve decided this is a detour, not a dead end and she’s committed to somehow someway making it back to college level, and she probably will, I wouldn’t put it past her,” said her mother, Kathleen McMahon. 
 
Her story and enduring spirit is attracting the attention of many soccer teams, including the UCF women’s soccer. The Knights are reaching out to Bree and her family. They dedicated last week’s game to her and have collected close to $1,000 to help with medical expenses. 
 
They are also wearing red arm bands, the color of FC American Club team, and signed a UCF jersey, which they will be bringing her next week.
 
Pro players are also taking notice of her amazing spirit. Minnesota Vikings Kicker Ryan Longwell reportedly sends her daily text messages. 
 
And even pro women’s soccer player Mia Hamm called her to tell Bree that she is “her hero.”



If you would like to help Bree and her family please visit:
www.caringbridge.org/visit/breemcmahon
 
For direct paypal donations, send funds to:
Breemcmahon05@gmail.com
 
Or to deposit directly into their account please call:
 
Old Southern Bank 407-420-3900





If you would like to help Bree and her family please visit:
www.caringbridge.org/visit/breemcmahon
 
For direct paypal donations, send funds to:
Breemcmahon05@gmail.com
 
Or to deposit directly into their account please call:
 
Old Southern Bank 407-420-3900



