You’ve heard of it, you’ve listened to that girl in your math class sing the songs and you may have even see the movie a few years ago. But now, Rent has made its way to Orlando and is running at the Bob Carr theater through Sunday, December 6.
The show is fantastic. First of all, it’s really loud. If you are one of those people who does not enjoy a traditional, calm show, then this may be right up your ally — no pun intended (as the scenery is in an ally). The songs are catchy, the acting is vivacious and the music is inspiring. Not to mention, there is a great storyline that is truly touching. We here at Knightnews.com definitely recommend that you see the show while you have the chance.
For more information on the show, we have included the official press release below. 
———————————————————-
Orlando, Fla. – Jeffrey Seller   Kevin McCollum  Allan S. Gordon have announced that Adam Pascal, Anthony Rapp and Gwen Stewart will reprise the roles they originated on Broadway in “Rent: The Broadway Tour” when it visits Orlando’s Carr Performing Arts Centre December 1 – 6, 2009. Tickets go on sale Friday, October 16 at 10:00am. Tickets start at $34.00 and can be purchased at the FAIRWINDS Broadway Across America – Orlando Box Office, Amway Arena Box Office and all Ticketmaster locations. Online purchases can be made at www.OrlandoBroadway.com. To charge-by-phone call 1-800-982-2787. Group orders for 20 or more may be placed by calling (407) 423-9999 x17 or (800) 950-4647.  
Joining Pascal, Rapp and Stewart, are Nicolette Hart (Maureen Johnson), Justin Johnston (Angel Schunard), Lexi Lawson (Mimi Marquez), Michael McElroy (Tom Collins), Jacques C. Smith (Benjamin Coffin III), and Haneefah Wood (Joanne Jefferson). The ensemble is rounded out by Toby Blackwell, Adam Halpin, Trisha Jeffrey, Joshua Kobak, Telly Leung, Tracy McDowell, Jed Resnick, Andy Señor, Shelley Thomas, Yuka Takara and John Watson. 
Pascal, Rapp and Stewart originated the roles of Roger Davis, Mark Cohen and “Seasons of Love” soloist, respectively, at the New York Theatre Workshop and on Broadway. Justin Johnston, Michael McElroy and Gwen Stewart were all members of the final company of “RENT”, which played its last performance on Broadway on Sept. 7, 2008. 
“Rent: The Broadway Tour” is directed by Michael Greif, who received 1996 Tony and Drama Desk nominations as well as the Obie Award for “RENT”. Marlies Yearby, who received a Tony Award nomination for her work on the musical, choreographs the show and Tim Weil, the show’s original music supervisor and conductor, serves as music supervisor.  
Pascal received Obie and Theatre World awards and Tony and Drama Desk nominations for best actor for “RENT”. On Broadway, he also originated the role of Radames in the hit musical “Aida” and starred as the Emcee in the long-running revival of “Cabaret.” His film credits include Rent, School of Rock, SLC Punk!, Temptation, and Goyband. 
An actor since the age of six, Rapp has appeared on Broadway in “Precious Sons” (Outer Critics Circle Award), “Six Degrees of Separation,” and the revival of “You’re a Good Man, Charlie Brown.” His films include Adventures in Babysitting, School Ties, Dazed and Confused, Six Degrees of Separation, David Searching, Man of the Century, Road Trip, A Beautiful Mind, Open House, Winter Passing, Danny Roane: First Time Director, and Scaring the Fish. His book, “Without You: a Memoir of Love, Loss, and the Musical Rent”, about his experiences on and offstage, was published in 2006 by Simon & Schuster and became a national bestseller. 
Stewart created several roles in “RENT”, including introducing the solo vocals for the show’s central theme, “Seasons of Love.” Her other theatre credits include the recent Tony-nominated revival of “Big River,” “Starmites,” “Suds,” “Ain’t Misbehavin’,” “The Wiz,” “Avenue X” and “Abyssinia.” Stewart’s film and television work includes “Notes From the Underbelly,” “Related,” “Law & Order,” “Charmed,” “All My Children,” “Moesha,” “24,” “Strong Medicine,” “The Guardian,” Down To Earth, and Personals. 
Nicolette Hart’s Broadway credits include “RENT”, “Legally Blonde,” and “The Wedding Singer.” Her TV and film credits include “Law and Order,” “Lipstick Jungle,” “Veronika Decides To Die,” “Love and Other Impossible Pursuits” and “Cherry Crush.” 
Justin Johnston played Angel Schunard in the final Broadway company of “RENT” and can be seen with the closing cast in “Rent Filmed Live on Broadway.” 
Michael McElroy played Tom Collins in the final Broadway company of “RENT”. His Broadway credits include “Wild Party,” “Big River” (Tony and Drama Desk nominations), “The Who’s Tommy,” “Miss Saigon,” “Patti LuPone on Broadway,” and “High Rollers.” McElroy’s TV credits include “Love Monkey,” “All My Children,” and “Spin City.” 
Jacques C. Smith made his Broadway debut as Benny in “RENT”. His TV credits include “CSI: Miami,” “ER,” HBO’s “OZ,” PBS’s Emmy-winning “American Masters” series “Ralph Ellison: An American Journey,” “The Division,” and “Law and Order.” 
Haneefah Wood’s Broadway credits include “RENT”, “Avenue Q”, and “Brooklyn.” She originated roles in the workshops of “Shrek” and “Good Vibrations.” Her film and television credits include “Freedomland,” “Law and Order: Criminal Intent,” “Strong Medicine,” and “Days of Our Lives.”  
“RENT”, written by Jonathan Larson and directed by Michael Greif, opened at Broadway’s Nederlander Theatre, on April 29, 1996, following a history-making, sold-out, extended-limited engagement at off-Broadway’s New York Theatre Workshop. The musical went on to win every major best musical award, including the Tony Award, as well as the Pulitzer Prize for drama. “RENT” played its final performance at the Nederlander Theatre on Sept. 7, 2008 after playing 5,124 performances and 16 previews. “RENT” is the eighth-longest-running show in Broadway history and grossed more than $280 million during its Broadway run. 
Tours of “RENT” have crisscrossed the country almost continuously since late 1996 and the U.S. national tours have grossed more than $330 million. The musical has been translated into every major language and been performed on six continents, including in the following countries: Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Finland, Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Korea, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Philippines, Portugal, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. 
Tickets start at $34.00 and can be purchased at the FAIRWINDS Broadway Across America – Orlando Box Office, Amway Arena Box Office and all Ticketmaster locations. Online purchases can be made at www.OrlandoBroadway.com. To charge-by-phone call 1-800-982-2787. Group orders for 20 or more may be placed by calling (407) 423-9999 x17 or (800) 950-4647.  
For more information about “RENT”, please visit www.siteforrent.com.  



UPDATE:
KnightNews.com just received this statement from the Orange County Sheriff’s Office announcing the attempted murder suspect has been arrested:
“Demarcus Reddick, the 20 year old man wanted for Conspiracy to Commit Murder and the subject of an extensive search in Oviedo during the evening of December 2, 2009, has turned himself in to Seminole County Deputies at the Oviedo Marketplace Mall this morning around 10:00 AM.
Reddick was able to run from Orange County deputies when they attempted to take him into custody at a Circle K store near Dean and University late Wednesday afternoon.  He fled the arrest attempt at a high rate of speed ultimately crashing his vehicle on Alafaya Trail just north of Mitchell Hammock Road. 
Reddick was transported to and booked into the Seminole County Jail following his arrest.”
The Orange County Sheriff’s Office told KnightNews.com deputies have been after Demarcus Reddick, 20, since they say he committed attempted murder at the Hess on Colonial and Forsythe Octoboer, 25.
Deputies, who had been conducting surveillance on Reddick, decided to move in on him when he pulled into a Circle K near UCF on Dean and University Wednesday afternoon, but when they did he sped off in his car.
Reddick was driving so recklessly, deputies say, they did not chase him on the ground, but instead used a helicopter to follow him.
“They did not pursue the fleeing felon because of heavy traffic and reports from the helicopter crew that he was driving recklessly and endangering the public,” sheriff’s spokesman Jim Solomons told KnightNews.com.
The accused attempted killer drove right past the entrance to UCF, then turned northbound on Alafaya Trail and ditched his car just north of Mitchell Hammock Road in Oviedo.
“He bailed out of the car, leaving it in drive and allowing it to crash into a fence,” Solomons said, adding that Reddick continued fleeing on foot and escaped capture, despite help from Oviedo Police and Seminole County Sheriff’s Deputies.
Reddick’s driving is believed to have caused a crash on Champan road, near the Riverwind student housing apartments, Solomons said. No one was injured.
Solomons said they believe Reddick plans to commit a murder soon, and charges are pending for conspiracy to do so, in addition to his previous attempted murder charge.
Deputies believe Reddick may be hiding out with family in Oviedo.
“Anyone with information on Reddick’s whereabouts should contact law enforcement immediately,” Solomons said. “He should be considered armed, dangerous, and willing to resort to violence to avoid capture.”



Financially struggling students now have a new place to go for help at the University of Central Florida. “Knights Helping Knights” is a group of students from the LEAD scholars program that, with the help of their professor Rick Falco, was able to create a food pantry for their fellow students at UCF.
The “Knights Helping Knights” food pantry is stocked with canned foods, snacks, meals, clothes and books available for any student. The founders of the food pantry chose to use an honor system, where no identification or paperwork is required. Anyone can stop by and pick up as much as they may need.
According to the group’s Web site, there is a big need for a food pantry on campus, as  nearly one out of five students reports having a parent who lost a job or got laid off since the beginning of the school year, and nearly one in three college students now say financial pressures are a big source of daily stress for them — a 27 percent jump from last year.
Aubrey Brown, a UCF student and one of the founders of the new food pantry is proud to be helping fellow students.
“We see ‘Knights Helping Knights’ as a resource on-campus for students in need, where they don’t have to worry about food”, said Brown. To keep the pantry going she says they need as many donations as possible, because it is run completely off donations.
Brown has high hopes for the future of the food pantry, which started off as a class project for LEAD Scholars. She says “the food pantry started out small, but it’s getting bigger and we hope it stays at UCF for years to come”.
The Knights Helping Knights Food Pantry is open Tuesdays to Thursdays from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. The pantry is located in suite 312 on the 3rd floor of the Student Union. Knight’s Helping Knights is currently collecting donations at the Student Union. To find out more, visit http://khk.sdes.ucf.edu



Update:
UCF student James Birk will be laid to rest Thursday at 11 a.m. Thursday, December 3. The funeral will take place at Trinity Memorial Gardens, 12609 Memorial Drive, New Port Richey, FL 24655.
Thousands of UCF students hit the roads last week to spend Thanksgiving with family at home, but what should have been a happy time turned tragic for one family instead.
UCF student James David Birk, 21, never made it to his family’s Thanksgiving celebration. He somehow lost control of the 2007 Dodge Charger he was driving, smashed into several trees and flipped, according to reports. He later died at the hospital.
Birk was reportedly on his way to Hillsborough River State Park, a place where he and members of his extended family camp each Thanksgiving and share a feast.  He was on U.S. 301, just outside the park, when he crashed.
He was by himself and not wearing a seat belt, troopers said. The Land O’Lakes native had just left a friend’s house, his grandmother told the St. Pete Times, where he was watching a football game.
Birk’s grandmother, June Cannon, said her grandson was on his way back from watching a football game at a friend’s house. He was alone in the car and wasn’t wearing a seat belt, the Highway Patrol reported.
“Everyone in the family loved him,” his grandmother, June Cannon, told the paper. “He was someone everyone wanted to be around.”
His cousin, Stacie Garcia, agreed.
“He was the type to come home from Orlando and instead of going out with his friends, he would sit at his house with his parents and sister and brother. … He would drop anything to be here if one of us needed him,” she told the Times.
Memorial services are scheduled from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. Wednesday, December 2. His funeral is scheduled for 11 a.m. Thursday, December 3. Both will take place at Trinity Memorial Gardens, 12609 Memorial Drive, New Port Richey, FL 24655.
His obituary says the Freedom High School graduate “was the most loving and spirited person a family could have,” and that he “simply adored his brother and sister, and touched the lives of everyone he knew.”
He is survived by his loving mother, Linda; his father, Tim; his sister, Samantha; and brother, Houston Adamo; girlfriend, Jackie Filippi; grandparents, June and Earl Cannon, Burnice Birk, Betty Adamo and Jim E. Birk, according to the obituary.
“He will also be missed by his extended family members and many, many friends,” the obituary said.
The Highway Patrol was reportedly still investigating if alcohol was a factor.
If you knew Birk and have anything to say about what he will be remembered for at UCF, please e-mail us at news@knightnews.com, or simply leave a comment below. 



