UPDATE SEPT. 5, 12:32  Our crews on the scene of UCF’s Memory Mall did not notice any nearly naked runners protesting the tailgate start times.
The nearly nude run was promised on an anonymous comment posting on KnightNews.com.
Although we saw no running, we did see fans sitting in tailgate spots early in a less flashy protest of the new rules. 
For more details on the nearly nude protest that apparently never came to be, read our original story below:
ORIGINAL STORY:
During KnightNews.com’s extensive coverage of the tailgating time cuts, one group begin posting comments on our stories with a link to an unusual protest — a nearly naked “Knights Tail” run.
We don’t know who is planning it, but whoever it is made a Web site touting the start time for running around in your underwear at 10 a.m., a full two hours before tailgating is allowed for Saturday’s home opener against the Samford Bulldogs.
Kickoff starts at 7:30 p.m., and tailgating is prohibited before noon under UCF’s controversial new tailgate start times. Under last year’s rules, tailgating and drinking would have started at 7 a.m. for this game.
The “Knights Tail” group, according to its Web site, hopes to “Save tailgating start times by running around in the undies Up the quads and around the stadium.”
Concerns have also been raised about whether UCF can handle a rush for parking when fans who ordinarily arrived before noon, all arrive together to claim a spot for the tailgate.
Despite the warnings from fans for a traffic nightmare, a UCF spokesman told the Orlando Sentinel that he thinks UCF will be fine for the game.



Students on their way to class this morning were in for an unexpected surprise.
Aquarius Agora Drive, the road that runs by Lake Claire, the Communication Building, Visual Arts and ends at the Student Union, was shut down this morning. Students were forced to take the scenic route around the Visual Arts Building to get to class. 

UCF and Orange County Police, Fire Rescue and EMTs were all on the scene. According to UCF Police it was a small electrical fire and they are unsure how it started. One firefighter suffered from heat exhaustion and had to be taken out on a stretcher but will be okay.
Details to follow as the story develops.



