Orange County Fire Rescue officials confirmed to KnightNews.com Monday afternoon that two men were rushed to the hospital by ambulance following a chaotic, bloody brawl that broke out around closing time at Scoop early Monday morning.
One of the men was transported to the nearby Florida Hospital East on Lake Underhill. The other was rushed all the way downtown to Orlando Regional Medical Center, a trauma center, presumably because his injuries were more severe.
The names of the victims have not been released, so we’re unable to find out the status of these victims at this time.
KnightNews.com has interviewed several eyewitnesses to the brawl, all of which asked we withhold their names out of fears for their own safety.
One eyewitness said a victim who was unresponsive on the floor appeared “an inch away from death.”
Other eyewitnesses said that victim had his face stomped on repeatedly during the melee.
KnightNews.com broke this story around 3:30 Monday morning, after several tipsters told us there was a serious fight at Scoop that ended with a swarm of Orange County sheriff’s deputies and ambulances in the parking lot outside the bar.
One eyewitness claimed a brawl broke out around closing time, involving around two dozen people. When the brawl was over, the two men lay unresponsive in the parking lot, he said.
Pools of blood filled the parking lot, and one man even pulled out a bat, eyewitnesses said.
The scene remained chaotic after deputies and ambulances left the scene.
KnightNews.com crews responding to the scene just after 3 a.m. were confronted by a disoriented man with a bloody face who apparently was trying to steal our cameras, phone and car.
KnightNews.com crews had to leave the scene and were not able to collect video because they did not feel safe.
Another eyewitness told KnightNews.com Monday morning that he had a similar encounter with the disoriented man with the bloody face. In his encounter, the man tried to get into his car and ask for a ride.
KnightNews.com videojournalist Julian Belyea describes his encounter in this video blog below:




Get ready for a big boost in the fight against swine flu at UCF.
Within a matter of weeks, everyone on campus could be offered a shot to vaccinate themselves from the contagious swine flu virus spreading across UCF, Florida and the world.

“We’re making plans to make it available through a mass vaccination campaign,” said Dr. Michael Deichen, who works at the UCF Health Center.
“We’re partnering with the public health department, and we’re planning to have mass vaccine clinics here on campus,” he said.  “We have plans written up that will allow us to potentially inoculate everyone at UCF within a couple days.”
Most students we talked to said they’d get the vaccine, although a few were hesitant.
“I wouldn’t go out of my way to do it, but if I was supposed to, I’d get it,” one student said.
“I would get the vaccine if I was scared enough,” said another.  
During the first week of fall classes, UCF had at least 43 suspected cases of swine flu, or H1N1.
“That number reflects the number of students who had positive tests for Influenza A at the Health Center,” said UCF spokesman Chad Binette. “If that test is positive, then the virus is almost certainly H1N1.”
Add to that UCF’s 30 confirmed cases of swine flu from spring and summer, and UCF has seen at least as many as 73 potential cases of swine flu on campus since the virus surfaced in April.
UCF is not alone – the virus appears to be hitting college campuses even harder across the country.
At least 2,000 students reported swine flu symptoms at Washington State University, according to the New York Times. That outbreak appears to be the largest among college campuses, the Times reported.
For students suffering from swine flu on UCF’s campus, they can ask their resident assistant for a UCF care package, complete with chicken noodle soup, energy powder to add to water and cough drops.
Masks are being given out immediately at the UCF Health Center to all students coming in with flu-like symptoms. If the student tests positive for flu, the Health Center may prescribe an antiviral medication called Tamiflu, according to Binette.
Students with suspected swine flu are instructed to stay in isolation until at least 24 hours after they are free of 100 degree fever or signs of fever without using fever-reducing medications, like Tylenol or Advil.
UCF officials are also reminding students to wash their hands, cough into a tissue or their sleeves instead of their hands, and to not touch their eyes, nose or mouth because that’s the way germs spread.
Officials are using everything from e-mail, posters – and even a hand-washing campaign featuring a student walking around campus with a urinal who distributes hand sanitizer to remind students to wash their hands.
Students who miss class because of swine flu shouldn’t become overly worried.
“We are urging faculty to adopt flexible makeup and attendance policies to accommodate students who are sick,” Binette said. “We also are urging faculty to develop alternative plans for their classes. This includes posting course material online as podcasts or in other formats and also lining up potential substitutes for their classes in case they are sick.”
Seven people in Orange County and 71 in Florida have died from swine flu so far, according to the Orlando Sentinel.



