UPDATE 6 P.M. FROM UCF:
UCF Spokesman Chad Binette just released this statement to KnightNews.com confirming what we first reported:
“Beta Theta Pi and representatives of the university met recently and successfully resolved their differences.  The university is looking forward to having Beta Theta Pi successfully complete its suspension at the end of the Spring 2010 semester.”
KnightNews.com has gotten confirmation from a reliable UCF source that Beta Theta Pi will be allowed back on the UCF campus by 2010.
According to an out of court settlement between the fraternity and UCF:
“Beta Theta Pi and the University of Central Florida have come to an amicably agreed settlement on all prior issues. Upon successful completion of all requirements, the University will allow Beta to return after Spring 2010.”
Lance Flint, a brother of Beta, told KnightNews.com: “Beta and I are glad it’s over and we hope we can have a good working relationship with UCF for many years to come.”
KnightNews.com is working right now to get official confirmation from UCF officials about this.
Beta Theta Pi was suspended by UCF after being accused of gang raping a girl, but the girl later dropped the case. A controversy ensued when UCF found the group in violation of sexual misconduct, based on school rules, despite the criminal case being dropped.
Check back for updates on this breaking major story.



Being UCF students, we’re constantly surrounded by exciting events. And let’s face it, if it’s a good event…there’s got to be a t-shirt to remember it by.
That’s where Real Thread comes in. Real Thread is an eco-friendly printing company that provides comfortable, quality shirts with a real-difference. Using waterbase ink instead of traditional plastisol ink and printing predominantly on American Apparel brand tees, Real Thread is definitely the real deal for all your printing needs.

KnightNews.com got a first-hand look at their printing process and the inside scoop on Real Thread’s limited edition UCF tee. They are only printing 200 of these so make sure you go to RealThread.com and order yours in time for game day! They’re only $8 and ordering ends online Thursday at 2pm.
They’ll be hot off the press and available for pickup on Friday the 13th at Knight Library from 4-6pm during happy hour and at their office in Winter Park from 12-3pm. Make sure to check out RealThread.com after this video to snag a shirt and see what Real Thread is all about.



Tonight students flooded in for Homecoming 2009 Movie Knight at our very own UCF Arena.
What was everyone so eager to watch? None other than the summer box office hit, “The Hangover.” This comedy about the unforgettable (or should we say forgotten completely) night that four friends shared in Vegas has had audiences quoting lines since it’s release in June.

Many students were pumped to see this movie for a second or even third time, but we still managed to come across viewers that were eager to see it for a first. No matter who we spoke to, it was clear that UCF was in agreement; this movie was a great choice for Movie Knight.
On their way in, students were able to snag popcorn and cotton candy before heading on up to the main event. Let’s hope Alan didn’t roofie any sodas and this should be a Movie Knight to remember.



