Habitat for Humanity at UCF is looking for people to participate in their first ever 5k run. The name of the event is Habitat Hustle: 5k Costume Creep. The race will be on Halloween morning (Saturday) and it will be a costume run, so you can expect to see runners dressed up in all kinds of crazy outfits.
The race will take place on campus and will start and end in front of the Student Union. Sign-in will be at 8 a.m. and the race itself will begin at 9 a.m. Prizes will also be awarded to the fastest runners and to the best costumes. Registration is $20 and includes a T-shirt for the first 100 registrants. All proceeds go to the Habitat UCF House Fund to sponsor the first UCF student-built house.
If you want to be part of this fun event register online at www.habitatucf.com/5k or register Saturday at sign-in.



A diverse group of students, some wearing costumes like the Scarecrow from Batman and Alice from Alice in Wonderland, piled into the student union Wednesday night as part of CAB’s Thriller week for Casino Knight.
Thriller Week is a new event that UCF created to bring students out for Halloween-themed events. Casino Knight was an evening where students had the opportunity to play casino-themed games like poker. Bingo was also available for those who are less card-savvy.

Kim Gordon, Special Events Director for CAB, elaborated on the night stating, “This event gives students the opportunity to play games, win chips and cash them in for prizes from tickets to Universal and a Nintendo Wii to McDonalds for a year and passes to The Blue Man Group.”
Gordon, a junior and Business Management Major also added that there was a costume contest in which winners won free movie tickets.
The company called “Everything But the Mime” helped put on the event. They provided dealers, tables and chips, transforming the ballroom to a ghoulish and glitzy atmosphere. Events for the rest of Thriller Week include a visit from Ryan Buell of “Paranormal State” as well as the Mr. UCF Pageant.
To learn more about CAB, visit cab.ucf.edu for more information on the different committees and how to get involved.



