If you have been thinking that it seems like more students than ever are crowding our roads and attempting to park on campus, you are right.
The fall 2009 semester is a record-setting one for UCF to say the least. Not only is this year’s freshmen profile the best ever in UCF history, the enrollment count has reached astonishing numbers.

According to UCF, in 1998, only 11 years ago, the school had only 30,000 students. The preliminary fall 2009 headcount shows that this number has grown to 53,811. There are 11,940 new students at UCF this year, made up of freshmen, transfer, and graduate students. There was an increase of 3,536 students from the 2008 school year.
Even more impressive is that these numbers place UCF ahead of UF in total enrollment. For the first time, the University of Central Florida is the largest college in Florida. These constantly increasing numbers, along with other factors like UCF’s new med school, have UCF now ranked at No. 5 on the “Top Up-and-Coming School” list by U.S. News & World Report.
As the school year begins, you may question whether UCF can even handle this many students. Will parking continue to get worse as more students choose UCF? Will the local roads become unbearable because of traffic? We want to know your opinion on our constantly growing school.
Despite these unavoidable effects of this many students, the University of Central Florida is clearly proud to have come so far since 1963.



When KnightNews.com noticed a new pizza place on campus we wanted to check out the food — but we got more than just a taste.
Andrew Stein got exclusive behind-the-kitchen access to UCF’s newest restaurant, Brooklyn Pizza, and even made his own pie.
Brooklyn Pizza is located in Ferrell Commons (same area as Market Place), which is directly across from the Recreation and Wellness Center.
They also offer several inexpensive specials, like their $5.00 two slice and a drink combo. If you’re looking for a big pizza to feed all the roommates — and then some — you might want to try their huge 28″ pie, a whopping 16 slices!
Here’s the video showing interviews with the staff and Andrew tossing dough at what just might be the best pizza place at UCF.




