Get ready for packed parking lots, tons of traffic and a whole new freshmen class — the first week of school is finally here.
In between your new classes, new friends, naps, workouts, nights out and all the rest, UCF has some events to welcome everyone to UCF. It’s called Pegasus Palooza, and below find the schedule of events you can check out this week:
Monday, August 24
MONDAY KNIGHT COMEDY FEATURING “BROKEN LIZARD,” doors open at 7:00 p.m., show at 8:00 p.m. UCF Venue
Presented by: CAB and Office of First Year Experience
Come kickoff your UCF experience right with comedians of “Broken Lizard”. “Broken Lizard” is a five-member comedy group featured in movies “Super Troopers”, “Club Dread”, and many more! Make sure you do not miss the funniest event of the year!
Tuesday, August 25
A TASTE OF UCF, 12:00 p.m. — 3:00 p.m. Memory Mall
Presented by: Multicultural Student Center
Join the Multicultural Student Center for an afternoon of cuisine and fun! Come out and enjoy diverse performances by cultural organizations and local groups, in addition to some local food vendors! Get a sample of some of the best cuisine the local community has to offer while meeting and mingling with UCF’s Multicultural Student Center. Discover what the MSC has to offer and uncover the 2009 theme of the MSC Week which will be unveiled exclusively at Taste of UCF!
Wednesday, August 26
GET THE SCOOP, 10:00 a.m. — 2:00 p.m. Howard Phillips Hall
Presented by: Office of First Year Experience (1000 LINK LOOT)
Looking to talk to an advisor? Need to re-work your schedule? Need a little bit of help in chemistry? Head on over to Get The Scoop, and meet some of UCF’s academic and advising departments while enjoying a full scoop of Jeremiah’s Italian Ice!
SELF-DEFENSE CLASS, 1:00 p.m. — 3:00 p.m. SU 316AB
Presented by: UCF Police Department and The Office of First Year Experience
Living on your own for the first time? Don’t fear, as the UCFPD puts on the first of many Self-Defense Classes, aimed at showing you exactly how to keep yourself safe in any situation. Register here!
UCF’S GOT GUTS, 4:00 p.m. — 8:00 p.m. Memory Mall
Presented by: Office of First Year Experience (500 LINK LOOT)
You remember the legendary TV show, and now experience it for yourself, at UCF’s Got GUTS! Compete at a myriad of physical challenges for both the young, and the young at heart, and battle it out to win a chance to take home a piece of the famous Agro Crag! Registration for competing is required at www.PegasusPalooza.com. All teams competing must consist of four (4) students. Activities and inflatables will be made available to all students throughout the event. Register here!
Thursday, August 27
FOOD FOR FUNK, 4:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m. Memory Mall
Presented by: SGA and CAB Concerts
SGA’s newest Tradition, Food For Funk brings in some of the area’s greatest musical talent for a not-to-be-missed concert to help donate food for local students and families in need. Admission is only one can of food or other non-perishable food item. Bring all your friends for some good times and better music while helping the UCF community.
WELCOME EXPO, 10:00 a.m. — 2:00 p.m. SU Pegasus Ballroom
Presented by: First Year Advising and Exploration (1000 LINK LOOT)
Come join the Office of First Year Advising and Exploration at their annual Welcome Expo! Come meet organizations and outside vendors that can make your stay at UCF even better! Make sure to come out and get connected with UCF and Orlando!
Friday, August 28
Ferrell Commons Carnival, 2:00 p.m. – 4:00 p.m. at Ferrell Commons
Presented by: Multiple Offices
Come on out to Ferrell Commons and meet representatives from Counseling Center, Career Services and Pre-Professional Advising, Health Center, Student Conduct, Housing, Legal services, and student disability services. Find out what each of these great services provide for students and make sure to stay around for some music, games, food and giveaways!
LATE KNIGHTS, 9:00 p.m. — 2:00 a.m. Memory Mall
Presented by: Late Knights (1000 LINK LOOT)
At UCF we like it Late at Knight. Brace yourself for free food, new friends and fun all in a safe, alcohol free environment. The festivities will be held at the Memory Mall.
Saturday, August 29
MEDIEVAL BLOCK PARTY, 5:00 p.m. — 9:00 p.m. UCF Arena Knights Plaza
Presented by: UCF Arena, Office of First Year Experience, and CAB Cinemas (1000 LINK LOOT)
Close out the first week of classes as any true Knight would, celebrating UCF spirit at the Medieval Block Party! Try your hand at jousting, or simply take in the medieval flair while enjoying outlandish activities and meeting fellow Knights. Don’t forget to suit up for our water world known as “The Moat.” Bring your bathing suits and enjoy the ride! Also make sure to come to the festivities as UCF Homecoming will be announcing the 2009 Homecoming Theme with some great entertainers and free items!
MOVIES ON THE PLAZA 9:00 p.m. — 11:00 p.m.
Presented by: CAB
Bringing the movie theater to you, this Fall’s Movies on the Plaza kicks it off right with the blockbuster showing of “I Love You, Man.” But the party starts early with games, food, and prizes to unwind any stressed student in preparation for that night’s flick!
VOLUNTEER UCF EVENT, 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m.
Presented by: Volunteer UCF
VUCF and Pegasus Palooza present Gardening for the Kids. We will be creating a sensory garden near the playground at the BRAND NEW United Cerebral Palsy school in research park. They will provide all the materials and design blueprints for the garden layout. Please bring sunscreen and plenty of water. Wear clothing you don’t mind getting dirty. Meet at Lake Claire Pavilion at 9:30am to carpool. Sign up on our website www.volunteerucf.com and contact Ashley at aconyers@mail.ucf.edu for questions.



