Beta Theta Pi will not be allowed to participate in formal UCF recruitment this Fall, a Beta representative confirmed to KnightNews.com.
Florida’s Fifth District Court of Appeals today denied Beta’s motion to stay, which if granted would have allowed the group to recruit and operate like any other fraternity in good standing until the court’s final decision is made on the fraternity’s appeal.
The University of Central Florida suspended Beta for two years following allegations of sexual and other misconduct during an out of state trip. Beta denies its members committed any sexual misconduct, and has followed through on its promise to fight UCF’s decision in court.
A Beta representative confirmed the official appeal will now move through Florida’s Fifth District Court of Appeals, where a final decision in the case will be made.
Check back for continuous updates in this case, and refer to our previous article below to see why the court rejected one of UCF’s arguments in the case recently.
A decision about whether Beta Theta Pi will be allowed to recruit pledges at UCF — even though UCF found the fraternity in violation of sexual misconduct — could come down at any time now.
KnightNews.com confirmed exclusively today that a judge with Florida’s Fifth District Court of Appeals ordered UCF to explain why the fraternity should not be allowed to recruit and operate normally until the court’s final decision on Beta’s appeal of its two year suspension is reached.
Beta filed an appeal with the court to overturn UCF’s finding that the fraternity committed sexual misconduct. Along with the appeal, Beta filed a motion to stay, which asked the court to lift Beta’s suspension while the appeal is pending — in essense allowing the fraternity to operate like any other in good standing at UCF until the appeal is over.
According to court records, UCF refused to file a “meaningful and substantive” response to Beta’s motion to stay and “show cause why stay should not be granted.” Instead, UCF filed a response arguing that the court didn’t have the authority to even consider Beta’s 50 page motion.
The court rejected UCF’s argument and ordered the university to file a meaningful response by noon today at the latest.
KnightNews.com has confirmed that a UCF attorney delivered a response today and will continue closely monitoring this historic legal battle and the implications it may have on Beta’s fall rush and the future of the UCF student conduct process as a whole.
View the related posts on the top right to get caught up on the history of this case.
Check back for updates — and be sure to be our fan on facebook to stay connected with the latest breaking UCF news.




Pegasus Palooza’s Monday event was a huge hit, as hundreds of students gathered at the UCF Venue to enjoy a very amusing show. 
This comedy event began with an opening act from two of the guys of College Humor, Streeter Seidell and Jeff Rubin. They showed a few of their favorite pictures and videos that fans have submitted to their Web site, collegehumor.com, and even got interactive with the audience.  
Three volunteers went on stage to participate in a little trivia game to win a $25 Apple gift card. 
The first contestant was asked to name five Weird Al songs, which he was able to do with some help from the audience. 
The second was a girl so she was given the only “girl question,” which was to sing a Hannah Montana song.
She ended up singing a few lines from about three different songs, but managed to get the prize. 
The last contestant was asked what seemed to be the easiest question, but he still struggled with it for a bit. He had to say where the latest season of The Real World was taking place. After a few moments, and some shouting from the audience, he was finally able to say “Cancun.”  
After the audience was all warmed up, the guys from Broken Lizard came out. With their ample use of profanity and obscenity, they kept the audience laughing from beginning to end. 
Their entire show was composed of various smaller skits, which altogether lasted well over an hour. Their skits ranged from topics including masturbation, sex, drinking, drugs, parodies of the ancient Greeks and of computer help hotlines operated by people in India. 
Some of their humor was offensive, but that didn’t seem to bother anyone too much.  
The guys from Broken Lizard also had three volunteers go up to stage to help out. These had to read a short phrase with the best German accent they could do. After this, they participated in a small drinking competition against three of the guys of Broken Lizard. 
The first participant had to empty his entire cup — of non-alcoholic beer of course — and then place his cup upside-down on his head before the next person in his team could do the same. The first team to go through all three members would win. 
Unfortunately, the students lost.  
The entire event was a success and everyone was making positive comments about it, and about how glad they were to have gone. Many were already fans of Broken Lizard, so to them it was a great experience to have seen them live. And those who hadn’t heard of the group are now their newest fans.
Broken Lizard consists of five members: Jay Chandrasekhar, Kevin Heffernan, Steve Lemme, Paul Soter and Erik Stolhanske. They began as a student sketch comedy group at Colgate University and have continued to be very successful in what they do. 
The group has created some hysterical films such as Puddle Cruiser, Super Troopers, and Beerfest. They are currently working on their latest film, The Slammin’ Salmon, which comes out sometime this year.



