Rock the Wreath, the annual philanthropy concert hosted by the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity, was held last night at their house on the UCF campus from 5:00 p.m. until 11:30 p.m..
Set to benefit the Children’s Miracle network, ticket sales, as well as the money raised from t-shirt and sweatshirt sales, will all go to the charity.

ATO reached out to the community and had sponsorships from Jeremiah’s Italian Ice, Grey’s book store and Monster energy drink, who all had displays set up and were providing giveaways.
The perimeter of the house was roped off to create a closed environment for those in attendance. There was an elaborate stage with sound and lighting equipment to turn their front lawn into a concert hall. Although it was cold out, the line grew and the lawn filled up with students.
The bands that performed were as follows:
Hawthorne Heights
Punchline
Just Surrender
Nightbeast
Montyarei
ATO raised thousands of dollars for Children’s Miracle Network, hosted a great concert that was enjoyed by all and look forward to future years of making this even more successful.



Funnyman Kevin Hart and his opening act, Na’im Lynn, graced The Venue on November 19 with their presence and hilarity. They were met with a packed house and gave viewers lots of laughs.

Na’im Lynn was quite funny, taking advantage of performing in front of a college crowd by presenting jokes a UCF student could relate to at some point during their college career- hygiene (and not showering for days on end due to pileups of stuff to do), roommate issues (especially the ones who disrespect space boundaries and use what’s not theirs before asking), the freedom of college and being away from parents (“overnight” friends), among other topics.
He then went on to talk about texting and how we use it to say things we would never dare say in person. Then he talked about the nicknames he gave himself (“Calculus- because it’s hard”.) 
He thanked the crowd for being so courteous and introduced Kevin Hart. He joked that he’d be in the films Coming to America 2 and Bad Boyz Forever, which will not be coming out, ever. 
Kevin Hart took the stage by saying The Venue looked like the inside of a jail due to the black curtains adorning the stage and its surrounding areas.
According to Hart, children will do some dumb things, and that was one of the main themes of his set. He spoke about his own childhood and the exploits of his children.
He stated his fear of UFC fighters, and rationalizes his fear by saying that they exist, and actually know how to fight. What he doesn’t fear, however, are thugs, as they talk too much before a fight and end up being knocked out by real pugilists.
His uncle recently got out of jail and Hart used that to joke about what being in jail does to one’s speech, mannerisms and body shape- the obscure slang, the “say it with your chest!” phenomena where the chest is stuck out, and how large, muscle-bound upper bodies with no lower body strength predominates among inmates.  
From there, he went on to detail the differences between men and women, specifically how we differ emotionally. The art of “storming out”  was discussed, and he said he’s bad at it because he forgets things inside. (“Hey baby, let me in, I forgot my keys!”). 
Like Lynn, he used his audience to an advantage by saying that college kids fall in love too quickly (“You got on jeans? I got on jeans! We’re meant to be!”) and differentiated between old and new couples (old couples are angry, new couples make you angry). 
He then changed continents and jumped over to Africa, specifically the cheetah, whose top speed is upwards of eighty miles an hour. (“If you drive a Ford Focus or a Honda Civic, you’re dead!”)
Classic comedic gems were referenced in the art of the fall, and nothing is funnier than a falling person: girls don’t fall, but buckle instead. Guys either almost fall and try to cover it up, or fall and get angry with what they tripped over. Old people take too long to fall, and instead, slide to the floor beneath them. 
The last set in the show was mainly about the exploits of his good friend Nate, such as how he takes upwards of 25 minutes to pull out of a parking space.
Overall, both performers were exceptionally talented and I, and the crowd, had a grand old time evidenced by the standing ovation and thunderous applause that they received.
If you’re on Twitter, Kevin Hart can be followed at @KevinHart4Real, and he’ll be in Death at a Funeral and Little Fockers next year, as well as taping his HBO hour long special coming soon.
I’d say (with my chest!) that a grand time was had by all that was watching.



