This past Thursday, Alpha Epsilon Phi and Theta Chi joined forces to put on what seemed to be one of the top philanthropies of the semester: After Dark On Greek Park, a block party focused on raising money for both the Sharsharet Foundation and the Helping Hands Foundation.
AEPHI’s sexually-driven slogan, “Don’t let cancer steal second base,” makes a little more sense when you come to realize that Sharsharet is a non-for-profit organization dedicated to addressing the challenges of breast cancer to young Jewish women.

Theta Chi didn’t seem to mind raising money for women’s breasts, but they had their own charity to deal with, the Helping Hands Foundation, which focuses on helping children with upper limb differences. The $5 admission price provided you with live entertainment, bounce houses and a variety of delicious foods.
For entertainment, the alternative hip-hop group SJ performed. They tested their audience by giving shout outs to different cities, getting the loudest response from New York and Miami. The majority of their songs had themes about the beauty of a woman’s body, which went hand in hand with AEPhi’s charity. Both parties not only had great respect for women’s breasts, but also knew how to please a crowd.
The dance team Rukus also wowed the audience with an excellent routine. Orlando based band Senate, as well as David Cohn from Aepi, performed.
Many businesses donated meal platters for this eventful night. Silvermine Subs, Huey Magoo’s and iKiwi participated, to name a few. For the $5 cost at the door, unlimited food and entertainment was more than worth it.
On top of first class entertainment, the two bounce houses set off the evening. You might think that bounce houses are a little immature for college students, but in reality it makes or breaks a successful philanthropy at UCF. For sororities, Alpha Xi Delta donated the most money for the event, and Aepi was the top-donating fraternity.
AEPhi and Theta Chi weren’t afraid to make the bold statement of “Don’t let cancer steal second base,” and it has become quite a success. Ultimately, After Dark On Greek Park was a hit. If only raising money was always this fun.



