In the Student Union you may have noticed a lounge, which offers a place to relax and study throughout the day. However, that temporary area, right across from Mrs. Fields, may soon be replaced by a permanent business.
To get the details, KnightNews.com met with Student Union Associate Director Rick Falco, who supervises Union vendors and manages contracts as well as construction projects.
“The best concept wins. There are a lot of different, good ideas,” Falco said.
Representatives of the student union, along with members of SGA have formed a committee to make a decision, which is seemingly leaving the possibilities wide open.

There is no specific timetable for any place to open up, but something is expected to happen “as soon as possible,” said Falco. “The committee has to evaluate. All applications need a fair chance. We have to be really careful not to hurt the current vendors.”
He even went on to say that student organizations have expressed interest in taking the space, but he could not expand further on any specifics.
The committee also works to get as much student input as possible in the decision-making process.
Student representatives serve on the panel, and numerous surveys are distributed around campus.
There are a “number of different concepts,” explained Falco, “…from ice cream to healthier eating options. We need to find the right fit. There is room for another food concept or even a retail store that students will go to.”
The Union is operated with student Activity & Service Fees controlled by student government, so KnightNews.com e-mailed SGA President Brian Peterson to get some specifics as to what the possibilities could be, but we have not heard back from him yet.
To get some first-hand opinions, KnightNews.com asked several students on campus what they would put in the student union.
Freshman, Elizabeth Austin, said if she had the choice, she would “have a healthier option for lunch.”
Sophomore, Mercedes Langdon, said that she’d like to see a music store or another place for UCF apparel.
Another freshman, Heather Marquette, took a different approach, saying that she would love to have a craft store in the space.
From a new fast food place to a student organization and everything in between, it appears that there are countless options and no definite decision yet.
However, something is expected to happen soon that will surely have students curious to see what the new place will have to offer.



An inexpensive test for prostate cancer and most other cancers is currently being developed in Orlando and one UCF doctor is to thank for it.
University of Central Florida nanoscience doctor Qun “Treen” Huo discovered unique gold nanoparticles that react specifically to cancer proteins.
Dr. Huo has teamed up with Dr. Cheryl Baker, director of the M. D. Anderson Cancer Research Institute in downtown Orlando, to begin developing the test. Even though it’s still in the early stages, the test would be administered using only a small blood sample.
Dr. Baker has high hopes for the future of this test.
“The ultimate goal would be over-the-counter, at minimal cost, and linked directly back to a doctor or hospital,” she says.
Nevertheless, Dr. Baker ensures that this discovery was solely the works of Dr. Huo’s research.



