Today at 3 p.m. marked the start of Orlando’s “Come Out With Pride ” parade, promoting awareness and acceptance of those who are gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgender (GLBT).
At noon, Lake Eola was surrounded with all sorts of vendors whose customers are typically gay, and they showed a great deal of support. Many vendors were giving out free samples of their products, and rainbow colored Hawaiian-style lays to fit the theme of the parade.

At 3 p.m., the parade began with a squad of police cars sounding off their sirens. The crowd went wild and the sidewalks and restaurants were completely packed with onlookers as the floats began to stroll through.
According to the Metropolitan Business Association of Orlando’s Web site,  this is the “Orlando’s most colorful parade,” and they are right. With intricate outfits, tons of giveaways flying off the floats and even 2009’s Headdress Ball winner, it is clear that this parade is certainly a site not to be missed.
We were able to get exclusive interviews with some of the personalities on the different floats, and most seemed to have one mission in mind: supporting the gay community and being themselves despite what others may think.
We spoke with many people, read much literature and really mingled with the patrons, and the emphasis of the parade was meant to show that the GLBT community is not afraid or ashamed to be who they are.
UCF’s student organization, Gay Lesbian Bisexual Student Union (GLBSU), was in full force representing the UCF community. Each year, the GLBSU host’s “Diva Invasion,” which is a comedic drag show that showcases a great deal of Orlando’s talent.
This year, Diva Invasion will be held at the UCF Venue (old arena) on Oct. 29 from 7:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m.. The GLBSU wants UCF students, according to their Web site, to “come watch our sparkling sensations stir up trouble as Divas Invade UCF.”
It’s clear that whether you are a UCF students, a member of the Orlando community or just a human being, you are somehow affected by human rights issues, like gay rights. Today marked a day when the gay community spoke out in a major way.
According to Eden Wetherell, president of the GLBSU, “we are the founders of this parade when it started.” They march today, nine years after the parade’s inception, still showing their support for the community.
To see the schedule and sponsors of the parade, visit the “Come Out With Pride” section of the Metropolitan Business Association of Orlando’s Web site at:
http://mbaorlando.org/pages/come-out-with-pride/schedule.php



Tonight at approximately 9:00 pm a local business, Best Way Beverage Mart located next to the bar Knight Klub, which was formerly known as Pounders, was robbed by two white males.
According to deputies on scene, one robber had a gun and the other was holding pepper spray.
No employees were harmed during the incident, but a large amount of money was taken from the register.

It is not know at this time if there is any connection to the robbery at Jimmy John’s that happened last week and this latest robbery.



