KnightNews.com has confirmed which teams will compete in Skit Knight in the UCF Arena on November, 11 2009.
Skit Knight director Joey Femia said the Homecoming Board narrowed it down to these 12 final teams, after they auditioned two weeks ago. 
Here they are (in no particular order):
1. Zeta Tau Alpha, Lambda Chi Alpha – Circus, Circus, Las Vegas
2. Chi Omega, Fiji, Phi Mu Alpha, Pi Delta Psi – Gotham City Circus
3. Honors Congress – Dr. Seuss
4. Delta Delta Delta, Phi Delta Theta – Rush, Do you have what it takes to join the circus?
5. Alpha Kappa Psi – Cirque De Soleil, Business Style
6. Kappa Kappa Gamma, Sigma Nu, Tau Kappa Epsilon – Mickey Goes to the Circus
7. Campus Crusade for Christ – Circus of the Dark Knight
8. Alpha Xi Delta, Kappa Sigma, Sigma Lambda Beta – Freaky Funhouse
9. Kappa Alpha Theta, Delta Upsilon, Zeta Beta Tau – 3 Ring Circus
10. Alpha Epsilon Phi, Alpha Epsilon Pi, Delta Tau Delta – Knightro’s Clown School
11. LEAD Scholars – A Bug’s Life
12. Pi Beta Phi, Theta Chi, Lambda Sigma Upsilon – Vaudeville
For the freshmen out there, Homecoming Skit Knight is similar to Zeta Lip Sync and Kappa Delta Shakedown we have covered before, but Skit Knight is bigger and open to groups outside of the Greek community. 
Doors open at 6 p.m. in the new arena, the show starts at 7 p.m.



httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5wdmSL2-Ock
Hundreds of thousands of people have watched Edward Muscare, 77, sing and dance on YouTube, but his funny videos have landed him behind bars.
Muscare is a convicted sex offender, and part of his probation requires him to stay off the Internet, according to reports.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xGlz01VYEb8
When cops found out he was starring in his on Internet videos, like the one above with a banana, they threw him in a Central Florida jail in Lake County.
Now his fans are coming to his rescue, begging for his freedom and even writing to the judge asking for mercy.
One wrote: “I am writing you on behalf of an individual who is now in jail for posting videos of his dogs and advice on how to scratch your back. If there is any justice in the world Edward Muscare will be liberated.”
Fans say his videos, like this one below where he teaches you when to sing “I’m not superman” in Scrubs theme music, are harmless.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HFyP2yP-FWU
Other videos may give prosecutors more of an argument to stop the videos, this one shows him scratching his back shirtless and his dog sucking and biting his stomach.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n77auNQDiPk
Check out some of his other videos, and feel free to chime in on the controversy below.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=In0aMVdZbw4



