Students working out in the UCF gym during Wednesday night’s tornado warning were ordered by megaphone to drop their weights and seek cover in the locker-room until the threat passed, eyewitnesses said.
A building manager also ran onto the courts with the megaphone to order those crowds into the locker-room as well.
The tornado warning expired at 8:30 p.m. and KnightNews.com provided continuous live updates of the tornado warning and lock-down situation at the gym live as it unfolded. 
Dodgeball games scheduled after 8:30 p.m. were cancelled as a safety precaution, a Rec Center official said.  Team captains were called and told not to drive to campus due to the weather.
A Rec and Wellness official said students were allowed inside the gym during the storm, but were kept inside during what he called a “lock-down.”
The gym was back open for business as usual around 9 p.m.
Across campus, incoming freshmen attending the Ice Cream Social at Orientation told KnightNews.com they were strongly encouraged to remain inside the Union until the storm passed.
About 20 miles from campus at the Florida Mall an apparent tornado touched down just before 8 p.m.
A large warehouse was damaged by the apparent twister, and a hole was left in portions of the building.
No tornado was spotted on the UCF campus.
Hail was reported throughout the Orange County, and students told KnightNews.com they saw rapid lightning, strong rains and heavy winds roar through campus.




Students stood on top of the Tower 3 parking garage in hopes of getting a glimpse of space shuttle Endeavour’s 6:03 p.m. Wednesday launch.

Unfortunately, due to cloudy skies the majority of the launch was hidden, but some did manage to snap a few photos. And overall, the experience was not ruined.
“It was beautiful,” said senior Erin Ricci.
“It felt pretty good to see it again,” said junior Josh Lonski. “It reminded me of when I used to go watch it when I was little.”
Senior Daniel Tardif said: “It was a magnificent sight. I hope to go up from now on every time.”
And how are students celebrating Thursday’s 40th anniversary of man’s first steps on the moon?
“Get some of my fellow friends out to my place and maybe dress up as rockets and party hard core, yeah!” Tardiff said.



If you watched from afar, it almost looked like a pep rally formed outside the Student Union Monday, but the students gathered had nothing to be happy about – their majors were on the chopping block.

“When you have issues or something wrong with your heart, your lungs, we are the people you need to see,” shouted an unidentified Cardiopulmonary Sciences student, whose degree program may soon disappear.
For the faculty, the prospect of having degree programs they teach cut was worse. Their education isn’t on the line – instead it’s their ability to feed their families.
After a few speeches and songs, the large crowd moved inside the Student Union to try and convince a Board of Trustees committee meeting to vote against recommending a proposal to cut Cardiopulmonary Sciences, Management Information Systems, Engineering Technologies and Radiological Sciences.
Part of the proposal also includes “suspending” the Actuarial Sciences program.
The committee ultimately voted to recommend the cuts to the full board of trustees which will make a final vote later this month. The only trustee to vote against the cuts was SGA President Brian Peterson, the only student member.
Since 2007, the state has slashed an estimated $77 million dollars from UCF’s budget, according to UCF officials. The administration feels the proposed cuts, which would shed $4.7 million from the budget and 37 employees, are necessary for the university to survive the economic crisis.
But Finance professor Jim Gilkeson with the faculty union says that’s not true.

“We know for a fact the numbers that the provost (Terry Hickey) and president (John Hitt) have been spouting off are incorrect, they’re actually overblown” Gilkeson said. “Not only are they overblown, but they fail to take into account increases in sources of income that have happened over the last several years.”
“The fact is they have more than $140 million in reserves available to spend. They’re bringing in way more money than they’re spending, even as we speak,” he added.
Board of Trustees Chairman Rick Walsh insisted the cuts are needed, and said as a proud alumnus who loves UCF, it was tough for him to vote to recommend the cuts.
“It’s painful, I think it’s one of those decisions you wish you never have to make, but it’s the hand we’ve been dealt,” he said.

Walsh suggested that the cuts may not be over yet.
“I have a concern we haven’t gone far enough … given the economic outlook,” Walsh said. “We may be facing these questions again in the next six to 12 to 18 months.”
Related Links:



