KnightNews.com is kicking off our UCF Homecoming 2009 coverage by breaking some exciting news.
We have confirmed with Jess Wenson, Homecoming King and Queen Director, that the following 10 students were selected for this year’s homecoming court:
Anthony Battaglia
Representing Tau Kappa Epsilon
Andrick Lewis
Representing SGA
Taylor Lochrane
Reprsenting Institute of Transportation Engineers
Kyle Schumacher
Representing Delta Upsilon
Tim Hartzog
Representing Theta Chi
Caitlyn McManus
 
Representing Alpha Xi Delta
Jennie Hayes

Representing College Republicans
Lisa Cunningham
Representing LEAD Scholar’s Association
Kathy Rodriguez
Representing Chi Omega
Sareena Helton
Representing Kappa Kappa Gamma
Look forward to our complete coverage of UCF Homecoming 2009: Knightro’s Circus – Under the Black and Gold Top. Homecoming runs from Nov. 7 – Nov. 15.
You can vote for your favorite candidate starting November 9 until November 13.
Become our facebook fan so you stay informed about homecoming!
http://facebook.com/knightnews



DJ Tiesto came to UCF Arena Friday night and put on a show the audience will never forget.
The four hour set was the largest single-headliner event to take place on the East Coast, drawing club kids and older Orlando residents alike. Show goers started arriving two hours before Tiesto took the stage to get a prime spot and got to hear Danny Daze mix up house and hip hop, which certainly fed the vibe in the arena.
Once the world famous deejay arrived, the crowd went wild. Kaleidoscope was the first song to resonate through the speakers and once the beat dropped after five minutes of crazy anticipation, a spectacular light show pumped the trance fans up to dance all night long.




The set list had two acts, the first including new hits such as “Escape Me“, “Century”, “Feel It In My Bones”, and “Who Wants To Be Alone”- all songs from his new album Kaleidoscope that dropped on October 6, 2009. Toward the end he played older hits like “Adagio for Strings” which caused uproar of listener appreciation.
There were girls on guys’ shoulders getting a solid view of Tiesto and twirling glow sticks galore to energize the crowd to capacity. Behind Tiesto, as well as in front of his booth, were screens as tall as the arena that displayed wicked rainbow images of the deejay himself and black silhouettes of smoking chicks dancing on chairs and singing along to the songs. At the close of his show Tiesto signed his headphones and threw them to a very lucky person, then came down to the floor and shook hands and high fived the crowd.
This show was out of control and surely will be remembered by all who experienced it.



