Throughout the day, the mouth is used more times than its not.
Whether it is for eating, talking, making faces, kissing or smiling for the camera, the mouth is a body part that never sits idle. Unfortunately though, about 200,000 people are born with a cleft lip or palate annually which leads them with the inability to experience any of these sensations.
Luckily though, surgery is plausible and usually very successful in fixing this deforminity; however, it requires the care of many doctors and an exorbitant amount of money. Operation Smile, a national cleft lip and palate awareness organization specialize in trying to “reach the unreachable” and globally fix this physical disability.
Sophomore Michelle Ferrer and junior, Joe Kamel, hold this problem close to their hearts and are starting an Operation Smile chapter at UCF coming Spring semester to educate and raise money.

Originally, we reported 500,000 people are born with a cleft lip or palate annually. However, the real statistic is 200,000.



Through a new partnership between UCF, Valencia, and the University of Florida, both UCF and Valencia students will have the chance to earn a Bachelor of Design in Architecture degree. 
Beginning in the Fall of 2010, architecture classes will be taught at the new University Center Building on Valencia’s West campus off of Kirkman road. Architecture is a major that was previously not included in the long list of degrees available at UCF. 
After completing the major as a UCF student, the student has the option to obtain a Masters degree from the University of Florida, through additional classes at the University Center Building in Orlando. 
The Orlando chapter of the American Institute of Architects played a role in organizing the program between the schools. 
UCF says the degree will prepare students for a professional career in architecture, construction, or industrial design.
For more information, go to www.architecture.ucf.edu.



During final exam week at the University of Central Florida, students scurry to find a good place to study and prepare for their exams. So, every student should be aware of the options available to them to further their final exam studying.
The UCF Library will be open late and you can find secluded, quiet areas to study. The Student Union is open 24 hours a day for an entire week and will provide free food to studying students. Good luck on your finals!
Library Hours
December 7th-10th: 7 a.m. – 3 a.m.
December 11th: 7 a.m. – 10 p.m.
December 12th: 9 a.m. – 10 p.m.
December 13th: 12 p.m. – 3 a.m.
December 14th: 7:30 a.m. – 10 p.m.
The Student (Study) Union
-December 6th-13th, Student Union will be open 24 hours until Monday the 14th
-Free food (Midnight Meals) all week.
-Computer labs are open 24 hours.
-SARC will provide tutoring in rooms of the Student Union during the 24-hour week.
-Individual final exam review sessions are provided for specific science and math classes.
–	Free T-Shirts are still available with a donation of 5 CANNED GOODS for the Knights Helping Knights food pantry.
–	Every room in the student union is open for study
–	FREE SCANTRONS, Study Union highlighters, Study Union pens (which are biodegradable) and Study Union pencils( made from recycled wood) are available at the information desk upon completion of the Study Union Survey.
–	Joffreys coffee is open 24 hours during finals week. They will be selling $10 Study Union mugs that come with FREE REFILLS during finals week and then $1 refills throughout the year.
Good luck on your finals week review and I look forward to seeing you at the union.
Adam
Ps. PLEASE TAKE THIS SURVEY, AS IT WILL HELP TO ENSURE STUDY UNION FOR YEARS TO COME.
http://www.surveymonkey.com/s.aspx?sm=iEbQdOcTTNtinIEgOUp7_2fA_3d_3d
Thursday, December 10, 2009
3:00 PM – 4:00 PM Zumba- Adriana (Details Pending) Egmont Key, Room 224



Among the many free services that SGA offers, perhaps one of the most popular is the daily free Scantron.
However, lately you may have noticed signs on the SGA office door that there are no more Scantrons for the week. Dramatically underestimating the number needed, SGA was left to find a quick fix before finals week arrived.
To learn how the shortage occurred and what the solution was, KnightNews.com spoke with SGA Comptroller, Shane Chism, who oversees all SGA purchases, as well as student Senate distributions to campus organizations.
According to Chism, SGA became aware of the Scantron shortage very early in the year, as demand had started to drastically increase. He also noted that SGA budgeted an additional $5,000 for Scantrons, on top of what was already being spent, but unfortunately, those funds still weren’t enough.
At the beginning of the year, SGA was purchasing the Scantrons from on-campus locations. As a result, the Scantrons were coming in low quantities and taking a long time to arrive, so Chism proposed making the switch to buying directly from the manufacturer.
Prior to the transition, SGA was paying 16 cents for every brown Scantron and 15 cents for each pink Scantron. However, this new deal lowered the prices to 14 cents and 8 cents, respectively. “The net dollar savings for students numbered in the thousands,” Chism said.
Overall, the UCF SGA Senate approved a new deal that allocated $3,433.95 to make up for the difference in the original budget. This allowed for the purchase of 145,000 Scantrons.
KnightNews.com asked Chism if he believed the shortage was due to students taking more than one Scantron a day, which is the usual allowance.
“While I don’t feel that the main reason for the shortage were repeat students, it certainly contributed to the problem,” Chism said. “The true reason behind the shortages in the past were mainly generated by a huge increase in the demand of SGA services brought on by the excellent work of this year’s SGA Communications Division.”
Chism also mentioned that SGA has started to scan student IDs before handing out Scantrons. Beginning after Thanksgiving break, scanning IDs “effectively records” every Scantron handed out and the time at which it occurred.
“This system, which was created at no cost by SGA volunteers, will not only prevent abuse of the Scantron service, but also provides us [SGA] with invaluable statistical data that will allow us to assess the future of the program,” Chism said.
Also, with each swipe, students can see up-to-the-minute data on depletion rates at http://ucfsga.com/?p=scantron.
SGA had the opportunity to purchase forms similar to the current Scantrons but drastically different in appearance. Although a little cheaper, the alternate forms could have led to confusion among students about whether using the new sheet would suffice for every class.
“In short, we would much rather spend a few extra cents on the dollar to save students the hassle and confusion different forms would bring,” Chism stated.
Now that SGA has successfully made a deal with the manufacturer, officials believe Scantrons should not run out until the summer of 2010.
So, as finals arrive, make sure you visit the SGA office on the second floor of the Student Union, and get your free Scantron!



Remember those signs that hung outside your dorm room advertising LINK LOOT points for the past 3 months? If you actually attended one of these events you probably realized how dedicated many student were to collecting these points.

But what was so important about these Link Loots? On Wednesday night the freshmen of UCF gathered in the Pegasus Ballroom for the annual Link Loot auction. After registering I found out that I had 6,000 points and felt confident about my chances of winning one of the many items located on the prize table in the front of the room.
Soon after the auction began I realized that my point count was no match to my fellow classmates. Each link loot point  accumulated during the fall semester could go towards winning some pretty sweet prizes. A 32 inch flat screen TV, Blue Ray Player, mountain bike, PS3 gaming system and the Wii just to name a few.
The most anticipated prize of the night was a giant tuition check that sold for 73,000 points. 2 students bid an equal amount and therefore the winner was determined in a best out of 3 rock paper scissors show down. At the end of the night I unfortunatley left empty handed but the experience has inspired me to collect more loot next semester!!



Thursday, December 3rd, Light Up UCF’s ice skating rink was open for free to all students from 12-3 am.
A fun, free night for all, or a 2-hour wait on a line that wrapped around the arena? Many students were willing to stick it out in order to get their night on the ice, but others gave the huge line the cold shoulder.

Students were found in small groups and couples, and all seemed very excited to get out on the rink. Light Up UCF has an ice rink, an ice slide, a carousel, a ferris wheel, and of course Christmas lights adorning every tree and lamppost.
It truly is Orlando’s very own winter wonderland. Unfortunately this free event only lasted 3 hours and from now on students will have to pay full price to get their skating experience. It seemed like all UCF students enjoyed their time on and off of the ice, and this event made for a memorable winter season.



