After one year of battling it out on the courts and fields of UCF’s IM Sports facilities, the Greek Cup Champions have been announced — and it was done via twitter.
“Delta Delta Delta and Phi Delta Theta clinch Greek Points Trophy for 2009. It’s Tri -Delt’s 4th (first since 2001) and Phi-Delt’s first ever,” read today’s tweet from @IMSports.
Ironically, the win for Tri Delt and Phi Delt comes after they spent the week together as homecoming partners. KnightNews.com reached Phi Delt sports chair Tommy Oreste for his reaction.
“I’m extremely proud of Phi Delt and what we have accomplished,” Oreste said. “Our hard work has finally paid off and we look forward to defending our title again next year.”
We’re still trying to get a hold of Tri Delt for reaction. If you are a sister who’d like to give a comment, post it below under your facebook name, or e-mail us at news@knightnews.com, and we’ll include it here.
If you’d like to see KnightNews.com cover more of IM Sports — or anything — please drop us a note at news@knightnews.com to let us know what you want covered by your campus news!



UPDATE: KnightNews.com has obtained this CBS College Sports video where the commentators claim UCF head coach George O’Leary gave permission for fans to storm the field if the Knights pulled off an historic victory against the ranked Houston Cougars. 

KnightNews.com is investigating this claim right now, and we’re trying to find out why there was such a strong police response against storming the field, if it’s true that O’Leary actually gave permission and encouraged it. We asked UCF Athletics for clarification on this, and we’re waiting to hear back. Once we do, we will update this story with the information.
We tried getting the take of UCF police on this, but Cpl. James Roop has not responded to our request for comment on this, which was sent by e-mail Monday. 
Check back to KnightNews.com for updates on this developing story. 
Here is our exclusive phone interview with UCF alumnus Mario Paez from the class of 2006:
(UCF police Cpl. James Roop did not respond to our request for comment)
 
Here’s a slideshow from Paez showing his day from before he tried storming the field until after UCF police released him:
(Click  Next page » here or at the bottom right to see the next picture)



This Tuesday November 19, the 16th Annual Hunger Banquet will take place in the Pegasus Ballroom from 7 p.m. until 9 p.m..
According to Volunteer UCF’s Web site, “this interactive event will stay with you forever and change your perception of world hunger and homelessness.”
The event is not only meant to educate students about hunger and homelessness, but to actually help solve the problem. Therefore, there is a suggested donation of two canned food items upon entrance to the event.
Please arrive promptly, as the event is interactive and works on a schedule. If you would like more information about the event, e-mail Anya at: vucf_hunger@mail.ucf.edu
Check back after the event for information about the success of the event in terms of turnout and amount of food collected.



