The Marcus Jordan shoe controversy is making headlines everywhere from KnightNews.com to ESPN, USA Today and even ABCNews.com.
And about 24 hours after Marcus Jordan wore white Nikes on the UCF basketball court during the Knights’ exhibition game against St. Leo, the controversy is showing no signs of letting up.
UCF Athletics released the following new statement to KnightNews.com late Thursday afternoon:
“UCF Athletics learned last evening, through an email from an Associated Press reporter seeking comment that its contract with adidas, as its shoe, apparel and equipment provider, would not continue.
“UCF Athletics was engaged in legal discussions with adidas concerning the partnership and its future.
“UCF Athletics, as of this afternoon, has not heard from adidas regarding its current and future relationship with the Corporation.
“It is UCF Athletics’ intention to fully discuss the matter and to provide information and detail as soon as it receives notice from adidas concerning its contract status.
“Until such time, UCF Athletics is unable to make further comment.”
But as UCF waits for adidas to make whatever threat to end their relationship official, the school is standing by Jordan, as made clear in the second part of the statement regarding NBA legend Michael Jordan’s son:
“During Marcus’ recruitment to UCF we received assurances from adidas that he would be permitted to wear his father’s footwear without ending the adidas—UCF athletics sponsorship.
“The student-athlete relied on those assurances and is in no way responsible for the present circumstances.
“We are proud to have Marcus in our program and on our basketball team. He has handled a very public matter with an impressive level of maturity.”
Local Orlando Sentinel sports columnist Mike Bianchi called on Nike to step up and save the day with a new contract to “rescue UCF from the tyranny of adidas.”
Bianchi defended Jordan from vicious attacks he’s faced in cyberspace, from bloggers and others, for wearing Air Jordans Wednesday night.
One day later, the move by adidas to dump UCF is already starting to cause a backlash among fans.
UCF Alumnus Carnot Evans started the “Boycott of Adidas after they dump UCF over ONE pair of Nikes” faceboook group, which already boasts 118 members one day after Jordan wore the Nikes at the game.
Evans points out on the group: “Jordan’s shoes were non-descript and carried no visible logo – and he was wearing Adidas ankle straps – so the ONLY visible logo was Adidas.”
KnightNews.com was among the first media to report through sources that Jordan was going to stick to his guns and wear Nike while making an effort not to display a Nike logo the day before the game. Our staff will keep working our sources on this major story to bring you the latest developments.
Check back for updates.



This Wednesday, November 4, Nikki Blonsky, star of the movie Hairspray, came to the UCF Pegasus Ballroom to speak of her experiences with the movie and her life before and after filming.
Blonsky spoke about her life before getting the part of Tracy Turnblad. She began by saying that she loved singing since the age of three. In 2000, when she was 12, her grandfather died, which resulted in her family’s moving into her grandmother’s house to help her cope with it. Since the death of her husband, Blonsky’s grandmother’s health became steadily worse, eventually resulting in dementia.
Blonsky kept singing at the request of her grandmother, and even expressed her love for the musical Hairspray, and her dream to one day star as its principle character, Tracy. She even sent the Broadway producers of the musical her picture.
In January of 2005, her grandmother died. Within an hour of hearing the news, a Broadway producer called her to tell her that they wanted her to audition.
Over the next few days she simultaneously practiced songs for her audition and her grandmother’s funeral. Unfortunately, the producers told her she was too young for the part, as she was only 16 at the time of the audition. During this time, Blonsky became closer to her whole family, including her uncle Steve.
On her 17th birthday, Blonsky checked the Hairspray Web site and saw they were looking for a girl between the ages of 17-24 to play Tracy in the movie version of the musical. With her family’s support, she attended four callbacks over a period of six months.
On June 7, the day before her senior prom, producers came to her place of work (a Coldstone Creamery ice cream store), stating that Blonsky was one of the four remaining girls considered for the part. They showed her a video of the director of the movie, who told her, “Go make yourself a big ice cream cone, because you’re playing Tracy.”
Blonsky continued her speech by talking about her experiences filming Hairspray and her rise to fame. She had to fly around the world for premiers as well as sing at the Macy’s Thanksgiving Day Parade. She also talked quite emotionally of the suicide of her uncle Steve and her incident in the Turks and Caicos islands last year.
Overall, Blonsky’s speech was very lighthearted and uplifting. She spoke humorously of her encounters meeting famous people (it turns out the Angelina Jolie’s kids love the movie) as well as some of her other projects (check next week- apparently some big news is coming).
She finished up the night by singing “Good Morning Baltimore,” signing autographs and being treated to a chorus of “Happy Birthday” (she turns 21 on November 9). I am sure I can speak for UCF students and say she was great and we hope she enjoyed her time here.



