With the Fall 2009 semester just around the corner, UCF students once more get to partake in the bookstore’s favorite pastime: mercilessly ravaging students’ wallets via textbook purchases.
But fear not! Thanks to KnightNews.com, a list of alternative book-buying options is on hand, along with a Facebook group that may revolutionize the way Knights get books.
For price comparison, the book required for US Health Care Systems, HSA 3111, (Delivering Health Care in America, 4th Edition) will be used.
Around Campus and In Person 
Everyone has their own horror story with the main bookstore on campus, whether it be long lines or exorbitant charges for texts or getting royally shafted when it comes to buy back time by getting next to nothing back for the book you barely used. For convenience, this venue undoubtedly claims the prize, but what you get in ease of access is a bill the size of a small country’s GDP. While they have pretty much all the books available or those little cards ready for pre-order, and wonderful gifts and gadgets, it’s pretty much a judgment call for you: books…or rent? New, the text listed above costs $101.35 and used, it’s $76.00.   

Next on the list is College Book and Supply, with two locations nearby the main campus, and one on the way near Kirkman Road. Like the UCF bookstore, they have enough gear to clothe all of Central Florida, and their books are still pretty pricey, but cheaper by comparison. New, the text is $97.50, and used it’s $73.50. 
Gray’s is a cool little bookstore right near UCF and it’s almost like the treasure trove of coins from the original Super Mario Brothers in that you may not know it’s there, but when you jump down the pipes and find it you won’t be disappointed. New, the text is $92.20 and used it is $69.15, which makes it the cheapest of all the bookstores surrounding campus. 


Off Campus and Online 




UCF Textbook Exchange  
Saving the best for last, KnightNews.com has an exclusive interview with the administrator of the Facebook group “UCF Textbook Exchange”, a group that has been getting students’ their books since some time last year. The last source for textbooks on this list got me the book listed above for $50, the cheapest deal in this entire article. I’ve also sold a text for $40 when no bookstore was taking it back. Moral? Join the Facebook group, and get great deals. 
Here’s our exclusive interview with the administrator of “UCF Textbook Exchange,” Selina Christine Mullenax:
(KN: KnightNews. SCM: Selina Christine Mullenax) 
KN: Tell us about yourself (name, major, classification etc. etc.)
SCM: My name is Selina Christine Mullenax. I’m a double major in Event Management and Hospitality Management, and this is my second year at UCF. 
KN: How would you define the UCF Textbook Exchange?
SCM: The UCF Textbook Exchange is an easy way to buy your books for less and sell your books for more. 
KN: What gave you the idea to create the group?
SCM: After seeing the buy-back prices for textbooks at the end of my first semester, I thought “there has to be more than this!” I did my research and realized that I could just make up a Group by myself. 
KN: How does the group operate?
SCM: It really is easy! You list the books you want to buy or sell in the Discussion Board. The Topics are already set up, and categorized, alphabetically, with the acronyms of all of the classes offered at UCF. 
KN: What do you hope comes of it? Where do you see the group by time you graduate?
SCM: The Group is a bit difficult to maintain, because sometimes people post things in the wrong topics and then others forget to go back and look at their posts. My hope is that I can find someone dedicated or interested enough, that will be able to run things once I graduate. And though the number of members isn’t the biggest deal, having more people just makes things easier on everyone buying and selling books. 
KN: Where do YOU get your textbooks?
SCM: If I can’t find books that I need through the UCF Textbook Exchange, I use Campusbooks.com. 
KN: What was your worst textbook experience?
SCM: We’re all had those times where you buy a book for over $200, and sell it back for around $20. That’s the worst! 
KN: If Facebook imploded on itself somehow, how would you go about keeping your group alive?
SCM: I’m not sure I would. Facebook is a big deal in making this Group work. As a social networking site, it’s extremely helpful in finding fellow students at UCF, who could join the Group. 
The group is still growing and is obviously a great success, and can be joined here: http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=39546144101&ref=ts



For the first time in school history, UCF cracked a top five ranking by U.S. News & World Report.
The publication’s “America’s Best Colleges” guide ranked UCF No. 5 on its “Top Up-and-Coming Schools” list.
This category recognizes national universities that “recently made the most promising and innovative changes in academics, faculty, students, campus or facilities,” according to a UCF news release.
UCF was the only Florida school to place in this category, and moved up two spots from its No. 7 ranking last year.
Despite the high praise in the up-and-coming category, the publication still classified UCF as a third tier university in its overall national category.
The third tier includes institutions ranked 134th through 190th, and lumps them together alphabetically instead of ranking each member of the third tier based on prestiege. The least prestigious tier is the fourth tier, which includes the remaining universities up to No. 262 listed alphabetically.
USF was also ranked as a third tier school, and unfortunately for the Gator haters on campus, the University of Florida placed ahead of UCF with its 47th national ranking. UM came in 50th.
The following Florida schools ranked in the fourth tier: Barry University, Florida A&M University, Florida International University, Nova Southeastern University, University of West Florida.
The ranks and tiers are chosen based on objective measures, like student selectivity, graduation and retention rates, along with a subjective — and an often controversial — “peer assessment,” where university leaders rank other schools.



