KnightNews.com has uncovered what some workers feel were warning signs about the man accused of committing the deadly shooting rampage in downtown Orlando Friday.

Several people who worked in the same shopping plazas as accused gunman Jason Rodriguez told KnightNews.com he lost his job as a Subway Sandwich Artist about two months ago, after mumbling troubling words under his breath and making coworkers feel uncomfortable.
After he was fired, we’re told Rodriguez returned in a fit of rage and tried smashing his vehicle through the front door of the Subway he had just been fired from at the Kirkman Oaks Plaza in Orlando.
Police responded to the scene, according to several workers, but because the concrete foundation prevented the vehicle from causing damage to the Subway store, it’s not clear what, if any, action was taken against him then.
Workers at Kirkman Oaks Plaza told KnightNews.com the Subway workers were so scared Rodriguez was going to come open fire at Subway after the Gateway Center shooting, they closed the business down during part of the afternoon.
KnightNews.com is continuing to invesitgate this development, and will post updates once we’re able to get information from police about this incident.
See the video below from Fox 35 to watch Rodriguez being walked to an OPD car before being booked into jail:




Police say six people have been shot at 1000 Legion Place, in downtown Orlando, near the intersection of I-4  and Ivanhoe.
One of the shooting victims is dead, and several of the others were expected to undergo surgery at Orlando Regional Medical Center due to their gun shot wounds.
The suspect was taken into custody a short distance away from downtown at his mother’s home on Curry Ford Rd. Police identified him as Jason Rodriguez, 40. He had reportedly been terminated from his work place, and was back for revenge.
Earlier, we reported there was a huge police response in the downtown area with officers surrounding the building with guns drawn. Their guns are no longer drawn at the time of this  5:15 p.m. report, however a massive crime scene still exists, and national media satellite trucks are rolling in.
Several surrounding streets have been blocked off around the scene while this investigation continues.
KnightNews.com is following this developing story and will bring you more information on this fatal shooting rampage when we get the information.
Please check back with us for updates.



