SGA has been working for years to develop a late night bus system similar to those at other schools, like Florida State University’s “Night Nole” and University of Florida’s “Later Gator.”
Finally, it appears there is a major break though in bringing a new bus program to UCF. SGA President Michael Kilbride announced yesterday at the Activity and Service Fee Winter Break meeting that SGA is working with LYNX, Central Florida’s regional transit system, to develop a KnightLynx bus program targeting UCF students. The new bus program is expected to be launched and tested as early as January.
After efforts to bring a late night bus system never materalized during the Berkowitz administration, SGA launched Knight Drive, a program where students would drive their peers home. That program never got approval from General Counsel, after liability concerns were raised during a WFTV investigation.
Kilbride said during the meeting that a bus system raises less liability concern. Now, Knight Drive’s budget will go toward KnightLynx. Knight Drive was budgeted $30,000 two years ago, $52,000 this past year and the Executive Branch is requesting $105,000 for the program this coming year.
In an email from SGA, a spokesperson said the potential contract with Lynx is currently being reviewed by SGA advisor Christa Coffey and is going through General Counsel soon. Kilbride mistakenly told the committee it was already in the hands of the General Counsel, because he was under the impression that was already the case.
Kilbride asked the committee to delay voting on the budget line to fund the program next fiscal year until the contract has gone through and the program has been tested early next year.
According to an SGA release obtained by KnightNews.com, the buses will go along Alafaya Trial and stop at numerous locations, including Sterling Apartments, The Plaza, Waterford Lakes and the two shopping plazas where Scoop and Devaney’s are.
It is still unclear what time the buses will run, but it is expected to run through the day and into the night.
Megan Haddad, a Senior Ad/Pr major, is excited about the new program. “I think its a great idea,” she said. “It’s what students have been talking about for years.”
KnightNews.com will continue to update and follow this story including the progress of the program along with the decisions of the A&SF Committee.
Regardless of whatever the committee decides, it will be up to the entire Senate to give the final funding approval.
Listed below are the proposed stops awaiting approval:
UCF Main Campus
Tivoli Apartments
Creekwood
Shopping Center on the corner of Alafaya Trail and McCulloch
Pegasus Landing
University Commons Shopping Center
Shopping Center on the corner of Alafaya Trail and University Blvd (Fubar, Deko, Dungeon, and Knight Library)
Sterling Central Apartment Complex
The Edge Apartment Complex
Boardwalk Apartment Complex
Alafaya Trail and Lokanotosa Trail Intersection
Pegasus Point Apartment Complex
Shopping Center on the northeast corner of Colonial Drive and Alafaya Trail (Devaneys)
Shopping Center on the southwest corner of Colonial Drive and Alafaya Trail (Scoop)
Ashton Apartment Complex
Waterford Lakes Shopping Center



