KnightNews.com just received a statement from Orlando Sentinel Sports reporter Iliana Limón.
“The Orlando Sentinel stands by its reporting and has no further
comment,” Limón said, referring to accusations from UCF that she reported misleading information about SGA supporting tailgating time changes.
She had no further comment.
KnightNews.com is investigating this Tailgate Controversy, and request SGA turn over records proving they got student input before this meeting.  We will update this as soon we can, but for now, visit the previous story for more information.



UPDATE: 2/2/2012 The “awful” legal move a lawyer believes Goodman made — adopting his own daughter — to avoid paying up in court! 
UPDATE:
The Palm Beach Post is reporting that it’s been five days since the collision that left UCF grad Scott Wilson, 23, dead in his overturned car at the bottom of a Wellington canal — and the public still doesn’t know the following about the case:
The results of the blood-alcohol tests of the other driver, multimillionaire polo impresario John Goodman; the outcome of Wilson’s autopsy; any witnesses’ statement recorded during 911 calls; and details such as Goodman’s whereabouts when deputies arrived on the scene.
Perhaps most starkly, the Palm Beach County Sheriff’s Office hasn’t said whether it will seek criminal charges or even traffic citations against Goodman, owner of the International Polo Club Palm Beach, the Post reported.
Initial Sheriff’s Office reports said investigators suspect alcohol or drugs played a role, and Goodman’s Bentley ran a stop sign. READ THE PALM BEACH POST’S FULL STORY HERE. 
The billionaire, John Goodman, was driving a Bentley and had just left a bar before the deadly crash in Wellington, according to WPTV News Channel 5. Goodman is now under investigation for a possible DUI.
Wilson still lived in Orlando and was about to land his first job, according to WKMG Local 6. Click here to read that full story, or click below to watch a video report from WPTV.
KnightNews.com is working to contact any friends who knew Scott Patrick Wilson at UCF, who can share memories of what he was like. According to the reports, he never drank and was always the designated driver for his friends. If you knew Scott, please e-mail us at news@knightnews.com to help us tell his story.




Both tickets in UCF’s SGA presidential elections have released their Web sites outlining their platform goals, so our SGA reporters met up with both sides to find out a little more about their plans.
Peter Porebski is covering Daniel Seeff and Kevin Wolkenfield’s camp, and Ashley Tintsman is covering Mike Kilbride and Taylor Lochrane’s.
See what both sides said during their interviews, by clicking on the links below.
SEEFF/WOLKENFIELD INTERVIEW | KILBRIDE/LOCHRANE INTERVIEW
When you’re done, tell us what you think! Whose plan is hitting home with you? Comment below to let us know.



Zombies. The word brings thoughts of the cannibalistic undead sweeping over cities in masses just like in movies like Dawn of the Dead and 28 Days Later. Well, this Sunday UCF will become ground zero for our very own Z Day invasion. Together with the help of the Urban Gaming Club, more than 200 students have signed up to take part in the event.
The object of the game will be simple: if you are part of the human team you must make it from the front of the Arena to the top of parking garage H in less than one hour. Sounds simple enough, right? The ratio of humans to those on the zombie team will be about 4:1, making the game a bit more challenging. Zombies will tag humans, turning them into zombies as well. The zombies will win by turning all humans into zombies.
Each team will wear a different color bandana to distinguish themselves, and the zombies will be separated into zones for even distribution of the mindless horde. They will also use foam weaponry to “stun” zombies, and make their escape.
The creator of the UCF Zombies vs. Humans game, Sara DeAvilla, came up with the idea for the game while watching zombie movies with her younger brother over break. “My brother and I thought it up for kicks…and we intend to register the group with OSI next month, as soon as they open up for new groups,” said DeAvilla. “We have over 400 people joined in our Facebook group, and over 200 confirmed for the event, though we don’t expect more than 150 to actually show. This first campaign will be a starting point. If it goes well, we have every intention to host another within the semester. Humans will be able to use foam weapons but only under close regulation.”
“UCF is very strict on projectile-type weapons. We have been in contact with the LARPing club and we are using the umbrella of the Urban Gaming Club to run this event. UGC is a registered OSI club and has run several events in which they have used Nerf with no problem. That being said, we as a club do not specifically endorse Nerf toys, but rather foam toys and balls of socks,” DeAvilla stated. “We even specifically chose to run the event on a weekend, as to lessen the potential problems that a game on this scale could potentially incur.”
Participants will have to print out and bring with them the required consent forms as well as two forms of ID to the Z Day event kickoff on Sunday, all of which can be found on the games Facebook page, Zombies vs. Humans UCF.
Those who wish to be entered in the human raffle should submit their names on the page to have a chance to join. Those who turn in their liability forms will be entered in a raffle to win a prize donated by A Comic Shop.
“I can’t wait to be running across campus being chased by a bunch of zombies, it’s going to be like all my childhood dreams come true,” said Matt Smith, a student participating in the event.
“We are also working with the Red Cross Association on campus. I am a good friend with an officer and we will be posting a bucket at the check-in table to raise money for them. Kill ’em for a cause! is the silly slogan we made to go with it. So while we know this is a good, cheap way to have a ton of fun with friends and even make new friends, we want to help out the community as well!” DeAvilla added.
So come out this Sunday in your best gore make-up, or prepare to survive the onslaught; this event promises to have students having a great time and running for their lives.



The campaigning has begun, and the candidates are working harder than ever to get your vote.
On Tuesday night, Mike Kilbride and his running mate, Taylor Lochrane, held a meeting at Brooklyn Pizza to release their platform. The event, called “Time to Meet: The Difference is You!”, brought in dozens of students who were eager to hear what the candidates had to say, not to mention enjoy some free pizza.
 After introducing themselves and socializing with many of the students, Kilbride and Lochrane enthusiastically took the floor. The platform, comprised of three sections, began with Campus Life, and covered topics like fighting for tailgating rights, creating graduate housing and improving regional campuses. Lochrane also advocated for supporting a greener campus through solar powered buildings, recycling and LED lighting. “These LED lights save over ten thousand dollars a year,” Lochrane stated. Additionally, Kilbride talked about the importance of multicultural education and recognizing Greek accomplishments. “We just want to highlight all the great things Greeks are doing,” Kilbride said.
 Following campus life, the two talked about the next platform point: Advancing Scholarship. Primarily, Kilbride emphasized the importance of increasing study space and implementing a two-day break, or study days, before finals begin. Also, Lochrane added that they would work to raise awareness about SGA scholarships and form a post-graduation program to help students get jobs.
 Finally, the candidates stressed that “the difference is you.” “Our best initiative is your best idea,” Kilbride said. He went on to explain that students need a way to make suggestions to SGA in order to quickly fix any issues on campus. Moreover, though, they discussed many current issues on campus that are important to students. Kilbride noted the significance of increasing safety on campus through S.E.P.S and KnightDrive, which is a program designed to prevent drinking and driving, and Lochrane talked about creating a carpool parking system. “We can definitely promise to help congestion in our parking lots,” he asserted.
 Afterward, both were very excited to take any questions and they handed out cards for students who want to get involved with the campaign. “We’re here working for you, and this is all about you,” Kilbride said.
For more information on the candidates and their platform, visit their website at www.differenceis.com
CLICK HERE TO READ THE SEEFF/WOLKENFIELD PLATFORM 



Late Monday night, SGA presidential candidates Daniel Seeff and Kevin Wolkenfield released their official campaign Web site, www.danielandkevin.com.
On the Web site, the pair has created an outline of their goals, their personal bios and a way for students to tag their Facebook profile pictures with their campaign logo.
Most notably, they posted a video on the home page talking about some of their main platform goals revolving around the idea of making SGA totally transparent. The two expressed concern about SGA’s spending of around $15 million behind closed doors while students were home for winter break. For this reason, they have proclaimed that all important SGA meetings will be streamed and recorded online for playback; they want total SGA transparency.
They have also promised to post agendas, bills and resolutions of all SGA meetings before they occur, so students who wish to voice an opinion about a certain issue can come and be a part of the discussion.
KnightNews.com had a chance to catch up with Daniel Seeff to get a few words on his platform goals for this race. “Our campaign is about getting the student voice; we want to be available. We are going to have more polls online, more chances for students to have their voice heard,” said Seeff.
Seeff and Wolkenfeld have declared on their Web site, as well as in interviews, that they believe accessibility is key to a more efficient and helpful SGA. Seeff and Wolkenfield are putting a great deal of stress on getting input from students on how their tuition money should be spent.
The pair has stated that, in addition to the previous goals, they want to set up a computer in the SGA office with all SGA emails readily accessible so that students can view how their money is being spent.
“We want SGA to be for the students,” added Seeff, “we haven’t been in SGA for years and years, we are just like the rest of the student body and we want them to be part of the solution to issues we are facing.”
The two have openly expressed a desire to have the students be part of SGA from the very beginning of their campaign. “We want students to be a part of this, starting now. If there is something they think we should include as a platform goal, we want them to tell us about it,” Seeff stated. “We want it to be simple. Basically if you’ve never been in SGA before and you want to register to try and run for SGA president next year, we want to make it so that you can easily go online and figure out how to do it.”
The Web site includes a phone number where students can text their ideas to their campaign, as well as the ability to email them or contact them on Facebook.
Among other campaign promises, Seeff and Wolkenfeld have said stated that they want to traditions they wish to strengthen tailgate rights and increase overall game day presence, partner with student organizations to create lasting traditions and events, and to establish a student run FM radio station on campus.
As far as improving sustainability, they will be installing bike-sharing kiosks all over campus, converting SGA offices to being as paperless as possible, building an incentive-based carpooling system to help with parking, and offering better access to vegan, organic, Kosher and Halal meals on campus.
In the realm of building the community, they have expressed desire to create a local business and restaurant discount program for all students. Additionally, they plan on offering shuttles to and from the airport and other destinations during holidays and breaks, and to develop an online portal of campus events, scholarships, internships and more.
Finally, for academics they have said they will start a 24-hour study space on campus, which will be open year-round. They will also push for a fair student conduct process to assess student rights, and to work at the state level to protect Bright Futures and the quality of the UCF education.
Over the next few days, Seeff and Wolkenfeld will be releasing more goals of their campaign. KnightNews.com will keep you updated as their campaign progresses.
CLICK HERE TO READ THE KILBRIDE/LOCHRANE PLATFORM



