UPDATE 3:10PM: Orange County Fire Rescue confirmed that the 911 call did report electrocution and the injured party was a construction worker at the site.
UPDATE 2:40 PM: Orange County Fire Rescue told Knightnews.com they responded to the construction site at the UCF gym. A person was somehow injured there, fortunately it turned out minor and he was treated on scene and did not need to be hospitalized.
We are working to find out more details on how it happened.
KnightNews.com just received a text to our tipline that firetrucks and ambulances are outside of the UCF gym.
We checked with fire officials from both Seminole and Orange County. Both agencies indicate initial reports that they’re responding to a call of an electrocution of some sort on the UCF campus.
According to fire rescue’s call logs, the call came in just after 2:05 p.m.
KnightNews.com is working to get more information on this breaking news story and determine whether any serious injuries took place. It’s not yet clear what caused this apparent electrical issue.
Check back and refresh the page for updates.
Send any photos or tips to news@knightnews.com or text our tipline at 405-5-tip-ucf.



With the Arizona immigration law causing a heated debate across the country, KnightNews.com sought out two students who have very different opinions on the law to share their thoughts.

READ THE LEFT’S VIEW
On the left, SGA CRT Chairman and Democrat Fernando Gonzales-Portillo discusses how he used to live in Arizona and believes the law leads to racial profiling. Gonzales-Portillo supports the Obama administration’s lawsuit against Arizona.
READ THE LEFT’S VIEW
On the left, SGA CRT Chairman and Democrat Fernando Gonzales-Portillo discusses how he used to live in Arizona and believes the law leads to racial profiling. Gonzales-Portillo supports the Obama administration’s lawsuit against Arizona.
READ THE RIGHT’S VIEW
On the right, UCF College Republican Ramon Lopez argues that Arizona’s law is constitutional, and points out Rhode Island has a law that appears even tougher in some ways. Lopez says Obama’s lawsuit is political grandstanding to energize the Democratic base before the 2010 elections.



