ORLANDO, FL — Many see the University of Central Florida as a young, dynamic, and vibrant school. But you wouldn’t be able to notice that by driving alongside the campus. Well, that’s all about to change.
Plans are underway for a campus-wide upgrade of UCF’s signage designed to make the campus more attractive and allow for students and visitors to get to the right places quicker.
The proposed design will encompass both corners of the University Blvd. entrance on the east side of Alafaya Trail and span into campus to Gemini Blvd. In addition, a series of information kiosks will be strategically placed around campus to allow for visitors to arrive at their destinations more accurately.
All but one of the kiosks will have the same single faced digital design with an LED screen that will display messages regarding events, closures, and other traffic information. A larger kiosk on Alafaya Trail between Gemini Boulevard North and Centaurus Drive West, will have a double faced LED screen that will allow the school to display game day information, advertise concerts and events coming to campus, and alert students and the surrounding UCF community of any emergencies or evacuations.
As of early February, Progress Energy had completed work to power the sign on Alafaya Trail, which students can already see erected just west of Greek Park Drive. The attractive brick design will be part of a unified feel that will help the university achieve a sense of identity.
According to WFTV-Channel 9, the sign costs just under $500,000.
UCF students have been trying for years to bring a new entrance to the school. Numerous Facebook groups have been created with the purpose of updating the entrance at the nation’s third-largest university.
Six digital kiosks are currently on hold for funding. Lee Kernek, UCF’s Associate Vice President for Facilities & Safety, did not immediately return an inquiry for comment on the holds.
Keep checking KnightNews.com for updates on the full project.



Many students walked the paths of UCF this past Wednesday with black crosses on their foreheads. In case you didn’t know, this was for Ash Wednesday, the first day of Lent, which is the 40-day period before Easter when they give up one important thing in their lives. KnightNews.com went on campus to find out which students are observing this tradition and what they are giving up. Check out what we found:

What are you giving up for Lent? Comment below and let us know.



