Dozens of UCF fraternity men are giving up up their last few days of summer to help build a home in an area of New Orleans still recovering from Hurricane Katrina during a leadership conference in the Big Easy.
IFC President Kyle Schumacher was a driving force behind the idea. The group left early Sunday morning by bus. 
Since they’ve left, the fraternity men have used Facebook to share details of how their community service trip is going. On Sunday morning, Schumacher shared how he felt on his Facebook status.
After the first day’s work of helping out victims from the area still recovering from Hurricane Katrina, Ryan Garrett posted his feelings online. 
“I haven’t worked that hard in a long time,” Garrett wrote. “It’s definitely worth helping this nice older widow have a decent place to live though. Guest speaker in a couple of hours then back to work at 6 AM tomorrow.”
Students who went on the trip even paid part of their own way to make the trip possible. Nick Gurney, a fraternity member who also serves as the SGA Attorney General, apparently couldn’t contain his excitement. 
“Nicholas Gurney Can’t wait to build houses for those affected by Katrina. Thanks IFC at UCF!” his Facebook status read.
Later, Gurney updated his Facebook friends by posting, “Just got to the United Saints headquarters. I can’t wait to work with and for the great people of New Orleans.”
KnightNews.com has learned the accommodations for this retreat are anything but luxurious. The hotel where the group is staying offers a free continental breakfast — meaning there won’t be an extra expense incurred for buying breakfast each morning. 
KnightNews.com will continue to monitor Facebook to get pictures, comments and possibly videos of the volunteer work done by the members of the UCF Greek community, as well as interviews about their trip, when they’re able to be reached.
Check back for updates on this story.



A female UCF student who worked as a server at Buffalo Wild Wings died Saturday, apparently a victim of a murder-suicide, officials told the Orlando Sentinel.
Jennifer Lynn Roqueta was 21. She was found dead in her Polos East apartment on Woodbury Road. A dead animal was also reportedly found with Roqueta. 
Ryan Ray Scurlock, 24, who had reportedly been a student at UF, is suspected of killing her, according to TV reports. He was found dead at an Orange County gun range called the Shooting Gallery from an apparent self-infliected wound. 
WESH 2 News is reporting the dead man’s roommate, Stefan Lewis, said Scurlock and Roqueta had dated in the past and went to a party Friday night. The next morning morning Lewis told WESH he started receiving alarming text messages from his friend.
“He just said that he had become a murderer and that Jen was lying dead on her floor in her apartment,” Lewis told WESH.
A co-worker of Roqueta’s, Antuan Mosley, expressed his grief on her Facebook page by writing her “life was tragically taken from us.”
Buffalo Wild Wings management released a statement to media covering the story.
“Our thoughts and condolences are with Jen’s family and friends,” read a statement from the restaurant Corp. “Jen was a wonderful, outgoing team member that will always be remembered in our hearts. Jen was a great asset to our organization and brought great joy to all who surrounded her, including our guests, team members, managers and friends. We will keep Jen’s memory in our thoughts always.”

“Jen was a great person to work with. We always had a lot of laughs and great conversations each time we worked together,” Mosley told the Sentinel. “She was a beautiful young girl with a lot going for her.”
Deputies have not released the manner of Roqueta’s death, but told the Sentinel they forced their way into her third-story apartment and found her body after getting tip calls to check on her well being.  
According to a KnightNews.com readers who lives in the same complex as the victim, her parents had already come to clean out her belongings. 
KnightNews.com is working to gather more information. Check back for updates. 



Students and Orlando residents alike gathered this afternoon at UCF to hear Chief Financial Officer Alex Sink, who is currently running for Governor of the state of Florida, and Congresswoman Suzanne Kosmas speak about early voting and commemorating the upcoming 90th anniversary of women suffrage.
The College Democrats hosted the event, which dozens of students and residents attended.
The audience listened to Alex Sink and Congresswoman Kosmas discuss their experience, plans they have if they are elected, and reminisced on some past adventures they had in the realm of politics.
Knightnews.com was able to talk to CFO Sink and asked her about her trip here and her plans to help students deal with rising tuition increases.

The audience was very excited and greeted both CFO Sink and Congresswoman Kosmas with standing ovations.
“I thought it was a good event! It really excited, inspired, and motivated local democrats and students” said Tyler Smith, a UCF student.



KnightNews.com got the following press release from UCF students planning a benefit concert on campus for the devastated Gulf Coast region:
A student-led concert at the University of Central Florida will aid the long-term recovery of communities and animals impacted by the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
“Give for the Gulf” on Saturday, Aug. 28, will feature several Central Florida-based musical acts, including the reggae jam band Illegal Beats, Gabriel Gomez, Rocketfish, Dirty Shannon, the Nigel Phillips Band, the 13th Floor Band and the jazz funk group Shak Nasti. Also scheduled to perform are Maida Vale, Raiford Starke and country music artists Raiford Starke and Glenn Cummings.
The concert, organized by UCF’s Alpha Tao Omega fraternity, Eta Rho chapter, and the Central Florida Surfrider Foundation will be from noon to 7 p.m. at the campus’ iconic Memory Mall grassy area.
Tickets are $7 for students with ID or guests under 18 and 55 and over.  Admission for others will cost $15. Free parking will be available.
All proceeds will benefit charities involved with oil spill clean-up efforts, animal rescues and aid for Gulf families, including
GreaterGood.org, Mote Marine Laboratory, the Surfrider Foundation, the Community Foundation of the Florida Keys and the Community Foundation of Sarasota County.
Sponsorship and vendor opportunities are still available. For more information, go to http://www.ucfgivesforthegulf.org, e-mail giveforthegulf@gmail.com or call 305-807-5100.



