Controversy is surrounding the death of celebrity Gary Coleman, following the release of the 911 call. 
Coleman’s ex-wife can be heard ignoring instructions from a 911 operator to try and help Coleman apply pressure to his head to stop bleeding. 
The woman, who said she couldn’t stand the blood, seemed annoyed with the 911 operators request to “at least get him a towel” as he was bleeding from the head injury that ultimately led to his death. 
Hear the 911 call below:

Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy



Rue McClanahan, the Emmy-winning actress who starred as Blanche Devereaux on TV’s “The Golden Girls,” died of a stroke Thursday in a New York hospital. McClanahan was 76.

As with the recent celebrity deaths of Gary Coleman and Dennis Hopper, McClanahan was surrounded by family when she died. Her manager, Barbara Lawrence, told media she passed away at New York Presbyterian Hospital.
Rue McClanahan of Golden Girls Dead at 76
McClanahan’s career ended in the same state where it started — on a New York stage in the 1950s. But TV was where she skyrocketed to stardom, notably when producer Norman Lear cast McClanahan in the 1971 CBS hit series “All in the Family.”
Soon after, she appeared in Lear’s “Maude,” but she’ll be remembered by most across generations for her work in “The Golden Girls,” which ran from 1985 until 1992. McClanahan’s Emmy for best lead actress came in 1987.
Only Betty White of “The Golden Girls” is still alive today. Estelle Getty died in 2008, and Bea Arthur died in 2009.
McClanahan worked on TV as recently as last year, when she appeared in “Meet the Browns” which was taped in 2009.

Visit msnbc.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy



KnightNews.com has learned the president of USF’s Student Government Association is paid more than UCF’s SGA president, despite UCF being a larger school with reportedly tougher academic standards for entrance. 
USF’s SGA president oversees an $11 million budget. UCF’s SGA preisdent oversees a budget of at least $15 million.
But according to a WFTV.com report, USF’s SGA President makes more than $22,000 per year while UCF SGA President Mike Kilbride makes less — about $20,000 a year for what he says is a full time job. 
“It’s a job that takes about 40 — I would say — more than 40 hours a week of my time meeting with individuals and, you know, meeting with community leaders and students as to how do we best represent the student body here at UCF,” Kilbride told WFTV Channel 9 Eyewitness News.
Both UCF and USF pay significantly higher salaries than UF or FSU pay their SGA presidents, according to WFTV. However, UCF and USF are located in major metropolitan areas, and UF and FSU are located in smaller cities, with a cheaper cost of living, according to money.cnn.com. 
At all public schools, student activity and service fees are used to pay the SGA presidents’ salaries. 
Kilbride, who is a senior finance major, told Channel 9 his wage of about $10 per hour wage is used to pay his tuition and rent, and between school and SGA he doesn’t have time for another job or paid internship. 
Finance interns at at Lockheed Martin or Siemens are routinely paid about $17 per hour for their time interning, UCF students told KnightNews.com. 
KnightNews.com is still investigating why USF’s SGA pay is now higher than UCF’s — and why USF’s SGA apparently has obtained teleprompters to use for addresses to the student body, similar to those President Barack Obama uses to address the nation.

Check back to see any updates posted that we learn. 



