The new iPhone 4 was unveiled at Apple’s Worldwide Developers Conference Tuesday, fresh off the heel’s of the release of the HTC Evo, with both phones getting rave reviews.
The iPhone 4 comes with a new operating system called iOS4, allows video conferencing like we’ve never seen through a smart phone before and even lets users do HD video editing over their cell phone, much like the HTC Evo allows.
The screen uses a state of the art “Retina Display” technology to make crystal clear text and images come to life on the screen.
But the new iPhone uses the AT&T network, which is only 3G. When comparing that to Sprint’s 4G network and its new HTC Evo, it may cause some to think hard about which to choose.
Reviewers still say the iPhone 4 is super fast, despite the inferior AT&T network. And with Wi-Fi readily available on college campuses like the University of Central Florida’s, UCF students won’t be held back while in class.
AT&T is also offering cheaper data plans now. So, if you use your iPhone mostly on campus, at home, or at other places with wireless hot spots, you may be able to downgrade from the $25, 2 gigabyte data plan, and get by with the $15, 200 megabyte plan. They will no longer be offering $30 unlimited data plans for new customers, so keep track of our data usage. If you go over, you will be charged another $15 for an additional 200 megabytes.
The race is on now to see whether apps for the new Google Androids will out number apps for the iPhone, which has a clear lead given the iPhone’s enormous popularity. Apple releases developer packs, which restricts developers from full access to the iPhone, where as the Android operating software gives developers free reign of the phone. 
The HTC Evo is built with a TFT LCD — same as the current iPhone. But unlike the iPhone, the Evo can play videos in high definition, sports an 8 megapixel camera with flash (which supports 720p video recording), as well as a 1.3 megapixel front facing camera, is powered by a 1 GHz Snapdragon processor, and even has a kickstand built into the back for easy video-viewing.
For a direct comparison of the hardware of both phones, as well as Google’s Nexus One and the Droid Incredible, view the image on the next page from Androidcentral.com.
As for Sprint’s service, they offer an “Unlimited Everything” plan, which will give users unlimited mobile-to-mobile minutes, unlimited texts, and unlimited data, all for $70.
The big draw, for both Sprint and the HTC Evo, will be the 4G network. The Evo is the first phone in America to run off the 4G network, which is scheduled to go online in the Orlando area this August, just in time for the beginning of the fall term. However, 4G service will cost an additional $10 fee.
The HTC Evo, which was released last Friday, has been flying off the shelfs all around the country. Sprint’s online store has the Evo listed as “Out of Stock,” and Best Buy’s Mobile stores will be out of Evo’s June 11th, when they expect to have the second shipments of the phone.
The good news for consumers is, with all this competition, we’re likely to see more powerful phones at cheaper rates continue to roll out to win over the techy customers — and their wallets — who always want the most advanced equipment possible.
It wouldn’t be surprising if Sprint uses its 4G network to market itself as a superior video chat cellphone provider, because right now the iPhone 4 can only allow video chats — one of its coolest features — over WiFi, because AT&T’s 3G network can’t yet cut it.
According to CNBC, video chat is the next big battle, which will have Apple fighting Google, Verizon fighting AT&T, and Sprint-Nextel to see who will be the favorite.

Time will tell which phone system and platform will remain most dominant over the next couple years. Will it continue to be Sprint’s HTC ECO vs iPhone, or will a whole new competitor emerge?



