The University of Central Florida Knights became ranked for the first time in school history today, earning the No. 23 spot in USA Today Coaches poll following UCF’s 40-33 win over the Houston Cougars Friday.
According to the coaches poll, the UCF Knights (7-2 overall, 5-0 in Conference USA) are the best in Florida, beating out the Florida Gators (6-3) which was ranked No. 24 — another historic first.
After those first two polls came out, UCF got more good news: The Knights were awarded a Top 25 spot in the Harris Interactive poll as well. UCF received 109 votes in that poll, behind No. 23 Florida. 
UCF Coach George O’Leary gave an interview with a UCF athletics writer about the historic ranking, where he made clear the Knights need to keep their eyes on the prize: winning the conference championship. 
“It’s very difficult when you’re not in the top 25 from the start of the season to get there, and when you climb in it shows a lot of progress by your football team,” UCF head coach George O’Leary said. “I think it’s great for the kids, I really do. They don’t talk a lot about it because they are interested in one goal and that’s the conference championship. But when nice things happen like (getting ranked) it means you are doing some nice things on the field. It’s nice to honored by your fellow coaches.
“I think it’s great for the school and for the football program to be ranked. But the key is to continue winning. That’s the name of the game.”
KnightNews.com is waiting for Bowl Championship Series rankings to come out later today to see where the Knights stack up in those rankings too.
Check back for continuing coverage of this major news: Knights Make History.

KnightNews.com’s Ryan Bass was among the first to report this story as was the Orlando Sentinel’s Iliana Limón.



For the first time in school history, UCF has received enough votes to be ranked in the Top 25, ranking No. 23 and No. 25 in the Coaches’ Poll and AP Polls, respectively.
UCF (7-2, 5-0 in C-USA) received 99 points in the coaches’ poll, putting them at No. 23 in the Top 25. They also received 74 votes in the Assosciated Press Top 25 poll. UCF is the highest-ranked team in Florida in the Coaches’ poll, ahead of No. 24 Florida, Florida State and Miami.
In the AP poll, they are second highest, behind Florida at No. 24.
UCF also received some good news as they were awarded a Top 25 spot in the Harris Interactive poll as well. They received 109 votes in that as well and are behind No. 23 Florida for the top spot in the state.
Unfortunately, the Knights were held out of the BCS rankings. Florida is ranked as the No. 22 team in the country according to the BCS. The BCS rankings are decided from 1/3 of the Coaches’ poll, 1/3 of the Harris poll and 1/3 computers.
The Knights are coming off a 40-33 win over Houston on Friday, a game shown nationally on ESPN2. It was their fifth-consecutive victory of the season and their 11th straight win in conference play, the third-longest conference winning streak in the nation.
Prior to the move to the FBS (Division I-A) in 1996, UCF was a regularly ranked in the lower division Top 25 rankings.
More updates to come.



