UPDATE 10/16/10: According to a sign hanging at the Ticket Booth in the Student Union, there are 2000 tickets left for tonight, that will be handed out on a first come, first serve basis.
For those of you not familiar with these artists, each brings their own distinct flavor to UCF.  Ludacris is a hop hop artist hailing from Atlanta, Georgia.  ‘Luda’ is tied with Diddy for having the most Billboard Top 100 number one hits.  Some of his more well known songs include “Stand Up,” “Money Maker,” and “My Chick Bad.”  He is also known for his controversies, such as his fight with political analyst Bill O’Reilly.
LMFAO truly embodies their genre of ‘Party Rock’ with songs like “Shots,” ”I’m In Miami Trick” and “La La La.” They’re the son and nephew of Motown founder Berry Gordy and have been featured in some other songs like David Rush’s “Shooting Star.”  LMFAO has also had their own controversy when Skyblu got into a fight with politican Mitt Romney on an airplane, and was seen being escorted off by police, but no arrest was made.
Corey Smith is a bluegrass/country singer from Georgia who has had three successful albums, including hits such as “Twenty One” and “The Good Life.”  He also plays acoustic guitar along with his songs.
It should be a good night for music, with three very different artists- Ludacris representing a raw and tough hip hop style, LMFAO with their goofy party music, and Corey Smith with his laid back country and bluegrass style.



Click to see the UCF Homecoming 2011 Schedule.
Look below for a full schedule of this week’s highly anticipated events!
Saturday, October 16th
– On-Campus Service Day is the official start to the week, so come out and support The Children’s Miracle Network at Memory Mall!
Time: 10:00 am
Place: Memory Mall

Service Day from Knight News on Vimeo.
– Concert Knight (Click here for video) will feature Corey Smith, LMFAO, and Ludacris! Get your ticket from one of the on-campus ticket centers. This is a concert you won’t want to miss.
Time: 8:00 pm (Doors open at 7)
Place: UCF Arena
Monday, October 18th
– Movie Knight in the arena! This year the movie being played is ‘Get Him to the Greek’, one of this summer’s most popular movies. Get ready to “stroke the furry walls”.
Time: 8:00 pm (Doors open at 7)
Place: UCF Arena
Tuesday, October 19th
– Comedy Knight will feature comedians: Kyle Grooms and Ralphie May!
Time: 8:00 pm (Doors open at 7)
Place: UCF Arena
Wednesday, October 20th
– Skit Knight! Let the competition begin. Watch your favorite UCF organizations battle it out by performing hilarious skits for the crowd.
Time: 7:00 pm (Doors open at 6)
Place: UCF Arena
Thursday, October 21st
– Penny Wars will be held in the Student Union courtyard, so make sure to get your change ready!
Time: 10:00 am – 4:00 pm
Place: Student Union Courtyard
Friday, October 22nd
– SPIRIT SPLASH! We hope that you weren’t misinformed; Spirit Splash is most certainly NOT cancelled! So get in your bathing suit and take a dip in the reflection pond with Knightro, because you can only do this once a year!
Time: 12:00 pm
Place: The Reflection Pond
Saturday, October 23rd
– The Homecoming Parade will begin at Greek Park and end at the stadium. Come out in black and gold and support.
Time: 10:00 am
Place: Greek Park Drive
– The Homecoming Game against Rice! C’mon Knights, we wanna see body paint, fans in full armor, posters, everything! It’s game time.
Time: 3:30 pm
Place: Bright House Networks Stadium
Sunday, October 24th
– The Awards Banquet will have members of each student organization present to receive awards for the events of the week. Let’s see who brings home the trophies this year!
Time and Place: TBA
Have fun, be safe, and LET’S GO KNIGHTS!



