Tonight at 6 p.m. the Campus Activity Board is putting on the 2nd Annual Food For Funk Concert, featuring B.O.B. with Playboy Tre & Yelawolf. The concert is free for UCF students who can provide a valid student ID, and $15 for General Admission.  C.A.B. is also putting on a raffle for two VIP passes to meet B.O.B. backstage. To be entered into the raffle, you must bring a can of food. The more cans you bring, the more tickets you get.
For those unfamiliar with B.O.B., he is a rapper from Atlanta who’s signed to T.I.’s Grand Hustle label.  He has released multiple singles such as “Nothin’ On You” featuring Bruno Mars which has gone double platinum, “Airplanes” featuring Haley Williams of Paramore and Eminem, and “Magic” featuring Rivers Cuomo.  He has also released two other songs “Haterz Everywhere” with fellow rapper Rich Boy back in 2008, and “I’ll Be in the Sky.”  Many have compared B.O.B. to Andre 3000 due to his creative abilities, and the fact that he can play seven instruments.
(Sponsored Advertisement – Story Continues Below)

 
B.O.B.’s opening act, Playboy Tre, is part of his production/rap group “HamSquad,”  which was featured on B.O.B.’s song “Bet I,” along with T.I.  His other opening act, Yelawolf, hails from Alabama and is signed to Interscope Records.  He was featured on Juelz Santana’s lead single “Mixin’ Up the Medicine” and on Slim Thugs hit “I Run” as well.



While the University of Central Florida may not have been named one of the nation’s top party schools, a bar right across from campus has been placed on a list of the top 50 college bars in the country.
If you’ve never been to Knight Library, or just want to learn more about it, visit its official site here.
The recognition is the latest in a series of attention the UCF bar scene has generated. Earlier this summer, KnightNews.com drove chart-topping artist Mike Posner to Scoop to perform a show for UCF fans. Last year after homecoming, T-Pain and Asher Roth made their rounds to UCF area bars to enjoy expensive bottles and party with students.
As UCF grows in population, its students are recieving an increased amount of focus from corporations, politicans, and yes, even celebrities.



