Earlier today, Redbull brought a little surprise to campus for the America’s Society of Mechanical Engineers club here at UCF- a former Redbull Nascar car. 

They drove through campus, starting at classroom one, and ending in front of the Society of Automotive Engineers garage. There, a few members of the club, and some additional bystanders, were able to appreciate the car, and question the driver about his vehicle. 
All throughout the process, Redbull girls gave out free cans of Redbull, in hopes of keeping everyone energized for the first week of classes.



Tonight students lined around the UCF arena for the much anticipated back-to-school B.o.B concert. 
The doors opened at 6pm and thousands of knights flooded the stadium floor. The two opening acts, some good friends of B.o.B: Playboy Trey and Yelawolf, got the crowd pumped for the show to come. Both opening artists took some lucky students up on stage with them to dance and sing along. 

Though both acts were very entertaining, the crowd was getting antsy for some Bobby Ray. When the lights went down, the chants of “B.o.B.” turned into a cacophony of excited and anxious screams. 
 B.o.B. played many songs, well-known and not, from his chart-topping album “The Adventures of Bobby Ray”. It was obvious that he wanted to save the best for last as he played “Magic” and “Nothin’ on you” at the end of his set. B.o.B. left the stage and came back for an encore of his most popular tune, “Airplanes”. The crowd would’ve been very disappointed without that one! He left the arena with one last song, a cover of MGMT’s “Kids”. 
During the show B.o.B. signed the shoes right off his feet and threw them to some lucky fans along with a couple other pairs that he hadn’t been wearing. He was definitely a crowd-pleaser; stage diving and touching hands with concert-goers on more than a couple occasions. It was an amazing concert to kick off the school year, and I’m sure I speak for all of our knights as I wish B.o.B. luck in the 2010 MTV Video Music Awards on September 12th!
(TO SEE A SLIDE SHOW OF PICTURES, CLICK NEXT PAGE)



