UCF’s Campus Faiths and Ministries has teamed up with SGA to bring another concert to campus.
Christian Rock Band Fireflight, as well as opener Manic Drive, will be performing on November 2 2010 at 6pm, on their “For Those Who Wait” tour. 
According to Brittany Ryals, an event organizer, Campus Faiths and Ministries is putting the concert on in order to, “promote fellowship and community between all the different campus ministries.” 
The concert will be free for everyone, regardless of whether they are a student or not. However, if you are a student, you can receive 500 Link Loot points for bringing your ID. 
Campus Faiths and Ministries is also looking for volunteers, so if you need service hours, or want to be a part of the concert and hang out with the band, check out the volunteer page by clicking here.



UCF is among a number of schools that could be on the radar if the Big East chooses to expand, according to the New York Post.
Big East Presidents and Athletic Directors will be meeting Tuesday in Philadelphia, and talks of a possible conference expansion will be discussed.
“The goal is to get the presidents’ blessing to seriously pursue teams,” said one Big East athletic director to the Post. “I don’t think we’re going to get pushback on that.”
The Big East has just eight of its 16-member schools that are at the Football Bowl Subdivision level. The Post is reporting that several school officials will push to expand the number of teams in conference to add more football schools.
The Post is one of many media outlets that have reported that TCU, who is ranked No. 3 in the new BCS poll released yesterday, is a strong candidate to move to the Big East. UCF, Houston, Temple and current Big East school Villanova are also on the radar of officials that are looking to expand.
Houston would add another big television market, but UCF is a school that also could add a good market along with top-of-the-line facilities and a quality athletic program. UCF’s current success, 6-2, during the football season along with the addition of quality basketball prospects could also help sway officials. The Knights recently received votes in both the Associated Press Top 25 polls (5) and the USA Today/Coaches’ Poll (13) after beating East Carolina 49-35 on Saturday.
An announcement could come as early as the end of the 2010 football season.



