UPDATE 11/1/10, 1:00 P.M.- The College Democrats informed KnightNews.com that Kal Penn will be speaking in an open forum at 3:00 p.m. today in the free speech zone, located in front of the Math and Physics building. 
They won’t be alone, however, in urging students to get to the polls and vote the next day. Kal Penn, best known for his role as Kumar in the hit movie series “Harold and Kumar” and as Kutner on the TV series “House,” will be promoting the midterm elections on campus.
We will publish any more details we receive as we get them.



Is UCF the second best team in the state of Florida?
According to the most recent coaches poll, the answer is yes.
UCF (6-2, 4-0) received 14 points in the USA TODAY/ESPN Top 25 football coaches poll, second only to #24 Florida State’s 107 among Florida FBS schools. UCF’s current ranking is 29.
The University of Miami received 5 points and University of Florida accumulated 4, while FIU, FAU, and USF did not get any votes.
The points system works with total points based on 25 points for a first place vote through one point for 25th, and incorporates ranking from last week’s poll. 59 head coaches, including UCF’s George O’Leary, vote in the poll.
The AP Top 25 Poll, compiled by polling sports writers across the country, yielded similar results.
After defeating ECU, UCF currently has the only undefeated conference record in Conference USA. The Knights are also the only bowl-eligible team so far from the conference.
The Knights will play the University of Houston next week, and depending on the outcome of that game and others surrounding the top 25, UCF may be ranked for the first time in school history.



While UCF Knights quarterback Jeff Godfrey and Coach George O’Leary were busy beating the East Carolina Pirates on the football field during Saturday’s 49-35 game, Knightro was busy beating up on PeeDee, the mascot for ECU. 
And it wasn’t pretty. 

Check out the video above to see how what began as what seemed like an even match up  — both armed with swords and ready to fight — ended in disaster for the Pirates, when Knightro grabbed a hold of PeeDee’s weapon and used it against him. 
But before Knightro plunged both swords into PeeDee’s back, Knightro made a statement by doing something to the Pirates’ sword PeeDee lost only seconds earlier — he stomped on it. Much like the Knights seemed to have stomped out any hope the Pirates had of winning another C-USA Championship. 
Saturday’s stomping of ECU by UCF — both on the field and by its mascot — sent a strong message to the C-USA rival that entered the game with an 8-1 all-time advantage over the Knights and had scored some big wins in recent years over Virginia Tech and NC State. The message: Your days of beating the Knights are over. 
Stomping out the main competition to a C-USA championship game also sent a message to those voting in the USA Today Coaches Poll, who cast more votes for UCF than the Florida Gators, Miami Hurricanes and perhaps the Knights’ most hated rival — the USF Bulls. 
In fact, the only Florida team ranked higher is FSU. (Click to see see our full coverage on UCF’s poll numbers)
KnightNews.com will continue following the Knights on their march to the C-USA Championship, which could land them in the Liberty Bowl against an SEC team. (Possibly the Florida Gators?) We’ll keep you posted. 



