Mix Frozen Yogurt has partnered with UCF Knight-Thon to raise money for Children’s Miracle Network, one of UCF’s most prominent philanthropies.
Every Wednesday this month, 10% of all proceeds at Mix Frozen yogurt will be donated to Children’s Miracle Network.   Mix will also be hosting a Halloween Party on Sunday Oct 31st from 12pm-4pm, and 20% of the proceeds will go towards the cause. 
The party will include Halloween-themed festivities such as face-painting, as well as a special appearance from Mix’s mascot, Yo-man.  
Mix Frozen Yogurt opened in April, and is eager to get involved in the UCF area. “We like to give back- we want to be a positive force in the community. It’s not just about selling yogurt.”  Ricky Ly said, marketing director of Mix. 
Knight-Thon student director, Christina Vicari, says that Knight Thon jumped at the opportunity to partner with Mix when Ly contacted the organization and offered to host the fundraiser.
“It’s a really great way to combine grabbing some FroYo with your friends and raising money for the kids.” Vicari said.
Children’s Miracle Network raises funds and awareness for children’s hospital throughout North America. According to their website, Children’s Miracle Network saves approximately 17 million lives per year through charitable care to children of various ages and backgrounds.  This is made possible due to donations by organizations such as Knight Thon.
Knight Thon’s primary fundraiser is their annual 15 hour dancing marathon, also benefiting Children’s Miracle Network. Up until the marathon, which is scheduled for this upcoming February, Knight Thon will continue to raise funds by partnering with businesses like Mix.
“We are hoping to continue on the growing path and raise $80,000 for the kids. Two years ago we jumped from $20,000 to $52,000 and last year we raised $65,000.” Vicari said. “I know we can continue on this path.”
Come out to Mix Frozen Yogurt this Wednesday, located on the corner of Alafaya Trail and Colonial Drive, to support Knight Thon and Children’s Miracle network. 



Students, faculty, and administrators gathered around the front of the Student Union on Tuesday for a press conference, launching the “Put Down Ur Cell Fone” campaign.
The campaign aims to keep drivers focused on the road, and not distracted on their phones. According to a press release sent out by SGA, individuals in the under-20 age group had the highest proportion of distracted drivers. 
“It is important that students become educated on the dangers of distracted driving,” said vice president Taylor Lochrane, who launched the campaign. “I hope this campaign prevents accidents caused as a result of distracted driving, and makes the university a safer driving environment.” 
Lauren Rowe, of WKMG Local 6, was the moderator of the event, and the guest speakers included UCF Provost Dr. Waldrop, State Senator Constantine, a former Orlando Magic player, and a victim of an accident cause by a driver on the phone.
Power 95.3 also participated in the event by playing music, while Lochrane and SGA officials handed out t-shirts, sunglasses, and other promotional items. 
Lochrane’s “Put Down Ur Cell Fone” campaign is collecting petition signatures for the rest of the week. Students interested can stop by the SGA office on the second floor of the Student Union to sign it.
Knightnews.com will continue to follow this story, and will update it at the end of the week with the success of the program. 
Check out some of the guest speakers below:
Taylor Lochrane:

Senator Lee Constantine:

Distracted Driving Victim:




Powerful storms across the Midwest are causing problems across several states Tuesday. 
Chicago station WLS reported that the storms appear among the most powerful to hit Illinois in more than 70 years. Power is reportedly out for nearly 60,000 customers in norther Illinois, a ComEd spokesman told the station. 
WISH TV in Indianapolis reported a Tornado Warning was in effect for Fayette, Franklin, and Union counties until Noon and Randolph until 11:30 a.m. 
Meanwhile, CNN is reporting The National Weather Service issued a tornado watch for lower Michigan, Lake Erie, Lake Huron and Lake Michigan.
There was also a report of a tornado touchdown in Louisville, Kentucky.  

Watch a video report from one of the areas, and check back for updates. 



