Today, February 22nd, was the first day of voting for SGA’s next student body president. Campaign tents were set up all over campus encouraging students to vote. Most tents had everyone’s favorite incentive: free food! The Kilbride and Lochrane campaign offered voters pizza and Wackadoo’s. The Daniel and Kevin campaign had pizza, El Corral, Tenders and iKiwi. Students voting for either candidate seemed to be enjoying the sunny weather and complimentary snacks.

Other than the voting tents, the UCF campus was turned yellow with both parties campaign t-shirts. Some students hate being harassed for votes, but get used to it because there’s still voting days ahead of us! Representatives from student government and both parties reported an excellent voter turnout this year. It was good to see students going out and getting involved. Keep voting over the next couple of days, every vote counts UCF!
_______
While filming this piece, KnightNews.com crews were told not to film in front of the Student Union. To find out more, click here.



SGA officials threatened to call UCF Police on KnightNews.com reporters for covering the SGA election outside the Student Union Monday.
This new right of access controversy comes after KnightNews.com threatened to take legal action against SGA, and had to contact attorneys who oversee Florida’s State University System, in order to get a copy of the $15 million budget SGA has been blasted for allocating over Winter Break when dorms were closed and most students were not in town.

Today’s controversy started when KnightNews.com content manager and reporter Cliff Jett was setting up a table to establish a live video stream of the election activity happening outside the union to provide live reports and interviews with candidates and voters.
As KnightNews.com tried setting up the table, a member of the Kilbride/Lochrane campaign was seen walking toward the election commission.
Minutes later, a staff member of the Student Union, an SGA entity over which Shane Chism has some authority in his official capacity of Comptroller, came and told KnightNews.com it couldn’t set up a table — even in the free speech area.
KnightNews.com reporters then abandoned our livestream coverage attempt, and instead talked to students about the election on camera.
As that was happening, Comptroller Chism  — and Kilbride campaigner — walked up to a  KnightNews.com crew and said, “Didn’t they tell you you weren’t allowed to record?”
Chism then proceeded to walk over the election commission and brought an election commissioner over, who could not be immediately identified, who also said, “Didn’t the people from the Union tell you you weren’t allowed to record?”
The KnightNews.com crew informed the SGA officials the Union only said a table could not be set up. At this point, KnightNews.com walked inside the Union and talked to the information desk about Chism confronting us. The employee at the information desk called upstairs, and a decision was made to allow KnightNews.com to record on another side of the sidewalk.
Knightnews.com crews then stood on the side of the line where recording was not allowed, with our cameras packed away out of sight, and discussed the legal and first amendment issues raised by forbidding campus media to fully cover the election.
At that point, SGA Chief Election Commissioner Marlee Populder and KnightNews.com owner Andrew Stein discussed the situation together. Stein said it was ridiculous for them to tell media they can’t record video, when media always conducts interviews in that space near the Union on a regular basis.
Stein asked what SGA would do if we recorded on the other side of the line anyway, and it was at that point when Popluder informed Stein, as a courtesy, that other SGA officials were threatening to call the police on KnightNews.com if they shot video over the sidewalk.
During this time, a student was taking pictures of the Kilbride campaign and interviewing his campaigners on the side of the line KnightNews.com was forbidden from doing “any media stuff” on. KnightNews.com took a photo of that individual taking photos on that side of the line to document the additional access he was given.
It appeared this student was part of a competing media organization on campus, but it’s not clear why that student was granted more access than KnightNews.com. However, Kilbride campaigners were posing for pictures as the individual was gathering information, and we did not see any Kilbride campaigners or SGA elections officials order that person to the other side of the line.
Similar controversies have erupted before about who can setup where outside the Union, but they usually involved student groups protesting, like Students for a Democratic Society. This is the first time KnightNews.com is aware of a media organization being ordered to the other side of the line.
Another group ordered to the other side of the line was the El Corral restaurant, which was out endorsing the Seeff/Wolkenfeld campaign, because they were not a campus-approved vendor and it apparently violated contract rights Union vendors have to serve food outside the Union.
However, since media are not serving any food, it raises serious first amendment issues for SGA to order a student publication to stand on one side of the line, while another is not given such restrictions.
KnightNews.com is researching the legality of granting one media organization less access than another, and also whether Chism may have overstepped his power during the controversy.
KnightNews.com is once again considering legal action as a result of these access issues, and the harm it suffered while trying to prove its ability to cover the most important event this semester. A copy of this article is being forwarded to the UCF General Counsel, UCF Police, UCF Union Managment, SGA Advisors with the hope that a compromise can be made, before KnightNews.com once again contacts state officials in Tallahassee to ask them to intervene.
Check back for more information on this developing story.
A note from KnightNews: Even though NikkiNicho is upset with some content of KnightNews.com, we appreciate her comments and dialogue, as she has pointed out to us Free Speech is becoming a problem again at UCF. As a result, KnightNews.com is starting a new segment: Our Fight for Free Speech. We will follow this story.



In 2008, the March of Dimes, which is an organization that works to fight prematurity in infants, hosted a March for Babies walk in 900 communities across the country and the students and faculty at UCF were among the millions of participants.
Already in its fifth straight year, KnightWalk for Babies will be held right here on campus on February 28. KnightWalk, which is UCF’s version of March for Babies, brings together teams of UCF students, faculty and clubs to raise awareness about infant mortality and prematurity. Organized by the March of Dimes Collegiate Council at UCF, the walk will cover the perimeter of campus, which is about 2.5 miles.
KnightNews.com spoke to the Co-Directors of the Collegiate Council, Jennie Hayes and Julia Senecal. “As Co-Director of the March of Dimes Collegiate Council, I share responsibilities with Julia Senecal. She and I are in charge of the entire council, whose main focus is KnightWalk for Babies, which we host annually each Spring semester,” Hayes commented.
Additionally, they arrange to bring guest speakers to attend the walk, which is made possible through SGA funding. In general, the Collegiate Council tables at KORT-sponsored events, speaks to classes and organizations, and holds fundraisers on and off campus. “Over the past four years, the March of Dimes Collegiate Council at UCF has raised over $50,000,” Senecal said. “Last year alone, we raised a bit over $10,000 with about 200 walkers participating.”
If you are interested in walking, sign up at www.marchforbabies.com, and search for UCF’s zip code, 32816. Registration begins at 2 p.m. in front of Millican Hall, and the walk will start at 3 p.m. Also, with a $25 donation, you get a KnightWalk T-shirt and, of course, food and drinks will be provided. Be sure to sign up and show your support for this great cause!



