UPDATE: KnightNews.com received word earlier this morning that Delta Upsilon was at the Alpha Delta Pi house yesterday giving girls rides to class in rickshaws (bikes with carriages attached). In addition, today they will provide the lucky ladies with free tanning beds at Black Widow Tanning.
Also, Alpha Xi Delta was given a refreshment bar in their backyard by the Theta Chi fraternity. Then, later that night, Theta Chi gave them a candlelit Italian dinner at their house.
Please continue to e-mail us at news@knightnews.com or text us at 407-5-tip-ucf to let us know what your fraternity is doing to win a sorority for Homecoming 2010, or if your sorority is being wooed by a fraternity. E-mail us pictures or video, and we will post them all here on the site.
__________________________
KnightNews.com stopped by to find out why a big group of Zetas was sprawled out on the front lawn of their sorority house, tanning with a bunch of guys, sipping smoothies and playing on a slip ‘n slide.  Even though this is Spring, we found out the front lawn festivities have to do with this Fall’s homecoming activities — and Phi Delta Theta’s push for Zeta to pick them as a partner.

“They’re showing their love for us,” one Zeta said, who was hanging out with the Phi Delts in her front lawn.
“We’re going for Zeta for homecoming,” said Phi Delt brother Jeremy Tellor, when asked what his fraternity was doing out there. “We’re really running unopposed. I can’t really see our opponent right now.”
However, KnightNews.com did confirm at least one other fraternity is also vying for Zeta.
“Sigma Chi just came and put up a banner there, and they’re washing our cars,” one Zeta said.
Phi Delt told KnightNews.com their event started at noon, and they brought out one of their brothers, who also DJ’s at Scoop, to provide the music.
“We’re trying to have some fun, get to know them,” a Phi Delt told KnightNews.com.
“These girls are gorgeous, fine and smart,” said another.
The Zetas were enjoying all the attention.
“I love it. It’s my favorite time of year,” a Zeta said.
“I think we should do this all the time!” said another.
KnightNews.com Wants to Know: Is your fraternity doing something special to win over a sorority for homecoming? E-mail us at news@knightnews.com or text us at 407-5-tip-ucf to let us know. Also, text us on Sunday when the big votes go down. We will provide updates online with who gets paired with who as part of our live coverage. 



The Mu Psi Chapter of Sigma Nu Fraternity has finally brought a nationwide college tradition to the University of Central Florida.  
Universities around the nation have paid homage to the time-honored tradition of underwear runs through their ivy-covered campuses for years.  In recent history UCLA has hosted runs that topped more than 8,000 in attendance, and if you look to the north you will find our friendly UF neighbors hosting the “Undie 500.” As a young University, UCF has begun the culture change towards creating traditions that foster affinity between students and this great institution.  
Sigma Nu Fraternity, Incorporated alongside Knight-Thon and Goodwill Industries International, have set in motion an event Friday April 9th, 2010 that will rival all other university underwear runs.  At 6:00 p.m. Friday evening, students will have the opportunity to spring clean their apartments and bring out all of their unworn clothes, all in the name of a good cause.
In return for this philanthropic gesture students will be able to shed those clothes and take a victory lap around the campus.  To partake in the “undie” run you will have to bring $2 to the event, all proceeds going to benefit Knight-Thon. 
Sigma Nu has set out to create an event unlike any other seen at UCF.  Event creator and Coordinator Steven Harowitz said “Students are dying for new traditions at this school, it’s our job as student leaders and innovators to provide an event that rivals all other schools traditional underwear runs.” 
The run itself will lead students on a thorough tour of the campus, starting at the north end of Memory Mall.  From there students will be able to register their team or organization, unless opting to sign-up as a solo participant.  After this, students will run through Greek park, Millican Hall, the Reflecting Pond, the UCF Library, then cutting into the Student Union all before finally completing the Undie Run back at Memory Mall. 
Sigma Nu is adding a twist by also adding runners stations along the way, “We have added a misting water, techno, crowd support, and a spirit station for the runners to enjoy as they jog through campus,” Harowitz stated. 
The event will occur on Friday, April 9th, 2010 on Memory Mall with the run commencing at 6:00 p.m.  More information can be found at www.TheUndieClassic.com. 



