Over the past few days, the cheating scandal that has been uncovered in UCF’s College of Business has gone from being covered in the local media to the national media. But earlier today, KnightNews.com discovered it hit a new level.
Mail Online, an online news paper in the United Kingdom, has picked up on Professor Quinn’s Capstone Strategic Management course, and how approximately a third of the students cheated on the midterm in said class.
To read the original story we posted three days ago, click here.



Last night, hundreds came out to party at the Theta Chi house for the 2nd Annual After Dark on Greek Park.  Hosted by AEPhi and Theta Chi, the event included everything from a live band to a mechanical bull.  Those who attended only paid $5, and were given a pink bracelet rather than a paper ticket.  Free food and drinks were also included in the ticket price.

Students tested their skill on the mechanical bull- and the average riding time seemed to be a very unimpressive five seconds.  Others opted to shoot some hoops with some friends for a chance to win a free pair of shoes.  Music lovers were also entertained by the party’s DJ and by local band favorite Call Me Crazy’s live performance.
After Dark on Greek Park supports Sharsheret and The Bob Woodruff Foundation.  Sharsheret is a national non-profit organization that offers support to young Jewish women with breast cancer, hence the Greek Park After Dark t-shirt slogan, “Big or small, let’s save them all.”  Two sisters of the Alpha Epsilon Phi sorority founded Sharsheret in 2001 and have been dedicated to helping those with breast cancer ever since.

The Bob Woodruff Foundation is focused on supporting those who have been injured in service, whether it is physically or psychologically.  The foundation encourages communities to help our nation’s heroes successfully reintegrate so members, veterans, and their families may thrive happily.
It appeared that the party was a huge success.  The Theta Chi house was filled with friends hanging out and having fun. “The turnout was better than expected and everybody had a great time,” said Theta Chi member Brandon Stephens, “especially those who rode the mechanical bull. I’m just happy it was for a good cause.”
TO SEE A SLIDESHOW OF PICTURES, CLICK NEXT PAGE.



