UPDATE- 9/6/10:
Check out video interviews from night three of Rush:

UPDATE- 9/5/10:
With all three nights of rush behind us, fraternity guys can finally stop the man-flirting in hot tents and move on with their normal routines. (Going to the gym, tanning and eating El Corral, according to one popular facebook group). 
We don’t have any official numbers from IFC yet, but we’ve been checking with our sources and getting texts from people in certain groups reporting numbers. We expect to get more firm numbers on Wednesday and official numbers by Friday, but here’s a general sense of what we’re hearing so far:
Phi Delt and Alpha Tau Omega recruited about 50 pledges each, possibly more than that, according to multiple sources close to those fraternities. 
It appeared clear that Delta Upsilon and Lambda Chi both had to have anywhere between 30-50 pledges, based on the activity in their tents and numbers we learned from sources in those groups on night 2 of rush.
New Pics in Slideshow!
Delta Tau Delta recruited about 35 pledges, according to a source close to that fraternity who declared Delt’s rush may be one of the best that fraternity has ever had. 
Delta Lambda Phi, UCF’s first gay fraternity that just began colonizing, started strong with about 30 pledges, according to sources KnightNews.com talked to. The big launch could skyrocket UCF’s chapter of Delta Lambda Phi to one of the biggest in the country. Stay tuned for more details on that. 
Theta Chi recruited more than 60 pledges, according to one anonymous text we received. Our sources had indicated earlier the fraternity hadn’t hit 60 by night two, so night three likely had to have been busy there, if the anonymous tipster’s information is accurate. 
Kappa Sig was taking “a bunch” of new guys, but the exact number wasn’t clear, according to information we gathered from a source close to that fraternity. 
We got reports Sigma Chi had dozens of pledges join, but reports on how many exactly ranged from a number between 20-45, so we’re working to get a more accurate account of how that stood, although it seems the higher range is more likely to be accurate based on new information we received yesterday. 
We haven’t been able to pin down information on the other groups yet. As always, text our tipline at 407-5-tip-ucf with information, or have your president or rush chair email us at news@knightnews.com with more information. 
IFC officials told KnightNews.com it was a very successful rush, with more people registering than ever before. Once we get the absolute final numbers, we’ll post them for you. Any other updates we get we’ll post as soon as we’re able to. 
Check out the video from the second night of Rush. It might be long, but trust us, it’s worth it.


ATO and Phi Delt fraternities appear to be pulling in the most new guys so far, with about 50 pledges each. DU has also been finding plenty of guys “down to frat” with them, securing what appears to be one of the next largest pledge classes as well. UCF’s first gay fraternity, Delta Lambda Phi, has about 30 pledges so far, according to sources. And UCF’s Jewish fraternity, AEPi, had about 20 pledges, which was higher than several other fraternities, as of last check.
Although we haven’t heard exact numbers on Kappa Sigma, we’re learning through sources close to that fraternity that rush is going well with a good group of guys joining, and the members are looking forward to a continued positive relationships with nationals as they start fresh this Fall and stay on track to get their new charter.
Have info about how your rush is going, or want to report more numbers to us?  Text our tipline at 407-5-tip-ucf. Send us photos or video from your rush to news@knightnews.com and we will include them in our slideshow.
Check out Andrew Stein interviews from the first night of Fraternity Rush:

Video edited by Paul Bedford.
Fraternities are reporting a good turnout so far. KnightNews.com has checked in with at least two fraternities that had more than 10 guys accept bids — or commit to pledge — before the first full hour of formal rush had passed.
KnightNews.com will be monitoring the situation over the next three days. Let us know how your fraternity is doing by texting us at 407-5-tip-ucf. [584-7823] Feel free to text us any tips you’d like. As always, we’ll respect your wish to remain anonymous — just let us know in the text.



