UPDATE 4/16/10, 2:00 PM: Below is a picture emailed to KnightNews.com of the word “Big” graffitied above the Theta house’s already vandalized letters.


KnightNews.com got an e-mailed tip this morning, complete with a new photo. “Someone apparently climbed up again last night to make sure their point was clear,” said the tipster, who asked not to be identified. 
Since we got the tip, others in the Greek community informed KnightNews.com the new, bolder “C” is paint primer, used to prep the area before the “C” is painted over and remove. If this is the case, the tipster, who KnightNews.com knows the identity of and confirmed is part of the Greek community, was unaware that was the case. 
In the side-by-side photo, you can see the C is much more noticeable in the second photo, to the right. 
If it is paint primer — which it now appears to be — it’s not clear why more primer wasn’t used to obscure the C and remove the word “COX” from the top of the house before the final paint job is done. 
We are still working to get a copy of the police report. Check back for updates.
A source very close to the fraternity sent the photo, and informed KnightNews.com a police report has been filed. In addition to any criminal charges, UCF’s Office of Student Conduct could also punish any student involved in the vandalism. Under Golden Rule policy, KnightNews.com understands if the vandalism was committed by members of a rival fraternity or its pledge class, that entire fraternity could face the music.
KnightNews.com has requested a copy of the police report. It’s not clear yet if there are any suspects.
KnightNews.com Wants to Know:  What do you think about the COX vandalism? Should the perpetrators be punished with jail time, or was it all in good fun? How the heck do you think people snuck up on the roof unnoticed?
Comment below, or text us your thoughts at 407-5-tip-ucf. ((407) 584-7823) We will post the texts for you.  You can also call our tipline and leave a message about what you think. We will post any voice message audio we get as “Rants and Raves.” We won’t post your number, or even your name, unless you say it on the voicemail. You can block your number by dialing *67 before you call, if you’re worried.
In addition to texting, you can always e-mail news@knightnews.com about any news tips. If you want to send an anonymous e-mail, use the Send Story Tips link and just write anonymous for name and anon@ymous.com for email. We are currently investigating some other odd tips we received within the last few days. Keep them coming, we’re working on it! (As you can see, photo evidence always helps make the story!)



