Strong friendships and bonds of brotherhood, socials with sororities, IM sports, networking and opportunities to become a leader on campus are some of the experiences UCF fraternities advertise as reasons why you should go Greek.
KnightNews.com decided to help sort out how this process works, and put up a UCF fraternity list with links to web pages to find out more about each fraternity. We may be updating this page with more videos and listings, depending on how each fraternity chooses to work with us to get the word out, so check back for updates.

 
 
 Chapter Web site: http://www.duucf.org/
House: DU recently moved into a house off campus near Sterling Apartments
Philanthropy: Boy’s and Girls Club of America
 
 
 

 
 
Chapter Web site: AEPI’s UCF Website
House:Actively working to find a house to move into soon
Philanthropy: Holocaust Museum in Washington D.C.
 
 
 

 
 
 Chapter Web site: Phi Delt UCF Fraternity Site
House: Recently relocated to a larger house off campus near Sterling Apartments
Philanthropy: Lou Gehrig’s Foundation
 
 
 
If you are planning on rushing, you can do some research beforehand by checking out fraternities websites (links are above and below) and Facebook groups. You also could have met some fraternities in person at their individual events or at earlier UCF welcome events on campus in the Student Union. While many fraternities have already had rush events, this is the week where all the big ones happen. 
Starting at 8 p.m. Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of this week, Sept. 1, 2 and 3, all the fraternities will hold rush events at and around the Lake Claire Recreational Area. (See map) There will be an area where Interfraternity Council officers will be to register anyone thinking of joining. It is free to go through recruitment for guys. Check with each fraternity to see what their costs are. They may not be as expensive as you’d think — and are generally much less expensive than sororities at UCF.
Note: Last week, KnightNews.com e-mailed every fraternity president letting them know about our Fraternity Rush Guide and the option to buy a premium placement above for the first five to respond to the advertising offer. Options for videos to be posted are available too. If your fraternity would like one of the few remaining spots, please see your president for the email with the very cheap prices and options.
UCF IFC Fraternity Chapter List for Rush 2010 







