Tuition at the University of Central Florida could spike 15 percent this fall if state leaders grant UCF’s request for the hike.
BOARD OF GOVERNORS MEETING LIVE (WHEN AVAILABLE):

All 11 state schools making up Florida’s State University System have asked for the maximum 15 percent annual hike allowed by state law — the figure represents the sum of actual tuition hikes approved by the Legislature, plus the newly conceived “differential tuition” universities request its Board of Governors to add on top of it, according to the Orlando Sentinel. 


According to May 14 numbers from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the tuition hike and shift from Bright Futures coverage comes at a time when Florida’s unemployment rate is at 12 percent, the highest in at least 20 years.
If the hikes are approved by Florida’s Board of Governors, tuition would increase to about $4,600 a year from $4,000, based on 15 credit hours, the Sentinel reported. The numbers would vary slightly between schools.
The plan is for UCF — along with UF, FSU, FAU, USF and other state schools — to continue hiking tuition each year until it hits the national average, which was $7,000 annually, according to data last obtained by the Sentinel. Because much of that hike would be from the “differential tuition,” a 75 percent Bright Futures scholarship would come nowhere near covering 75 percent of the cost of education anymore.
KnightNews.com has been covering how UCF has been in a very tight spot, with millions in cuts coming from Tallahassee. Last Summer, the university was forced to slash entire degree programs and professor jobs to save $4.6 million.
Depending on when you enrolled in school, you may be exempt from portions of differential tuition. A portion of the revenue generated from it goes toward providing need-based aid.
In the past, UCF administrators have argued tuition hikes are needed to provide a quality education.
But the question many students have: Will everyone still be able to afford it?
The Board of Governors is reportedly expected to approve the request, as it has been pushing for tuition hikes as part of its strategy to increase funding for state universities.
“In fact, our five-year budget plan depends on continued tuition-driven budget increases to replace our current dependence on nonrecurring [federal stimulus] funds,” Hickey wrote.
Hickey also pointed out, “Unlike the past two years, UCF is facing a relatively modest one percent reduction in our 2010-11 state funding. Fortunately, projected tuition increases will make up for this most recent $2.4 million reduction in state funding.”
He admitted, however, “UCF is still struggling to recover from $77 million in budget cuts that began in July 2007.”
Hickey also complained that “differential tuition funds are more restrictive than state money,” because 30 percent has to go toward need-based aid, and “70 percent of differential tuition has to be spent on activities that directly support undergraduate education.”
Read the full letter from UCF’s Provost on the NEXT PAGE by clicking the link below.



It’s been about  a week and a half since KnightNews.com published this story documenting how “Bros Icing Bros” was becoming a big hit at UCF, and in that short time, it seems the strange phenomenon is still going strong.
Even Ashton Kutcher has become part of Bros Icing Bros, whether he likes it or not.  Someone set up a  website called IceAshton.com, hoping someone can Ice the celebrity.


How long will it last? That’s anybody’s guess. So far, there’s still no sign Smirnoff is behind it — but there’s no sign they’re trying to put a stop to it either.
For the time being, “Bros” should beware: Watch your backs, because you could be Iced next.



