UPDATE 4/20/10 12:00 PM: Below is video (accurate as of 11:30 AM) of what is available at Knights Market.

The KnightsMarket is being hosted by the Student Union on April 20 at
the South Patio from 10 a.m. until 3 p.m. The KnightsMarket will serve as a
venue where UCF Students may come together to buy, sell or barter goods.
The KnightsMarket will have three main attractions, including student-run tables, free store, and food pantry.

Student-run tables are open to individual students or RSO’s looking to
raise some extra cash by selling possessions they no longer want; no
item is too big or too small. Although it is recommended that
participants reserve a table in advance by email, walk-ups are welcome
as well. To RSVP please send an email to segreen@mail.ucf.edu.
In addition to the student-run tables, the Student Union will be
facilitating a free store where students can freely give usable,
unwanted items to other students rather then disposing of them in
landfills. The Student Union has been collecting items throughout the
month and is continuing to collect goods at the Student Union
information desk up until the KnightsMarket.
Lastly, the Knights Helping Knights Food Pantry will bring some of their
donated canned goods to the KnightsMarket to give out to students who
are in financial need.. The service is non-judgmental and completely
confidential. Students will not be asked to reveal any information upon
shopping in the KHK Food Pantry.
The Student Union has partnered with the Student Government Association,
Student Sustainability Alliance and Eco Advocates to facilitate the KnightsMarket.
If you have any questions or comments please contact Seth Green atsegreen@mail.ucf.edu



Universal Knights kicks off this afternoon at Universal Studios Orlando, and 12,000 UCF Knights are expected to swarm the park with tickets paid for with money SGA collects from students’ activity and service fee.
KnightNews.com has gathered the information you need to know about the 7th consecutive Universal Knights.
Time:
Universal Studios will let you in with your Universal Knights ticket starting at 4 p.m. Sunday. The park closes at 1 a.m., however, CityWalk will likely welcome you after that if you want to party all night. Some venues at CityWalk will let you in for free if you show your UCF ID, according to SGA.
Parking:
If you don’t want to get stuck paying an outrageous parking bill, make sure you print out this parking pass and bring your UCF ID. If you want “preferred” parking — in other words not having to walk as much — you can pay $4 for a closer spot.
Still don’t have a ticket? 
Didn’t get a ticket? You’re not completely out of luck. According to the SGA Web site, a limited number of guest tickets will also be available to purchase for $25.00 (one guest ticket per UCF ID). Guest tickets will be available at Universal Studios between 4:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. on April 18, 2010. You could also always hang out at CityWalk. They have clubs and restaurants and it should also be crawling with Knights. The problem is, many places require you to be 21. Check ahead before hand. Also, throw up the fact you need a ticket on your Facebook status. You never know who may be willing to sell theirs for $5.
Unhappy you can’t go on the Hulk? 
This year Universal changed things up and didn’t let SGA rent out IOA for the event. But, if you pay Universal another $25 out of your own pocket, you can go to Islands of Adventure from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. today at that discounted price. Once you are done there, you can move over to the regular Universal Studios park and party until 1 a.m .
See our previous updates about Universal Knights ticket distribution below:



