Apparently, the Theta Chi pranksters aren’t the only ones creating mischief around campus.
Last week, KnightNews.com received a tip from ‘Aaron C’ that the Reflection Pond was the subject of this prank.
“Around 9AM as I was walking to class, I saw that the Reflecting Pond seemed to be filled with what looked like soap or bubble bath,” Aaron told KnightNews.com in an email. “I hadn’t seen anything like it before in the Pond, so I figured a prankster had dumped some in early in the morning.”
Where as this was not the first time the Reflection Pond has been the subject of a prank- or the first time this exact prank has been attempted before- this was the first time KnightNews.com has received pictures of it. “Luckily, I had my camera with me that day and took some photos of the fountain. When I got out of class around 10:15 the soap seemed to have dissipated a good bit,” according to Aaron.
TO SEE A SLIDESHOW OF THE PICTURES WE WERE SENT, KEEP CLICKING NEXT PAGE.



Theater goer? Play fanatic? Drama queen? If any of the previous titles apply to you (accept for that last one… maybe), then Project Spotlight’s One Act Festival is something you should check out.
Project Spotlight is a UCF student organization that produces student work, who’s main event is the semiannual One Act Festival (OAF).
The organization’s press release stated that, “Each semester Students Directors pitch their shows before the Members of Project Spotlight and – once selected – hold auditions for students to be cast in the shows. With no budget, the directors then rehearse the pieces throughout the semester and present their work at OAF. The final products are often similar to a workshop production, but actors are rehearsed, off book, and in costume.”
All of the performances are one act, and under 45 minutes.
You can check out “The Food Chain,” written by Nicky Silver and directed by Amanda Amat, “Miss Polly’s Institute for Criminally Damaged Young Ladies Puts on a Show,” written by Don Zolidis and directed by Lisa Milton, as well as “The Graduate” written by Terry Johnson and directed by Christopher Metz, tonight (April 16th) at 7pm and April 18th at 2 pm.
Additionally, “Check Please,” written by Jonathan Rand and directed by Justin Neal, “The Trojan Women 2.0,” based on the work by Charles Mee, directed by Nick Saldivar, and “Glengarry Glen Ross,” written by David Mamet and directed by David Tate, April 17th at 7pm.



