Only a few months after the eventful SGA Senate elections, it’s already time to get ready for the Presidential race. That’s right. In a matter of weeks, campus will be taken over by dozens of people offering you a free slice of pizza and a t-shirt, and, soon enough, you’ll start hearing the names of candidates who are running to be the next student body President of UCF.
However, there’s much more to this hectic process than just giving out free food. Candidates, who have until February 4th to declare, are preparing for an incredibly stressful month, filled with information sessions, debates, and campaigning, all leading up to the election, which begins February 22nd.
KnightNews.com spoke with Marlee Popluder, the Supervisor of Elections, to get some information about what the next month will be like. “The petitions aren’t in yet, but the interest [from potential candidates] has been quite the same as in previous years,” Popluder said, which surely indicates that this election will be just as intriguing as the ones that preceded it. Additionally, she stated, “I’m hoping everyone gets involved to find out about the candidates, their platforms, and their goals for the following year.”
So, in order to become involved, beyond listening to campaigners, Popluder noted that there are numerous ways for students to take part in elections, outside of being a candidate. She strongly encouraged everyone to come to the Presidential Debate, which will be held February 19th in the Key West room of the Student Union.
Not only that, but students will have a chance to voice their questions to candidates through KnightNews.com. Simply e-mail news@knightnews.com with your question, put “SGA Presidential Debate Question” in the subject line, and KnightNews.com will forward the questions to the election commission, who will ask the candidates at the debate.
These candidates are running to make a difference for students in the UCF community, so every decision made will affect you. Your vote counts, so learn about the platforms and get some free food along the way.
Stay tuned with KnightNews.com for up-to-the-minute coverage of the SGA Presidential elections!



