If you were in the Student Union earlier today (around 11:50 a.m.), odds are you saw a large group of students dancing to absolute silence for three minutes! 

This was all part of a “Jamming to the BEATS Flashmob” presented by HP and Intel.
Students from all types of student organizations were invited, with an incentive that the organization with the most students registered would win $200.
After the Flashmob students were invited to hear music on the newest HP and Intel laptops on the new Beats Audio software.



A couple of days before Veterans Day, the new UCF memorial honoring veterans near memory mall was defaced and covered by a group of UCF peace activists, according to Orlando media reports. 
Although it is unclear what was written on the memorial, WKMG Local 6 reports some students say the word “peace” and “killer” was written.  
UCF spokesman Grant Heston told WKMG Local 6 “At this point, we’re not going to pursue any action. We think we’ve explained it. We’ve heard their side. They understand our position, and so we’re going to leave it at that,”
Veterans held a rally Tuesday afternoon near the memorial.



 Today was a successful day for President John C. Hitt and committee members who sat on the UCF Board of Trustees meeting. 
President Hitt’s merit benefit, revision of gender identity and gender expression discrimination, expanded on campus Greek housing, and more were approved on Nov. 10, at the meeting. Twelve out of the 13 members on the Board of Trustees attended this afternoon in the Live Oak Center on UCF’s campus.
The first issue approved in this afternoon’s meeting, beginning at 1:00 p.m., was the report on the assessment of President Hitt’s performance and recommendations for compensation. Four years ago the Board of Trustees put in place a new performance structure. This structure allows President Hitt eligibility for merit reviews for successfully completing certain goals.
Rick Walsh, Chairman of the Board of Trustees, said these goals consisted of SAT scores, a significant jump in the number of merit scholars from 15 to 59, building a new medical city, building a football stadium, rankings in patent production and recruiting the best students and faculty. The Board of Trustees approved his salary compensation, without hesitation, because they felt as though he lived up to his given expectations. 
Hitt’s merit benefit was supported by a 12-0 vote. If this issue had not been approved and President Hitt did not fulfill his goals, his salary would have been reduced by up to 33%.
Walsh said, “It was at risk, it was performance based. That was the whole purpose to get the president and his leadership team to focus on key goals to achieve the mission for the university. It clearly worked because they have met those goals in
many ways.”
President Hitt’s total merit benefit is $185,300 dollars.
Revision of UCF Non- Discrimination Affirmative Action Program
The Revision of UCF Regulation 3.001, Non- Discrimination; Affirmative Action Program was approved with a revision stating that “gender identity and gender expression as categories that are protected from discrimination.” Maribeth Ehasz, Vice-President for Student Development and Enrollment Services, submitted this revision.
The additions to Affirmative Action Program, approved today, included that, “The University shall not discriminate in offering access to its educational programs and activities or with respect to employment terms and conditions on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, and veteran status.”
The documents regarding the new revisions further state, “Gender identity is defined as an individual’s self-perception of being a male, female, or both. Gender expression is defined as the manifestation of an individual’s self perception of being male, female, or both.”
Greek Housing Expansion
On campus Greek Park housing expansion was approved. The plan stated that a new Greek house will be rebuilt over the old Pike house. 
This house will cost over $2 million dollars and consist of 40 beds for students. The house will be owned and operated by UCF. Their intentions are to have more authority towards Greek housing so UCF can be in charge of “things that shouldn’t go on in there.”
In addition, UCF plans on building a Greek Life Center, so sorority and fraternity members who don’t have on campus housing can hang out at an on campus facility.
New Cell Phone Tower
A cell phone tower has been completed on campus. This new tower currently has three providers, and has room for more should any other providers wish to utilize it.
Academic Village Parking Garage
In the Fall of 2012, a new parking garage for students living in the Academic Villages will be completed. This garage will provide 1,080 parking spots for students living in this community. The garage will be built adjacent to the Academic Village parking lots that already exist.



Can you say good music? Alpha Tau Omega (ATO) wants to know this year at their seventh annual Rock the Wreath concert featuring American hip hop artist Big Sean and special guests Tuqui, Prote-J, and Bezz Believe. 
The buzz for Rock the Wreath this year is highly anticipated with the appearance of Big Sean who is scheduled to release his debut album this fall! In the words of Big Sean, “Man I got my dark glasses on cause I’m ready for the big lights.” Big Sean was recently signed to Kanye West’s label with his album featuring hip hop stars such as, Pharrell Williams, Kanye West, Kid Cudi, Mr Hudson, Chiddy Bang, Pusha T of Clipse, Rick Ross, The-Dream, Drake, Tyga, Eminem, Wale, and Mike Posner. Big Sean is quickly entering the spot light and gaining recognition as a prominent new artist.  He has also been seen traveling around the world with Kanye who discovered and pegged him as a future star.  ATO’s head of social chair Oscar Delgado says “If you really want to experience hip hop while helping out a good cause get familiar with Big Sean at www.uknowbigsean.com and come to rock the wreath” 
Rock the Wreath is a charitable event that takes place once a year on campus at the Alpha Tau Omega’s Fraternity House. All proceeds raised will be given to the Children’s Miracle Network, a non-profit organization committed to the wellness and improvement of children’s lives by raising funds for children’s hospitals. Over the past seven years ATO has raised over 70,000 dollars for charity with over 40,000 raised in the past two years. In addition to funds earned in recent years, Rock the Wreath has attracted between 900 and 1250 UCF students and members of the surrounding Orlando community making it one of the largest UCF philanthropy events.
The Concert is scheduled for November 18th 2010. Pick up your tickets this week at student union or online at www.rockthewreath.com. Tickets start at $10 or can be purchased for $15 at the door all proceeds will be donated to charity. ATO will also be selling event merchandise during the event (t-shirts and white zip up hoodies).  
Music lovers get ready to get down with Big Sean November 18th while together we help raise funds to improve children’s lives at Rock the Wreath!



httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pJG7aCQtI8E
Read the full story on this major update in the UCF cheating scandal here. 
The cheating scandal rocking UCF’s College of Business has officially made national network news. 
ABC’s Good Morning America sent a correspondent to Orlando to give a live report to anchors George Stephanopoulos and Robin Roberts, who did not hide their outrage over the cheating.
ABC Anchor George Stephanopoulos
“We’re going to turn to just a maddening story out of Florida,” Stephanopoulos said when setting up the story. “A college professor there says he’s disgusted and disillusioned after he discovered with some detective work that fully one-third of 600 students in his business course had cheated on the midterm — 200 students!”
That’s when Stephanopoulos tossed to ABC news correspondent Yunji de Nies, who appeared live via satellite outside Millican Hall, with the sound of UCF’s iconic Reflecting Pond able to be heard in the background. The biggest new piece of information revealed her report was that 75 percent of the suspected cheaters have come forward through email or by admitting the behavior in person. 

Professor Richard Quinn broke his silence on the cheating scandal by giving ABC News his first interview. And if you thought he was exaggerating when he first told his class he was “physically ill, absolutely disgusted” and “completely disillusioned” by their behavior — the interview showed he wasn’t. 
“This was just like a knife through the heart,” Quinn said, during an emotional interview with de Nies. 
Some students sided with Quinn, and told ABC News there’s no need to send even more unethical people into the business world. But others said Quinn was making a mountain out of a molehill. 
Rumors that a student stole a copy of the test were debunked by a report in the University of Wisconsin’s student newspaper stating a student purchased the exam answers online from the textbook publisher test bank. The Badger Herald quoted UCF Associate Dean of Academic Programs and Technology Taylor Ellis who also said, “There was no breach of security at the school.”
Students commenting on KnightNews.com have suggested it was just a practice test circulated students got on the publisher’s website, but KnightNews.com was unable to reach anyone at the publishing company to find out more details on what exactly was accessed. 
A student told ABC News he thought UCF’s so-called cheating scandal had been blown out of proportion. 
“This is college, everyone cheats. Everyone cheats in life in general,” the student told ABC News. “I just think you’d be hard pressed to find anyone in this testing lab who hasn’t cheated on an exam. They’re making a witch hunt out of absolutely nothing, as if they want to teach us some sort of moral lesson.”
But de Nies said, “A lesson in morals is precisely what Professor Quinn is hoping his students take away.”
“If they’re going to learn one thing coming out of a university, if they learn nothing else, they’re going to learn dignity and honor and the value of ethics and honesty,” Quinn told ABC News.
When de Nies finished her report, the anchors made it clear they were bothered by the student’s comments on the situation.
“Oh man, that new definition — everyone does it,” Stephanopoulos said, “I couldn’t believe that student!”
Neither could his co-anchor.  
“Everyone cheats, everyone cheats in life?” Roberts said. “Maybe he’s meaning people cut corners here and there, but to say it so blatantly, I’m sure his parents…”
Stephanopoulos then interrupted Roberts to share more of his disappointment.  “And to suggest it’s all OK!” he said. 
Roberts finished up her thoughts on the student opinion by declaring, “That’s a real problem there.”
The segment on one of America’s top-rated morning news shows lasted more than three minutes, and aired across the entire country. The students have until midnight tonight to retake their exams. 
KnightNews.com is continuing to follow this major, national story, and will post more updates when we can.  



