After requesting an interview through email Tuesday last week, Knightnews.com had yet to hear anything from Professor Richard Quinn.
Professor Quinn did sit down with Good Morning America last week, but new information has some students placing the blame on him.
A UCF student accused of cheating turned the blame towards the professor in a YouTube video last week, citing how the professor said he writes the tests the first week and even said, “There’s an opportunity that I may very well write a question that even I couldn’t answer. I try not to do that, but it happens from time to time.”
Hoping to clear up all the rumors, Knightnews.com sent chief investigative reporter Logan Herlihy to confront Professor Quinn on his way to class early Monday afternoon and ask the professor about his controversial test.

Professor Quinn did say he was late to class but had no comment when Knightnews.com asked what he had to say to students who say he lied about creating his own test questions.
Knightnews.com interviewed a student in the College of Business, who asked to remain anonymous, about the professor being called a folk hero by some media.“ He’s not a folk hero he’s a lazy bastard,” the student said. The student then pointed to his own professor saying that his professor has his tests made by his teacher assistants, which in the students opinion is the most effective way.
If Professor Quinn responds to our email or would like to have a sit down interview with Knightnews.com, we will update the story with his side.
UCF has defended Quinn and says the focus should remain on the students, not the professor.



Last week, UCF’s newest club, “Golden Hearts,” hosted its first impact event. Approximately 30 students showed up for what was a well orchestrated and informative event. Golden Hearts, as explained by Secretary Valerie Cooper, is “on its way to becoming a [registered student organization], and should hopefully be approved by the spring.” 
“We’re an organization that exists to help foster youth and former foster youth with the transition for high school to college. Less than 10% of former foster youth make it to college and we want to try to increase that number. We create positive relationships with foster youth through mentoring and creating a place where these students feel like they belong once they make it to the university,” Cooper told KnightNews.com.
The presentation started off with the Youtube video, “Aging Out.” The video displayed pictures and statistics of a girl in foster care named Erica. When Erica was 18, she had to leave the foster care home she was placed in.
“Consistency is the most common term in foster care” said Amanda Annis. 
Ms. Annis continued to go into some eye-opening and heart-breaking statistics. “Less than half of the children in foster care finish high school and 51% are unemployed by age 22. When they turn 18, if they don’t have a job, they have no income. We have a plan where we give them $1200 per month. If they have a child, that is a whole extra burden for them. I have one child that failed her English class because she couldn’t afford her textbook” Annis said.
The reality is that more and more children are being put into the foster care system and need our support. “They have no place to call, even for simple things such as what temperature they should cook the chicken on. They have the responsibility of being an adult while still being a teen. They don’t feel confident that they can do it. They don’t have that constant support. If you don’t have that person there for you, you are more likely to walk out the door and give up,” Annis went on to explain.
Throughout the presentation, students actively participated by asking several questions, and their responses were heartwarming. After Ms. Annis finished, President Tara Dinosky told her tragic story about her experiences in the foster care system.
For more information about Golden Hearts and how you can get involved, please email goldenheartsucf@gmail.com.



