10:20 p.m. update:
O’Leary post game interview:
“We didn’t make as many mistakes (in second half),” O’Leary said. 
O’Leary on switching back to Calabrese for a couple plays:
“It wasn’t a switch, Godfrey got to start,” O’Leary said, explaining that he had a couple true freshman mistakes. “Once he settled down, I put Godfrey back in.”
10:15 p.m. update: UCF Knights Win 24-10
9:44 p.m. update:  UCF gets a touchdown. Knights lead Bulls 17-10. 
At the end of the first half, UCF was leading 10-3 but that lead was gone in the middle of the third quarter. 
With 2:45 seconds left in the third quarter, Buffalo had come from behind to tie UCF 10-10. 
KnightNews.com will provide updates here as the game wraps up, and post the final score once we get it. 
Check back for updates, and look forward to our regular live coverage once UCF is back home. 



The UCF Knights are on the road in Buffalo this week, and that means there’s no home game, no tailgating — and a whole lot of Knights wondering what to do with their Saturday nights. Well, we at KnightNews.com have been searching through Facebook events and bar websites to find out the best bets for tonight and put them all in one place.
Knight Library’s twitter says there will be cold beer and the kitchen will be open when you catch the game on HD.
On Scoop’s Facebook event, they promise free cover until 11 p.m., $9.99 wings, fries and a pitcher of beer, along with a free hookah when you buy at least two entrées. Scoop list specials as $1 drafts, $2 drinks and $3 bombs.
At Devaney’s you’ll find ten dollars for 10 wings and a pitcher of beer. $3 black and gold shots, which are Jager and Goldschlager, $5 cover, free beer and dollar drinks, free shots with every UCF touchdown, according to Devaney’s employee Nick Galluzzo
We heard FUBAR will also have the game going and kitchen open along with $1 beer and $2 patron, but haven’t confirmed it online. We couldn’t find any other bars advertising the game, but if yours is too e-mail us and we’ll add you here.
From the looks of Facebook, all signs point to Roxy Orlando as the place to party after the game. Specials at Roxy are Free Drinks till 11:30 and free cover before 11.
Cocaine Cowboys Celebrate After the DJs Get Signed
Tonight Roxy will bring in the Cocaine Cowboys, most known for their performances at DeKo Lounge and Bliss Ultra Lounge, to perform. This is no regular performance, though.
The two DJ’s, Jorge Masihi and Albert Piedrahita, were recently signed to 62 Music, and the label decided to throw a huge event at Roxy to celebrate the occasion. Jorge Masihi, one of the cowboys, has been DJing for three years, and has opened up for big events such as DayGlow 3D here in Orlando, FL.  The other cowboy Albert Piedrahita, also has an impressive resume Djing at Bliss Downtown and almost every local UCF college bar. Both DJs are UCF students and brothers of Phi Delt, and plan to bring a big UCF crowd out to Roxy for this event.
If you’re planning to stay near UCF tonight, there are local options we found advertised on Facebook too.
Check them out by clicking on the Next Page link below. 



It’s been a busy week for the tropics, with the National Hurricane Center tracking three hurricanes late this week: Igor, Julia and Karl.
Hurricane Karl has already slammed into Mexico’s coast, causing some deaths, according to reports. The biggest threat now rests with Igor, which is headed toward Bermuda. Forecasters predict Igor to impact Bermuda by the end of this weekend. 
The island of Bermuda has been fortunate to dodge the bullet lately, but Igor seems determined to have an impact. 
FoxNews.com reported that the Public Safety Minister told residents to prepare for “probably the worst storm we’ve seen.”
Julia weakened to a tropical storm and is expected to head out over open waters and not cause any impact to the United States coast or Bermuda. 



