
In these tough economic times when programs are being cut, tuition is on the rise and students are struggling to pay their bills, KnightNews.com has discovered UCF SGA president Mike Kilbride has spent nearly $8,000 of students’ money on a desk for the SGA office, which came to a total of $7,800. (See the purchase order here.)
Compare the old desk with the new one for yourself below:
After Mr. Kilbride ignored our e-mailed request for an on camera interview about the new desk, we stopped by Mr. Kilbride’s office to try and ask him some questions. Although Mr. Kilbride has publicly stated that his administration is one of transparency and that he has an open door policy, he refused to talk to us on camera when we stopped by and even threw KnightNews.com crews out of the office while in the process of gathering video about the poorly advertised SGA election.
Kilbride has recently been under public scrutiny from students, Orange County commissioners, and local TV and campus media outlets for his spending habits following his controversial $8,000 cabinet retreat, where he took his administration to a sprawling, five-star resort outside of Disney and stayed in luxury villas overnight. UCF announced it was reviewing how Kilbride, a UCF Board of Trustee and public official, accepted free Disney tickets from a company lobbyist. The outcome of that review has not been announced. Once KnightNews.com made the public aware of this retreat, WFTV Channel 9 questioned Kilbride about it, and you can see what he had to say here.
Kilbride’s decision to throw KnightNews.com out of the SGA office came at a time when the SGA Senate election had the lowest amount of participation we’ve seen during our time at UCF, and the Kilbride-appointed Chief Elections Commissioner, Shane Meckler, was under scrutiny for breaking election statutes, according to lawyers, by not advertising the election with enough time for students to get involved. Read the story about Drew Pope, Speaker of the Senate, and his secret meeting held on campus before active campaigning was allowed.
In addition to visiting Kilbride directly, we have also sent him e-mails and tried reaching out to other members of his administration, but he has so far ignored our requests to be interviewed in person and answer our questions regarding his desk.
It’s not clear why Kilbride is refusing to be interviewed and answer direct questions about his spending choices. He briefly talked to our reporter off camera, but refused to speak on the record, so we cannot share his thoughts with you. We spoke with other SGA officials, however, including Chief Information Officer Shane Chism, who verified that if Kilbride had wanted to, he could have used the nearly $8,000 spent on the new desk for something else.
We found out the cost of scantrons, and concluded that instead of this desk, Kilbride could have purchased around 90,000 scantrons to give to students, which is the real reason most students seem to visit the office in the first place. According to Chism’s approximations of the number of pink scantrons SGA buys each year, this could have effectively given students twice as many this year.
If Mike Kilbride should agree to speak on camera with KnightNews.com about the $7,800 desk, we will update our readers with his side of the story. Until then, we will continue to ask tough questions and hold Mike Kilbride and his administration accountable for spending student money — because after all, it’s student money that pays Kilbride about $20,000 a year to hold the prestigious office.



While the University of Central Florida says it’s not opposing a proposal to give Florida universities the power to charge students for classes they’re not taking, Florida’s Chief Financial Officer and Democratic Gubernatorial Candidate Alex Sink had this suggestion for the state agency expected to push it through — step back. 
Sink’s comments came after KnightNews.com’s chief investigative reporter, Logan Herlihy, caught up with the Chief Financial Officer following a meeting to discuss her plan to restore Florida’s economy with Orlando’s business and economic leaders Tuesday morning.



“Right now a lot of students only have time to take 12 credit hours because they’re working to pay their rising tuition bills,” Herlihy told Sink. “Next month, the Board of Governors could vote to give universities the power to charge students for classes they’re not even taking. Is that the right thing to do — especially when Florida’s unemployment rate is among the worst in the nation?” 
Sink immediately sympathized with the challenge many students face while they put themselves through school after their parents suffered from a layoff or reduction in income. 
“We’re always in a time when students have to work their way through college,” Sink said. “And if 12 hours is what they can manage because they’ve got to hold down a job so they can afford to go to college, I think the Board of Governors ought to step back and take another look at their policy.”
Last month, KnightNews.com reported how a UCF spokesman said the state’s largest university had no immediate plans to adopt block tuition.
“UCF has no plans to adopt block tuition at this time, should the proposal be approved by the Board of Governors,” UCF spokesman Grant Heston said. “We do not oppose the proposal, as it offers universities the option of using block tuition. Each institution is free to make its own decision on how best to proceed.”
Supporters say the plan will encourage students to graduate on time, while critics say it’s just another unfair tuition hike being forced on the large portion of students who take 12 hours while working jobs part-time. The small percentage of students that take 18 credit hours would get a price break, because they’d only have to pay for 15. 
A decision may be made as early as November when the Board of Governors meets at the University of Florida. UF released a statement saying they’d be the pilot program for the block tuition plan and it would increase access to higher education by motivating students to graduate quicker and make room for new students. 
Knightnews.com will follow this story, check for updates.



If you typically have class on Wednesday, get prepared for some good news, courtesy of our SGA: Classes taking place tomorrow after 12:20 p.m. will be cancelled.
According to the UCF Academic calendar, “Main Campus and Research Park classes end at 12:20 p.m. No afternoon or evening classes
(Campus closes 12:30 p.m.).”
SGA Senate President Pro Tempore Joshua Miller passed along this resolution concerning the cancelation of classes.
Tomorrow, the UAB Blazers will be playing the UCF Knights at Bright House Network Stadium, and tailgating will be starting at 2 p.m.
Those at the Rosen campus will be feeling the love, too, as classes end at 2:50 p.m., and that campus closes 3:00 p.m.



