The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) has chosen the University of Central Florida as a national example of the best green initiatives happening at colleges and universities nationwide, according to a UCF news release.
UCF is the only university in Florida DOE is visiting in its current national tour, UCF said. It will begin Tuesday, March 2, at an 11 a.m. press conference featuring UCF’s solar carport plug-in facility used to charge electric vehicles. At the event, the Ford Motor Company will make its Florida debut of its new hybrid version of the Ford Escape. The visit will last until March 4. 
The DOE representative will see a variety of green projects at UCF, including the thermal energy storage facility which UCF says will save the school $700,000 per year in energy costs, the green roof on UCF’s Student Union building, the UCF student housing energy savings competition, “Kill-A-Watt,” UCF’s solar-powered fleet car, the solar panels installed on the Engineering I building, the Florida Solar Energy Center at UCF’s Cocoa campus, and award-winning student research projects such as a wind turbine maximizer and a portable solar energy collector.



Saturday night, Chabad Jewish Student Group at UCF celebrated Purim in style: A night out at UCF’s newest club, Deko Bar and Lounge.
Purim is, in essence, a commemoration of a time when the Jewish people living in Persia were saved from extermination. It happens once a year, and Chabad students wanted to make sure it was unforgettable.
More than 200 people came out to celebrate the event, according to Romi Mawardi, co-owner of Deko. The theme was Mardi Gras, and the midnight masquerade was apparent from all the purple, green and yellow beads around everyone’s necks. Deko was giving free cover to those who showed up to the event before 10 p.m.
For those who don’t know, Deko was formerly a movie theater, and one entire movie room remains in tact in the rear of the building. This room was used for the Megillah reading, which is the “Scroll of Esther,” and is a firsthand account of the events of Purim, which is read in the original Hebrew from a parchment scroll.
After the reading, there was a buffet of food for everyone at the event to feast on, as well as free drinks for those who were of age.
It was apparent that everyone had a great time, and many people even stayed until after 2 a.m. enjoying the festivities.
Hookah was also a popular item throughout the night.
To learn more about Chabad Jewish Student Group, visit the Facebok fan page here.



