ORLANDO, FL — It took a highly publicized controversy to rid UCF of its longstanding shoe and apparel contract with adidas, but as of today, that’s all in the history books.
July 1st marks the start of the school’s contract with its new suitor, Nike.
In an unexpected turn of events publicized nationally last fall as “shoegate,” UCF lost its shoe and apparel contract with adidas four years after signing a five-year extension with the company. UCF basketball player Marcus Jordan wore a pair of white Nike Air Jordans to an exhibition game against St. Leo University. Although the Knights won the game 84-65, the fallout following the match made national headlines. 
According to sources close to the situation, local adidas representatives had originally agreed to make an exception for Jordan to wear his Nike shoes, which he says hold special family meaning. This allowed UCF to recruit Jordan, who had specifically asked about his preference to wear the line of shoes his father, basketball great Michael Jordan, had made famous. 
“The University of Central Florida has chosen not to deliver on their contractual commitment to adidas,” adidas spokeswoman Andrea Corso wrote in an e-mail to The Associated Press. “As a result we have chosen not to continue our relationship with them moving forward.”
UCF was left scrambling for a replacement to sponsor the university’s sports teams once the contract ended with adidas. In March, UCF Director of Athletics Keith Tribble announced a five-year deal with Nike beginning July 1, 2010 to outfit all of UCF’s sports teams. 
“We are very excited about our new partnership with Nike,” Tribble said in a press release. “Most importantly, our student-athletes will be thrilled to wear the Nike brand. We look forward to a long relationship with Nike.”
“Nike is excited to become the official supplier of athletic footwear, apparel and equipment for the Knights, and we especially look forward to outfitting all of UCF’s student-athletes and coaches from its 16 sports programs,” said Nike Director of Sports Marketing Kit Morris in the press release from UCF Athletics.
Beginning this fall, the UCF football team will don brand new Nike uniforms. Although the school received its shipment of black, gold, and white uniforms in May, the school has yet to make any official announcement unveiling their design.
Keep checking KnightNews.com for updates.



UPDATE 12 p.m.: We got an e-mail from UCF saying the Rec and Wellness Center is back open this noon after a brief problem with the fire alarm system caused the evacuation this morning. 
Students who were lifting weights were ordered to leave by walking out the bottom emergency exit floor into the heat, the tipster said. 
“Everyone was mad and confused and just left,” the tipster texted. “They didn’t know how long we’d have to wait outside for, but there was no visible fire or anything.”
Although there was no visible sign of any trouble, it’s still unclear if this was some sort of drill or something else. 
As of 11:20 a.m., UCF RWC cameras showed the weight room was empty, suggesting it is still closed.
RWC Was Empty at 11:20 a.m.
KnightNews.com is working to gather more details and will post them soon. 



