Yesterday, hundreds of local fifth graders from schools in Orange, Seminole, Lake and Osceola counties flocked to campus for UCF’s first ever College Discovery Day. The Honors College hosted the event, along with Junior Achievement of Central Florida, and the event is sponsored by Workforce Central Florida.
httpv://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yLjQwoXe-V0
They started arriving at 10 a.m., and were greeted by a pep rally put on by UCF’s cheerleaders. They then broke up into groups to meet with students and professors, as well as science projects involving animal bones, telescopes and computer animation, all while they take of tour of the campus.
Each group was led by UCF students, and met back at the reflection pond for a lunch provided by the Inter Fraternity Council. The lunch was peppered with entertainment for the kids, including a band, Knightro, and players from our men’s basketball team.
College Discovery Day will be followed next month by UCF’s sixth-annual College Shadow Day for Central Florida seventh-graders. The event Friday, April 16, is also hosted by The Burnett Honors College and Junior Achievement.



This past weekend, the Kappa Delta sorority hosted it’s annual 5k Shamrock Run on campus. The run started at their sorority house, and went around campus on a predetermined course.

Hundreds are participants competed in multiple age groups and the event was an obvious success. The overall male winner was Partick Hale, while the overall female winner was CJ Cooper.



One of UCF’s largest pre-health groups, the Pre-Professional Medical Society (PPMS), is holding its first large scale fundraiser in order to raise funds for sixteen year old Faith Tom, a vibrant young girl who sustained extensive burn injuries when her crib caught on fire during her infancy.  Due to this horrific event, Faith’s life has been plagued by numerous painful surgeries and scars that serve as constant reminders of this tragedy. Faith lost her right hand, both of her ears, her nose, her vision in one eye, and suffered massive facial and upper body scarring. 
The 5K Race and Family Fun Run will be held at Memory Mall this Saturday, March 27, and all proceeds will go to prosthetic body parts for Faith, namely a pair of ears and a hand. Nasal reconstruction will also be financed by this bold endeavor. A surgeon from California has agreed to do the attachment procedures free of charge provided that all parts are paid for. The grand total for all the parts is $3000, and this event is one of many that hopes to finance the cost.
The race has been a highly anticipated event on the spring 2010 calendar for PPMS and is expected to have a considerable turnout. The top three prizes for men include 2 Disney tickets, 2 Wet & Wild tickets and a $25 gift card for Brio, and the top three prizes for women include an Amici spa package valued at $215, 2 Sea World tickets and another $25 gift card for Brio. A raffle will be held at the event as well, with prizes of gift cards to Sweet! Cupcakes, Toojay’s and numerous others. 
If you plan on participating, there are two options. The 5K race will begin and end at Memory Mall, and registration costs $20.00. A route of the race is on the website, linked below. Following the 5K will be the Family Fun Run, a one mile run/walk event. The cost for the Fun Run is $15. Registration begins at 7am on the day of the race, this Saturday, and the actual race begins an hour later. All participants will receive a t-shirt and the rewarding feeling from knowing that they are contributing to a great cause. People who cannot attend the race are encouraged to donate on the PPMS website, located at http://ppmedsociety.org/raceregistration.html. 
If you are a pre-health student (such as pre-med, pre-pharmacy, etc.) then PPMS is a great way to get information on your respective field. Numerous events like volunteering and fundraisers such as the 5K are held throughout the year, and the group also provides a large group of knowledgeable contacts and multiple informative resources. PPMS’s website is at http://ppmedsociety.org/, and you can find more information about the race at http://ppmedsociety.org/race.html. 



