UPDATE 12/09/10: According to the Orlando Sentinel, Head Coach Donnie Jones confirmed that A.J. Rompza was in a car accident yesterday, stating, “A.J. had a car accident here on campus and is just really sore. He didn’t get injured, but he’s just really sore from it. So we sat him out here today to rest his body, to make sure we get him back full strength. We’re just icing him down. Thank God he’s not injured as bad as he probably could have been. He’s fortunate it wasn’t worse than what it was.”
UPDATE 12/08/10, 3:40 PM:KnightNews.com received e-mail confirmation from UCF PD that “it was a driver identified as Andrew Rompza,” and that the crash “occurr[ed] on Andromeda and Gemini at 4:15 p.m.”
KnightNews.com is receiving multiple reports that UCF star basketball player AJ Rompza was in a car accident this afternoon.
One of the reports came from an eyewitness, who sent us pictures of the scene that do show a person fitting Rompza’s description sitting next to a Silver Mustang near the intersection of Andromeda and Gemini.
Some of the eyewitnesses told KnightNews.com that it appeared no one suffered any serious injuries, but we haven’t yet been able to confirm that with emergency responders.
KnightNews.com placed a call and email to a UCF police spokesman earlier tonight, after hours, and we will update you when we hear back on whether there is any official confirmation that Rompza was indeed involved, and how the crash happened. 
Check back for updates.




In an effort to accommodate as many study needs as possible, the University of Central Florida’s Student Union is being transformed into a “Study Union”. It will be open 24 hours a day during the entire week of finals, leaving the computer labs and work areas open to anyone who wishes to take advantage of them. According to the Study Union’s Facebook fan page, the second floor will be devoted to group study, while the third will be a strictly enforced quiet area.
Another useful tool being hosted by the “Study Union” is the daily study sessions, courtesy of the Student Academic Resource Center (SARC). Each day, review sessions are offered in three-hour blocks of time throughout the Union. For example, on Tuesday December 7, Introduction to Computer programming will be offered in Egmont Key Room 224 from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., while Organic Chemistry II will occupy Key West Room 218’s 12 p.m. to 2 p.m. time slot. Altogether, there will be a total of 74 review sessions offered before the end of exams on the night of December 13th. In between the study and review sessions, there will also be free massage and Recreation and Wellness Center exercise sessions.
Yet another bonus to the Union’s late hours will be a “Midnight Breakfast” offered from Monday, Dec. 6th, through Thursday, Dec. 9th. 
According to a recent article published in The New York Times titled “Forget What You Know about Good Study Habits,” it isn’t so much how often you study, but how that makes the difference. The Times suggests changing rooms each study session, or mixing the material instead of focusing the entire period on one lesson; both tips can be put to use utilizing the Study Union. 
For more information, visit SARC’s website, which offers a schedule of events and will remain up –to-date about events, by clicking here. 
And for a list of review sessions and events, view or download this pdf file.



