Tropical Storm Bonnie was churning in the Atlantic Thursday night, with its eye set on South Florida — and later toward the gulf oil spill. It is expected the storm will cause delays to oil spill relief efforts as it passes over the site of the Deepwater Horizon spill.
The storm isn’t expected to cause major problems in Orlando or near UCF, but the Florida Keys could expect tropical storm force winds and rains.
Sponsored      Advertisement (Story Continues Below)

As of 11 p.m. Thursday, a Tropical Storm Warning had been issued for the East Coast of Florida north of Golden Beach to Deerfield Beach. A Tropical Storm Warning had also been issued for the West Coast of Florida north of Bonita Beach to Englewood.
A Tropical Storm Watch had been issued for the East Coast of Florida north of Deerfield Beach to Jupiter Inlet including Lake Okeechobee.
KnightNews.com will continue tracking the tropics to alert you of any other storms.



Just weeks after UCF convinced the Florida Board of Governors to raise differential tuition during a time when Florida’s unemployment is nearly the worst in the country, UCF President John Hitt is set to get a one time bonus of $143,000 — nearly three times the $47,802 it takes an average Florida household to rake in over an entire year. 
Hitt won’t be the only one to get a bonus. Nearly a dozen top UCF administrators are set to get bonuses, after the UCF Board of Trustees voted over a teleconference today to approve the payouts, the paper reported. 
The bonuses are based on the administrators achieving certain goals. Administrators, who have been battling massive state budget cuts over the past few years, had declined these bonuses in recent years, citing the tough economy, but Trustees decided to pay the bonuses now, instead of having to pay interest on them if they waited longer, according to the Sentinel.
Click to see bonus spreadsheet
Florida law limits the state’s contribution to university president salaries to $225,000 a year, but universities are able to get around that limit by using private foundations to generate funds to pay the rest. 



