The UCF Trial Team is suiting up for its national competition, and student group has been preparing for it for months.
At the beginning of every year, the Trial Team at UCF is presented with a mock legal case, according to a press release from the organization. The students analyze and develop the case, including opening and closing statements, and direct and cross-examinations. This year, the team is investigating the murder of Jacob Bennett, a fictional movie producer with plenty of enemies.
On February 20 and 21, 18 UCF students will be acting as the prosecution and defense in Mr. Bennett’s murder trial, the release stated. They will be competing in the Nation Law Firm Regional Mock Trial Tournament, held on the UCF main campus.
There will be 28 teams from across the Southeast trying the case as part of the American Mock Trial Association’s championship series.  Of those teams, only a handful will move on past the initial round. However, the UCF team says it is hopeful, seeing as its “solid” track record includes first and fourth place finishes at Ohio Northern and Georgia Tech, respectively.
For more information on the Regional Tournament, or about the Trial Team in general, check out www.trialteamucf.com.



Times are changing at the University of Central Florida.
For the first time we can remember, the Central Florida Future has decided not to endorse a candidate for UCF’s Student Government Association presidential election. And for the first time, KnightNews.com will be the only media source for students — who aren’t able to research the candidates and issues on their own time — to rely on to endorse a candidate it thinks would be best for the student body, after thoroughly looking at both sides.
We wish we didn’t have to endorse, either. We wish students could have all the information at their fingertips to decide exactly which candidate is best for them. We wish we didn’t have to ask tough questions, or dig up major changes to tailgating policies that affect your lives. We wish we could make funny music videos about El Corral all day long and just make you laugh — but we can’t.
We owe it to you, our visitors, and all UCF students, to endorse a candidate in this presidential race. In fact, one of the biggest reasons we have to endorse a ticket this year, is because we hope we won’t have to next time around.
KnightNews.com fully endorses Daniel Seeff and Kevin Wolkenfeld for your next SGA President and Vice President, because if they win, they promise to “totally transform” how SGA works by making it “totally transparent.” They promise to stream live video of important SGA meetings, and keep archives online so you can see what happened. They also promise to post all the financial documents online.
We think that’s exactly what SGA needs. We believe if that starts happening, students can finally have the option of doing their own research — and students can always watch what their leaders are doing and hold them accountable if they break a promise.
The Seeff/Wolkenfeld campaign announced by video that SGA met over Winter Break, when students had already left town, to decide how almost all of the $14 million student activity and service fee budget would be spent — over a catered buffet lunch, bought with student money, in an empty student union.
The small group of SGA’s top leaders and insiders running the show now — many of whom endorsed Kilbride before even hearing what the other side had to say — seems so comfortable with the status quo, so comfortable making decisions for you, that they appear to just assume to know what’s best for you without bothering to ask or include you.
Why do we feel this way? Because we put in a public records request for surveys, questionnaires, e-mails and anything else SGA’s leadership has done to determine student opinion before talking to administrators about tailgating policies changes — and SGA hasn’t been able to produce anything proving they sought student opinion.
UCF, that’s what Daniel Seeff and Kevin Wolkenfeld are promising to do for you, by sharing everything they know, when they know it, and asking your opinion. And, even if you disagree with them, at least you’ll be able to watch their every move on video, and hold them accountable if they don’t represent the student.
As far as Mike Kilbride, and the SGA insiders he touts as his endorsing team, good luck getting information out of the SGA they control.
KnightNews.com has been trying to get financial documents showing how SGA allocated the reported nearly $14 million over winter break, but when we stopped into the Activity and Service Fee office Wednesday to try and pick them up, we were told our request was sent to UCF’s team of lawyers to see if we are entitled to it — and to see how much of a cost they will charge us to get it for you.
The office told us we shouldn’t expect a decision for another week — after the elections are over.
If KnightNews.com can’t get the public information about where your money is going before this election, how can a regular student be expected to get the information needed to make an informed decision?
If they stick to their guns, and these records aren’t released soon, the election will be over before we know
the following:
– How much of that reported $14 million pie might those leaders endorsing Kilbride possibly have been allocated for their organizations while you were home for break?
– How much money is allocated to the executive branch next year, versus the student senate which has the ability spend it directly on student organizations?
– Whether anything was said on audio recordings while these winter meetings carried out that could influence how you vote.
Whether you’re Greek or Progressive, Republican or Democrat, freshman or doctoral students — you only have one candidate who promises to put this secrecy to an end.
And, if you don’t like the job they do next year, at least you’ll be in the position to know everything they do, so you can run and do a better job — without a group of insiders telling you you’re not ready, you’re not good enough, you don’t know enough, and you can’t get the job done.
If Mike Kilbride wins, we’re sure things will run just as smoothly as they do now — he is, after all, one of the few with access to the knowledge and information to keep things the way they are. But if he wins, don’t be surprised if your tailgating time gets cut by another two hours next year, and you don’t hear about it until you read about it in the Orlando Sentinel, Central Florida Future or KnightNews.com.
Daniel and Kevin have promised to transform SGA and open it up so every student will know everything that’s going on, and that total transformation of SGA is why KnightNews.com fully endorses them as your next student body president and vice president.



Update: SGA did respond by confirming it did not ask the Sentinel to retract it’s story. A reason why was not given. We will upload SGA’s entire e-mail response as soon as we can. 

THURSDAY UPDATE: SGA has so far refused to respond to our public records request we put on Wednesday in for the following:
– Any email SGA received from a student or alumnus regarding their
feedback on tailgating at UCF.
– A copy of any surveys, polls, questionnaires, or similar devices,
and their results, SGA may have used to determine student’s feelings
on these topics.
– Even if SGA doesn’t maintain a copy of the records from the meetings
like agendas, minutes, we request any electronic documents SGA may
maintain, including email summaries from Harms’ committee, which may
include agendas, minutes, plans, discussion, things of that nature
regarding game day planning meetings — specifically on the issue of
tailgate start times and the open container policy.
Prior to this request, SGA President Brian Peterson stated we should contact UCF administrator Al Harms for game day minutes, however, KnightNews.com put in the request to SGA, to see if the documents are kept in SGA’s custody as well.
KnightNews.com will update this story if and when SGA responds to our request for the above documents.
Earlier today, we e-mailed SGA’s top leaders asking how they decided students wouldn’t want to tailgate before noon. In a response from SGA President Brian Peterson, he denied SGA pushed for that, although he admitted SGA leaders “did share the opinion that some students have expressed to us that they do not mind the new tailgating times as were laid out for this past season’s games, as it allows them to sleep in later on gameday while still providing them the opportunity to secure a spot on memory mall on days where games begin at 6pm or later.”
We are still working to find out exactly how SGA came about the information that “some students” expressed how they don’t mind the new tailgating restrictions.
Tomorrow, we will put in a public records request to all SGA officials for any e-mails from students saying that they “didn’t mind” the new start times, or anything to that effect. We will also try and find out from SGA whether they polled students, took surveys, or used any other means of soliciting student input to present to this panel of administrators before the decision was made.
Late Tuesday night, we also e-mailed Orlando Sentinel Sports Reporter Iliana Limón, who wrote the original story UCF is questioning, for her side of the story. If and when we get a response from her, we will post it here.
KnightNews.com is committed to getting to the bottom of this bizarre situation. We requested the minutes and agenda of these tailgating committee meetings from SGA, but Peterson suggested SGA did not keep the records in his response. We will update you if we are able to get the records.
Click here to read SGA President Brian Peterson’s full response.
Click here to read the e-mail from UCF Spokesman Chad Binette accusing the Sentinel of reporting “misleading information.”
Students, however, won’t be allowed to start tailgating until noon for many games, and UCF told the Orlando Sentinel, SGA is the reason for that.
“The tailgating changes were made by a UCF committee that includes members of student government, the alumni association, game-day security, the Golden Knights Club and community members,” according to the story broken by the Orlando Sentinel.
Chad Binette, a UCF spokesman, said that the student government wanted to make sure students didn’t have to get up 8 a.m. for a game that kicks off at 8 p.m. in order to reserve a tailgating space on Memory Mall, the paper reported.
“We tried to be fair to everyone, giving donors a place to tailgate early and students a space to tailgate later,” he told the Sentinel.
KnightNews.com has e-mailed the top leaders in SGA: President Brian Peterson, Vice President Andrick Lewis, Chief of Operations Mike Kilbride and Speaker of the Senate Patrick Stauffer to find out more about how this decision was made.
Here’s what we asked on your behalf:
Can you please let us know who in SGA has attended these committee meetings?
How SGA decided that students wouldn’t want the option to start tailgating before noon?
We also asked that the top SGA leaders please forward us a copy of any minutes or agendas or SGA reports/e-mails discussing these game day committee meetings which recommended the changes.
KnightNews.com will update this breaking story when we hear back from SGA.
If you have further questions about this major change to tailgating rules, please comment below or e-mail us at new@knightnews.com so we can ask your leaders on your behalf.
To read the full story from the Orlando Sentinel, click below:
http://www.orlandosentinel.com/sports/college/knights/os-grid-ucf-tickets-0210-20100209,0,4082607.story



