Everyone remembers the hot, sweaty walks and nervous anticipation of UCF orientation. But what stands out in most students’ minds is the one part of orientation that no other school provides: the UCF Orientation Team.
The group is known as the O-Team for short, and according to its website, it’s “comprised of selected students whose main goal is to help facilitate both first-time-in-college as well as transfer student orientations.” They are the University’s orientation staff. Without them and their knowledge of all things UCF, our prospective students would be lost in more ways than one.
To find these answers KnightNews.com went straight to the source and spoke with several O-Team members about why, how and what they provide for the University.
KnightNews.com spoke first with Monica Ware, an energetic junior with six months of O-Team service under her belt. When asked why she joined the team, her answer was immediate.
“I’m really passionate about being here, and I really enjoy being a student. We have so many resources and programs here and I wanted to show that to new students.”
UCF plays host to more than 350 student clubs and organizations, so her point is well taken.
“First you have to submit an application, then there’s a group interview where all the team members ask you questions. Then there’s a professional interview with the directors,” she said. “They surprise you when you make the team, it’s really cool.”
According to Director Joe Richie, the O-Team has been accepting candidates this way for over ten years. All members are required to take the Peer Education and Leadership course, and O-Teamers attend various team retreats and group-strengthening exercises.
Ware explained that the activities and classes make the O-Team “a really spirited, close-knit, passionate group of kids.”
KnightNews.com also interviewed junior Alex Harrison, another O-Teamer with six months of experience. His reason for joining O-Team is something almost all incoming students can relate to.
“I went to a really small, conservative high school with a graduating class of about 38, so coming to UCF was a little scary for me,” he said. “But I had a great orientation experience, and it made me immediately want to get involved.”
KnightNews.com asked Harrison to give prospective students one word of advice about coming to orientation. Right off the bat, he said: “Be open-minded! Coming to UCF is scary, but the O-Team is really welcoming.”
Tess Lynch, a Student Orientation Coordinator who’s been with O-Team for over two years, agreed. Her first O-Team experience is similar to Harrison’s.
“I’m from out of state, so when I first came to UCF, I didn’t know anyone,” Lynch said. “O-Team made my transition really smooth, and I really felt like I was a part of the campus. Orientation was a great stepping stone for me”.
What did these student leaders say incoming freshmen from the UCF Class of 2014 should expect from orientation?
Lynch said that the key is to remain open-minded.
“Expect to embrace new ideas, and to keep an open mind,” Harrison said. “Don’t be overwhelmed, and don’t be afraid to ask questions. Most of the new students feel the same apprehensiveness you do.”
The other O-Teamers were eager to contribute their advice as well.
Ware explained that incoming students should “definitely know their class schedules, and be really open with the other students.”
“Get in touch with organizations and groups right away,” Ware added.
Harrison said the most important thing is to always have something to contribute.
“It’s not the same as high school, and you’ll have to connect with really diverse groups,” he said, adding that he senses the most important concept is to remain flexible and open-minded toward the opportunities UCF provides.
And what kind of impact does the O-Team have on incoming freshmen?
“A huge one!” Ware said. “O-Team is really motivating, and we give out a lot of good information. UCF has so many opportunities, and we’re here to share them all”.
It appears, based on her passionate answer, that UCF’s O-Team is not your average student/staff group. This energetic, motivated team provides incoming freshmen with their first look at what life will be like for the next four years at the nation’s third largest university.
KnightNews.com wants to know: Are you looking forward to orientation? If you’ve gone, how was your experience and what do you remember about it? Feel free to comment below and share your experience with other new Knights.



An Orange County, Fla. high school that sends a large number of students to UCF saw its baseball season fall short of a state championship, KnightNews.com sports partner OrlandoSportsCentral.com reports. 
The season came to an abrupt end for the Timber Creek baseball team Friday night as they dropped an 8-4 decision to Pembroke Pines Flanagan at the state semifinals in Port St. Lucie.
The Wolves were outhit 14-9 in the loss as Jonathan Dydo got behind opposing batters early on before allowing four runs in the third and six hits through three innings. Travis McPherson gave up three earned runs on eight hits in relief while striking out seven over the final four innings.
Trailing 5-0 entering the bottom of the fifth, the Wolves had mustered just two hits before piecing together what looked to be a reversal of fortunes.
Timber Creek scored three runs on five hits in the fifth when Jason Anderson and McPherson were drove in by Eugene Vazquez and Branden Castro, respectively; and pinch-runner Emmanuel Acevedo made it home on a hit to right field by Cody Sharp.
But just as quick as the Wolves got back in the game, Flanagan loaded the bases in its next at-bat to extend the lead.
McPherson somehow got out of the sixth with minimal damage as he allowed only one run while faced with loaded bases four different times in the inning. Spencer Angelis got that run back in the bottom of the sixth though with a solo home run. Then the next three batters went down in order.
That made it 6-4 entering the seventh and final inning. And yet Flanagan was hardly done.
When McPherson returned to the mound he was hit hard to centerfield, scoring two more runs in the top of the seventh, before retiring the final two batters he faced. He could only watch from there as dreams of playing in the state title game were thwarted when Castro and Austin Moore were left stranded on base during the team’s final stab at a rally.
Angelis, McPherson and Castro each finished 2-for-3 on the night. Sharp, Anderson and Moore reached base safely with one hit apiece.
While Flanagan – ranked among the nation’s Top-25 by publications such as Baseball America – stranded 10 runners in the win, the Wolves had a tough time at the plate against one of the best teams in the country.
At one point Timber Creek batters were retired seven-straight times early in the game as big plays in the field robbed them of base hits, most notably in the third, fourth and fifth innings. The Wolves stranded five runners in the loss.
Timber Creek finishes it’s best season in program history with a 24-8 mark.
Redistributed with permission of KnightNews.com’s sports partner, OrlandoSportsCentral.com. Visit OrlandoSportsCentral.com for more Knights sports news, plus all your local sports needs including: high school football, Orlando Magic and more!



