Roving DUI “Wolf Packs” coordinated by the Orange County Sheriff’s Office protected UCF students from drunk drivers over the weekend, and KnightNews.com has learned more about the operation.
KnightNews.com has learned a UCF police officer, who participated in the operation, arrested Garsuah Dekontee Reeves, 28, on charges of speeding 107 mph down University Blvd. while drunk. Records show another man was arrested for being nearly three times the legal limit.
“I can not express enough to the motoring public how dangerous drinking and driving are and how it would affect them,” OCSO Deputy Claude Leslie told KnightNews.com. “In the US last year over 14,000 people were killed by drunk and impaired drivers with additional hundred thousand injured or maimed.”
In 2008, at least 77 people died in alcohol-related crashes in Orange County. That’s the third-highest ranking in Florida. “So if you live or drive in Orange County your chances of running into a drunk/impaired driver are above average,” Leslie said.
During the weekend DUI sting operation, a total of 26 arrests were made, according to Leslie, who acted as the operations coordinator for the saturation and roving patrol consisting of 10 agencies and 60 police officers. The “Wolf Pack” approach uses roving patrols in the targeted area, instead of a single DUI checkpoint.
Of those arrested, 20 were for DUI arrests, and six other arrests were made on other charges, including possession of cannabis and driving with a suspended license.
It appears that none of the arrests were UCF students, Leslie said. Students on campus are applauding the operation.
KnightNews.com Facebook fan Mindy Degnon wrote on our Facebook wall, “Good they need to catch some drunk drivers who are stupid enough to drink and drive!!”
Elissa Hope, another Facebook fan, wrote: “I am happy that they are doing this good job!!”
UCF police hosted the sheriff’s office mobile blood alcohol testing center during the operation. Mothers Against Drunk Drivers were on hand as well.
MADD’s Kelli Davis believes the “Wolf Pack” approach works.
“They are effective,” Davis told KnightNews.com. “The strong presence of officers on the roads also helps deter driving while intoxicated.”
Leslie told KnightNews.com this won’t be the last time the UCF area should expect to see the “Wolf Pack” out, either.
“The bottom line is that law enforcement is very serious about apprehending and removing drunk/ impaired drivers from our roads and highways,” he said. “Our motto is, ‘If you drink that’s your business, if you drink and drive that’s our business and we are coming for you.'”
For the Orange County Sheriff’s Office, stopping drunk drivers hits close to home. Four OCSO deputies have been killed at the hands of drunk drivers within the last 15 years, Leslie said.
For UCF students, drunk driving should hit close to home, too. Several students have died in alcohol-related crashes over the past few years.
Leslie wanted to remind students that it’s everybody’s responsibility not to drink and drive and to help law enforcement to apprehend drunk and impaired drivers.
“After all, your life or that of someone you love is at stake,” he said.



