SEE A SLIDESHOW OF PICS HERE.

THESE VIDEOS WERE CREATED BY UCF COURTESY OF YOUR STUDENT FEES AND ARE POSTED HERE FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE STUDENT BODY, AND IN ACCORDANCE WITH FAIR USE PROVISIONS OF U.S. COPYRIGHT LAW. 












As promised, KnightNews.com has obtained the official list from UCF Fraternity and Sorority Life showing the numbers they have on file for fall rush.

KnightNews.com looked on some UCF Greek websites to try finding out the exact rules on whether a freshman who took one Summer class and got a C+ could pledge in Fall, even though his GPA is technically under a 2.5, and then get initiated if his Fall GPA is above 2.5, but we could not immediately find the clear policy regarding GPA requirements posted online. We will post more information should we find it, so check back for updates. 
Click on the Next Page link below to check out the sizes according to what UCF sent us:	 



KnightNews.com has been leading the way with coverage of Kappa Delta Shakedown. 
Last year, we were the only organization at UCF to cover KD Shakedown, and post the videos online. Check out what we did last year here. 
This year, we’re leading the way again, as we were the only organization to cover the KD Shakedown BBQ. Check out that coverage below, and stick with KnightNews.com throughout the night and tomorrow as we work to post videos of each fraternity and sorority dance for your enjoyment. We’ll post the videos as soon as we can. 
Thanks for counting on KnightNews.com: We’re Leading the Way for UCF! 
Thank you so much for all of your support at our BBQ! We had over 820 people in attendance. The chapter with the most attendees with be announced at the dance. 
School supplies are still being tallied but as of right now we have counted over 10,000! The Children’s Home Society is so grateful and excited about our progress. 
Thank you for all of your hard work already! We cannot wait until Wednesday! :)”

Everyone had a great time eating and mingling with each other at the barbecue. Check out the pictures KnightNews.com’s KD correspondent, Allison Kissane, took at the event on the next page.



KnightNews.com has learned from the Orange County Sheriff’s Office that a man in his 20s was robbed and shot Tuesday evening in the area of University Blvd. and Semoran — just about six miles east of the UCF campus.
The student, however, wasn’t from UCF but from Full Sail University. Deputies rushed to a nearby car dealership where the victim was found after they got the 911 call at about 5:15 p.m. to investigate, an OCSO spokesman said. 
“They learned that that the victim, a white male in his early 20’s, was approached by two black males driving a silver Chevrolet Monte Carlo as he walked on Driggs Avenue,” spokesman Jim Solomons said. “The passenger exited the vehicle and demanded property from the victim. When the victim attempted to flee the suspect fired one shot inflicting what has been described as a non life threatening injury. The victim has been transported to ORMC for treatment.”
Deputies said the suspects then drove east on University Blvd., in the direction of UCF, before they stopped them in the area of Forsyth and University Blvd. and found a gun they believe was used to shoot the college student. 
On Wednesday, OCSO released the suspects names. The suspected shooter was identified as Ed Tavion Jamarious Wilcox, born May 22, 1992 and the suspected driver was identified as Deontye Scott, born October, 21, 1990. Both will be charged with attempted first degree murder with a firearm and armed robbery, deputies said. 
KnightNews.com has reported in the past when law enforcement warned UCF students of the crime trend of college students being targeted on University Blvd.  Check back for updates on this developing story. 



