SGA Senate Meeting
UPDATE:The impeachment affidavit passed its first hurdle during an SGA Senate LJR Committee meeting this afternoon. KnightNews.com streamed the meeting live. The only count that didn’t move on to Senate for future consideration was the one related to attending the meeting in violation of rules, since that meeting wasn’t official. 
A swarm of local TV news cameras showed up to the small room. We’ll have a more in depth recap up soon. We would have done so earlier, but breaking news called — an apparent meth lab at a UCF area apartment complex was discovered earlier tonight. Check out the video. 
In the affidavit, the charged employee and SGA member is accused of appearing drunk in the office, driving the SGA golf cart while appearing to be intoxicated, according to the affidavit, and was also accused of saying, “We don’t do sh*t and get paid for it,” referring to paid UCF employees serving in the Student Government.
UCF has blacked out names of students, including the accused,  in the report before releasing it. UCF did not cite a reason for doing so when releasing it, however, SGA adviser Christa Coffey responded to an earlier e-mail we sent asking for an explanation for the hold up by saying, “Hopefully you appreciate the desire to ensure we are following the federal and state law, and understand that we are attempting to provide the document within a reasonable amount of time (as allowed by state law).”
In the past, KnightNews.com has received documents from UCF where names of student leaders were not redacted. Names of student leaders are also posted on the OSI web site. It’s not clear exactly what UCF’s policy is when it comes to blacking out names. KnightNews.com is investigating this matter further.
Coffey also said some staff had been out of the office and tied up interviewing candidates, which added to the delay.
Check back at 3:30 p.m. for live coverage of an SGA committee meeting where this impeachment affidavit will be discussed.
Click NEXT PAGE below to read the affidavit.



