The Sports Report with Ryan Bass, which started more than three years ago and will be celebrating its third anniversary on July 25, is UCF’s premier student talk show, geared toward students who want to hear real, down to-earth sports talk on both a local and national level.
With its official website, thesportsreportonline.com, being launched Wednesday, this is now students’ only place to listen to live (and pre-recorded) streams of Ryan Bass and his co-host, Matt Fontana, discussing, debating and speculating about sports of all types.

Since its inception –yes, we would have used this word regardless of Leo’s new blockbuster movie–the show has grown in listenership by more than 500%, at one point even setting the KnightCast studios record for highest viewership of any show, peaking at 87 listeners.
Sponsored     Advertisement (Story Continues Below)

The show is organized into different parts, with segments like “TRS Tossup,” where two potential outcomes are debated, such as which team a player may play for once becoming a free agent, or which team will win the championship of its respective sport. Also, there is “Stump the Sports Guy,” where listeners can call in and ask trivia in hopes of stumping Matt Fontana, the co-host claiming he “knows everything about sports.” There are often guest appearances, such as well-known sports columnists, coaches and athletes.
It’s a fun show to catch, with a very energetic feel to it. KnightNews.com was given an exclusive tour of the studio while the set was recording live, and the show was very fluid, constantly exploring new topics and keeping its listeners engaged.
Both Ryan and Matt have dreams of working for ESPN one day, but until then, they pride themselves on being one of the best, if not the very best, student-run sports talk show in the country. How good is it? That is for you to decide.
Check out the Sports Report with Ryan Bass every Tuesday from 4 to 6 p.m. at thesportsreportonline.com.





UCF Student Government Association Senator and Deputy Pro Tempore Jereme Pozin’s impeachment proceedings will move forward today during a key senate committee meeting, where members will form questions they’ll use during his upcoming removal hearing, according to an SGA senator.
The meeting of the Legislative Judicial and Rules Committee, or LJR, will take place at 3:30 p.m. in the SGA Senate workroom.
In an exclusive interview with KnightNews.com conducted Wednesday afternoon, Pozin said he shouldn’t be removed and disputed the accuracy of the impeachment affidavit.
“I would never go around saying we get paid for not doing sh-t,” Pozin said, referring to what SGA member Adam Brock alleged in the affidavit. “It’s fabricated. It’s completely false. ”
Other SGA officials who talk to KnightNews.com about this have not been identified, because UCF and SGA leaders have ordered them not to talk to the media.
SGA sources tell KnightNews.com they hope this discovery process will be complete by July 29. Pozin’s removal hearing, which will take place in front of the whole senate, could happen immediately following the discovery process’s conclusion.
Meanwhile, confusion is growing as to how UCF interprets Public Record Law.
Initially, KnightNews.com was told by UCF that it had to redact, or black out, students’ names from the impeachment affidavit. Since then, the SGA Senate has sent press releases with Sen. Pozin’s name included. Pozin’s name is also posted in the SGA office where agendas for today’s meeting are displayed publicly.
KnightNews.com has been in discussions with UCF’s attorneys in the General Counsel’s office to try and determine UCF’s policy on releasing public records. We have requested that the office provide a statement, “with particularity,” to explain UCF’s conclusion that the names of complainants and accused in a Student Senate impeachment affidavit are exempt from public disclosure, even though the Senate sent out a press release with his name unredacted.
UCF’s attorneys claim they have already complied with this request guaranteed in Florida Public Record Law, however, research conducted by KnightNews.com indicates they have not fully complied.
Since the disagreement over records began, several SGA leaders have leaked the unredacted document to KnightNews.com because they believe the UCF General Counsel is wrong in its decision to keep Pozin’s name redacted and shielded from public view when releasing the affidavit.
Check back for updates on these developing stories.



