A 19-year-old girl was carjacked from the Target on University Blvd. and Goldenrod Rd., just down the street from the University of Central Florida, according to Eyewitness News at 10.
The victim was forced into her own car by the suspect at the Target after she spent time shopping, possibly for Mother’s Days gifts, an Orange County Sheriff’s Deputy told the TV station.
Sponsored Advertisement (Story Continues Below) 


After being forced into the car, the man reportedly brought her to a house and raped her, deputies told the station.
But her nightmare didn’t end there. The suspect then drove her around for 2 hours to banks, including the Bank of America on East Colonial Dr., where he tried forcing her to withdraw money. Once employees realized something was wrong, he drove off, the station reported.
Deputies chased him and used a pit maneuver to take him into custody. According to the Orlando Sentinel, they later identified the suspect as Steve Cahanding, 41, of Orange County.
He was reportedly booked into the Orange County jail on multiple charges of kidnapping and sexual battery.



Faisal Shahzad, the man officials suspect tried to cause a giant fireball in New York’s Times Square, was arrested late Monday on a flight to Dubai at Kennedy Airport by FBI agents and NYPD, authorities said.
Shahzad, who is now a U.S. citizen, had recently returned from a trip to Pakistan, where he was born, according to the Associated Press.  Shahzad claimed he acted alone when he drove an SUV into Times Square over the weekend filled with explosives, but federal officials don’t seem convinced he didn’t have help.
“[We] will not rest until we have brought everyone responsible to justice,” Attorney General Eric Holder said Tuesday.
Although officials haven’t drawn a public connection between the Pakistani Taliban, which boasted responsibility for the bombing attempts in several videos, up to eight people in Pakistan have been detained for questioning, according to Fox News.
Sponsored Advertisement (Story Continues Below) 


The SUV was spotted over the weekend by an alert NYC street vendor. He saw it smoking and told police, who called out the bomb squad to take apart the crude device, which included propane tanks and fertilizer.
Shahzad’s last known home was searched in Bridgeport, CT., and he was expected to make an appearance in court on Tuesday.
Fox News Coverage:
Watch the latest news video at &amp;amp;amp;lt;a href=”http://video.foxnews.com/” mce_href=”http://video.foxnews.com/”&amp;amp;amp;gt;video.foxnews.com&amp;amp;amp;lt;/a&amp;amp;amp;gt;
CBS News Coverage:

Watch CBS News Videos Online



