UCF fraternities and sororities are competing in more than just IM Sports games and keg races at Scoop this spring — right now they are in a race to save lives. 
Florida’s Blood Centers, which has a permanent donation office on the University of Central Florida campus, is hosting the “Battle of the Greeks” blood drive. It started February 18 and ends April 16, according to a tip KnightNews.com received from one of its fraternity readers. 
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-1jarXba3Js
Florida’s Blood Center produced the video above to raise awareness about the drive. You can watch an earlier video they produced after visiting a UCF IFC meeting around the time of the SGA presidential election by clicking here.
Whichever UCF fraternity or sorority that donates the most blood will win a trophy, as well as a free food and drink party at Bubbalou’s BBQ for 150 people scheduled for Monday, April 19. 
As of last check, Alpha Delta Pi was winning have 11 donors, according to the tipster. 
The competition aspect is for Greek lettered organizations but any student or faculty member can participate and pick a sorority or fraternity to give its points to when donating, according to a Facebook group created for the competition. 
To donate, students can visit the Florida’s Blood Centers “Big Red Bus” when it’s parked outside the UCF Student Union, or else visit the UCF branch location directly behind Classroom 1, at MOD 629.
The hours are as follows for the UCF branch are:
-Mondays: 10am – 4pm
-Tuesdays and Thursdays: 10am – 6pm
-Wednesdays: 9am – 5pm
-Fridays: 9am – 12pm
-Saturdays and Sundays: CLOSED 
Blood donations help save the lives of trauma patients, premature babies, cancer patients and people needing surgery. 
All blood types are currently needed and each donation will likely be transfused into a patient in a local hospital within 48 hours. 
KnightNews.com will continue to follow the Battle of the Greeks, and update you when we have more information. 
Check back for updates. 



UCF has proven itself to be an environmentally friendly campus while still knowing how to party. There were over 20 bands rocking it out for the Battle of the bands with Less than Jake headlining at the end of the show. 
Although they had a great time performing at UCF, Less than Jake told KnightNews.com it was “kind of a bummer” that their performance had to be cut short because things went a little over and there are “strict time curfews” placed on Memory Mall. The band said it would love to come back for another UCF concert, however. 

Along with the performances there was tons of entertainment and exhibitions. The Kappa Sigma fraternity created some electricity for charity on the Bicycle Turbines Electric Generators. There were also tons of art displays and organizations to check out.
While I was there I got to talk to some of the bands that were playing on stage. Both JamesPete and The Reprieve rocked out the stage and brought some soulful fun rhythms to UCF. 
Some people to thank for this kick butt even are Campus Activity Board, SGA, Origin Influence LLC, I.D.E.A.S. and Animal Safe House. A show filled with skate ramps, art, music and all for an awesome cause made for an exciting day at the University of Central Florida!



