This Thursday marks the grand opening of the UCF community’s newest night life destination: Deko Bar and Hookah Lounge.

Located on Alafaya and University, in the same shopping center at Knight Library, Fubar and Underground Blues, this new club strives to be unique amongst college bars. For one thing, it isn’t just a dance floor and a bar; instead, it offers private VIP rooms and hookah lounges for those who prefer to relax with their group of friends away from the crowd.
The most striking feature of Deko once you walk in is, perhaps, that the DJ booth is behind the bar and raised up high, allowing the DJ to oversee the crowd. That, coupled with some of the highest quality lighting in Orlando and flat screen televisions adorning the walls, makes for a very upscale experience without the higher prices of downtown clubs. When listening to the music, you will certainly notice that they spared no expense with their sound system, as the music is very clear at high volumes.
Being that Deko occupies a building that was formerly a movie theater, they have creatively come up with some ways to use the features. Outside, for example, is the old ticket office for the theater. They have converted it into an outdoor bar, so when they have people outside on crowded nights they will be able to easily serve drinks.
Additionally, all of the side hallways of the theater have been converted into the private lounges. It allows them to spread out of the crowd on busy nights if they’d like, avoiding that “bumper-to-bumper” feeling at the club.
There’s a lot more to say about this place, but the best way to learn what it’s all about is to go on opening night, this Thursday.
Deko will only be open on Tuesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights until they get more acquainted with the area and determine a more permanent schedule.



UPDATE: As of 2:50 PM, students were let back into the building, and it appears that there was no fire threat.
___________________________
Today there was a fire alarm triggered in the Communications building at around 2:00 pm. 
This caused numerous fire trucks and rescue teams to investigate the area for any possible evidence as to why the alarm would be pulled. We were able to speak to some of the UCF staff members that were inside the building when the alarm shot off. 

They explained that there was a horrible smell of fumes in the building and it was coming from all areas. After a couple of minutes of investigation the fire department informed us that there was no suspicious activity and are unable to report at this time what this specific cause of the smoke could have came from. Some of the other UCF staff members believe that it could have been from the dust left on the coils of the air conditioning vents that were generated from turning the heater on. 
If this is the case, it is definitely an example that UCF is not used to these extreme weather conditions and as students we were not prepared to deal with these record low temperatures. As of now there is no real explanation as of why the alarm was pulled but we will let you know if there are any further updates. 



