Minutes after Florida Chief Financial Officer and gubernatorial candidate Alex Sink mistakenly referred to UCF graduates as being from USF — the Knights’ arch-rivals — a KnightNews.com reader texted the mistake to our tip line and we broke the news on our Facebook page.
Within an hour or so, the Orlando Sentinel and other local media picked up the CFO’s flub, and the Associated Press ran with it, making headlines across the state. WESH 2 News Anchor Martha Sugalski even tweeted about it, “Maybe she should havent written on her hand – its UCF Alex Sink NOT USF…” apparently in reference to Sarah Palin’s embarrassing gaffe of writing notes in ink on her hand.

Since KnightNews.com broke the news, we’ve interviewed UCF Knights who were at graduation that day and experienced the uproar firsthand.
Students told us graduation candidates started screaming, “U-C-F!” over and over like they were at a football game.
“Learn how to read Democrat,” and “Get off the stage!” were among the other insults tipsters told us they heard shouted in the middle of the commencement ceremony. The graduating tipsters asked KnightNews.com withhold their name in order to avoid controversial Google results tied to their names during job hunts.
“I don’t think anyone thought it was very funny,” one graduate told KnightNews.com, who added that students who forgave Sink the first time lost patience on the second and third flub.
Following graduation, one local television station tracked Sink down at another event and confronted her about making the mistake three different times.
“I didn’t… I don’t… I didn’t take a count of what happened,” Sink said, after stuttering through the interview with WFTV Channel 9 Eyewitness News. Sink’s mistake was the station’s lead story at 11 p.m. Friday.
Sink told the station she was reading from prepared notes and insisted she knew she was actually at UCF.
“I knew very well I was at UCF. I had a little slip of the tongue and I called myself and we laughed about it and I congratulated the class,” Sink said.
Click here to watch Sink’s interview with WFTV.
KnightNews.com continues to uncover and break big stories affecting the UCF area, including the mold infestation in February and the Mu Sigma Upsilon hazing allegations in late April. We appreciate our visitors’ help in finding these big stories. If you see news happening or have a story idea we should investigate, e-mail us at news@knightnews.com, text our tipline at 407-5-tip-ucf, or click here to send us an anonymous tip. 



UPDATE 5/12 2:00 PM: Our visitors asked us if Florida Pre-Paid will still apply towards rent at Pegasus Landing, and our research has led us to believe that the coverage is still up in the air. 
In an email interview between UCF spokesman Grant Heston and KnightNews.com there seemed to be some uncertainty with what will happen with the coverage. 
Heston said, “UCF is working with Florida Prepaid College Plan to determine how the suspension affects direct payments.”
KnightNews.com will work on getting you the answer check back for updates.
We had received a voicemail from a concerned parent about what was causing the mold and have discovered it was likely water intrusion into the walls. We are working to find the cause of the leakage will get back to you with more answers as we get them.
Just about two months after KnightNews.com’s investigative unit was first to uncover a mold infestation forced UCF student Albert Piedrahita out of his Pegasus Landing Apartment — after he was initially told to leave for “standard renovations” — the situation has come to a boiling point.
On one side is the University of Central Florida, which owns the land Pegasus Landing sits on, and announced on Friday it is suspending its affiliation ties with Pegasus Landing over the mold.
Caught in the middle are thousands of current UCF students, RA’s and future Knights who have leases at a property UCF promised was “affiliated” with the university.
What will this mean for students?
Students will not have RA’s patrolling or living at Pegasus Landing anymore, however, UCF police will still be on patrol.
The shuttle service will continue as normal, according to UCF.
KnightNews.com is investigating tips we’ve received from people close to the situation, regarding future developments that could come down as early as Monday. If you have a tip or angle we should investigate, e-mail us at news@knightnews.com, text our tipline at 407-5-tip-ucf, or click here to send us an anonymous tip.
While we investigate, complete statements from both sides are linked on the following page below, so you can decide who to believe.
READ UCF’s Statement



