Five days after the deadline for candidate declarations, UCF’s Student Government Association has released a list of candidates running for senate. 
The SGA Senate approves a budget of about $15 million in student money each year. Most people are running unopposed. 
KnightNews.com will provide in depth coverage of SGA elections over the next couple weeks, but we wanted to get you the list now that it has been released. 
Click on the next page link below to see the list of candidates. 



A discussion is taking place in the University system’s Board of Governors to decide if full time students should pay a flat rate for tuition, regardless of the credit hours they’re taking.
Under this system, all full time students would pay the same tuition. Students who take less credit hours will pay for more credit hours than they are taking.
If a full time student were to take 12 credits, they could potentially be charged as someone taking 15 credits. Students taking 18 credits would only be charged for 15.
Grant Heston, a UCF spokesman, sent this emailed statement to Knightnews.com: “As reported statewide this weekend, the Florida Board of Governors may give state universities the option to charge students a flat, or “block,” tuition rate no matter how many classes they take. At this time, UCF has no plans to adopt block tuition should the proposal be approved by the Board of Governors”.
Knightnews.com asked Heston if UCF would be under pressure to adopt it down the road in order to stay competitive with other state schools that do.
Heston responded, “We believe our decision not to adopt block tuition at this time is in the best interests of UCF.”
We also asked if UCF opposes the passage of the plan.
“UCF has no plans to adopt block tuition at this time, should the proposal be approved by the Board of Governors. We do not oppose the proposal, as it offers universities the option of using block tuition. Each institution is free to make its own decision on how best to proceed,” Heston responded.
Supporters say the plan will encourage students to graduate on time, while critics say it’s just another unfair tuition hike being forced on students who take 12 hours while working jobs part-time.
A decision may be made as early as November when the Board of Governors meets at the University of Florida. Knightnews.com will follow this story, check for updates.



Controversy is brewing around the police again– but not the UCF Police. 
The Orlando police department, who is currently leading the investigation to the UCF PD/Jennifer Vest controversy we were the first to report on, is now dealing with their own potential scandal.
Greg Daley, the son of World War II veteran Daniel J. Daley, claims that his 84-year old father is in critical condition at Florida Hospital Orlando after suffering a broken neck, following a confrontation with an Orlando police officer, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
Daniel Daley is accused of hitting, grabbing and attempting to punch Officer Travis Lamont. The officer responded by grabbing the veteran and bringing him to the ground, police spokeswoman Sgt. Barbara Jones told the Orlando Sentinel.
“The officer asked Daley not to touch him,” Jones said. “He reached out, grabbed the officer around his neck and tried to punch him.”
Jones also claimed that the elderly man said, “I’m not going anywhere until I knock out this cop.”
However, Daley’s family has denied it happened that way, and some eyewitnesses claim it was the officer that went too far.
 “I’ve never seen anything like it,” bar owner Tim Scott told the Orlando Sentinel on Sunday. “He hip-checked the guy and slammed his head into the pavement. He [Daley] is too old for that.”
Nicole Butler, a bartender at The Caboose, claimed she saw Daley put his hands on the officer’s shoulders, and the officer responded by “body-slamm[ing]” Daley to the ground.
For more information, see this article from the Orlando Sentinel.



