UCF SGA public relations specialist Kayla Torpey Thursday evening directly addressed questions KnightNews.com posed to her last week regarding whether it was legal for SGA to make a transfer of nearly $10,000 of student activity fees to the UCF Parking Services department. 
The response came after KnightNews.com published an earlier story about how Torpey had — up to that point — refused to respond to the questions KnightNews.com posed to her last week, which also pointed out how UCF had been criticized by state auditors over improperly transferring fees in the past. 
At 6 p.m. Thursday, Torpey sent KnightNews.com this emailed statement: “I need to speak with lawyers regarding that, again I will have that information available to you when I have received it.”
The statement was in response to a new series of direct and specific questions KnightNews.com posed to Torpey after an email she sent earlier Thursday afternoon did not specifically address the issue of whether it was legal for SGA to make the transfer.
“Here is the breakdown you requested in your previous e-mail,” Torpey wrote at 3:59 p.m. Thursday. “Zimride costs $9,500.00 for 1 yr, plus a $950.00 one time start up fee. This was originally a 3 year contract but was negotiated to 2 years. The cost was split 50/50 with Parking and Transportation Services. The total cost of Zimride paid by Student Government was $10,450.00 for the 2 year contract.”
Torpey concluded without specifically addressing the question posed last week regarding whether it was legal to make the transfer. “Please let me know if you have additional questions,” she wrote.
KnightNews.com responded at 5 p.m. by asking Torpey the following questions by email:
“We are still waiting to hear an answer about whether SGA is sure it is
legal to make a transfer like that of asf funds to parking services,
which we asked about last week (with enough time where it’s reasonable
to expect there to have been enough customary business hours to have
passed for at least a courtesy response that you got the request and
were working on it.)
We are also wondering:
Why doesn’t SGA pay its portion directly to the vendor after getting
an invoice for it?
Why does all money have to be tied up for 2 years in advance, instead
of billing each semester?
Is that the best use of student fees to prepay so far out? Don’t you
take a hit with the time value of money concept coming into play for
having money tied up for 2 years instead of semesterly billing or
annual billing?
Each year your lobbyist gets a new contract — there is no 2 year
deal for them. Why have a 2 year deal in this case and pay it all up
front?
Is it fair for this SGA to make promises for next year’s
administration, using student fees from seniors this year that will be
graduating and not benefiting from them next year?
Are there any concerns about student fees being used to pay for
teacher parking? How many people are signed up to use the service, and
of those how many have used the service to secure a ride within the
last 2 weeks?
Have you consulted with the auditor general in Tallahassee to ensure
compliance with state law, especially considering UCF’s poor track
record with transferring student fees in a way state auditors have
disagreed with?

KnightNews.com asked the above questions because it is KnightNews.com’s current understanding of the situation and KnightNews.com is making a good faith effort to gain a clearer understanding of the situation by getting the questions answered. If and when KnightNews.com receives answers to these questions, an update will be posted. 



UPDATE: 12 P.M. THURSDAY: Torpey sent an email to KnightNews.com this morning saying she would look into our questions about the Zimride program. She also sent links to two news outlets who reported conflicting information on Zimride’s annual cost.
Even after Kayla Torpey, SGA’s public relations specialist and spokesperson, said SGA received “media training” from UCF administrators, she has so far refused to answer a list of serious questions posed by KnightNews.com — many of which were posed well into last week.
The closest Torpey came to addressing anything about cost to KnightNews.com was in her Aug. 30 press release where one sentence pointed out that “SGA and UCF Parking and Transportation Services began offering the service for free to the entire UCF community in late June and hope to attract hundreds of new users this semester.”
Of course, according to information leaked to KnightNews.com, the service wasn’t “free” — it cost $10,000 in student fees.
KnightNews.com asked Torpey whether she was sure it was legal for SGA to transfer such a large amount of student Activity and Service fees to parking services, which is funded through “Traffic and parking fines, charges for parking decals, and Transportation Access Fees,” as outlined in Section 1009.24, Florida Statutes, regulating state university student fees.
Torpey has refused to answer the question about whether the massive transfer of student fees was legal. She hasn’t even responded to say she’d bother to look into it, despite being paid to handle media requests. Torpey’s refusal to even address the question comes after KnightNews.com has pointed out UCF has been lambasted by state officials over the past few years in state audits for shoveling millions to its athletics program, even though state law didn’t allow it.
The most recent audit summary confirms “The University had previously made $9.4 million of loans to the UCF Athletics Association, Inc., a University direct-support organization, without specific legal authority to do so. As of June 30, 2009, the Association had not returned the $9.4 million to the University, although the University has set up a repayment schedule for these loans.” (Read full audit with UCF response here).
The most recent audit also criticized UCF for transferring $2 million of public money to its private Foundation, when state law doesn’t allow it. It also complains about UCF’s practice of slamming international students with an extra fee, without statutory authority to do so. UCF responded with a legal analysis disagreeing with the auditor’s findings.
Torpey’s decision to remain silent on SGA President Michael Kilbride administration’s decision to fund Zimride without disclosing the cost to students comes as a fight is intensifying between Kilbride and SGA senators over whether Kilbride has the right to shut senators out of an electronic database which tracks his spending.
In the past, SGA had relied on what lawyers have called an over broad interpretation of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, known better as FERPA, to justify its policies of taking days to release public information. However, in Kilbride’s dispute with senators over shutting them out of easily tracking his spending, we’re told Kilbride has made it clear the decision was made to stop financial information from being leaked to the press. In fact, KnightNews.com obtained e-mail proof that Kilbride shut out the senate just hours after KnightNews.com exposed he spent $8,000 on a luxury retreat.
Students, like Brittny Knowles, are disgusted by his spending.
“I’ve heard of (Zimride),” Knowles posted on KnightNews.com’s Facebook page. “Never used it… Seems kinda creepy to me.”
After KnightNews.com told Knowles about the information we received that Zimride cost students $10,000, she didn’t hold back when we asked what she thought about it.
“Same thing I think about SGA having an elected president that is wasting my money on stupid ass ipads and $8,000 desks….. Its BULLS**T!!,” she posted, without the **. “I mean for 10 grand why not just throw in another 10 grand and hire someone to valet park my car so I dont have to look for parking for an hour lol.”
Torpey’s decision to completely ignore the questions about spending $10,000 on a program students say they don’t use also comes after she admitted to KnightNews.com she just received media training from the UCF administration.
That media training apparently included implementing a new policy of taping all interaction with SGA officials and reporters, because after KnightNews.com contacted SGA Attorney General Nick Gurney to meet to gather information related to his Know Your Rights campaign, Torpey showed up with a tape recorder.
Torpey was rolling as Gurney made a quick presentation of his program, even though the meeting was informal, and KnightNews.com didn’t bring any audio or video recording equipment of its own.
Unlike the Zimride program, which is prominently displayed on the SGA homepage, the Know Your Rights campaign is not. That’s why KnightNews.com made the effort to meet in person to gather information for the story. Another reason KnightNews.com tried gathering information is because even if a student is able to find the Know Your Rights link under the About SGA section, clicking on it brings you to a blank page, with no information obviously available.
If you want to anonymously report corruption in the SGA office, you can do so anonymously by clicking here. We will thoroughly investigate all reports.



For many students, dodge ball is a fun game they enjoy playing while socializing with their peers. For Alpha Xi Delta member Jennifer Luli, dodge ball means much more.

Luli’s 20-year-old brother is autistic. He was diagnosed with the disease when he was two years old. 
To help raise awareness for her brother’s autism, Luli competed in the second annual Dodgebrawl Competition hosted by Alpha Xi Delta Sorority and Delta Upsilon Fraternity. The Greek philanthropy event was Wednesday, Oct. 27 at UCF’s Memory Mall.
Luli told Knightnews.com that Dodgebrawl means more to her than a simple game of dodge ball.
“This event means a lot to me because Alpha Xi Delta is close to my heart and it is raising money to contribute to something that I have dealt with all my life,” she said. “Hopefully we can contribute to help finding the cure.”
Last year, Alpha Xi Delta and Delta Upsilon raised nearly $4,000. This year, they expect to donate around $7,000 to the Threshold Center for Autism and Autism Speaks. The money will be split equally between the two organizations.
Delta Upsilon member Mike Guiliano and Alpha Xi Delta member Kaley Darrigo hosted Dodgebrawl. The two were pleased with the turnout of the event and said between 600 to 700 students attended. 
Guiliano said they are still in the process of counting the donations, however, they currently have received over $5,000. The exact amount of money raised will be released when they have a final answer.
Congratulations to Kappa Alpha Theta for winning the 2010 Dodgebrawl competition. 



