With the start of Fall classes, the Campus Activities Board, an agency of Student Government Association, decided to welcome students to the new year by bringing in comedian Michael Ian Black on Monday night — free of charge to UCF students.
With a line wrapped around the Venue (old arena), one could immediately tell it was going to be a packed house, and when push came to shove — literally — not everyone was able to be admitted into general seating because capacity had been reached.
Once he had students engaged, he began to unfold some fresh material, at one point asking the audience which they thought was more likely to result in being pulled over by a cop: having one hundred dildos strapped to the roof of your car, or having one single dildo straped to the roof of your car. He even called out a couple of on-duty police officers in the crowd to ask them if there was anything illegal about dildos on the roof of a car.
Once the majority of his comedy was completed, he went on to mention a recent moment of rage he had with an audience member. He said that a few days ago in Ohio, an audience member compared Barack Obama to Adolf Hitler. In a fit of rage, Black said he angrily went off on the person, and later apologized for it on his blog. It’s not fully clear what the intent of this anectode was, since it was niether particularly funny, nor did it have a specific call to action.
Eventually he returned to making the crowd laugh, ending with a story about his recent trip to the doctor for having blood in his stool. Basically, he went to the doctor who put him through all the embarrassing acts of stool-checking, only to conclude by asking if he had eaten any red foods recently. Once Black confirmed that he had eat beat salad, the doctor said that was the cause of what he thought was blood. Black was furious this question wasn’t asked first, since eating red foods is known to cause the appearance of blood in one’s stool, since it would have avoided an anal examination altogether.
This anecdote was much funnier when Black told it as opposed to reading this recap, but hey, go watch it on YouTube or something, as some student has undoubtedly posted the video from his mediocre camera phone.
All in all, it was a great show at a great price — free. It’s great to see our student dollars put to use by having stellar performances for incoming students to really feel like a part of the UCF community.
Make sure to go out and see singer B.o.B. on Wednesday night, also sponsored by CAB in their Pegasus Palooza week. To see the entire week’s schedule, click here.



