President Obama will be handing out the Presidential Medal of Freedom to a diverse group of 15. The President Medal of Freedom is the highest civilian award in the US, and is given to people who “have made especially meritorious contributions to the security or national interests of the United States, to world peace, or to cultural or other significant public or private endeavors,” according to the White House. 
Among the more notable individuals to be awarded are President George H.W. Bush, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, poet Maya Angelou, billionaire Warren Buffet, and basketball legend Bill Russell.
President George H.W. Bush will be honored for his military service, work in government, and for his efforts helping the victims of Hurricane Katrina and the Indian Ocean tsunami of 2004. 
Chancellor Merkel will receive the award for being the first woman and first East German to be Chancellor since the nation became unified about 20 years ago.
In a statement released by President Obama, he said, “These outstanding honorees come from a broad range of backgrounds and they’ve excelled in a broad range of fields, but all of them have lived extraordinary lives that have inspired us, enriched our culture, and made our country and our world a better place,”. 
The others to receive the award include Jim Lewis, John H. Adams, Jasper Johns, Gerda Weissman Klein, Tom Little, Yo-Yo Mama, Sylvia Mendez, Stan Musial, Jean Kennedy Smith and John J. Sweeney.
The awards will be presented early next year at the White House. 



Rock the Wreath, hosted annually by the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity, was a huge hit – again.
With it’s front lawn set up like a true concert, spectators poured in to not only enjoy the music of the performers, but to support the Children’s Miracle Network with their ticket purchases.

Video by Jaime Colon
According to the official website, “Rock the Wreath is an annual charity concert that takes place at the University of Central Florida. The event is […] has been a center point of UCF philanthropy for the past six years. Rock the Wreath has grown from a small battle of the bands, to a concert hosting nationally touring acts.”
Rock the Wreath has hosted acts such as Hawthorne Heights, Mayday Parade, Between the Trees, Gym Class Heroes and We the Kings,” according to the site. Although it has traditionally been rock music, this year the fraternity decided to branch out to get more students involved, and brought out Big Sean, who is a nationally known artist. They even brought out opening act, Bezz Believe, one of Orlando’s up-and-coming rap stars and freestyle battlers.
With more than $60,000 donated to charities in Orlando since its inception, it’s clear that Rock the Wreath has a promising future, and has certainly earned a place at UCF as being one of the top philanthropies in terms of dollars raised.



PHOTOS BY KURT RIVERS
Last night, veteran comedian Charlie Murphy, brother of legendary comic Eddie Murphy, brought his stand-up routine to the UCF Venue. UCF’s Campus Activities Board (CAB) hosted the event and tickets were free to UCF students. 
Murphy is probably best known for his legendary “Charlie Murphy’s True Hollywood Stories” sketches on Chappelle’s Show. 

Yesterday’s performance was his first since his recent infamous performance at Grambling State University, in which the crowd in the middle of his performance booed Murphy. Murphy responded to response when he had his manager bring him the $22,000 check Murphy was paid with, only for Murphy to  “give it back” to the students by dropping the check on the stage and storming off.  
Murphy seemed in better spirits during his act at the UCF Venue, which was nearly filled with UCF students. He started off his show by addressing his incident at Grambling State, explaining earnestly that his angry reaction came as a result of his own disappointment with not being able to please a college crowd. 

But this time around, Murphy’s act was met with a warm reception, as he cracked the crowd up with the raunchiness he is known for. Most of his jokes were R-Rated, with topics of his humor ranging from sex to race to politics.  

Murphy’s opening act, a longtime friend of Murphy’s named Freeze Love also delivered a crowd-pleasing set. His jokes poked fun at the differences between whites, blacks, and Latinos. Love’s performance was complemented by his impressions of each race, making each punch line that much more effective. 
Thanks to Murphy and Freeze Love’s one-two punch of humor, CAB planned another successful comedy night. But if last night’s success could be pinned down to a single reason, it’s because Charlie Murphy redeemed himself as a comic, receiving a check well-earned from UCF. Thankfully, it stayed with his manager. 
SEE MORE PICTURES ON THE NEXT PAGE.



