This Thursday, November 18th at 5:30PM in the Student Union (Room 224), Students for Israel and the Jewish National Fund will be hosting “What the future holds: An insider’s look at Israeli politics” featuring Gil Hoffman, chief political correspondent for the Jerusalem Post, as the key note speaker. 
Well-connected to Israeli and Palestinian political leaders, Hoffman has interviewed Former Israeli Prime Minister’s Olmert, Sharon, Peres, Barak and current Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. 
Matthew Smith, the current President of Students for Israel is very excited about the chance for students to meet someone who has been covering politics in Israel for so long. 
“Gil Hoffman is someone who has been covering politics in Israel for years. If someone is in the position to be making big decisions in the Israeli government, Gil has interviewed them.” Smith said. 
According to the organizations facebook group, Students for Israel is UCF’s pro-Israel political group bringing students together with campus leaders, business professionals, and Florida politicians to support Israel on and off the campus.
Check KnightNews.com for continuing coverage of this event and other renowned speakers coming to UCF in the future.



“Some Mexicans use alcohol to make them emotionally and socially extroverted and are more likely to engage in binge drinking.” 
“Jews frequently use humor.”
“Younger blacks prefer the term African American, whereas older African Americans may use the terms Negro or colored.”
These are some of the lines used in “The Guide to Culturally Competent Health Care,” a textbook used to teach nursing students at UCF and elsewhere, according to a Local 6 report.
Former UCF professor Dr. Nancy Rudner Lugo claims in a lawsuit, recently filed against UCF’s Board of Trustees, that in 2008 she was fired because she complained about the book and its generalizations.
According to the federal lawsuit, UCF claims the professor was receiving poor evaluations from her students.
University officials told Knight News that all books used in the College of Nursing are approved by a curriculum committee made up of faculty members.
According to a statement, sent out by UCF, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission reviewed a complaint about this dismissal. The agency stated it was “unable to conclude that the information obtained establishes violations of the statutes.”
The university believes this lawsuit is without merit according to UCF Spokesman Grant Heston.
Knightnews.com will continue to follow this story and update it when more details come in.  
The Orlando Sentinel has posted a copy of the lawsuit here and copies of the book’s most controversial excerpts here. KnightNews.com is combing through these pages of material and will post updates tomorrow.  
Fox 35 covered this story Wednesday night:




