KNIGHTNEWS.COM WAS FIRST TO BREAK THIS STORY AT 8:20 A.M. FRIDAY
CANDLELIGHT VIGIL ON MONDAY:

BREAKING UPDATE 5:10 PM:
The sheriff’s office confirmed the woman found in a pool of blood across the street from Scoop and Mellow Mushroom on Colonial was murdered. 
WFTV Channel 9 reported at 5 p.m. they were told the murder victim is a mother of a UCF student. Officials have not yet confirmed that, however. 
A dark colored Chevy Avalanche Pick up truck with shiny rims and dark tinted windows was seen in the area during the time of the murder. 
If you have any information, call 1-800-423-TIPS.
Orange County sheriff’s deputies swarmed the University Inn on East Colonial Drive near Alafaya Trail, across the street from Scoop bar and behind Papa John’s Pizza, to investigate the death of someone on the hotel property Thursday morning, deputies on scene told KnightNews.com. (See map).
“Homicide investigators were called to the scene and confirm the death of a female victim,” OCSO sheriff’s spokesman Jeff Williamson told KnightNews.com. “Cause, manner of death, and age of victim are yet to be released.”
Deputies wouldn’t release any other information, but employees of the Days Inn who work next to the University Inn told KnightNews.com they were told the victim may be a female in her 20s — and the scene was extremely gruesome. That employee suspected her death was a murder. 
Guests staying at the hotel told KnightNews.com this afternoon the woman was found “almost naked” lying in a parking spot at the hotel in a pool of blood. The guests said it appeared the woman was attacked so brutally, and there was so much blood, even her own son at first couldn’t identity the victim as his mother. 

In the afternoon, Fire officials washed away the blood from the parking lot as families — including children — staying at the hotel gathered their things to cancel their stay early. 
(Sponsored Advertisement – Story Continues Below)


12:20 pm update:
This death investigation playing out in a public place is the second to rock the UCF campus in less than one week. On Friday, a man was found dead in his car parked on campus. The cause of that death has not been released.
KnightNews.com was first on the scene and first media outlet in Orlando to break today’s death investigation. Since we broke the story, the Orlando Sentinel, and several other media outlets began investigating. 
According to a report from WFTV Channel 9 Eyewitness News at noon, a guest at the hotel found the woman lying in a pool of blood around 6 a.m. and called 911. The hotel manager told WFTV he saw the woman lying in a pool of blood in the parking, and it was the most gruesome thing he’d ever seen. 
KnightNews.com is returning to the scene to gather more information and will update you when we get it. 




A University of Central Florida professor who is a long time “gay activist and mixed-race philosopher and poet” was wrongfully called a crack head, liar, drug user and denied medical care by four white UCF policemen, according to a letter written by the professor’s colleagues in her defense and obtained by KnightNews.com.
“We believe that as queer academics, we shall not tolerate nor remain silent in the face
of police misconduct that targets people because of non-normative race, gender, sexuality, or
ability,” Claudia Schippert and Shelley Parkan wrote in the August 22 letter to their colleagues in Orlando Queer Academics. 
“My car was unlawfully searched, my body was unlawfully searched, I was subjected to abusive language,” Vest wrote in a letter to colleagues which was obtained by KnightNews.com. 
Vest wrote that a police officer told her, “I don’t care who the hell you are!” when she told them she “was a professor and not a crackhead.” 
Vest said she was humiliated as the stop played out in front of students driving by, and alleged UCF police refused to let her take her nitrospray medication when she started having chest pains — even after informing them of her heart condition early on. 
UCF administrators are taking the allegations seriously, calling the situation “an urgent matter.”
“Upon being informed of the incident, UCF immediately began an investigation that will involve an independent third party, the Orlando Police Department’s Professional Standards Division,” UCF spokesman Grant Heston said. “Other university parties that Dr. Vest has contacted are also moving forward with their respective reviews.”
The university will use whatever resources are needed to proceed with these reviews, Heston said. 
The allegations of gender-based discrimination come as UCF students and faculty are ramping up their efforts to fight for new policies to promote a greater inclusiveness of transgender students on campus. 
The Student Senate passed a bill earlier this year to add gender identity to the SGA Code of Ethics. UCF Vice President Maribeth Ehasz vetoed the bill, along with a similar Golden Rules Committee proposal. But senators are not giving up. SGA Sen. Cecilia Rivas plans to pass a resolution calling for UCF President John Hitt to add gender identity and expression to the University’s non-discrimnation regulations. 
KnightNews.com obtained letters from Dr. Ehasz to the Student Government Association explaining she had to veto the bill changing SGA policy because it conflicted with current University policy. Ehasz did write that she requested a more thorough and comprhensive review to identify any gaps presents on campus and compare UCF policies to other insitutions’.
But Sen. Rivas feels more can be done to give students help sooner. 
“Dr. Ehasz says she vetoed the two measures regarding gender identity and expression because she needs to work within the institution, but what she doesn’t understand is that to students she is the institution,” Rivas said. “Students asked her to show leadership on this issue and they feel betrayed.”
A Student Senate committee is scheduled to meet this afternoon to discuss Rivas’ resolution. KnightNews.com will continue following these developing stories and bring you updates when we get them.
[myrelposts-related title=”Read about more UCF Police Controversies:“]



