Students were evacuated from Tower 1 today, due to a fire started on the stove of a students kitchen.

KnightNews.com confirmed through Sgt. Williamson, the UCF Police Spokesperson, the fire was put out by the students with flour. 
The fire department was called to the scene.
We’ll have more info if it becomes available.



UPDATE 11/10/10, 3:00 P.M.- President Hitt’s $185,000 merit bonus was approved by the Board of Trustees by a vote of 12-0. KnightNews.com was in attendance at the meeting, and will be providing a full recap of the issues discussed, as well as an interview with the Board of Trustees chair member as soon as possible.
On Wednesday, November 10, 2010, the UCF Board of Trustees will hold a meeting in the Live Oak Center to discuss a variety of issues, including President John Hitt’s current performance and whether he and other top administrators should have their bonuses renewed over the next three years. 
Bonuses for UCF administrators have drawn criticism in the past from UCF faculty members. The union is currently in a bitter contract dispute with the university that resulted in an impasse, and slams the bonuses on its website.
The agenda for Wednesday’s meeting also consists of issues concerning gender equality, which is laid out on page 128 of the agenda. 
Members of SGA had been fighting for to add gender identity and gender expression to the UCF Nondiscrimination Regulation for months. The issue drew more widespread attention across Orlando after KnightNews.com broke the story of professor Dr. Lisa Vest being pulled over by UCF police, which drew suggestions of police misconduct that targeted people because of non-normative race, gender and sexuality. UCF police asked Orlando police to help investigate the matter, and UCF has not yet announced its conclusion. 
Construction projects, including two additional houses on Greek Park, are also on the agenda, starting on page 84. 
Earlier this month, KnightNews.com reported how the Board of Governors approved a regulation allowing university Boards of Trustees to ask the BOG to implement Block Tuition. UCF said they had no plans to do so, and KnightNews.com did immediately notice anything about Block Tuition on the 154 page agenda. 
Stay tuned for more information regarding the Board of Trustees meeting on Wednesday.
See who is due a bonus payment and for how much this year on the next page: 



