KnightNews.com is learning more about those arrested during the “Wolf Pack” DUI patrols we’ve been reporting on all weekend.
According to the Orange County Sheriff’s Office, early indications were that absolutely zero UCF students were arrested during the operation.
OCSO confirmed to us a total of 20 DUI arrests were made as a result of the operation. In addition, six other arrests were made, including: three for driving with a suspended license, one for possession of marijuana, one for possession of alcohol by someone under 21 and one warrant arrest.
We discovered that one DUI suspect, Garsuah Dekontee Reeves, 28, was accused by police of driving 107 miles per hour down University Blvd. before he was pulled over for DUI.
Read our Saturday ealry morning update posted as the DUI operation was happening
Another DUI suspect, 21-year-old Kenneth Dabrowski, blew a .236 and .239 — about three times the legal limit — when his blood alcohol level was tested at the mobile DUI testing center set up at UCFPD, according to his arrest report.
UCF police Ofc. Peter Osterrieder was the one to pull Dabrowski over, and wrote in his report that the suspect almost hit another vehicle while driving down University Blvd.
We’ve already posted a few mug shots below, showing just a few faces of those arrested on DUI charges during the stepped up patrols this weekend. We will upload more in the next few minutes, and also work to provide more names and details which police said led to the charges of those arrested.
MUG SHOT SLIDE SHOW:
The man on the left, Andrew Conklin, is only 18. His blood alcohol level was at least a .200, according to jail records.The man on the right, Jason Crook, 22, was driving his Lexus erratically on Alafaya Trail near Science Drive, according to his arrest report. He refused the blood alcohol test at UCF PD.
See more mug shots by clicking Next Page here or below:



Have you been “Bro Iced” yet?
If you haven’t, you’ve probably at least heard of it happening to others at UCF on Facebook and are wondering what in the heck it means — and whether it could happen to you.
Well, KnightNews.com did some digging, and found out that if you’re a “Bro” at UCF, you’re at risk of being Iced. The practice is becoming popular among UCF fraternities, and we’ve already seen pictures posted as proof.
So what is being Iced? And why are bros icing bros?
According to BrosIcingBros.com, you get Iced when one of your bros presents a Smirnoff Ice to another bro, and the receiving bro is then required to instantly get on one knee and chug the girly beverage — which many men find tastes disgusting — right there on the spot, regardless of how inappropriate of a place it might be.
Basically, it’s become a new drinking game that’s getting bigger every day.
“The best part of the game is that you can ice anyone in on the game at any moment in any place,” BrosIcingBros.com states. “Bro’s have been iced in restaurants, walking down the street, and at complete inappropriate times, which makes the game all the better.”
BrosIcingBros.com has published its official, “simple rules” of the game:
1.) You cannot refuse an ice. If you refuse to drink the ice you are instantly excommunicated and shunned, and thus can never ice another bro or be iced.
Sponsored Advertisement (Story Continues Below)
2.) If you are iced by a fellow bro you can ice block. When presented w/ an ice, you pull out an ice of your own and reverse the ice on your bro. The ultimate ice insult.
In other words, if number two happens, it appears the attacker has to chug two Ices.
As many might have guessed, it appears some frat bros created the game. It appears to have originated at the College of Charleston, in South Carolina. From there, it seems to have spread to colleges in Columbia, South Carolina and through other colleges in the South.
Even police are getting in on it at the College of Charleston. Check out this YouTube video where one Bro got the surprise of his life:
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8qqRoZQw4HA
Why is this Icing trend spreading so much?
According to a CNN report, a typical “Bro” is known as an “alpha consumer” who others mimic.
“There are certain individuals that define social structures and drive the decisions other consumers make,” Dr. Heather Honea, a marketing professor at San Diego State University, told CNN. “Infiltrating the fraternity or sorority market could be ideal.”
The Ice game has spread beyond just college frat boys, too.
There are reports of Icings by financial banking professionals at Goldman Sachs up on Wall Street in New York, as well as Raymond James Financial Services near Tampa.
As for Smirnoff Ice, they’ve denied starting this trend. A company spokesperson was quoted as saying, “Icing is consumer generated. And it’s not generated by Diageo. It’s not a marketing campaign.” The company also discourages “underage Icing.”
If you’ve been Iced by your bros, send us your pictures! We could post them here in the story. Just e-mail them to us at news@knightnews.com.  Also, send us your stories and comments, we’ll be sure to update this story with more information about Knights Icing Knights.



