Sen. Fernando Gonzales-Portillo, who chairs the powerful Conference Registration & Travel Committee, has been working to regain full access after he discovered Kilbride shut him out of the activity and service fee financial database system, called “Knightmare,” in late September. 
“At first I thought it was a computer error and sought to be granted access to it again,” Gonzales-Portillo told KnightNews.com. But an investigation by KnightNews.com confirms it was no error — Kilbride excluded him and others on purpose the same day KnightNews.com posted an investigative report exposing how Kilbride spent $8,000 of student money on a luxury retreat.
Kilbride Orders KnightNews Out of SGA After Asking About SGA's Nearly $8,000 Desk
The August 2nd e-mail sent by Kilbride to Joseph Sciarrino, the director of the activity & service fee business office, which was obtained by KnightNews.com, shows Kilbride initially shut out everybody from direct access to the Knightmare ASF database except the following people: himself, the SGA Vice President, Speaker of the Senate, Chief Justice, Comptroller, Deputy Comptroller, ORC Chairman and all OSI Advisors. 
In the email, Kilbride wrote, “All others can work with the above individuals and/or accountants for reports and information. As always, anyone is free to PRR (public records request) the information, and we will be happy to provide it to them.”
The new policy, apparently requiring senators to file a public records request, would cause them to wait a lot longer to get information showing how student money is spent. That’s because SGA’s public records request form states it can only be submitted “to the SGA Senate Secretary on business days between 8am and 5pm,” and doesn’t have to even be looked at for 72 business hours before fulfilling the request within the reasonable time frame prescribed by law. In the past, senators, like Chair Gonzales-Portillo, had instant electronic access to the information. 
Kilbride’s public relations staff has so far refused to comment on this issue, more than 24 hours after KnightNews.com sent an e-mail asking for one. However, the e-mail records we obtained show Kilbride did end up giving a few more people at least some access after his initial email, including Senate Protempore Josh Miller. 
But not to Chair Gonzales-Portillo, who’s developed a reputation for holding elected leaders accountable. He said after he first noticed he was shut out of the database, he was temporarily given full access after asking about the situation — but it didn’t last long. Chair Fernando Gonzales-Portillo Developed a Reputation for Holding Officials Accountable After Impeaching a Senator Earlier This Year
“At first I was granted access but then later in the day I received information later that day that I was only going to be granted access to the senate funds portion of ASF,” Gonzales-Portillo said, pointing out the lack of access to the Executive Branch spending. 
“I then learned it was a decision of the Executive branch, specifically the President, to abridge access to Knightmare,” Gonzales-Portillo said. “I do not agree with the restrictions and believe it is an overstep of power from one branch into another branch.”
Gonzales-Portillo is serious about what he believes is his statutorily prescribed right as a senator able to keep an eye on how A&SF money is spent, including Kilbride’s Executive Branch. 
“I have sent the Attorney General a request for an opinion on whether the Executive branch has the constitutional and statutory power to limit access to knightmare,” Gonzales-Portillo said. 
Attorney General Nick Gurney told KnightNews.com he is working diligently on the issue. 
“I am hopeful for having it released this week,” he said. 
KnightNews.com is continuing to follow this major story, and will provide updates as soon as we can. 
See the e-mail Kilbride sent to shut out access to the database on the next page.




TMZ.com is reporting actor Charlie Sheen was hospitalized after suffering from some sort of medical emergency while the actor was in New York City.
Reports into TMZ indicate a 911 call was placed because Sheen was possibly intoxicated around 2:07 a.m and the actor was then taken to New York Hospital at 2:30 AM.  Sheen went voluntarily, but was “intoxicated, irrational” and “emotionally disturbed,” the website reported, citing police sources.
Sheen was spending time in New York visiting Denise, and their two kids.
The New York post reported Sheen was drunk and naked when the episode broke out, and that chairs had been thrown around the room and a chandelier was damaged after Sheen may have been spotted going back to this hotel room with an unidentified woman and flew into a rage after discovering his wallet was missing.
According to wikipedia, Sheen’s real name is Carlos Irwin Estévez, and he was born September 3, 1965.
“His character roles in films have included Chris Taylor in the 1986 Vietnam War drama Platoon, Jake Kesey in the 1986 film The Wraith, and Bud Fox in 1987 film Wall Street. His career also included more comedic films, such as Major League, the Hot Shots! films, and Scary Movie 3 and 4. On television, Sheen is known for his roles on twositcoms: as Charlie Crawford on Spin City, and as Charlie Harper on Two and a Half Men,” wikipedia reports.



