Knightnews.com obtained this press release from state officials regarding arrests from this weekends game: 
ORLANDO— The Department of Business and Professional Regulation’s Division of Alcoholic Beverages and Tobacco agents arrested 19 tailgaters for the underage possession of alcoholic beverages during pre-game festivities at the University of Central Florida versus North Carolina State University football game.
Underage drinking prevention is one of the division’s top priorities.  In its third year, The Charmer Sunbelt Group (CSG) together with Florida’s Department of Business and Professional Regulation, Brown-Forman Corporation, The Retail Beverage Council of the Florida Retail Federation, Premier Beverage, CBS Radio, WAXY “The Ticket” and TURF spokesman Boomer Esiason collaborated on an integrated program designed to promote safe and responsible tailgating at Florida sporting events.
Establishments that sell alcohol to individuals under the age of 21 three times within a 12-week period face up to a $1,000 fine and a seven-day license suspension.  Individuals who sell or give alcohol to underage youth face a maximum penalty of 60 days in jail and a $500 fine.  A new law stiffens criminal penalties for anyone caught two or more times giving alcohol to underage drinkers. Anyone who facilitates underage drinking will be subject to a first-degree misdemeanor on the second offense.
The mission of ABT is to keep alcohol and tobacco out of the hands of underage persons, to ensure that licensed establishments are in compliance with the laws and rules regulating the industry in Florida, and to collect taxes and fees related to these industries.
The department’s mission is to license efficiently and regulate fairly.  The department licenses more than one million businesses and professionals ranging from real estate agents, veterinarians, and accountants to contractors and cosmetologists.  For more information, please visit www.MyFloridaLicense.com.



Get your tissues ready: This Wednesday at 8:30, Toy Story 3, the stunning conclusion to Pixar’s most revered trilogy, will be screening at UCF’s Pegasus Ballroom, courtesy of UCF’s own Campus Activities Board (CAB).
CAB was able to buy the rights to show Toy Story 3 before the film’s November 2nd DVD and Blu-Ray release date.
Admittance to see the movie is free, and guests do not need a student ID to get in. That’s right, no money or student ID is required for admission. Just bring your friends, popcorn and possibly some Kleenex, too.
Check out the Facebook page for the event here:
http://www.facebook.com/event.php?eid=104677329593691&ref=mf



Think the job market is bad or just not ready to leave college quite yet? Then you might want to stop by the UCF student Union today between 4:30 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. for the annual UCF Grad Fair. 
“The open house-style event is free and open to anyone interested in UCF doctoral, master’s, specialist or certificate programs,” according to UCF. “With nearly 200 graduate degree and certificate programs, and several admission options, transition to graduate school is easy—and affordable.”
Students seeking more information can e-mail graduate@mail.ucf.edu. The event will take place in the Pegasus Ballroom.
List of UCF Grad courses available on the next page.



