KnightNews.com has obtained the e-mail and pornographic multimedia message that sparked a sexting scandal controversy stretching from the University of Central Florida in Orlando to Jacksonville’s Mandarin High School, where it apparently cost head football coach Jason Robinson, 32, his job.
The UCF athlete’s mother wrote the e-mail to several Duval County Public Schools officials on May 21, 2010, and informed them how her daughter was 19 when Robinson sent her the messages.
“Their rrelationship (sic) goes back to 2008 before she graduated from Mandarin High School, before this man was even divorced from his second wife, whom you may rememberer(sic), as she was a teacher and coach at mandarin as well,” the student’s mother wrote.
The UCF student’s mother apologized to the administrators for “the graphic nature of the video” and asked them to “try to imagine my shock and dismay when I first became aware of it.”
Sponsored  Advertisement


Aside from the video clip showing a man pleasuring himself, the UCF student’s mother forwarded two other pictures to school officials. KnightNews.com has obtained those pictures as well, and according to the UCF student’s mother, they show Robinson posing in his  underwear in front of a mirror. The UCF student’s mother also blasted his relationship with her daughter.
“He is engaged in a manipulative and exploitative relationship with a young woman who until not long ago, was a student of his,” she wrote. “He has gone to great lengths to keep this relationship secret, coercing my daughter into silence with the threat that he might lose his job.”
The e-mail spawned both an administrative investigation by Duval County Public Schools administrators, as well as a criminal investigation by Duval County Schools Police, district spokeswoman Jill Johnson confirmed to KnightNews.com via e-mail.
Johnson confirmed the active criminal investigation was under way after KnightNews.com asked for a written explanation about why the school board was refusing to release the original e-mail.
In an e-mailed statement released to KnightNews.com today, Johnson wrote, “The Duval County Public Schools investigation into Jason Robinson has concluded. At this time, it was concluded that there are no indicators of criminal activity.”
Johnson confirmed Robinson’s last day as an employee with Duval County Public Schools will be Tuesday, June 15.
“He has been in a non-teaching position while the investigation was ongoing,” Johnson said. “He was not reappointed for next year.”
Because Robinson was a newer teacher without tenure, he can be let go from his contract without reason, according to Jacksonville media reports.
Robinson has refused to comment to any media, aside from a few brief comments made during the initial days of the investigation. At that time, he told Jacksonville media he planned to sue the school district for firing him, because he sent the images to a consenting adult.
We are working to redact the UCF student’s name from the full text of the e-mail and will publish it here once we do.
KnightNews.com will continue following this story. Check back for updates, and for coverage of any court action, if Robinson follows through with his threat.



The Texas Longhorns have declined an invitation to join the Pac-10, ESPN is reporting.
“We were informed by University of Texas President Bill Powers that Texas will stay with the Big 12,” an official with the Pac-10 told ESPN.
Early this morning, it appeared Texas would have gone to the Pac-10.  However, ESPN analysts speculate that  Texas decided to stay put, because doing so will allow them to establish a Longhorns TV Network  and still generate an acceptable amount of revenue.
Check back for updates on this breaking story.



Big name basketball schools like Tennessee, Georgia Tech and Kansas State, had fought over basketball player Ray Shipman when he was graduating Monsignor Edward Pace High School in South Florida. Now, he’s leaving the University of Florida basketball team to play football at UCF.
The sophomore has already committed to UCF and told UCFsports.com, “I’m going to be playing safety for the football team. It’s something I’ve been thinking about ever since I stopped playing football after my freshman year of high school.”
Althought unexpected, athletes have switched from sports the excelled at to pursue a sport had a stronger passion for at the time. Michael Jordan left basketball in the early 90’s to play baseball for a minor league team.
Ray Shipman was reportedly a four-star prospect coming out of Pace in South Florida and was named Mr. Florida Basketball in 2008. According to a Gatorzone.com article back when Shipman was a recruit, he had a 4.7 weighted GPA in high school.
At UF, Shipman averaged 2.7 points a game and had 26 steals in 32 games, according to the Gators Men’s basketball website.
Shipman will have to sit out one year according to NCAA transfer rules before playing his first football game as a UCF Knight.



Tar balls are already washing ashore Pensacola and Panama City beach, popular Spring Break getaways for UCF and other college students, and next year’s spring break on Florida’s panhandle is already threatening to be ruined by oil. But what will happen when we throw a tropical storm or hurricane in the mix?
Well hurricane season has already started and a storm is brewing in the Atlantic.
It’s only the beginning of the season, but the storm in the Atlantic already had a 60 percent chance of becoming Tropical Storm Alex, according to the National Hurricane Center’s official 8 a.m. prediction.  
It appears hurricane season is already threatening to complicate an already difficult process of clean up. The oil spill intersects with other previous hurricane paths, including the infamous Hurricane Katrina that ravaged the Louisiana coastline. 
If there were to be a storm that hit the spill, it would most likely cause the polluted oil water to wash further up the coasts and cause devastation on land.
“The high winds may distribute oil over a wider area, but it is difficult to model exactly where the oil may be transported,” a fact sheet released by NOAA states.  It also points out that “movement of oil would depend greatly on the track of the hurricane.” 
The NOAA fact sheet itself lacks details and seems to say even the experts are uncertain what could happen. NOAA seems fairly certain, however, that oil won’t rain down from a hurricane, because the area the storm draws strength and moisture from is much larger than the area of the spill. 
It seems to be that there is a lot of questions to what the damage would end up being if a storm went through the oil spill. One thing is for certain: If a tropical storm heads that way, many fear the disaster in the Gulf could become an even larger catastrophe for beaches along Florida, Alabama, and Louisiana’s coastlines. 
President Barack Obama is touring Pensacola Beach this afternoon, and other areas affected. KnightNews.com will continue following the BP oil disaster and update you as new information becomes available. 



