The Knights Helping Knights Pantry has opened in a new location on campus and is ready to aid a demographic in need: UCF college students.
Knights Helping Knights, the organization that spearheaded the pantry project, was started by a group of students in UCF’s LEAD Scholars Program. It is supported by UCF Health Services, the Office of Student Involvement, and several other departments.  KHK is specifically geared towards helping students in need at UCF.
According to the KHK website, one in three college students cite financial pressure as a source of daily stress.  The food pantry, which opened its new location in August, will help reduce the strain on students’ wallet by helping provide the bare necessities.
Kristina Randial, a pantry volunteer, explained that many students are being financially affected by the state of the American economy. “It can happen to anyone- hardship is impartial.” said Randial.
The original pantry was located on the second floor of the union, in an inconspicuous place that made it more difficult for students to find.  “Now that it’s in a better location, there’s more of a focus on it. We have more food, more space, and longer hours.” said Parks of the new pantry.
According to Naomi Parks, the KHK pantry coordinator, about 20 to 30 students come into the pantry each day, some of them repeat customers.  Approximately 750 people have visited the pantry since it’s opening this semester.
The pantry’s set-up is simple. There is a shelved area with canned goods and various other food items, such as Ramen noodles.  Nearby is a place where students can pick up toiletry items like soap, shampoo, and toilet paper. There is also a section for clothing and shoes.
The pantry is run on an honor system, and UCF students are welcome to enter the pantry and take what they need.  All that is asked of those using the pantry’s services is to take a quick survey before leaving.
Handouts featuring easy recipes are offered at the front desk, such as those for a “peanut butter breakfast wrap” and “Ramen made healthier”.  These recipes can be made with items from the pantry paired with items from the grocery store.
Nutritionists from the UCF Wellness Center write the recipes and periodically hold cooking demonstrations at the pantry.
Various other handouts are offered on the resource wall in the pantry, from organizations such as the Wellness Center, Victim Services, and Career Services.
For those that would like to help the pantry make a difference, getting involved is easy.  KHK is currently looking for spring volunteers, who can apply via the organization’s website or through VolunteerUCF.
To donate to the pantry, drop-off items at the UCF Counseling Center, the Student Union Information Desk, or the pantry itself.
Those who donate five or more non-perishable items are given a free Knights Helping Knights Pantry t-shirt.
The pantry is also in need of other items, such as Ziploc bags and toothbrushes. Complete lists of items that are needed, as well as not needed, are available on the KHKwebsite.
The pantry is located in Ferrell Commons, across from Marketplace.  Hours are Monday through Friday, 1 p.m. to 6 p.m.



UPDATE: We went to SGA to investigate and found no free beer being served. We interviewed several students, however, who showed up in search of it, believing it would be there. It appears the senator was joking around, though.
“Sorry to diappoint you all, but Senator Constantine was kidding,” SGA Speaker of the Senate Drew Pope posted on Facebook. 
KnightNews.com has learned Sen. Constantine, a UCF alumnus, supports his alma mater by taking in several student interns during each legislative session.
The event just ended around 1:30 p.m., but the fun may be far from over — state Sen. Lee Constantine just announced UCF’s SGA is serving free beer inside the Student Union.
The lure of free beer for students in hopes of packing the football stadium comes after UCF officials have taken steps to slash tailgating hours and even successfully demanded Budweiser stop selling black and gold beer cans in the UCF area.
Constantine is no stranger to alcohol problems. He has been arrested on a DUI charge in the past, according to an article posted on Orlando attorney Mark Nejame’s website.
This story is breaking right now. KnightNews.com has a crew on the way to Student Body President Mike Kilbride’s SGA office to catch up with the students who raced out of the pond and over to S investigate whether free beer is truly being given away.
Check back for updates.



