Joran Van der Sloot, the Dutchman accused of killing Stephany Flores in Peru because she was researching his past, will now reveal the location of Natalee Holloway’s remains, NBC news is reporting, citing police sources. 
Van der Sloot, who was reportedly accepted to UCF but never attended, according to Local 6 News, is the only remaining suspect in Holloway’s disappearance in Aruba. Flores died exactly five years to the day after Holloway went missing. 
Media reports out of Lima Peru indicate Van der Sloot has confessed to killing Flores.
“We’ve practically closed the case,” police told the Associated Press. Van der Sloot “confessed with a wealth of details that have been corroborated through criminal investigative rigor,” police chief Gen. Cesar Guardia, of Peru, told the AP.



Already a UCF graduate, and currently working on her Master’s degree, Shanna Marie McLaughlin has learned she’ll be Playboy Magazine’s Miss July Playmate of the Month, according to reports.
The magazine is expected out by June 18.
McLaughlin won the popular Playboy TV reality series “Playboy Shootout,” and hopes her new stardom will open big doors to a profitable career, she told WPTV NewsChannel 5 in West Palm Beach.
“I think it’s going to be a huge platform to work with Playboy, and all the working opportunities that are going to be available to me,” McLaughlin told the station.
“And then, hopefully, it will lead to different movie roles or hosting positions and stuff like that.”
Sponsored  Advertisement





While some people may be sick of hearing about Bros Icing Bros, the trend of chugging Smirnoff Ice continues to gain national attention.
Just this morning, the host of national morning news show The Daily Buzz found out the hard way that an Ice Block can cost you big.

The Daily Buzz contacted KnightNews.com to appear on the show, after reading this story published in the New York Times, which cited KnightNews.com’s coverage of the drinking game’s popularity at the University of Central Florida in Orlando.
After we explained how the game worked, host Andy Campbell tried Icing one of his producers. But, his producer was prepared: he pulled out a Smirnoff Ice from his back pocket, and used the Ice Block to force Andy to chug two Ices right there on the studio floor.



