There’s good news and bad news for Sigma Chi today. After months being sidelined from UCF Greek Sports, the fraternity will be competing again — but not at the level it used to. 
And in a last-ditch effort to move up from the bottom fraternity sports league to the top after coming off a sports suspension, Sigma Chi created a Facebook page to lobby for a vote from other UCF fraternities to allow them to compete in the top fraternity Gold League division.
But their campaign failed during a 12:15 Greek Points meeting today, when Rec and Wellness officials declared a vote from other fraternities to let them back on couldn’t override the current rules, multiple sources at the meeting told KnightNews.com. No vote was ever taken. 
The Facebook page, created by Matt Roulan, was created “to petition support from the greek community to bring Sigma Chi back to the GOLD league for greek league.”
“After being reprimanded for things in the past we currently reside in the white league with little chance of being in the top league for a few years. Were not asking to be let in for the greek cup, just the ability to play in the gold greek league. 
UCF fraternity sports leagues are divided into Gold League for the top, Black League for the middle and White League for those with the worst records. Because Sigma Chi wasn’t allowed to participate in sports, the rules require their record of zero points places them in White League. 
The Sigma Chi Facebook page argued an exception should be made. 
“After being reprimanded for things in the past we currently reside in the white league with little chance of being in the top league for a few years,” the page read. “Were not asking to be let in for the greek cup, just the ability to play in the gold greek league.”
Roulan wrote that Sigma Chi wants to play against the top fraternities in Gold League, in order to “keep competition alive.”
Staff from the Rec and Wellness Center confirmed to KnightNews.com that for the upcoming Basketball and Flag Football leagues, Sigma Chi will participate in the White division. 
“Since they did not play in previous seasons, the established guidelines are followed for league placement which puts them in that division of play,” said Gary Cahen of the RWC. There is no opportunity for Sigma Chi to change the rules and move up to Gold for this calendar year, but they could try and lobby other Greeks to change the rules for next year’s sports. 



Dayglow is coming to the UCF Arena this Friday, September 3rd. The party starts at 8 pm, and will run until about 2 am. Check out the trailer below and visit this Facebook page for more details.

[HD] DAYGLOW 2010 FALL TRAILER from Committee Network on Vimeo.
VIP tickets, which come with a free Dayglow backpack and shirt, a CD featuring House and Electronic Dayglow music, and bottle of paint are $50, and regular tickets come to $25.
Two UCF students will be featured as DJs at the party- DJ Henry Fong and DJ Massi, of KnightLyfe. 
This will be the first ever 3D Dayglow in Orlando, meaning everybody will get 3D glasses, and there will be 3D art and models.



CNN is reporting that another oil rig has exploded in the Gulf of Mexico. 
Thirteen people were thrown overboard, however the coast guard has announced they have all been accounted for.
We will be reporting more information as we get it.



Millions of eyes across the eastern seaboard are closely watching Hurricane Earl, the category three storm churning in the Atlantic and headed toward land.
The storm’s projected path has it skirting the coast near North Carolina and Virginia by Friday morning, then traveling along the east coast north toward New York and Boston. It’s too early to tell exactly how close the storm will get, or whether landfall will even occur.
Florida isn’t expected to face a direct hit, however, big waves are expected along Daytona Beach and other Florida coastal communities, giving surfers a good time but causing headaches for business owners and local governments on edge over erosion.
LATEST PATH FOR EARL, CLICK TO ENLARGE:




