IT’S OFFICIAL: Read the release UCF just sent out confirming he’s coming. 
NBA legend Michael Jordan will soon have two reasons to come cheer on the UCF Knights basketball team.
That’s according to a report published on FoxSports.com, stating Jeffrey Jordan, 21, will team up with his younger brother, Marcus Jordan, to play for the Knights under its new head coach, Donnie Jones, the former Marshall coach and Florida Gators assistant who UCF hired to replace Kirk Speraw after firing him.
Jeffrey Jordan, who is 6-foot-3, used to play for Illinois, but dropped the team last June. He ended up rejoining the Illinois team before the season started, however, and averaged 1.6 points and 1.3 rebounds in 13.8 minutes per game during the past season, according to FoxNews.com.
Although Jeffrey Jordan is expected to start at UCF this fall, he won’t be playing any basketball for the Knights just yet.
Transfer rules require Jeffrey Jordan to sit out this upcoming season, and then be eligible to play in 2011.
In case you were wondering, Marcus Jordan is also 6-foot-3.
Now that there are two of Michael Jordan’s sons attending UCF, it’s not yet clear which of the brothers will be invited to judge the Zeta Lip sync competition this fall — or if both will team up for the first time at UCF to judge it together.
Here’s our exclusive interview with Marcus Jordan we shot at last year’s event:
By the way, UCF has not yet confirmed Jeffrey Jordan will be joining the Knights. But the Orlando Sentinel has confirmed that Jeffrey Jordan has already visited UCF and was indeed considering the move. Jeff Jordan is on vacation in the Bahamas, the paper reported, and hasn’t officially announced his transfer plans publicly.
KnightNews.com will continue working  sources to try and get official confirmation.



Dennis Hopper, a Hollywood pioneer who played Billy in “Easy Rider” and Frank Booth in “Blue Velvet,” died of prostate cancer Saturday in California, just one day after celebrity Gary Coleman was pronounced dead. Hopper was 74.
Hopper performed and directed for nearly 60 years. He was known for his work spanning wide genres, including teenagers finding themselves, Westerns and action-packed blockbusters.
Hopper reportedly was surrounded by his family in his Los Angeles home when he died around 9 a.m. Saturday.
His last public appearance was in late March when he won a star on Hollywood’s Walk of Fame. Hopper’s life wasn’t always easy, though — he battled a drug and alcohol addiction in the late 70’s. 
Hopper was suffering from flu-like symptoms in addition to the prostate cancer. The disease reportedly had spread to other organs as well.


Click to our Next Page for more more Dennis Hopper video clips, including a moving one from when he won Best Performance. 



