UPDATE 10:20 a.m. Wed. — We just got word from a UCF spokesman that UCF may release the impeachment affidavit to KnightNews.com at some point later today. Once we have it, we will release more details. We are also working our sources to gather more information, and we hope to have more exclusive details to break soon. Check back to this page for updates.  
If impeachment proceedings were hurricanes, then the outer storm bands would have moved over the UCF Student Union Monday, casting a dark cloud of controversy over the Student Government Association everyone seemed to believe can only grow worse before getting better.
The impending storm seems so explosive, more than a half-dozen SGA members KnightNews.com contacted today declined to talk on the record to avoid being thrown in the middle of it. Many, however, painted a very divisive picture concerning the SGA Senate’s future over the next few weeks leading into this Fall’s election — a season in SGA politics that can be tumultuous even when an impeachment affidavit isn’t on the table.
And such a document was submitted to SGA Friday, multiple SGA sources confirmed to KnightNews.com. At this point, KnightNews.com can’t share a copy of the document with its readers, because UCF has so far declined to release a copy of the document we requested around 1:30 p.m. Monday.
Although KnightNews.com has learned several details of the impeachment charges through multiple SGA sources, we have chosen not to report the name of the veteran senator under fire, because sources say details of the allegations include an actual crime, and at this point KnightNews.com is declining to identify an individual connected with allegations of criminal activity without the official document to ensure accuracy.
According to UCF Police Spokesman Sgt. Troy Williamson, “UCF police are not looking into allegations made by SGA officials at this time and have  not arrested or charged anyone regarding a recent matter in SGA.”
KnightNews.com will continue investigating this developing SGA story and post updates as we get new information. A meeting of the LJR committee is scheduled for Wednesday at 3:30 p.m., where our sources say in depth details of the impeachment affidavit will be discussed. KnightNews.com will provide live updates from the meeting, so check back Wednesday for complete coverage.
Have a tip for KnightNews.com? You can click here to send it to us anonymously.



Knightnews.com has gotten new information regarding UCF Kappa Sigma’s appeal from Mitchell Wilson the Executive Director of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity.
Below is the statement from Wilson regarding the appeal process for the UCF chapter of Kappa Sigma.
“The men from UCF made a very good presentation to our Board this weekend. A meeting will be held in the near future with the undergraduates who made the appeal this past weekend and with the other students committed to the values of Kappa Sigma. The men will be reviewed by two of our top volunteer alumni.
Those representatives will then make a report to our Board. If all is favorable, a colony will be established immediately and they will begin operations this summer. They will be officially a part of our Fraternity at that point.
I expect the meeting will be favorable. I was very, very impressed with their focus and determination. We will inform the school of the status of the appeal immediately.”



