Update 12:45 A.M. : Check out the video below for the newly crowned Liberty Bowl Champions returning home, and an interview with Coach O’Leary:

Bruce Miller has had a lot of big plays in his four-year career with the Knights.
None was bigger than his sack in the final seconds of the 2010 Autozone Liberty Bowl, when he sacked Aaron Murray to force Georgia to a 4th-and-8. Murray aired the ball out with two seconds remaining and Kemal Ishamel knocked the ball down as time expired, giving UCF a 10-6 win over Georgia and it’s first bowl win in program history.
Game MVP Latavius Murray rushed for 104 yards and the only touchdown of the game, a 10-yard scamper with 9:01 left in the fourth quarter to score the game-winning touchdown and give UCF the 10-6 lead.
UCF converted just 3-of-10 on third downs, but the defense came up huge, holding Georgia to just 279 yards of total offense. The Bulldogs rushed for just 81 yards on the ground.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g98-Zj0Mjfs
Victor Gray came up with a sack on Aaron Murray with 1:51 left in the game to hold Georgia to a 4th-and-8 from the 22-yard line, but Murray completed a pass to A.J. Green to give the Bulldogs the first down, keeping the Georgia drive alive.
The Knight defense came up big in the game, including back-to-back plays from behind the line of scrimmage from two-time Conference USA Defensive Player of the Year Bruce Miller with under six minutes to play in the game to help the defense force a third consecutive Georgia punt.
Jeff Godfrey threw for 116 yards and two interceptions in the game, but he came back with a big drive in the final minutes of the fourth quarter to give UCF the lead.
UCF scored the first touchdown of the game on a Latavius Murray 10-yard scamper to give the Knights a 10-6 lead with 9:01 left in the fourth quarter. Brian Watters made some crucial first-down catches on the drive as he had 33 yards receiving on the scoring drive. Murray’s touchdown was his 11th of the season.
Nick Cattoi hit a FG with 33 seconds remaining in the first half to pull UCF to a tie with Georgia at the half 3-3. Godfrey was picked off twice in the first half, including one in the endzone when UCF was trying to score.
The Knight defense made some big plays in the first half, holding the Bulldogs to just three points. UCF defense came up with two big interceptions, one from Reggie Weams and Josh Linam.
Qunicy McDuffie returned the opening kickoff of the game for a touchdown, but a Ronnie Weaver hold brought the play back for the Knights. UCF converted a couple of first downs, but three consecutive dropped passes forced the Knights to punt on their first drive of the game.
UCF downed the ball at the 2-yard line, but a 95-yard drive by Georgia ate up the clock and they connected on a field goal that made it 3-0 UGA.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RODg75e3pp4



The UCF Knights are taking on the Georgia Bulldogs in the LIberty Bowl this New Years’ Eve. KnightNews.com has you covered with Matt Fontana and Ryan Bass doing live twitter updates in the coverage below. 
Liberty Bowl 2010: UCF vs GA
And be sure to check back for a full recap after the game.
The UCF Knights (10-3) take on the Georgia Bulldogs (6-6) in today’s Liberty Bowl in Memphis, Tennessee.
Where to watch: 3:30 on ESPN
The Knights will be looking to secure the first bowl game win in team history. To do this they will need to go through a tough Georgia team that finished the year by winning five of their last seven games.
UCF’s Keys to victory:
Prediction:
UCF faces a huge test in Georgia, but a very winnable game against a team that did not live up to the heavy expectations placed on them in the pre-season. 
UCF wins this game, 24-17



