UPDATE 5/11/2010 7:00 PM: We just received an official statement from the Kappa Sigma Executive Director, Mitchell  Wilson, stating a “violation of sanctions previously placed against the Chapter” as the reason for the revocation of the UCF charter. To view the full statement, click here.
We have been working all morning on finding out if our tips were accurate, and if so, why Kappa Sig’s UCF charter was pulled.
KnightNews.com e-mailed a UCF spokesman at 7:22 a.m. this morning to try and confirm the tips. We got an e-mail back from UCF spokesman Chad Binette at 12:14 p.m. confirming the tips were true.
“The Kappa Sigma national office informed UCF on May 11 that it was revoking the fraternity’s charter. This decision was made by the national office and not through any university action.
Sponsored Advertisement (Story Continues Below)

“UCF values the scholarship, service and enthusiasm our Greek community brings to the university. We will work with the national office about how this decision affects students and the fraternity,” Binette wrote.
After getting the tips, KnightNews.com felt comfortable breaking the news after noticing several Facebook statuses of Kappa Sigma members, alumni and friends suggesting their charter is gone.
“R.I.P. – Kappa Sigma Lambda Epsilon…it was only a matter of time,” read one status of a Kappa Sigma brother.
The Facebook posts has other alumni, friends and brothers discussing the decision — which to some was a surprise but to Kappa Sigma insiders seemed like was a forgone conclusion.
“Nationals pulled the charter. It was a culmination of the last few years,” another brother wrote.
“My guess is it was a business decision. We were only as valuable to them as the dues they actually collected. They revoked the charter so they could play again another day,” posted another.
UCF Kappa Sigma alumnus Kevin Stone, known for selling Greek jerseys at Greek Unique on campus also joined the conversation on Facebook.
“The “plan” is for a 3 year hiatus,” he posted.
“Still terrible news,” another responded. “What happens to the property/ house?”
A leader in the UCF Greek community who’s not a member of Kappa Sigma but has knowledge of the situation, and asked not to be identified, told KnightNews.com the situation is very sad and placed the blame squarely on the fraternity’s national office.
“A lot of them, especially the current president, was trying to make chapter better,” he said. “Nationals was not helping and kept fining them.”
To see the official statement from the Executive Director about what happened, see the next page.



