The following was released by the Orange County Health Department February 11th:
ORANGE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT ISSUES RABIES ALERT 
ORLANDO – The Orange County Health Department is issuing a rabies alert, in cooperation with Orange County Animal Services, in East Orange County due to one raccoon and one fox found to have rabies in the last two weeks. The wild animals were captured and tested positive for rabies after two separate incidents. Several dogs came in contact with the rabid raccoon and fox. The dogs that were exposed to these animals are under a 45-day home quarantine for rabies.  
All citizens in Orange County should be aware that rabies is present in the wild animal population and poses a risk to humans and unvaccinated domestic animals.  The public is asked to maintain a heightened awareness of rabies in Orange County.  Alerts are designed to increase public awareness, but should not give a false sense of security to areas that have not been named under an alert.  
“Rabies is a potentially deadly disease.  Parents need to supervise small children carefully and be aware of unusual acting animals,” said Dr. Kevin M. Sherin, Director of the Orange County Health Department. 
The rabies alert area is bordered on the west by Alafaya Trail, on the north by Lake Pickett Road, on the east by Fort Christmas Road and Taylor Creek Road and on the south by the Beechline or 528.  The alert will be in effect for 60 days.  
Rabies is a disease caused by the rabies virus.  Rabies is transmitted through exposure to the saliva and nervous tissue from a rabid animal through a bite, scratch, or contact with mucous membranes such as the eyes, nose, or mouth.  The early signs of rabies can be fever or headache, but this changes quickly to nervous system signs, such as confusion, sleepiness, or agitation.  Once someone with the rabies infection starts having these symptoms, that person usually does not survive.  The only effective treatment for human exposure to rabies is rabies specific immune globulin and rabies immunizations before signs of illness develop.  This is why it is very important to talk to your doctor or health care provider right away if any animal bites you, especially a wild animal. 
The Orange County Health Department urges the public to help protect themselves and to prevent the spread of rabies by taking the following steps: 
Homeowners in the alert area should be sure that their pets are fully immunized against rabies.
Keep your pets under direct supervision so they do not come in contact with wild animals.  If your pet is bitten by a wild animal, seek veterinary assistance for the animal immediately and contact Orange County Animal Services at (407) 836-3111.
Avoid contact with all wildlife, especially raccoons, bats, foxes, skunks, otters, and coyotes.
Wild animals and stray pets should not be approached.  Do not handle, feed, or attract wild or stray animals.  Unusual acting animals should be reported to Orange County Animal Services at 407-836-3111 for handling.
Teach children never to handle unfamiliar animals, wild or domestic, even if they appear friendly.
Never adopt wild animals or bring them into your home.
Prevent bats from entering living quarters or occupied spaces in homes, churches, schools, and other similar areas, where they might come in contact with people or pets.
Secure outside garbage in covered containers to avoid attracting wild animals.
Do not leave pet food outside.  This may attract other animals.
For questions regarding the health of an animal, contact a veterinarian.
Veterinarian staff and animal control staff should be alert for animals encountered with signs suspicious for rabies and contact the Orange County Health Department at 407-521-2630 with reports of such animals.
Anyone who is bitten or scratched by wild animals or strays should report the incident to their doctor immediately, as well as Orange County Animal Services and their local health department.  The contact number to report an animal bite to Orange County Health Department is (407) 858-1420.
Orange County receives reports of rabid animals each year.  High risk animals for rabies exposure to humans and pets are foxes, raccoons, bats, skunks, otters, and coyotes. Stray or feral cats and dogs pose an increased risk of exposure due to lack of rabies immunizations.  For further information on rabies, go to the Florida Department of Health website:http://www.doh.state.fl.us/disease_ctrl/epi/diseases.htm or contact the Orange County Health Department, Environmental Health Office at 407-521-2630. 
For information on rabies vaccinations for your dogs and cats visit the Orange County Animal Services website at www.orangecountyfl.net. Orange County Animal Services offers free rabies vaccinations for your dogs and cats through “Pet Amnesty Day” once a month (limit 5 per household). This outreach and education event provides an opportunity for the Animal Services mobile clinic to enter targeted communities to offer free rabies vaccines for dogs and cats over 4 months old. It also provides citizens the opportunity to surrender pets they are no longer able to care for. The next scheduled event is from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. on Saturday, Feb. 13 at John Bridges Community Center, 445 W 13th St., Apopka, FL 32703. 
Then the following was sent out through UCF’s official email service, knights.ucf.edu:
All Tenants:
The Orange County Health Department has issued a rabies alert for east Orange County. All tenants should be aware of the disease and avoid contact with wildlife.
For the safety and well-being of all tenants please do not leave food out for animals in and around Research Park.
Your prompt attention to this matter is greatly appreciated.
Thank you!!
Karen G. Poleyeff
Senior Property Manager



Some time last night, SGA presidential candidates released their Web sites with platforms and information about their plans.
KnightNews.com is committed to helping both candidates reach our thousands of visitors, so the student body is as informed as possible about these candidates when voting starts this Monday – Wednesday.
Daniel Seeff and Kevin Wolkenfeld released this video message along with their site:
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Udi1W7iqgdw

Mike Kilbride and Taylor Lochrane released a list of SGA leaders who supported them, along with their Web site.
KnightNews.com has assigned an independent, unbiased reporter to cover each camp. Now that the the platforms are up, they will contact both sides to get more information on how they’ll put their ideas into place.
Look forward to those reports as well as the most complete coverage of the SGA Presidential debate this Friday.



