THURSDAY 12:45 PM UPDATE:
KnightNews.com got a response from Boardwalk’s Kimberly Bittle just before noon apologizing for not responding to our original requests. She said she had overlooked our e-mail requesting information before posting the original story, because it was buried within many other emails that came in about the situation. Bittle also said she used the yahoo.com account, because her work server is acting up.
KnightNews.com and Boardwalk are trying to schedule a time to have a sit down interview about the situation, as there is clearly  another side of this story we’d like to hear — that’s why we waited almost a day before posting it originally. Until we can find a time that works for both of us, we offered Boardwalk the chance to write an unedited statement we will post on KnightNews.com to say whatever they’d like to about the situation. We also sent a list of questions we felt our visitors would want addressed, and will let you know when we get them answered. We will post the updates to this story as soon as we can get them online.
KnightNews.com also has obtained a follow-up e-mail sent from Brianne to its residents. You can read that by clicking here.
If you have a tip you’d like KnightNews.com to investigate, please email it to: news@knightnews.com .
KnightNews.com received an email tip from a frustrated resident living at the Boardwalk apartment complex just off campus. The KnightNews.com tipster was angry about the enforcement of a lease policy, which was apparently not enforced until February 8th.
UPDATE: CLICK TO READ HOW BOARDWALK IS THREATENING APPARENT LEGAL ACTION OVER THIS STORY
The policy, which the tipster said was buried very deep within the lease signed before the start of last year’s winter semester, states that no guests may stay overnight at the Boardwalk apartment complex, according to tipsters.
An email to residents from the property manager, obtained by KnightNews.com, interpreted the lease to mean no guests past 2 a.m., no exceptions. That means no boyfriends can spend the night with their girlfriend, no girlfriends  can spend the night with their boyfriend and you can’t even have a friend over to study for a big exam the next day past 2 a.m.
KnightNews.com emailed the listed manager for a comment on the policy, but so far she has refused to respond. After this story was  published, we got a response threatening their lawyers would be called due to inaccurate information, however, management refused to say what information they claimed was inaccurate.
Another tipster wrote to KnightNews.com on Thursday saying the lease itself doesn’t specify a time guests need to be out, but just says no overnight guests are allowed. However, the e-mail from management said security will remove guests after 2 a.m., once someone reports them to security.
This raises the question: Can Boardwalk legally make your guests leave if your guest stays until 3 a.m., if the information from tipsters is accurate, saying the lease doesn’t specify an exact time overnight guests have to be out?
If you have a tip for KnightNews, email us at news@knightnews.com, or click the link at the top of the page. We would love someone to e-mail us a copy of the lease.
Below is a copy of the email we received. What do you think? Will you consider living there in the future? Comment below.
__________
Dear Residents,
Attached are some flyers about upcoming events.  Tomorrow, Feb 9th, maintenance will be entering the apartments to change all the air filters.  We want to keep your a/c in good working order.  We appreciate your understanding with this.  We are unable to make appointments to enter but shouldn’t be in the apartment more than 2 minutes.
As of today Feb 8th, Boardwalk will be enforcing our lease policy that states no residents are to have overnight guests at any time.  We feel that your guest should be leaving no later than 2am.  This is a reasonable time to have your fun and your friends need to go back to their own places.  They are not to crash on the couch or spend the night in your room at any time.  If you feel your roommate is having guests over, please contact the courtesy officer at 407-870-7002 after 2am and all guests will be escorted out of the property and the resident could be served legal notice of violation.  We hate to have to take these measures, however each of you signed a lease agreement that you understand our policies and as a shared common space, you should all be courteous to your roommates. We want all our residents to enjoy their time here at Boardwalk and having guests overnight with showering and such can cause your electric bill to be higher, there is a tendency to disturb your roommates with noise while they are sleeping, and most importantly it is a violation of our lease agreement.  We appreciate your cooperation in this matter.
Thank you for your time,
Brianne Stabler
407-384-8626
407-384-8094 Fax
brianne@gsiam.com
See the follow up e-mail sent out by clicking NEXT PAGE below.



Campaigning for the 2010 SGA presidential election has begun!
KnightNews.com has conducted the first interviews with both presidential tickets. Ashley Tintsman has been assigned to cover the Mike Kilbride and Taylor Lochrane ticket, and Peter Porebski will cover the Daniel Seeff and Kevin Wolkenfield ticket.
SEE THE KILBRIDE/LOCHRANE INTERVIEW | SEE THE SEEFF/WOLKENFIELD INTERVIEW
Also, Knightnews.com is partnering with the SGA Election commission to help your voice be heard. Let us know what questions you would like to hear the SGA presidential candidates answer at their debate February 19th by using the form below or emailing us at news@knightnews.com.
[contact-form 2 “Contact form 2”]



CLICK HERE FOR THE SEEFF/WOLKENFIELD ARTICLE AND INTERVIEW
As the tickets have now been announced and elections are quickly approaching, the candidates are beginning to get ready for the stressful weeks that lie ahead. With numerous information sessions to attend and debates to prepare for, the two tickets are facing the tough challenge of gaining recognition across campus and, ultimately, getting the most votes.
 
KnightNews.com had the opportunity to meet with Mike Kilbride and his running mate, Taylor Lochrane, who will be opposing the Seeff ticket. Kilbride, who is a senior and a finance major, is currently the Chief of Operations for SGA, and Lochrane, a graduate student working towards a PhD in civil engineering, is also involved in student government as a Graduate Affairs Specialist.
Enthusiastically, the pair explained that they decided to run because of their leadership abilities, experience together, and diversified backgrounds. “We feel that we do have the experience to continue the positive strides student government has made this year,” Kilbride said. “We know there’s so much more to be accomplished.”
Additionally, Kilbride and Lochrane explained the basic premises of their platform, which is led by the motto, “The difference is you.” Broken down into four areas,  which are campus life, scholarship, you, and you name it, the platform encompasses a wide range of issues, all geared towards getting input from students.
Immediately, though, both mentioned a number of ways to improve the university, such as selling carpool decals to alleviate the parking situation and having family-friendly housing, particularly for graduate students. Kilbride also detailed how the campus needed more study space, aside from the busy library. With so many unused areas, he suggested that students could check out a classroom at night to work on presentations or take advantage of designated study lounges located all over campus.
Amongst these specific ideas, though, Kilbride stressed that “the best platform point is your best idea”. He further explained that the students are the ones who have opinions about what needs to be done on campus, and he wants student government to be a place where those opinions can be heard. “We want to collect data from students and talk to them,” Kilbride stated. “Student government really, truly is listening.”
When asked about the best part of elections, Lochrane emphatically said he enjoyed the challenge of getting the student body motivated. “I like elections, and I’m really looking forward to the next few weeks,” Lochrane said.
Also, on a lighter note, KnightNews.com asked about their favorite traditions on campus. Kilbride excitedly mentioned Spirit Splash, particularly when he became involved as a student leader. As he described watching the excitement on the students’ faces, he said, “You get chills. You really do.”
On the other hand, however, Lochrane described a much different tradition, which no longer exists. As a member of the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity, he reminisced about launching pumpkins into a pond by the fraternity house every week on football game days. “That, by far, was the coolest tradition that we started, and we’re trying to bring it back,” Lochrane joked.
Finally, they both explained why their ticket was the best choice. “We have the experience and the leadership,” Lochrane stated. Kilbride also added that both are good at building relationships, which will help to achieve the things that students want to see change on campus.
“We’ll be able to enter office and start runnin’,” Kilbride said. “We’ve proven that we can deliver.”



CLICK HERE FOR THE KILBRIDE/LOCHRANE ARTICLE AND INTERVIEW 
SGA elections are right around the corner and with them comes that great time in the students year; free food, lots of fliers and countless campaign promises. This year the UCF students have two choices for the president and vice presidential ticket. KnightNews.com had the chance to ask a few general questions and help the student body better get to know the Daniel Seeff and Kevin Wolkenfield ticket.

Q: What is your year/major?
Daniel: Junior,  Accounting/finance
Kevin: Sophomore,  Poli/Sci Pre-law
Q: Why are you running?
Daniel: In the past I’ve been serving and I’ve seen situations that I believed that I could handle better, I thought I could help the students more. I feel like I’ve got what it takes to be SGA president.
Q: What reason should the students vote for you?
Daniel: Basically, we’re the same as every other student on campus. We aren’t involved in any SGA exclusivity. What happens is that people get involved as freshman and thats great but then they don’t take part in any other activities and the problem is that you are the one providing the funding for those organizations. We have been part of SGA but we also are aware of other students needs. We are able to see where the funding needs to go.
Kevin: I’m a senator right now, and its pathetic that there are funds that haven’t even been used that belong to the students.
Daniel: We’re both very passionate people about SGA and about the student body.
 Q: If elected, will you have any power over the parking situation? If so, what do you plan to do about congestion?
Daniel: OK well the parking garages cost millions and while we don’t have much control directly over that we can lobby over that. As president you sit on the board of trustees and they decide what money gets allocated where. I think that everyone can agree we need another parking garage. Something we are working for is the shuttles. Right now, it’s great for the environment, so to have more shuttles going to off campus developments will be good for sustainability I think. Everyone hates driving around, its a mission to park your car, it’s easier to walk outside and hop on a shuttle. Sustainability is one of our main platform goals.
Kevin: Daniel is gonna be the point man and rep of the students and his voice is going to be heard at all levels.
Q: Would you consider increasing funds to club sports and other clubs in general?
Daniel: That’s definitely one of the main things we’ll work on with the new recreation and wellness center. I know there is a big debate about what equipment will be in there and that will be one of the issues we’ll tackle. As I said there is a massive surplus in the funds for organizations and we will get rid of that. Every organization will get more including clubs and including religious organizations, every organization who is eligible.
Q: How can students get more involved in their student government?
Kevin: There are many programs for freshman, there are mentoring programs, Daniel was a mentor. There are street teams, you can go to the senate meetings on Thursdays. We want to reach out to more organizations and get them involved in SGA.
Daniel: If you want to get involved just go to the SGA website and fill out the forms, there are a lot of positions.
Q: What makes you a better choice than your opponents?
Kevin: Basically I feel like we are more in touch with the student body.
Daniel: We are one of the students, we understand their needs.
Q: What is your favorite part about UCF?
Daniel: I would say game day. It’s every two weeks in the fall semester, it’s just a crazy day for everyone. I think everyone can agree with that.
Kevin: Spirit Splash, too bad it’s once a year.
Q: Describe each other in an sentence.
Kevin: Willing to work hard for the student body.
Daniel: Kevin’s a great guy he’s got a great future ahead of him, he’s very involved.
 Q: One word?
Kevin: Dedication.
Daniel: Leadership.
 Q: Will they be giving out any freebies by the student union?
Daniel: Well thats a secret, I can’t give away the surprise. I can say it’s gonna be creative and be prepared to eat a lot.
Q: What animal do you consider each other most like and why?
Kevin: A lion, he commands respect and he’s from Africa.
Daniel: A dolphin, because they have been known to help people and I’m willing to go out of my way to help others
Well there you have it, a brief introduction to some of your SGA candidates. We will keep you updated on developments in this year’s student body president elections. So keep a look out for them on the campaign trail and see for yourself what they stand for. If nothing else, this is promising to be a interesting election year.



