President Barack Obama toured Florida and other gulf states. KnightNews.com has embedded a live strem of his address about the BP oil disaster. Check it out below:

Sponsored  Advertisement






There’s only one way that you can spend one wild night in the 1920’s-Chicago-style from a comfortable red chair in Orlando starting at $34.  On June 15, Chicago the musical opens at the Bob Carr, thanks to FAIRWINDS Broadway Across America.  
Whether you loved the movie and would kill to see it live, need a night out on the town, or you happen to have a “thing” for scantily-clad murderesses with amazing singing and dancing abilities, the opportunity to see this sexy tale of crime laced with deception and greed-along with some very intriguing female characters-is one not to be objected to.
Though it originally opened in 1975, Chicago remains a timelessly entertaining show and among the longest running Broadway musicals of all time.  Tom Riis Farrell, who performed in movies like Sleepless in Seattle and Stepford Wives, has the honor of playing Amos Hart in the Broadway tour.  He said in an interview with Knightnews.com that there is something exceedingly amusing about watching actors portray grown people not only committing unspeakable crimes, but trying to get away with it and even gain some fame and fortune.  He also stated that seeing the musical for the first time when he was 17 was nothing short of mind-blowing.  This “oldie-but-goodie” story proves ageless-well, unless you’re under 12 years old, in which case it is recommended you do not attend or cover your eyes and ears.
Despite the rave reviews, the jury is still out on this classic murder case as the story in its original form awaits you.  The show runs Tuesday, June 15 through June 20, 2010.  All evening performances are at 8:00pm and showings include a Saturday matinee at 2:00pm and Sunday showings at 1:00pm and 6:30pm.
Tickets are on sale now starting at $34.  They can be purchased at the FAIRWINDS Broadway Across America – Orlando Box Office, Amway Arena Box Office and all Ticketmaster locations. They can also be purchased online at www.OrlandoBroadway.com. To order by phone call 1-800-982-2787 and group orders for 20 or more may be placed by calling (407) 423-9999 x17 or (800) 950-4647.
Look for a review of Chicago at the Bob Carr and more of the interview with Tom Riis Farrell after Tuesday June 15.



It appears the search scene is calming down now. There’s no word yet on whether they caught the two robbers who deputies say injured a victim. There’s also no word on whether the victim is a UCF student. We’re working to get this information, and will post it here when we do.
Sponsored  Advertisement


At approximately 10:00 am today Orange County Sheriff’s Patrol deputies responded to the call of a robbery at the Sterling University Apartments, 11600 Mendel Drive.  Two suspects are believed to have robbed an individual on the property taking an undisclosed amount of cash, and injuring the suspect. (NLT)    The suspects were armed and described as a white male and a black male.  They were believed to have fled on foot. Robbery detectives have responded and K9 and Mounted are also on scene.
KnightNews.com crews are on scene now and see a sheriff’s chopper hovering in the area and can confirm parts of the neighborhood are blocked off.
The Orange County Sheriff’s Office confirmed to KnightNews.com a robbery happened in the area and that’s why deputies are using sheriff’s office dogs and the chopper in order to try and catch the robber right now.
Mendel Drive is one of the area’s blocked off.
Earlier today, a home invasion was reported by UCF’s text alert. It’s unclear at this point if the police activity is related, but a sheriff’s spokesperson told KnightNews.com this incident is related to a robbery reported at 10:02 a.m., and not a home invasion.
Check back for updates.



