UPDATE 5/7 4:00 PM: Alex Sink, Chief Financial Officer for the state of Florida, treasurer on the board of trustees of the Florida State Board of Administration, and Democratic candidate for Governor of Florida spoke at the graduation ceremony today. During her speech, she mistakenly referred to us as USF, and almost just got booed off stage during UCF graduation, according to multiple Youreport text messages we’ve received.


After spending years of hard work, thousands on tuition — and perhaps a few bucks on UCF nightlife along the way — 6,650 UCF Knights will graduate Friday and Saturday, ending one chapter of their lives and embarking on an entire new one. 
UCF GRADUATION LIVE STREAM (WHEN AVAILABLE):

And as the 6,650 UCF Knights celebrate their personal milestone, the University of Central Florida will celebrate one of its own: 200,000 UCF degrees will be awarded during the 2 p.m. commencement ceremony on Friday, May 7. 
The first ceremony begins at 9 a.m. on Friday. All of the ceremonies will take place in the UCF arena. 
UCF’s News and Information department released the following speaker and commencement schedule:
The 9 a.m. ceremony on May 7 will feature graduates of the College of Medicine’s Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences and the College of Sciences. The speaker will be Florida Attorney General Bill McCollum.
The 2 p.m. ceremony on May 7 will include graduates from the College of Arts and Humanities, the College of Health and Public Affairs and the College of Nursing. Alex Sink, Florida’s chief financial officer, will be the speaker.
The 9 a.m. ceremony on May 8 will feature graduates from the College of Education, College of Graduate Studies, Office of Undergraduate Studies and the Rosen College of Hospitality Management. The speaker will be U.S. Senator George LeMieux.
The 2 p.m. ceremony on May 8 will include graduates from the College of Business Administration, the College of Engineering and Computer Science and College of Optics and Photonics. The speaker will be State Senator Lee Constantine, a UCF alumnus whose Central Florida district includes the university.
The procession of graduates will begin 20 minutes before the start time of each ceremony, according to UCF. 
Tickets are required to attend commencement ceremonies, but those without tickets can watch live broadcasts of all of the ceremonies at the Fairwinds Alumni Center across from the UCF Arena. 



