As the third week of the Fall semester comes to a close many UCF students are left longing for the comfort, love and financial support of life at home. At the same time their loved ones are likely interested in seeing what the early stages of this semester has brought their students. 
Well as a part of a yearly tradition the university provides a chance for family members and students to reunite and get informed about the plethora of on campus services and activities with Family Weekend 2010. Family weekend offers three days chock full of activities with an emphasis on facts, food, fun and most importantly family!
The events commenced at 10 o’clock this morning with bihourly tours of the UCF Health Center running until 2 in the afternoon. Aside from various informative lectures regarding Off-campus housing, Study Abroad and Shabbat Service as well as a showcase of the renovations to the Library Friday offers various recreational activities for students and their families. Highlights include the Welcome Reception at the Reflecting Pond where attendees will get a chance get acquainted with faculty members as well as enjoy a delicious meal provided by Wackadoos as well as “The Experience” which will show off the talent of UCF’s minority population. 
The fun extends all the way over to the Rosen Campus of Hospitality management where ventriloquist Lynn Trefzger will perform a show free of charge for UCF students and their family guests. Capping off the Friday night activities is a chance for families to experience one of the university’s monthly Late Knights events with the theme “Around the World”. After Late Knights you would be well served to rest up for another full day of activities at UCF.
The line-up of events for Saturday September 11th is just as extensive and exciting as the Friday opening. On tap for day two is another series of meetings concerning academics and other programs at UCF including a workshop on experiencing UCF as a student of color. Also, the families of students active in the LEAD program are encouraged to take part in the LEAD Scholars Brunch in the Pegasus Ballroom. 
Later in the day don’t miss a chance to learn more about the various academic departments at UCF with showcases from the Rosen College of Hospitality Management as well as the Colleges of Education, Health and Public Affairs and Engineering and Computer Science. Open Houses will also be held by the Burnett Honors College and College of Sciences. 
Perhaps the main attraction of the day though, comes as the Knights football team takes on the Wolfpack of North Carolina State at 7:30. But there will be plenty of pregame activities to keep students and their families occupied before filling up Brighthouse Networks Stadium for the game. MSC and NPHC are hosting a tailgate event including music, free food and give aways while ticket holding families can attend the UCF Family Weekend Tent Party featuring games, a catered menu and more giveaways, both events will take place at the Memory Mall in front of the Arena.
Sunday the 12th not only marks the hopeful celebration of a Knights football victory but, sadly, the conclusion of Family Weekend 2010.  On the final day families are treated to a choice of three delicious brunches. The Campus Activities Board is hosting their CAB Family Weekend Funky Brunch, which will include an appearance by Mr. and Mrs. UCF along with a live DJ, tons of activities including a family game show and of course free food. On the Rosen Campus is the Rosen Family weekend brunch where families with reservations can enjoy brunch with the Dean. Last but not least is the Bagel Brunch Wrap Up, hosted by University of Central Florida Hillel in the Key West Ballroom located inside the Student Union.
UCF Family Weekend 2010 looks to be a wonderful opportunity for Knight family members of all ages to get a taste of the UCF experience.  Family weekend also provides a wonderful opportunity to showcase its topnotch Academic staff and facilities as well as how fun and exciting it is to be a Knight.
For more information and a full schedule of events check out this link:
http://parents.sdes.ucf.edu/familyweekend/index.php



An international controversy involving the Quran is unfolding in Gainesville and may explode Saturday, Sept. 11 right as the University of South Florida Bulls travel to the small city to take on the University of Florida Gators. 
Even before Pastor Terry Jones of Gainesville’s Dove World Outreach Center threatened to have a bon fire of Muslim holy books, safety concerns were already being raised for the game where rowdy students from USF would invade Gainesville for a rare match up and chance against Florida’s No. 1 football school. 
Add concerns from global leaders about the activity sparking terrorism, a Worldwide travel alert to all Americans issued by the U.S. State Department and the likelihood of counter-protest demonstrations, it’s easy to see why many at UF may be uneasy about this weekend. 
The University of Florida has announced its working closely with local, state and federal officials to monitor the situation. They’re asking fans to be vigilant, and promptly report any suspicious packages. 
Uncertainty is a major element in this mix — especially with New York City’s proposed Islamic Center that’s become known as the Ground Zero Mosque now embroiled in the controversy. The pastor has gone back and forth on whether he’ll move forward with plans to burn the Quran in Gainesville Saturday, based largely on the future of that mosque. 
Early this week, Jones made it seem there was no stopping the even his church scheduled for 9/11. Then, when Orlando Imam Muhammad Musri, the president of the Islamic Society of Central Florida, went to Gainesville to meet with Jones Thursday, the two religious leaders emerged for a press conference where Jones announced he would cancel the Quran burning because a deal to move the proposed mosque near Ground Zero had been reached.

When the New York iman, Feisal Abdul Rauf, said there was no such deal, Jones told media he was lied to because the Orlando imam assured him three times a deal was reached. At that point, Jones changed the Quran burning’s status from cancelled to suspended, while he travels to New York City with the Orlando imam to meet with the New York imam to try and negotiate a peaceful resolution. 
Meanwhile, students from USF, UF and residents of Gainesville are waiting and watching to see what happens next, as violence over the controversy is blamed for at least one death abroad. The Orlando iman told Jones his planned burning would be used as a recruitment tool for terrorists in mosques across Muslim countries as the Holy month of Ramadan concludes over the next few days. 
Protests against Jones have turned violent, and even deadly abroad. A Muslim protester was shot and killed and many others were wounded at a NATO base in Afghanistan when 10,000 protested together on Friday, according to the New York Daily News. 
President Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, General David Petraeus and other world leaders have all come out publicly urging Jones to cancel the burning, but the firestorm of controversy may now be too late to stop before the holy books get burned. 
A church leader in Springfield, Tennessee, Rev. Bob Old, told media he planned to burn the Koran Saturday and had no plans to back down. 
“I will be burning a Koran, I’m not going to change my mind no matter who calls me,” Old told the Tennessean paper.
The controversial Westboro Baptist Church has reportedly come out and declared its membership would burn the Quran if Jones cancels his. 
The New York Daily News reported the church issued this news release to Ocala.com: 
“WBC burned the Koran once – and if you sissy brats of Doomed America bully Terry Jones and the Dove World Outreach Center until they change their plans to burn that blasphemous tripe called the Koran, then WBC will burn it (again), to clearly show you some things,” the release read.
A Wyoming paper is reporting a man plans to burn a Quran on the state capital steps on Saturday, Sept. 11. If there’s a rule against burning, he promised to rip the Holy book up at the capital and then burn it at a private residence later that day. 
In Afghanistan, American flags and an effigy of Pastor Jones have already been torched in the streets. 

KnightNews.com will continue following this developing story.




