BREAKING: The SGA Senate has officially killed the Multicultural Student Center funding board’s budget by passing the $15 Million Budget with zero funds allocated to the board.
Here is video of SGA President Brian Peterson, SGA Comptroller Shane Chism, and members of the MSC speaking at the budget meeting.

You can still read our previous story that shows the $15 million budget before the Senate made any changes to it.



On Monday and Tuesday night, Chabad Jewish Student Group at UCF held it’s annual seders at the home of Rabbi Chaim Lipskier.
The first night brought out more than 200 students, and teh second night was attended by more than 100 students. Students came out in their best attire to celebrate this Jewish High Holiday amongst their peers, and they did it the right way. Between both nights, more than 200 pounds of brisket was consumed, in addition to 50 pounds of matzo and 10 pounds of maror, which is the bitter herb that makes an appearance on the ceremonial seder plate.
While the event was hosted by Chabad, it was co-sponsored by the UCF Student Government Association, and Rabbi Chaim would like to thank SGA for its help in provided these meals to students during a time when they are at school, away from their families.
To learn more about Chabad at UCF and check out their Passover plans and events throughout the semester, check out the Facebook page here.



KnightNews.com has obtained the $15 million activity and service fee budget SGA is scheduled to vote on tonight.
Our cameras were there when SGA officials spoke out about the MSC funding board cut scandal.
SGA President Brian Peterson apologized for the controversy, and SGA Comptroller Shane Chism defended his decision to recommend slashing their funding board’s budget.
Shortly after the MSC gave a presentation to defend its funding board from the cuts. 
We will turn that video around soon, and announce the results of the budget and vote tonight. Take a look at the entire $15 million proposed budget by clicking below:



Comedian Demetri Martin graced UCF with his presence yesterday, courtesy of the Campus Activities Board and the Student Government Association. As always, the guests they bring to campus are top notch, and last night was no different, evidenced by the line that started forming several hours before show time, and the almost completely packed Arena.

Video by Paul Bedford.
Before the show started fans were serenaded by classic oldies sounds of The Beatles, which prompted many a sing-along the classic tunes. Then the real fun began when Martin took the stage and began the show.
He opened with UCF related jokes, and commented on important things to a Knight, like Lazy Moon and Smoothie King—he went on to say that he’d open a Smoothie Duke right across the street from Smoothie King, and what he sacrificed in power, he’d make up for smoothie deliciousness.
 His performance was laced with witty one liners (Wind chimes are also earthquake chimes, or stranger on the porch chimes, and how he’d like to fill a piñata with actual animal guts). The audience was then treated to the segment of the show where Martin uses his Large Pad to tell jokes. The Pad features numerous drawings, charts and graphs all excellently put together to execute a great joke. He showed us the prototype for an in-flight baby silencer, a device that simultaneously keeps screaming children on planes quiet while channeling the noise to their own ears. We also learn of the different types of signs: the lazy signs that say exactly what they mean (Stop, Exit), and the signs that are a little more ambiguous, like the Wet Floor sign, featuring a guy with no eyes or feet, mid-fall.  Also provided was a bar graph of equal distributions graphing prayer and things that pray (people and mantises). Another page of his Pad showed only three words, “Of Order Out”, and was an Out of Order sign that was, well, out of order. One of the last sketches on his Large Pad part of the performance showed how Rubik’s cubes and drag queens were equal: both very colorful, but he doesn’t want to do them.
Following the Large Pad portion, the audience was treated to Martin’s musical-comedic stylings, where he jazzily spoke about topics that ranged from cargo pants (which are effective if you have thigh size cargo to tote around) to the common mantra “You don’t know what you got ‘til it’s gone”—except for STDs, all while rocking out on the piano.
Another portion of the show was dedicated to songs about random things like what he’d rather do than wait in line at a night club (give a piggy back ride to an actual pig, lick a payphone, watch VH-1), how to end an awkward silence (silencio!, shhh, and random other comically profound noises)  and the “Will You Marry Me?” song, which features bizarrely creative ways to propose (such as breaking your lady’s finger, and have the orthopedist put the ring on with the cast).
Demetri’s style of jokes isn’t always instantly funny, sometimes you have to think about the humor before the laughs come, and last night he stayed true to his method. Martin handled the occasional heckler with style, incorporating them into a rapidly thought of joke without coming off as mean or annoyed.
He closed with requests of his classic material from previous shows, likely well known to fans who have seen him perform before. Some of these included his Batteries skit, the oranges versus carrots naming dilemma, the vitamins, the art of the filler phrase “sort of”, glitter in crafts, the relationship between being ticklish and certain gastrointestinal distress.
Whether you were a diehard fan or went on a whim, judging by the cheers and uproarious laughter, a grand time was had by all in attendance. If you want to see more of Martin, you can become a fan on Facebook, and catch him Thursday nights on Comedy Central on his show “Important Things with Demetri Martin.”



UPDATE: 4/1/2010, 6:56 PM: We’ve just received an update from the Orange County Sheriff’s Department, stating, “The deceased in this case was identified as Kenneth Joseph Lotti, date of birth 05/21/54.  The cause of death is yet to be determined; at this time this incident is still being classified as a death investigation.” More info as this story continues to develop.
____________
ORIGINAL STORY: POSTED 4/1/2010 12:04 p.m., plus later updates:
It seems so unbelievable, some have even asked if we’re kidding  — but the dead body discovered across from the University of Central Florida campus outside in the old Boston Market parking lot is no April Fool’s Joke.
UCF confirms that records indicate that Kenneth Joseph Lotti, who law enforcement said is the victim, attended the university from fall 1972 to fall 1976. He graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science in fall 1976. UCF Spokesman Grant Heston said he was also not a UCF employee.

Earlier we reported when an Orange County Sheriff’s spokesperson confirmed to KnightNews.com on scene that the name of the man who died is Kenneth Joseph Lotti, and he was born in 1954.
Local TV news helicopters hovered over campus and media satellite trucks lined the restaurants near Collegiate Way at noon on April 1.
KnightNews.com crews are on the scene report a crime scene investigator unit on scene, along with patrol units and media. It appears some sort of cloth has been set up to shield the view of the dead body from people going for lunch at nearby restaurants.
We are working to gather more information. Check back for updates on this breaking story.



UCF sent out this alert to students after the dead body near UCF was discovered this morning:
“The Orange County Sheriff’s Office is conducting a death investigation after a body was discovered off campus near the former Boston Market restaurant located at 12141 Collegiate Way. Initial information indicates that the person does not appear to fit the description of a typical university student. The Orange County Sheriff’s Office is leading the investigation. The UCF Police Department has offered assistance, if needed. University operations are continuing as usual. If necessary, UCF will provide further updates at www.ucf.edu as more information becomes available.  Text messages are not being sent out at this time.
Please visit “UCF Alert” at http://emergency.ucf.edu to learn about emergency preparedness, safety tips and to register to receive emergency updates from UCF.”



