No subject seems taboo on screen this day in age, but there is something enthralling about witnessing the portrayal of sex, masturbation, homosexuality, suicide, abuse and abortion live on stage. Spring Awakening manages to breach the already expansive boundaries of entertainment in the best way possible. Armed with an open mind, no play goer will leave this show unmoved.
The original play of the same title, written by Frank Wedekind in 1891, was banned in Germany-a testament to Spring Awakening’s explicit nature. Coincidentally, the play is set in late 19th century Germany, a time and place of repression where children are kept from the knowledge of some of life’s most essential lessons in the name of virtue. The new musical revives the story, saturated with clever dialogue and infused with an alternative rock score composed by Duncan Sheik, who seems to have finally struck musical gold since his chart-topping 90’s single “Barely Breathing”. While so many wondered of his whereabouts after his apparent asthma attack, this previously “one-hit wonder” has redeemed himself with Spring Awakening, winner of 8 Tony Awards and thus one of the most accredited Broadway shows of our time.
Until May 23, 2010, Fairwinds Broadway Across America brings this renowned musical to the Bob Carr Performing Arts Center, allowing those in the Orlando area to experience a Broadway-quality performance in their hometown. It is directed by Michael Mayer, who also directed the show in New York. The tour cast also proves worthy of the New York stage with inspiring vocal abilities and acting to match-even those in the ensemble will give you goose bumps.
Christy Altomare, who plays the female lead, Wendla, captivates the audience with a voice that is pleasantly reminiscent of female indie artists. While most of the roles are played by talented unknowns, the tour provides a treat for Degrassi fans with Jake Epstein as Melchior, the male lead. This character allows Epstein to exhibit a musical talent transcending that shown in his role as Degrassi’s rockstar, Craig. Oh, and did I mention he sheds some clothing? Despite the controversial scenarios on their old show, it looks like Aubrey Graham, AKA Drake, is not the only Degrassi student wanting to do it “bigger than they ever done it”.   Don’t worry guys-the male lead is not the only one who shows some skin for the sake of art.
Refreshingly unorthodox from start to finish, Spring Awakening begins with the set visible, including people seated in what appears to be an eclectically decorated classroom.  Some of the people appear to be audience members chosen to sit on stage, but the question of who they are is never answered as they sit silently throughout the show.   All of the adult men and adult women were played by one person each and each made relatively few appearances, ensuring that the emphasis was on the lives of the younger generation and their transition into adulthood.
With no curtain to rise, the audience is abruptly thrust (no pun-intended) into the lives of teenagers on the brink of sexual discovery. It opens with the beautiful balad “Mama Who Bore Me”, which is about the frustrations of a female teenager ignorant to the mechanics behind childbirth and her mother’s reluctance to explain. Spring Awakening’s songs require enough talent and contain enough dramatics to remain theatrical but simultaneously accomplish a concert-like vibe, complete with hand-held microphones the actors pull out when musical numbers begin. The soundtrack accommodates both the musical lover who desires technical vocals to belt in the shower, as well as the pop music fan sitting in the audience fighting the urge to head-bang to songs fit for radio.
A highlight of the show is the display of one character’s um, private session as he reads a rather “pleasing” postcard. The scene is overlapped with a fellow student playing a classical piano song for a teacher whose breasts he is obsessed with. The, ahem, climax of the song leaves only a little to the imagination. Though appropriately awkward, the later sex scene-containing nudity- relegates once mind-blowing musicals like RENT to the same category as Sesame Street Live. The musical’s straight-forward depiction of sex and other controversial topics make this show fun; however, Spring Awakening also touches upon the potential consequences of what is throughout the show referred to as something beautiful and natural.
Despite its serious themes, the play is surprisingly comedic at intervals, providing an ingenious balance between moments which inflict pondering and laughing out loud. Its success can be attributed to its blend of innovation which rivals more obscure theatre, along with the catchy music and witty lines of more mainstream shows. Overall, the Spring Awakening tour is a must-see for theatre lovers as well as those willing to suspend their inhibitions to take a vicarious journey back to a place we’ve been, or to capture a glimpse of something we will (hopefully) experience-the first time.
Spring Awakening tickets went on sale Friday, April 2 at 10:00a.m. and can still be purchased starting at $34.00. Tickets can be purchased at the Fairwinds Broadway Across America – Orlando Box Office, Amway Arena Box Office and Ticketmaster locations. Tickets can be purchased online at www.OrlandoBroadway.com. If you’d like to charge by phone, please call 1-800-982-2787. Group orders for 20 plus can be made by calling (407) 423-9999 x17 or (800) 950-4647.
Spring Awakening plays through Sunday, May 23, 2010 with evening performances at 8:00 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday, a Saturday matinee at 2:00 p.m., a Sunday matinee at 1:00 p.m., and a Sunday evening performance at 6:30 p.m.



A fleet of sqaud cars from the Orange County Sheriff’s Office is parked outside some of UCF’s most popular bars right now, apparently raiding them to try and arrest underage drinkers.
KnightNews.com crews saw OCSO deputies parked outside of DEKO, Knight Library and Dungeon Lounge, all of which are right across from the University of Central Florida.
There were nearly 10 deputy cars counted during the raid. It’s not clear yet if extra units were called in to conduct this operation, or if all of the deputies assigned to East Orange County converged here, leaving the rest of East Orlando temporarily without deputy patrols.
An eyewitness on scene told KnightNews.com 15 OCSO squad cars were at the plaza, packed full of UCF’s favorite bars, one day earlier as well searching for underage drinkers.
In addition to looking for people committing alcohol crimes, students told KnightNews.com parking tickets were being given out as well.
We are working to upload video and photos, and will have much more very soon. Check back for updates tonight.
If you see breaking news, or have information about other places raided tonight, text our tip line at 407-5-tip-ucf.



