KnightNews.com received a missing person’s alert regarding a woman who lives in the Waterford Lakes area, just south of the UCF campus, who had disappeared.
Those who were concerned about the situation can rest easy — she’s been found.
According to the Orange County Sheriff’s Office, Megan Marie Costello was located at about 10:00 a.m., 2 miles south of where her vehicle was parked in a wooded area of Christmas, Fla. She suffered multiple bug bites and was hospitalized for a checkup as a result, a sheriff’s spokesperson told KnightNews.com. Detectives will be interviewing Costello to determine her activities over the previous day.
Below is the original missing persons alert from OCSO:
On Sunday July 4, 2010 at approximately 9:42 am, the Orange County Sheriff’s Office received a non-emergency call reference an unattended locked vehicle near the wood line at 25225 Wheeler Road, the caller was suspicious since it was not from the area.  Upon arrival deputies found the car, a white Chrysler Sebring, and no occupant(s) and the reporter advised that a female, believed to be Megan Marie Costello had arrived the previous day in the car and parked.  Another vehicle arrived with at least two males who exited their car and approached the area of Megan’s car and they walked into the woods.
With this information deputies began an inquiry and the vehicles tag/registration was checked for any information which would be of aid and there was no wants on the vehicle, but the owners information was obtained and follow-up conducted which led to the following information:
A deputy made contact with the reporter/witness/husband, Brian R. Costello, who advised the vehicle is not stolen, but that his wife, Megan Marie Costello, is in possession of the vehicle. Brian stated that on July 3, 2010 at approximately 0900 hours, he and Megan had a discussion and she got upset. Megan stated she was going to the store to pick up toilet paper after it was requested by their daughter. Megan grabbed her keys and purse then walked outside. Megan drove away in a white Chrysler Sebring. Several hours later, Brian began calling Megan repeatedly through out the day via cell phone but had no response.
Megan on a previous occasion had also left and not returned for a few days. On July 4, 2010, at approximately 0800 hours, Megan had not yet returned, so he began calling friends and family. Brian stated it is not uncommon for Megan to leave a day or two after an argument and she does not make contact when she leaves. The reporter described Megan Costello as a white female in her early thirty’s, 5’02, 160 lbs, thick build, with black straight shoulder length hair and blue eyes. The reporter believes Megan was wearing an unknown color tee-shirt and black sweat pants with unknown colored sandals (flip-flops).
Witness/son, Clay Costello, advised that later that evening, he and his father became worried and began calling friend and family. Clay advised that when he went to bed, his mother had not yet returned.   Eileen Vermillion is Megan Costello’s best friend, via telephone she stated that she last spoke with Megan at approximately 1400 hours on July 3, 2010. Megan called Eileen’s cell phone and appeared to be upset, but did not disclose her whereabouts.
Aviation Unit, K9 Units and Agricultural marine Units responded to the scene where Megan was last seen and began an area search, but met with negative results. Orange County Investigators are continuing the follow-up.
We are asking that Megan Marie Costello or anyone with information or tip as to the whereabouts of the MP or her condition, is asked to call the sheriff’s office or local police to establish her wellbeing.



