Did you see a crowd of people, a couple inflatables, and a stage yesterday on Memory Mall? Then you saw the Korean Student Association and Chinese American Student Association’s Block Party.
They were holding the event in honor of Asian American Heritage Month, which is this month. The Block Party was free to UCF students, and there was plenty of food, fun, and entertainment.




A student leader with the Multicultural Student Center burst into tears as she walked out of an SGA committee meeting Friday afternoon, devastated over a surprise budget slashing to a MSC funding board dedicated to minority student groups.
UPDATE: READ NEW STORY HERE — MSC PLANS TO FIGHT BACK
The MSC funding board’s entire budget was zero-funded during the Activity and Service Fee committee’s meeting, after SGA Comptroller Shane Chism levied the motion to ax the board’s budget — even though others pointed out nobody from MSC was present or knew this was coming.
SEE MORE VIDEO OF THE MEETING, INCLUDING THE VOTE, BELOW.
After Chism’s initial motion failed by a vote of 1-10, Sen. Katie Celano announced her intentions to reconsider her vote, and then the committee recessed. Two members of the ASF committee were seen walking to the MSC’s office in the Union during the recess. The rest apparently went to buy food.
A member of MSC was eventually contacted, and with a few minutes notice rushed up to the ASF committee to try and defend the surprise budget ax.
She came close to saving it, but in the end she was one vote shy of stopping the cuts. By a vote of 6-5, the funding board’s budget was slashed to zero. The vote was taken even though Sen. Jereme Pozin objected to voting so quickly, because other senators wanted to speak on the issue.

Chism declined KnightNews.com’s request for comment at the meeting. MSC members, who still appeared shaken up, declined an on camera interview, but said they may write an e-mailed comment soon.
A HISTORY OF CONTROVERSY 
The ASF committee has been a controversial issue since the 2010 presidential race, when candidates Daniel Seeff and Kevin Wolkenfeld announced their disapproval over a campaign video about how the committee decides much of the $15 million budget over Winter Break when students are kicked out of the dorms, over a catered buffet-style lunch paid for with student money.
Wolkenfeld was present for today’s meeting, and reiterated to KnightNews.com why transparency is important after the zero-funding vote against MSC’s funding board passed.
“If the Central Florida Future and Knight News had not been there, this (cut) probably would not have been known until after the ASF (budget) was passed,” Wolkenfeld said. “I appreciate the media getting involved in student government.”
Wolkenfeld also praised SGA President-Elect Mike Kilbride for his stance during the debate on the MSC funding board budget cut. Kilbride had expressed how it would be disrespectful to zero-fund the group without its board being there to defend itself.
This is the first year, at least in recent memory, that the ASF budget process has undergone such intense media and public scrutiny so early in the year.
ATTORNEYS INVOLVED IN FIGHT FOR ASF RECORDS

Last month, KnightNews.com uncovered the first details of the $15 million ASF budget and how those sitting on it were appointed there through a public records request. SGA fought KnightNews.com all the way to Tallahassee in an apparent attempt to block the budget’s release before the 2010 SGA presidential elections. It ultimately took help from an attorney from Florida’s Board of Governors, which oversees the entire public university system, and a threat of legal action to get SGA to release the budget spreadsheet.
KnightNews.com’s attorney, Benjamin Mayer, has been discussing our access to information and ability to cover news with UCF Associate General Counsel Youndy Cook. Early talks indicate that KnightNews.com is able to gather news outside the “Free Assembly Area” and that it was an apparent mistake on the part of whoever told KnightNews.com crews to stay away from the Union Stage during elections coverage.
Although that issue seems resolved, KnightNews.com’s dispute over public records — including the ASF budget request packets — is still being worked out. UCF has already released audio recordings of prior meetings as well as minutes, and KnightNews.com is still reviewing them. The budget request packets have not yet been released, because KnightNews.com does not want to pay UCF a fee to black out the names of student leaders on the ASF budget request forms.
UCF claims privacy laws called FERPA prevent them from releasing those documents. However, Frank Bracco, who is suing the University of Florida over its Student Government’s refusal to release certain records, says UF never blacks out names of student leaders on budget requests.
Republican candidate for Florida Governor, Paula Dockery, is trying to push through legislation which would create a new Open Government Act in Florida, and make it harder for entities like UCF and SGA to charge high prices for records.
Officially known as Senate Bill 1598, the bill would combine open meetings and records law and forbid governments from assessing ridiculously high fees for records, require Sunshine Law training for non-elected and elected officials and toughen the penalties for officials who refuse to give up public records or open public meetings,” according to the Palm Beach Post. 
KnightNews.com will follow the ASF funding cut controversy, as well as the Open Government Act as part of our continued coverage of Our Fight for Free Speech.
Click on NEXT PAGE below to see our previous breaking news story on this subject.



The traditions of strolling and stepping united the multicultural Greek organization Diversified Greek Council with the “traditionally white” councils last night at DGC’s first ever stroll competition.
The event, which was emceed and organized by DGC’s director of public relations Ayo Adejunmobi, consisted of seven of the nine DGC Greek organizations divided into five teams performing strolls with individuals from the Interfraternity and Panhellenic Greek councils.
 
Lambda Sigma Upsilon, Mu Sigma Upsilon and Company

Pi Delta Psi and Company

Delta Epsilon Psi and Company

Lambda Theta Alpha and Company

Sigma Lambda Beta, Sigma Lambda Gamma and Company

Strolling is a type of dancing or stepping tradition practiced among the multicultural Greek organizations of DGC and historically black organizations of the National Pan-Hellenic Council. It is typically not a tradition performed by IFC and PAN Greeks.
DGC attempted to bridge a gap between the Greek councils by having DGC fraternities and sororities teach individuals from IFC and PAN how to stroll.
“We’re unified as a council, but not amongst councils,” said Christie Morales, president of DGC. “So, we thought this would be a great idea for just the other councils to get involved, to see [DGC’s] traditions and understand why we do the things that we do.”
Morales said that developing Greek unity and promoting DGC were the two foundations of the strolling show.
“Our main purpose is not to bring competition, but more unity amongst the Greek community as a whole,” Morales said
Delta Epsilon Psi of DGC ended up winning the competition along with members of the PAN sorority Alpha Epsilon Phi. According to a member of the Deltas, Nick Patel, the team practiced for about four nights and came up with a routine that included a couple wardrobe changes and tossing out candy to the audience.
“We got creative with it,” Patel said. “We worked with [Alpha Epsilon Phi] really well and we were in sync; I guess that’s probably why [we won]. It was a lot of hard work and all our hard work paid off in the end.”
The crowd, which was mostly made up of fraternity and sorority members, responded to all the performances with many cheers, whistles, applause, and Greek calls.
“It was really fun to see everybody having a good time,” said Aaron Distler, an advisor for DGC and IFC. “You can tell that they put their heart and soul into it.”
Though most ended up enjoying the experience, said Francisco Portillo, a USF student who participated with the Deltas, originally some people were hesitant to share their traditions with other organizations.
“Some organizations… they don’t really like the fact that you’re teaching another organization that didn’t earn your letters your traditions,” Portillo said. “Us and most other DGC organizations got over it. I know our organization we felt comfortable with it.”
On the other hand, during their performance the IFC and PAN participants were not allowed to throw up the Greek hand signs which are also a tradition among ethnic Greeks.
Portillo said the members of Alpha Epsilon Phi understood and accepted the fact that they were not able to do the Delta’s diamond-shaped hand sign.
“For [Deltas] we earn the right to do that sign,” Portillo said. “So, [Alpha Epsilon Phi] asked, ‘Hey, are we allowed to throw that sign up?’ We told them no. It’s a brotherhood thing. We earned it. Only we do it.”
Alpha Epsilon Phi members who participated said their organization’s rules don’t allow them to comment on their experience in the competition. Their president also declined to comment.
Adejunmobi, who also competed last night, said the event seemed to be the best way for the organizations to learn about one another.
“IFC and PAN they were very curious about what strolling was and so we taught them how to do it and as a result they had a good time,” Adejunmobi said.
Adejunmobi said that though he was happy with how the event turned out there were some challenges along the way. An error with the Visual Arts building room reservation had DGC booked for the 18th of next month instead of March.
The Caribbean Student Association had the room reserved instead from 6 to 11 p.m. last night. But, Adejunmobi was able to convince CSA to allow DGC to use the room anyway for the hour and a half competition.
The problems didn’t stop there…
“Some of the teams were losing people because people backed out at the last minute,” Adejunmobi said. “Even two of our organizations had to back out of it, but in the end it was good; good turn out.”
The behind the scene difficulties didn’t stop the event from having great attendance and a good amount of council members participating, said Distler. He said that unity among the councils has been a major effort in the Greek community this semester and the stroll competition did a great job of keeping that initiative going.
“I’m really happy with the turn out for this first year,” Distler said. “As long as you have a few people from the Interfraternity Council and Panhellenic Council that can go back to their chapters and say what a great time they’ve had that is really going to be a wonderful first stepping stone to really turning this event and other events into a great thing for our campus.”
He said that unity among the Greeks can also change how other students on campus view sororities and fraternities.
“As long as we can be a strong Greek life then we could really reach out to all the other students around campus that may not see Greek life in such a positive way,” Distler said. “If they see that everyone’s working together and we really are learning from each other then they would be more willing and maybe come out and really see what being part of a fraternity or sorority is all about.”



