Florida Governor Charlie Crist announced just before 6 p.m. in front of a large St. Petersburg crowd that he has dropped out of the Republican Party in his bid for U.S. Senate.
Republican Marco Rubio will now be the official Republican Candidate for the senate race. Kendrick Meek will run as the Democratic candidate.
Crist faced fierce opposition from core members of the Republican party after hugging President Barack Obama and campaigning for the president’s federal stimulus package.
During his speech announcing his Independent run, Crist said, “I can tell you from the bottom of my heart, I know we’re doing the right thing.
He acknowledged it will be a tough fight.
“After this speech ends, I don’t have either party helping me,” Crist said. “But I need you. I need you the people more than ever. I’m counting on you and I believe in you.”
During a debate on the Fox News Channel, Crist told host Chris Wallace that he would not run as an independent. Republican opponent Marco Rubio has suggested, on his Facebook page, that the flip means Crist can’t be trusted.
Crist insisted though, “It’s the right thing for Florida. It’s the right thing for America.”



Wednesday night, April 21, 2009, the night that all of UCF had been waiting for, finally arrived. Drake paid our arena a little visit on his “Away from Home Tour”. The University of Central Florida was one of only 15 colleges on the tour. The much-anticipated concert had fans lined up around the building hours before the 7 o’clock entry. The show began at 8pm with a performance by Francis and The Lights and was followed by Canadian rapper, K-OS.
Finally, the crowd could take it no longer, and begging screams were heard for Drake to perform. He emerged onstage singing “Forever” and the crowd instantly went wild. Afterwards, he went on with the show singing some of his most popular songs. Just to name a few: “Throw it in the Bag (remix)”, “Uptown”, “Successful”, “I’m Still Fly”, and “Fear” were some of the songs he performed. Drake even brought out Birdman as a surprise guest during two of his songs!
Drake engaged the crowd throughout his entire performance. While speaking of his good friend, Lil’  Wayne, Drake encouraged the audience to sing “I’m Goin’ in”  with him; claiming that Orlando was one of the largest crowds on tour and Wayne would be listening to HOT97 from his jail cell to hear us sing the song. And, speaking of “engaging the crowd”, Drake decided to invite one female student up on stage with him to dance. Needless to say, there were thousands of other very unhappy and jealous girls because of this.
Drizzy Drake closed the show quite appropriately with his song “Over”, though no one in the arena wanted to see him leave the stage. It was an unforgettable concert for all UCF students in attendance. Free Wayne!



The University of Central Florida’s News and Information Department confirmed to KnightNews.com it is e-mailing out a statement to the campus community in response to threats to “shoot up” a UCF building posted by an unknown suspect on our Facebook page.
As we first reported last night, KnightNews.com alerted campus officials to the threat we noticed on our Facebook page and chose not to publish the story until UCF officials had time to investigate, at UCF’s request. KnightNews.com also investigated and turned over our findings to UCF. 
The following is the statement just released by UCF:
“UCF Police Investigating Facebook Threat to Campus
University Police received a tip yesterday morning, April 28, about a Facebook post that appeared to be from a UCF student. The post threatened violence at the John T. Washington Center today if the student failed an exam.
UCF Police immediately located the student and interviewed him throughout the afternoon. The student denied making the post. He indicated that two Facebook pages under his name exist and that he did not maintain or post to the page where the threat appeared.
No charges have been filed at this point, and UCF Police continue to investigate where the post originated. In light of the post, UCF Police have increased campus patrols in high-traffic areas, including the John T. Washington Center.
UCF Police will provide more information as the situation develops. If you have information about this incident, please contact UCF Police at 407.823.5555.”





Unless you live under a rock, you’ve probably either taken the prescription drug Adderall, been asked for if you had some, or at least heard other UCF students talking about it while studying for final exams.

The study stimulant’s prevalence at UCF is not going unnoticed. A special report by WDBO radio reveals that out of 100 students the reporter surveyed outside the UCF library, 74 said they or someone they know had taken “study drugs” like Adderall, Ritalin and Dexedrine within the past semester.
Only six of the 100 said they were actually prescribed the medication, WDBO reported.
Vyvanse is another popular amphetamine used to help students stay up all night and study before a big test. They are available by prescription only, but according to the WDBO reporter, students with prescriptions sell their extra pills on the black market during finals.
“It really does aid in studying, if you’re trying to cram… it helps a lot,”  a 22-yearly student studying Business Administration told WDBO.
Read the full report here.
What do you think about Adderall? Comment below to let us know.



UCF police were extra vigilant while patrolling last night, and will be on alert all day today, due to a threat on Facebook to “shoot up Washington Center” on campus.
The threat came from a Facebook comment left on the KnightNews.com fan page, stating, “Need a study break?? I’m going to shoot up Washington Center if I fail another final.”
The status of the account which posted that comment also reads, “I’m seriously going on a shooting spree in Wahington Center if I bomb another test. Lock and f***ing load. Better stay home tomorrow if you don’t wan to risk your lives.”
After KnightNews.com staff received the email notifying us of the status, we contacted UCF administration, allowing them to handle the situation. We chose not to run the story immediately to allow UCF time to react, as well as to verify the validity of the threat. KnightNews.com was first to report the threat.
According to a local TV news station that reported the story at 11 p.m., UCF Police interrogated the student whose name is listed on the profile. That student claims that the account was made by an impostor, as KnightNews.com suspected.
The account linked to the threats seemed to be created as recently as December, has only 12 friends, had recently updated info regarding the hometown portion, along with a new picture. Our investigation of the profile showed that all of the information, including the picture, was taken from a facebook account of a UCF student with the same name.
UCF Police are investigating the account, and said that they will be pressing charges against whoever made it, Local 6 reported. No charges appear to have been filed at this time.
KnightNews.com is cooperating with UCF during this investigation. We have not removed the comment from our facebook page because we haven’t been asked to, and aren’t sure if removing it will hurt the investigation by destroying the evidence.
No incidents have been reported on campus Thursday morning. While it’s possible the posting was some sort of sick joke, UCF students don’t find it funny.
Mindy Degnon posted the following on our Facebook page: “scary stuff! was there a name to that fb status? idk why someone would actually go thru with this! I hope they get caught!!”
The issue has also become a major topic on twitter, and somehow developed its own #DearUCFshooter tag among UCF tweeters. Some students were scared, but others tweeted about how relying on their faith keeps them calm.
“@TesselerJoy #dearucfshooter you may have bullets in your gun but i have God in me so as far as im concerned aim where you please! < AMEN,” one UCF student tweeted Thursday morning.
Since the story broke last night, several local Orlando media outlets have covered the postings. KnightNews.com will continue working with police and UCF officials to update you with any information we receive.
If you know who is behind the comments, please text us at 407-5-tip-UCF or e-mail us at news@knightnews.com.





