This week, the Kappa Sigma fraternity asks you to help them help Haiti.
The National Business Aviation Association Student Group at Embry Riddle Aeronautical University, with help from Kappa Sigma, is sending three planes to Haiti. They hope to have all three stocked with supplies.
This means we’ve got to work fast , UCF! There will be a table and collection bins set up in front of the Student Union during this week. They’ve asked if you can bring any of the following supplies: clothes, water, canned food, first aid/emergency items, and baby supplies. Any of these items along with anything else that you think could help the Haiti victims would be greatly appreciated.
This program will allow UCF students to make a direct difference in the lives of these Haitian families. The supplies that you donate will be in the hands of a struggling earthquake victim by the end of the week.
For more information here is the link to the facebook group:
http://www.facebook.com/group.php?gid=273688701086&ref=mf



If you look at some of the events at UCF during January you might find Faculty Voice Recital, Hamlet performance, Better Nutrition, and a Turnitin.com workshop. I’ve been doing some thinking recently and have come up with few event ideas UCF should consider hosting,  instead of the boring, somewhat useful, mostly boring events that go on now. I’m kidding about the boring part though. Students and faculty work really hard to keep UCF an eventful school, but check these out anyways.
Taco Bell diet explained. If you haven’t been living under a rock for the last few months, you’ve heard of the infamous Taco Bell Diet. They have some chick on their commercial claiming she lost 54 pounds with a healthy dose of tortilla, beef and cheese. Is it real? Is it fake? I think we should invite a Taco Bell representative to the school and answer our questions.
Vortex amazing guy speak about life views… or anything that comes to his mind. If you haven’t seen the interview of the Vortex Amazing guy, stop reading this and go watch it. Props to Andrew Stein for the flawless interview. This man may be the most quirky, yet interesting human I’ve ever seen. I would like him to come to the school, explain vortex amazing, make up more words, and talk about whatever the hell he wants. God, politics, women, cars. I would sit through all of it.
Squirrel Self Defense. I’ve been at UCF for almost four years now and squirrels have always been a menace. I’ve seen these rodents get squashed by a skateboard, drop onto a student’s back from a tree, and sprint up an innocent bystander’s leg by the reflection pond. The reason why squirrels have no fear is because creepy professors and hippies feed them, and now they believe all humans have food. It’s becoming a serious issue and UCF should provide some sort of self-defense classes. Kicking lessons would be ideal. Personally, I might carry a snake to class and eliminate these furry nuisances.
Something that may be useful to anyone looking for an internship or a job after graduation is a resume building workshop. I would like to see the workshop hosted by a college football coach. Wait a minute, I may already have someone in mind…
These ideas are just food for thought. Contact your local SGA representative for support. Or not, your choice.



