Last night at UCF’s Reflection Pond, a candle light vigil was held for the people of Haiti, as it has been devastated by Wednesday’s 7.0 earthquake. However, this was not a vigil of sadness, but of hope and prayer. 

Several students spoke on how the earthquake affected their lives, either directly with family living in Haiti or out of a pure sense of humanity. Along with speakers and prayer, songs were sung, including a moving traditional Haitian Song.  
The evening’s event ended with a crowd of around 200 people surrounding the reflecting pond with lit candles in their hands, as the words to the Haitian National Anthem were sung by those who knew its words.



Students Greek and non-Greek alike gathered on the lawn of the Alpha Tau Omega (ATO) house Monday afternoon to join together in an effort to help the victims of the recent Haiti earthquake.

UCF was quick in its response to the news of this tragedy; not letting more than a day or so go by before students organized fundraising for the people of Haiti. One group, Club Kreyol (the campus organization representing Creole speaking countries and cultures) has been at the frontlines of the recent relief efforts.
Before teaming up with the Inter Fraternal Council (IFC) and ATO, they organized other events such as last week’s vigil and have said that there will be many more to come. Best said in the words of Club Kreyol’s Vice President, “The News might forget about what’d going on in Haiti, but we won’t.” Club Kreyol coordinated this barbeque with IFC, and ATO offered to host the event at their fraternity house. All UCF students, families and friends were welcome to food, music and fun on the ATO lawn.
The event staff simply asked for a 5-dollar monetary donation or 5 dollars worth of goods to donate to earthquake victims (canned food, clothing, supplies). The event got a great turnout, with the barbeque wrapping around the front of the house. It was a great day for UCF students to band together and do their part to help the victims of the recent tragedy in Haiti.



