UCF Tri-Delta member, Jaclyn “Jackie” Raulerson, has been crowned Miss Florida during the 2010 pageant. 
Raulerson, of Plant City, entered the Miss Florida pageant as the reigning Miss Largo. 
UCF alumna Ericka Dunlap, a former Miss America, co-hosted the event held at the Mahaffey Theater in St. Petersburg along with Lissette Gonzalez, a former Miss Florida who currently works as a weather anchor at WFOR CBS 4 in Miami. 
UCF seems to be a popular place for pageant contestants. (See video from the Miss UCF pageant) According to the UCF Greek twitter account, it appears multiple UCF sorority girls competed in tonight’s pageant. The outgoing Miss Florida, Rachael Todd, also is a UCF Knight and member of Kappa Delta. She graduated last year, according to the Miss Florida web site. 
Click photo or NEXTPAGE below to see a slideshow of Raulerson at the pageant:




The Kappa Sigma Chapter of the University of Central Florida, Lambda Epsilon, reportedly won its appeal to continue existing at UCF two months after KnightNews.com first broke how Kappa Sig’s national office revoked the fraternity’s charter, citing money problems and allegations the group didn’t follow previous sanctions. 
According to a text to our tipline, Kappa Sigma at UCF is now officially a colony and was put on trusteeship, meaning it will be watched over by someone higher up in the organization. This tipster told us the colony will need to complete Kappa Sig’s F.A.C.E. award (Founders Award for Chapter Excellence) in order to get its charter back.
Yesterday, KnightNews.com told you how Kappa Sig members were in New Orleans to make a face-to-face appeal of the charter revocation, and paid thousands of dollars in debt owed to nationals, based on information we uncovered through to a source close to Kappa Sig.
A member of Kappa Sigma commented, thanking Brock for the support. 
Our source told us yesterday it was expected a return would reduce the chapter’s size to about 25-30 active brothers, many of which had attended a conclave meeting with other chapters or had been working hardest on the appeal.
This morning, KnightNews.com did receive a tip stating 18 brothers and 10 alumni members of UCF’s Kappa Sigma chapter had a meeting at 11:15 a.m. Central Time with the fraternity’s Supreme Executive Committee. 
That source said they were all “more than prepared and fully confident in our appeal.”
We’re working to get more details of Kappa Sig’s return to UCF and will post them here when we do. 
As always, if you have any tips for us, please text our tipline at 407-5-tip-ucf. We will respect your request to remain anonymous if you request that for tips. You can also click here to send an anonymous tip. Anonymous tips require more checking on our part, however. 
Click NEXT PAGE to watch a video we shot on Kappa Sig earlier this year.



