A UCF student group pushing for the decriminalization of marijuana laws is celebrating what it calls “a victory for marijuana reform advocates,” according to a press release from the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, or NORML.
The celebration comes after UCF’s Golden Rule Review Committee voted 5-1 in favor of equalizing punishments students face when violating alcohol or marijuana regulations imposed by the Golden Rule. The proposal will now move to the desk of UCF Vice President Dr. Maribeth Ehasz for approval at the end of the semester.
“We are very glad to see the Golden Rule Review Committee standing up for a sensible and fair policy,” said Tyler Smith, the spokesman for the UCF chapter of NORML. “We look forward to working with the administration in order to ensure students’ voices are heard.”
It was not immediately clear whether the proposal would increase the punishment for students caught with alcohol to match the tougher punishment handed out to students caught with pot, or if it would decrease the punishment for those caught with pot, in order to achieve equalization.
Although the committee’s vote is only a recommendation, Smith is hopeful Ehasz will give it her required stamp of approval.
“Given such strong student support for this measure, we hope to see Dr. Ehasz approve the sweeping changes and embrace the vision of students of the University of Central Florida,” he said. “On the first day of Alcohol Awareness Month, it is fitting that student leaders have sent the message that enough is enough and it is time for a sensible policy: treat marijuana and alcohol the same.”
According to NORML’s Web site, the group believes “that marijuana law should be equivilant to that of alcohol law, and we are working to reform the legislation now. The criminilization of cultivating, consuming, and distributing cannibus is cruel and destructive to society, and we are working to change those laws.”
NORML and other marijuana reform advocates have been most successful in reforming marijuana laws in California by passing Prop 215 and SB 420, which argue marijuana is medically necessary.
According to a California NORML chapter’s Web site, “Under Prop. 215, patients are entitled to whatever amount of marijuana is necessary for their personal medical use. However, patients are likely to be arrested if they exceed the SB 420 guidelines. SB420 sets a baseline statewide guideline of 6 mature or 12 immature plants, and 1/2 pound (8 oz.) processed cannabis per patient.”
While the policy passed by the UCF committee wouldn’t allow students to grow pot in their dorms, UCF’s chapter of NORML says equalizing punishment for pot and alcohol at UCF is important because alcohol is far more dangerous and causes far more problems than marijuana use, and should no longer be a more acceptable form of intoxication under campus policy.
The proposed equalization policy is based on the recommendations of a task force of student leaders and administrators, which formed after a large majority of the student body approved a campus referendum on equalizing marijuana and alcohol punishments. Approximately 57 percent of student voters approved the measure, according to NORML’s press release.
KnightNews.com is working to find out more information about the UCF equalization proposal, as well as who the sole committee member was to vote against equalizing punishments for marijuana and alcohol, and will try to bring you that person’s side of the story once we make contact.
You can view some of the minutes from the Golden Rule Review Committee we found posted from last semester by clicking NEXT PAGE below.



If you’ve walked by Memory Mall on campus since Sunday afternoon, you have surely noticed a town of tents and groups of students enjoying the outdoors and each other. The event is called Tent City, and the cause is student unity.

Campus Peace Action, a student organization that strives to unite students at UCF, host Tent City on campus bi-annually. This semester the event ran from March 28 to April 3. Tent City drew in students from all walks of life to camp out and enjoy the variety of activities and musical performances that kept participants entertained throughout the week.
Activities included tie dieing shirts, a meditation workshop, a screen printing workshop, and local band performances every night. There were also several educational discussions that were lead by guest speakers such as Valerie King of the Office of Diversity Initiatives and representatives from United Students Against Sweatshops. University president John Hitt was the first guest speaker at Tent City.
The finale of all the fun was a Tent City Prom in honor of the birthday of Campus Peace Action’s president, Terri Baldwin, who was the leading coordinator of the week-long festivities.
According to Baldwin, the main purpose of Tent City this semester was to create an event that allowed students to meet new people, build new friendships, and start building dialogue about issues that affect the community as a whole.
“So many times in the past Tent Cities have been used for protesting and Campus Peace Action used to be right there with them,” Baldwin said. “Somewhere along the lines we realized that’s just polarizing people. That’s just making them choose; whereas, if you’re friends with someone you have that opportunity to have a dialogue with them and to tell them why you think what you think, and to hear them and maybe to come to an understanding…”



