This Fourth of July, a lot of people are wondering exactly how old the United States of America is. 
KnightNews.com did some digging, and found out this July 4, 2010 marks the America’s 234th birthday. 
It was on July 4, 1776 when the Declaration of Independence was officially adopted. The document was publicly read on July 8. 
Statutes of King George in what became the United States of America were destroyed, smelted and turned into bullets to use to fight the British Empire.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yiZqHvt6TkI


Now, America’s Independence Day is filled with food, fun and fireworks.
Happy 4th of July!



This Independence Day, we’ve posted some of the best bets for fireworks in the Central Florida area. Check them out below. 
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_v0YYdHjxiU
(Last year’s display)
Starting at 4 p.m. Sunday, July 4, downtown Orlando’s Lake Eola will be transformed into a patriotic street party, with big crowds celebrating the 4th. Fireworks start at 9:30 p.m. and are shot up right over the lake. After it’s over the party continues in downtown Orlando, at any bars or clubs you’ll find in walking distance nearby. 
Directions from Campus: Take the 408 west to downtown Orlando’s Rosalind exit. Take Rosalind north towards Lake Eola and try and find parking on the streets or in a garage. 
ORLANDO LAKE EOLA SCHEDULE FOR AMPHITHEATER STAGE:
4:00 – 4:35 p.m. Martial Arts World Demonstration
4:50 – 5:40 p.m. 7 Months Later
6:00 – 7:30 p.m. K92FM Colgate Country Showdown
8:00 – 9:15 p.m. Orlando Concert Band
9:20 p.m. Pledge and National Anthem
9:30 p.m. Fireworks!
The City of Cocoa Beach calls its 4th of July Fireworks Show – Shepard Park after dark. The Cocoa Beach fireworks show begins at 9 p.m. Sunday, July 4. Admission is free. It’s located at 4400 Ocean Beach Blvd.

Directions from UCF: Head south on Alafaya Trail until you get to Colonial Dr. (SR 50). Turn left and head east. Take the SR-520 exit east and follow it all the way to Cocoa Beach. Find parking and enjoy the show. 
Here were some other Central Florida Fireworks events we told you about yesterday:
July 3: Red Hot and Boom Fireworks, Concert in Altamonte Springs
Starting at 4 p.m. Saturday, Cranes Roost Park in Altamonte Springs will have live entertainment from XL 106.7 at the areas largest 4th of July Event — that always happens on July 3. Before the show, look forward to a concert performance lineup including UCF’s own Big 10-4, 2AM Club, Neon Trees, Jessie James, White Tie Affair, Charice, FeFe Dobson and Aaron Fresh. The event ends at 10 p.m. Cranes Roost Park is located at 436 and I-4 in Altamonte Springs. 
Directions from Campus: Take University Blvd. west, down to Semoran Blvd., aka 436. Turn right. You’ll hit Cranes Roost Park on your right, right before I-4. 
July 3, Baldwin Park Independence Day Bash
If you don’t want to deal with the horrible crowds and traffic and just want to see fireworks, this might be the best bet for you. It’s mostly a family affair, but there are nice shops and places to eat in this nice community. Fireworks start at 8:45 p.m. on New Broad Street in Baldwin Park. 
Directions from Campus: Take University Blvd west to Semoran Blvd, aka 436. Turn left. Take a right on Lake Baldwin lane. Follow the signs to the left to the town center.
So what are your plans for the 4th? Share them with us below if you’d like!



