Students who claim UCF stands for Under Construction Forever now have a little more support for their argument.
It was recently announced that $50 million will be allocated to building new on-campus housing facilities that will add 750 new beds to UCF’s current approximate 6,550, according to the Orlando Sentinel. Preference would be given to incoming freshmen, with hopes that they can enjoy campus activities while simultaneously furthering their Knightly education. The goal of the new housing project would be to house 80% of the incoming freshmen. Also scheduled for construction are two new Greek houses on the north end of campus. 670 beds would be added to Academic Village, and 80 beds would be divided between the planned two new houses on Greek Row.
Now that UCF is in the top three schools in the country in student population, accommodating a portion of the students at the main campus is a good step. With more students living on campus, the traffic surrounding the university would decrease, and less people who wanted to live on campus would be turned away due to space constraints. This venture will no doubt bring more job opportunities to Central Florida, and to students as well, who will be employed as Resident Assistants, area coordinators and in other housing-related activities.
Hopefully UCF’s next major construction project involves several new parking garages to make room for the extra cars that the freshmen (and everyone else, for that matter) will bring in.



On Wednesday evening, September 8, 2010, the Jewish New Year, Rosh Hashanah, will commence and continue through Friday night, September 10, 2010.
The Chabad Jewish Student Center will host a full High Holiday Services and meals schedule, which has been funded by the UCF Student Government Association.  “Our services will be warm, friendly and traditional,” said Rabbi Chaim Lipskier, the director of the center.  Organizers are expecting more than 200 students to attend the first night’s service and dinner, and they plan to host more than 1,000 throughout the holiday.  The services will take place at the center; 600 Oak Cir, Oviedo, FL 32765.
There are no fees or membership to join, so all are welcome, free of charge, regardless of background or affiliation.  “Despite the present economic crisis, the Chabad Jewish Student Center continues to stand by its philosophy that every Jew deserves a meaningful service, regardless of his or her financial wherewithal”, explained Rabbi Chaim Lipskier.” Everyone is invited for services and meals, free of charge.
The services will be user-friendly, making it enjoyable and meaningful for both the seasoned and the unversed.  The services will be in Hebrew and follow traditional customs interspersed with modern Jewish tunes and English readings.
 
Services will be held on Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year (September 8-10), as well as Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement (September 17-18).  They will be held at various times at the Center, 600 Oak Cir, Oviedo, FL, 32765.  For a full schedule of services times, please contact the center at 407.949.8838 or visit our web Site www.JewishUCF.com
For further information on the above events, or if you have any questions related to the Jewish High Holidays, please contact Rabbi Chaim Lipskier at  407.949.8838 or at Rabbi@JewishUCF.com.



