Once again the bitter rivals on the opposite ends of I-4 are being mistaken, but this time it’s not Alex Sink slipping up — it’s a news anchor.
In video posted by WFLA Channel 8 in Tampa, the anchor makes the slip up of saying “USF” when informing her viewers about the UCF playboy shoot during the weekend news in Tampa.
The group posted the YouTube video to its thousands of fans with this question: “New UCF recruiting video?”
Not if UCF’s administrators have anything to do about it. They have apologized for the video. UCF coach George O’Leary is reportedly the one who authorized the shoot, although he seemed to suggest he thought the still photos would be the focus — not the video.



All eyes are on Knights football after UCF alumna and Playboy Magazine’s Miss July 2010, Shanna Marie McLaughlin, continues making headlines in the Orlando Sentinel, on Local 6 news and elsewhere for a popular video showing off her UCF spirit taken inside the Knights locker room.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TjM40QeAuZs
The Orlando Sentinel is reporting Knights football coach George O’Leary is the one who gave permission for the sexy shoot. 
“I approved the magazine,” O’Leary told the Sentinel. “The guy called my office and basically wanted to know if they could do a magazine shoot. There was a UCF girl who had her MBA and all that. And the only thing I asked is, ‘Is that a magazine that is distributed on campus?’ And they said, ‘Yes.'”
The video was shot during a still photo shoot for aXis Magazine, a monthly entertainment publication by UCF alumni. KnightNews.com has been covering McLaughlin’s recent attention after earning the Playboy honor.
This is not the first time aXis has done a football preview showcasing hot UCF women. 
“They’ve done I think four, since I’ve been here at least four, initial copies of football [previews] opening up the football season,” O’Leary told the paper. 
UCF apologized for letting it happen and tried keeping the fact O’Leary was behind it a secret, according to multiple media reports. 
But should UCF have apologized? Or was this all in good fun — the type needed to fill the football stadium?
Feel free to speak out below:



The University of Central Florida will boast about 203,000 graduates by the end of Saturday, as thousands of Class of 2010 summer graduates say goodbye to the college that has been their home for years. 
KnightNews.com will try and live stream the 2 p.m.ceremony here when it happens. 
UCF GRADUATION LIVE STREAM (WHEN AVAILABLE):

UCF’s News and Information department pointed out that UCF President John C. Hitt will award his 150,000th degree this weekend. KnightNews.com has included a portion of the News and Information article below:
UCF has achieved extraordinary success during President Hitt’s 18 years at the university. Under his leadership, enrollment has more than doubled, research funding has risen from $6.2 million to $133.3 million and the number of doctorates awarded each year has more than quadrupled.
In addition, President Hitt has supported UCF’s growth as a national leader and the third-largest university in the nation. U.S. News & World Report’s “America’s Best Colleges” guide ranks UCF No. 5 as an “Up-and-Coming” national university. UCF is the only Florida university on the list.
UCF’s growth has also been fueled by quality students, including the fall 2009 freshman class, which averaged a 1225 on the SAT and included 55 National Merit Scholars, a total that ranks UCF among the top 50 universities in the nation. Similar numbers are expected this fall. 
Dates, Times & Ticket Information
Saturday August 7, 2010
9:00 a.m.(Procession of graduates begins at 8:40 a.m.)
Up to 5 TicketsCollege of Arts & Humanities
Art, Digital Media, English, Film, French, History, Humanities, Modern Languages Combination, Music, Philosophy, Photography, Spanish, Theatre
College of Business Administration
College of Education
College of Graduate Studies
Interdisciplinary Studies
Office of Undergraduate Studies
Applied Science, Interdisciplinary Studies
Rosen College of Hospitality Management
2:00 p.m.(Procession of graduates begins at 1:40 p.m.)
College of Engineering & Computer Science
College of Health & Public Affairs
College of Medicine
Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences
College of Nursing
College of Optics and Photonics
College of Sciences
Actuarial Science, Anthropology, Advertising/Public Relations, Biology, Chemistry, Communication (Interpersonal/Organizational), Forensic Science, Journalism, Mathematics, Modeling & Simulation *, Physics, Political Science, Psychology, Radio-Television, Sociology, Social Science, Statistics
* Note the major Modeling & Simulation may either be in College of Sciences or College of Engineering and Computer Science depending on the discipline. If the major is in College of Engineering and Computer Science, the student should attend the College of Engineering and Computer Science ceremony.



