KnightNews.com kicked off our 2010 UCF Orientation Coverage with a bang, by grabbing some candid interviews with incoming freshmen about their experience, O-teamers and plans for UCF.
The overwhelming response from parents and students we talked to was that they had a great time at orientation, and they were excited to becoming UCF’s newest Knights: The Class of 2014!
Check out what some had to say in their own words:






This mom’s excited for her daughter to find her place to fit in at UCF!


Plans to “meet girls, go to the gym, party, and uh, study of course!” (But not in that order!) 

This one had great things to say about O-teamers and his Orientation!

These ladies are really excited…


More to come soon. Check back later, and we’ll post them when we get them all uploaded,
We’ll announce the update on our Facebook page, so make sure you’re a fan! We’re giving away a free iPad once we hit 10,000 fans who like our page!



A 20-year-old UCF junior is at the center of a sexting scandal stretching from Orlando all the way to Jacksonville’s Mandarin High School, which reportedly has cost her 32-year-old boyfriend, Jason Robinson, his football coaching job. 
The controversy erupted after the UCF student’s parents somehow got a hold of an explicit picture Robinson sent to his girlfriend’s personal cell phone from his personal cell phone, according to reports.
The UCF junior’s parents reportedly don’t approve of the relationship between the coach and her daughter, who has a 17-year-old sister Robinson coaches at the school. The allegedly explicit images were then forwarded to Robinson’s bosses at his high school, and he was essentially fired, according to Jacksonville media reports.  
Robinson has maintained that he had the right to send pictures to his girlfriend, who’s a consenting adult. He was upset Principal Donna Richardson didn’t meet with him before ousting him, and allowed him to get the news over e-mail. 
“I have done a lot of good things at that school. It was my life,” Robinson said in a text message to Jacksonville’s Action News. “I put more hours in there than anyone there. How I’m being shown the door is total disgrace to teachers everywhere. Teachers are human we all have lives outside of school.”

Now, Johnson is threatening to sue the Duval County School Board to “clear his name.” 
Robinson will be the fourth coach in the last four years Mandarin High School’s football team will see leave the team.
KnightNews.com is attempting to track down the identity of the girlfriend to try and interview her, but the Duval County School Board has refused our request to release any public records relating to the incident, citing an ongoing investigation. If you have information about how we can contact her, text our tipline at 407-5-tip-ucf, e-mail us at news@knightnews.com or else click here to send us an anonymous tip. 



