Michael Jordan’s sons, Marcus and Jeffrey Jordan, are bringing national attention to the UCF Knights and the basketball program they’re apart of after taking a trip to Las Vegas where they spent $56,000 in a single day, according to reports citing their Twitter accounts.
UCF junior point guard A.J. Rompza joined the brothers when they traveled to Vegas with Michael Jordan for his fantasy basketball camp at the Mirage Resort Casino, which costs up to $15,000 per person, according to the Sentinel.
“Last night was stupid,” the Orlando Sentinel reported Marcus Jordan wrote on his Twitter account. “… 35k at Haze… Totals 50k something the whole day.. Damn!! Going to the pool again today.. Gotta relax!”
The reported Jordan spending spree for his UCF friends marks the second time in recent weeks where the Knights have made national headlines for famous students having fun. While many students love the attention, UCF apologized in the first incident after Coach George O’Leary allowed Playboy Playmate Shanna McLaughlin to pose for a sexy shoot in the Knights football locker room.
Members of the UCF group in Vegas posted some videos showing the party at the pool during the day.

Other videos showing the Vegas nightlife were also posted.


CBS Sports and ESPN picked up the story.



Smoke billowed from a UCF parking garage Monday afternoon, making what was already a parking nightmare during the first day of class even more hectic. 

UCF police quickly responded to the scene, along with firefighters. The entire car was engulfed in flames. They were so intense two nearby vehicles were also damaged.
The fourth floor of the garage behind the UCF arena was blocked off and so was a road near the Tower 2 dorms on campus.  
The garage has reopened. An official cause of the fire hasn’t been determined, but UCF police told KnightNews.com the car’s owner suspected transmission problems sparked the blaze. There were no reports of injuries. 
Check back to KnightNews.com for more information on this story. 



