The man Knights basketball fans have known as their coach for more than a decade will not return next year. 
UCF Athletics announced Monday that the school “will not retain” — or in other words has fired — head men’s basketball coach Kirk Speraw. 
“I want to thank Coach Speraw for his tenure at the University of Central Florida, leading our men’s basketball program,” Tribble said.  “This was not an easy decision, but one we felt will serve in the best interest of our program’s direction.  Coach Speraw has always gone about his position with integrity and class and we appreciate all he and his staff have contributed to UCF basketball.  This is the right time to make a change in direction.”
Speraw has led the Knights since 1993. The decision comes after he recruited Marcus Jordan, son of NBA legend Michael Jordan, to play for the Knights.
UCF Athletics is holding a press conference at 3 p.m. to discuss the decision. KnightNews.com’s Matt Fontana will attend and provide a full report later today.
Associate Head Coach Mike Jaskulski will serve as interim coach until a successor is named.
TO READ THE LATEST NEWS AND SEE UCF ATHLETICS DIRECTOR KEITH TRIBBLE’S CONFERENCE, CLICK HERE.
See Speraw’s year-by-year stats at UCF by clcking next page below. 



Before Spring Break, the Kappa Delta sorority sold pinwheels for “Prevent Child Abuse America.”
Students could buy them for $1 and either take them home, or leave them to be placed in the KD pinwheel garden.
This is all part of their philanthripic efforts, which goes hand in hand with their upcoming “5k Shamrock Run,” which will be on March 21. Check back with KnightNews.com as we get closer to the date to find out more information about the run, as well as who ends up taking home the first place award.




The Delta Iota chapter of Zeta Beta Tau will be unveiled their signature spring philanthropy just before Spring Break on the University of Central Florida campus. The brothers of Zeta Beta Tau rolled out a giant, 6-foot ball throughout the campus to raise money for the Children’s Miracle Network. 

Since the start of the semester, the brothers of Zeta Beta Tau have been working diligently to obtain sponsors for this event. Brothers who rolled the ball around the campus obtained signatures on the 6-foot ball. Sponsoring companies and organizations had their names painted on the ball anddonated a pre-determined amount of money to the Children’s Miracle Network for every signature obtained.
“It’s a great way to get our name out there and also give back to community at the same time. We feel honored to raise money for children’s hospitals throughout Central Florida. Hopefully this philanthropy will continue to grow and become one of the premiere events each year at UCF” said Jon Balva, External Vice President. This spring marks the first semester Zeta Beta Tau has ever put on the philanthropy since being recognized by the Interfraternity Council and receiving their national charter. In the past, Zeta Beta Tau has obtained over 5,000 signatures and raised thousands of dollars for the Children’s Miracle Network. Zeta Beta Tau hopes to build upon this and surpass these numbers not only this semester, but in future semesters to come. 
Zeta Beta Tau rolled the ball mainly around the student union and library areas of the campus. Interested students simply grabbed a marker and signed the massive ball.
Additionally, Zeta Beta Tau has added a twist to their philanthropy this year; During the week, there was be a sign-in sheet for participating organizations so that at the end of the week, the organization with the most signatures would receive a bus rented out for an event of their choice, a $50 gift certificate to Greeks & More, and a brand new piece of silverware to add to their trophy collection.
The Delta Iota chapter of Zeta Beta Tau has been recognized by the Interfraternity Council for one year now and recognized by their nationals since the fall semester of 2009. Zeta Beta Tau seeks to foster and develop in its membership the tenets of its Credo: Intellectual Awareness, Social Responsibility, Integrity, and Brotherly Love in order to cultivate leadership within the University of Central Florida and Orlando community.



