Paris Hilton is off the hook after being arrested on charges of possessing marijuana in South Africa following a World Cup game. 
A South African court dropped the charges after a special hearing, according to reports. 
Hilton was arrested on suspicion of possession of marijuana, the Associated Press reported, after a quarterfinal match between Brazil and the Netherlands.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=geZYC72rpOs
A spokesperson told the AP Hilton’s friend, Jennifer Rovero, took the blame for having the pot. Rover, 31, was sentenced to  a fine amounting to $130 or 30 days in jail. 
Hilton’s publicist came to her defense, calling the incident a “misunderstanding.” 
“Paris Hilton was questioned today by police in South Africa on allegations of smoking marijuana,” publicist Dawn Miller, said in a statement to the AP. 
“However I can confirm that the incident was a complete misunderstanding and it was actually another person in the group who did it,” the statement said. “The case has been dropped against Paris and no charges will be made.”
Hilton reportedly thanked the court after the charges were dropped, and later tweeted about the ordeal. 
“Hey guys, there’s a lot of crazy rumors going around. Just want you all to know the truth. Everything is completely fine. I was not charged or arrested, cause I didn’t do anything,” Hilton tweeted.



Paris Hilton was arrested on marijuana possession charges today in South Africa during the World Cup. According to a British paper called The Sun, Hilton was caught after Brazil lost to the Netherlands right outside the stadium, where she had just watched the game. 
According to that publication, she was with actor Leonardo DiCaprio when she was arrested.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=geZYC72rpOs
Paris Hilton was reportedly detained in Port Elizabeth along with a friend. Not much more is expected to be revealed from South Africa until after her court date.
In 2007, Hilton pleaded no contest to an alcohol-related reckless driving charge. She was sentenced to 45 days in jail.



