The winner of the new iPad is Sean Holmes.
Thanks for your support, and spread the word about KnightNews.com. You never know when we’ll give away another prize!
We’ll keep our fans updated through Facebook of the when the live streaming of the drawing is going to occur on our site. One lucky fan is going to win an iPad this weekend and it might as well be you!
Just click “like” button below to become a fan of Facebook.com/KnightNews:
(Sponsored Advertisement – Story Continues Below)

We’d like to thank our sponsor, “The Hitching Post,” for making this iPad giveaway possible. It has a huge backyard behind the bar, so it’s a great place for a fraternity, sorority or other big group to have a huge party at — for free. They won’t charge to rent the space, because they appreciate all the business your group will bring to the bar.



Have you caught yourself peering over the fence while you lift weights? Tripping on the treadmill as you lean over to get a glance? 
Yes, we’re talking about the growing anticipation inside of every UCF Gym lover…for the new expansion! 
If you’ve ever wondered what’s going on behind all of that construction, then you’ll be glad to know that today KnightNews got a sneak peek video tour! SGA President, Mike Kilbride, and some of the developers took us behind the scenes and told us what amazing new features you can expect with the expansion.

We all know that sometimes the more popular group exercise classes fill up fast, so along with the expansion comes more rooms for you to perfect those washboard abs or 20-20-20 till you drop.
Swimmers seem to be the most excited about the gym expansion; it’s because of that new, big, beautiful pool isn’t it? Courses in CPR certification will be offered and a second floor viewing deck/lounge will allow students to hang out and enjoy a pool view.
IM sport games are often the biggest little games you’ll see outside of the stadium or the arena. Now there will be even more opportunities for that healthy competitiveness. The MAC (Multi-purpose Activity Court) will house more IM games with a set of stadium seats overlooking the courts from the second floor. Another area for fans will have high-top stools set in front of large glass viewing windows. So get ready for a bigger audience to cheer you on as you play. 
The new gym wants to keep you hydrated! Next to the water fountains you’ll find water-bottle refill stations so you can save yourself a trip to the vending machine and a couple of bucks.
Finally we got to see the big cardio room. UCF students were able to test different equipment brands in the current gym and submit their pick for the expansion’s treadmills and ellipticals. Wanna know the coolest part about the new cardio section? While you pedal, step or run, you’ll be generating electricity that will help power the gym!
Hope this sneak peek got all you knights as excited as we are. See you in your sweat bands on opening day Spring 2011!



Florida State Seminoles and University of Central Florida Knights met for an intense competition Wednesday night — but it had nothing to do with football.
Instead, the two schools’ chapters of College Republicans battled it on the campaign phone call trail. The goal: Beat the rival university group by making more campaign phone calls between 5 p.m. and 9 p.m.
“The phone calls were to people in Florida with no party affiliation,” Hedrick said, explaining that respondents were asked five questions as to whether they approve or disapprove of President Barack Obama’s job performance, who they plan on voting for in the U.S. Senate race, who they plan of voting for in the U.S. Congressional District 8 race between Alan Grayson and Daniel Webster, their thoughts on the recent health care law and their views on government spending relating to the economy.
The phone calls were paid for by the Republican National Committee and not authorized by any candidate or candidates committees, Hedrick said.
It’s a busy week for the UCF College Republicans. This Friday, they will also be holding the annual UCF 9-11 memorial this at the free speech area by the Library. KnightNews.com will post more information on this event as it becomes available.
SEE SLIDESHOW ON NEXT PAGE  BELOW:





