UCF students are no strangers to hit reality TV shows.
In 2007, UCF alumnus Brett Novek finished fourth on VH1’s “America’s Most Smartest Model.”
In March, Vienna Girardi became the most recent winner of ABC’s “The Bachelor.”
And this past season, America fell in love with singing sensation Michael Lynche on the FOX hit TV series “American Idol.”
Well, add another Knight to the list.
Sponsored Advertisement (story continues below)


According to MTV, 21-year-old UCF Psychology student McKenzie Coburn will be one of this season’s eight cast members on their hit reality series “The Real World.” This season, the show is set to return to the Big Easy.
“We are delighted to be returning to New Orleans for the 24th season of ‘The Real World,’” said creator and Executive Producer Jon Murray. “Hurricane Katrina threw New Orleans for a punch, but the city is coming back and we’re hoping our cast members and the series can play a small role in the city’s rebirth.”
The show, which is the longest-running reality television series in history, has filmed entire seasons in over twenty cities, including international locations in London, Paris, Sydney, and Cancun.
UCF alum Clay Newbill ‘82 helped launch the TV series back in 1992 as an Executive Producer. He went on to create the MTV hit series “Road Rules.” He has also produced such hit shows as “Making the Band,” “The Mole,” and “The Bachelorette.”
“The Real World: New Orleans” will air on June 30th at 10 p.m. on MTV.

See Bonus Footage and Read McKenzie’s bio from MTV by clicking NEXTPAGE below:



UPDATE: 
KnightNews.com has learned that lightning caused the fire at one of the Pegasus Pointe apartment buildings yesterday.
Orange County Fire Rescue responded at about 3:15 p.m. Everyone was evacuated from the building safely, and there were no injuries, according to UCF.  Most of the students who live in the building were allowed to return to their apartments that evening. Five students in two apartments were not able to return to their home last night.
UCF Housing & Residence Life staff were available to help those students find other housing if needed, according to Chad Binette, a UCF spokesman. 
UCF Police assisted Orange County Fire Rescue at the scene.
Sponsored   Advertisement



One of our readers sent us a picture showing fire trucks and something resembling a ladder truck being used to fight the apparent fire.
There were no flames visible from Alafya Trail as of last check, however, several fire trucks were seen. A WESH 2 News truck was also on scene.
We’re working to get more information on this breaking story, and we’ll post it when we do.
Refresh this page for updates.



