FoxNews.com has determined UCF’s decision to invite an imam Fox says is connected to a 1993 World Trade Center bombing is one of the most important stories going on in the country right now.
UCF was on the homepage of FoxNews.com
The nation’s top-rated cable news organization has placed the story as one of the most prominent on its home page this noon, under this headline: “Students to Protest Speech From Controversial Imam”.
KnightNews.com has uncovered video showing UCF police using physical force during the last time a speaker, who many considered controversial, was invited to UCF. The video shows several UCF police officers removing someone who opposed the speaker’s message from the room.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NqUhf7Q_0Sc
The imam is scheduled to speak at 6:30 p.m. tonight in the Communications building, room 101. The speech is part of a month-long Islam Awareness Month put on by the Muslim Student Association which was funded by public money collected by the UCF Student Government Association. 
According to Fox News, the speaker, Imam Siraj Wahhaj, was a character witness for Abdel Rahman, known as the Blind Sheik, in addition to being an unindicted co-conspirator in the 1993 World Trade Center terrorist attacks. Fox reported he was invited by the Muslim Student Association to dispel misconceptions about the Islamic faith.
Fox reported, “Wahhaj is an African American convert to Islam and imam of the Masjid Al-Taqwa mosque in Brooklyn, New York. He denounced the World Trade Center terror attacks on Sept. 11, 2001 but his critics say he remains neutral about Usama Bin Laden and his role in the attacks.”

The Muslim Student Association released a statement to Fox News defending the invitation and purpose of the event. 
“The members of the Muslim Student Association are excited about or future speaker during Islam Awareness Month,” the statement read. “Imam Siraj Wahhaj has a long record of being a positive force in our community and has made frequent college visits to encourage all students to live positive lives. We think that once you get a chance to hear his message, you will agree that he is a good choice as our speaker for this important month.”
KnightNews.com will be at the event and let you know how UCF handles the protests which are planned.  



Central Florida union members gathered near the entrance of UCF Thursday night to demonstrate in support of fellow union members in Wisconsin. 

Wisconsin union members had been fighting their state government’s plans to strip public workers of collective bargaining rights. Overnight Friday, however, the Wisconsin Assembly passed a bill which would strip away most of those rights. 
State governments have been faced with having to make cuts across the country, but Wisconsin became a centerpiece of the national debate. 
The rally was put together by the Central Florida AFL-CIO, Florida Alliance for Retired Americans, and the Labor Council for Latin American Advancement. 
“We’re hoping to show them (Wisconsin labor unions) we’re one with them and they have the support of Floridians,” said Lorraine Tuliano, of the Central Florida AFL-CIO.  
The union workers also worried Fla. Gov. Rick Scott could try a similar move here. 




SGA President Michael Kilbride could end his term without a vice president by his side, after the Senate rejected his appointee Thursday night amid sharp criticism that he didn’t do enough to seek input from the Legislative branch before making his decision. 
“If I had to make a prediction, I don’t think he’s going to appoint anybody,” Deputy Pro Tempore Samantha Friefeld told KnightNews.com. “If he does, I wonder who it will be. If he was smart, he would ask the other branches.”
Unlike the time when just over one-thid of the Senate rejected Kilbride’s choice for comptroller, Darren Kaplan, this time, a majority of the Senate said no to making Nelsi Mora Vice President. 
Mora, who served without a whiff of controversy or corruption during her time as a member of Kilbride’s cabinet, was rejected by a vote count of 18-19. The Vice President position became vacant after Taylor Lochrane announced he was leaving SGA to enter the real world to work for the US Department of Transportation. 
“Lochrane had announced Kilbride went around asking leaders within Student Government for a well qualified candidate,” Friefeld told KnightNews.com. “No one was ever asked from the Legislative side.”
That bothered Friefeld, because she believes “the vice president is the vice president of Student Government and every branch should be approached.”
Friefeld asked Kilbride for an explanation and found out that “he only talked to people on the Executive branch because he wanted to make an easier transition.”
Friefeld also had concerns regarding Mora’s level of SGA experience. 
“I just really felt her qualifications didn’t really qualify her for the job,” Friefeld said.  
Governmental Affairs Committee Chair Thomas Hellinger also raised questions about her qualifications, senators told KnightNews.com. There were, however, senators who did speak in her favor. 
Sen. Matt Arbos suggested SGA could go the rest of the year without a Vice President, in order to to save the students money. 
“Other members of the cabinet can be in charge of their divisions and run things smoothly. We don’t need another paid position,” Arbos said. “Regardless, Nelsi still keeps her Academic Affairs coordinator position. So I think Senate made the right decision in the end.”
KnightNews.com went to the Senate meeting to get a comment from Kilbride but he left early. KnightNews.com was unable to immediately reach Mora for comment.



