Update: The Occupy Orlando movement went off Saturday with a march through downtown and an occupation of a park. Meanwhile, up in New York City, KnightNews.com has learned UCF students are marching with UCF alumni activists and former SGA officials Matt De Vlieger and Eric Eingold. Eingold tweeted to KnightNews.com that there were five UCF students with him over the weekend NYC occupation.
De Vlieger interviewed Mike Myers during one of the marches.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r5DfQXNd01w
Before the spin-off Occupy Orlando began, KnightNews.com sat down with a UCF student who told us he got arrested during Occupy Wallstreet in New York. See his interview below:

Check back to KnightNews.com for more on the occupy movement. 
According to the Occupy Orlando website, the movement describes itself as “a leaderless, nonviolent political movement that is spreading around the United States and the globe.   Our purpose is to send a message from the 99% -“We the People”- to the 1% who run the mega-corporations and government that we are no longer willing to tolerate the greed and corruption that places profits before people.”   
The Occupy movements across the country have led to several hundred arrests. 

(Sponsored Advertisement)

 
It is unclear how many protesters will occupy a park near the Orlando Chamber of Commerce and will march through downtown on Saturday.
KnightNews.com interviewed a UCF student who was arrested in the Occupy Wall Street protests in New York.

The route of the march is still unclear but it is expected to start at 11:30 a.m.. 
KnightNews.com will continue to follow this story and the Occupy Orlando movement.



KnightNews.com is getting multiple reports that a shooting happened at “The Plaza” across from UCF early Friday morning. 
Crime scene tape was set up in the parking lot area surrounding Deko lounge. A manager with that bar told KnightNews.com that he received reports someone was shot in the shoulder — but it wasn’t deadly.
Sponsored Advertisement (Story Continues Below)


UCF students inside the bar at the time were shocked. 
“Thank God I got out alive,” Latoya Laing said on KnightNews.com’s Facebook post about the shooting. “Everything was fine. There was no fight, no argument nothing. Shots just went off and everyone ran. Someone said there was blood on the ground, but I didn’t see it. I just got out of there.”
By 2:30 a.m. only about a half-dozed squad cars from the Orange County Sheriff’s Office remained on scene. However, earlier on in the investigation, eyewitnesses told KnightNews.com they estimated about two dozen squad cars were on scene and that the shooting may have happened in or around the bar popular with UCF students. 
A Deko employee told KnightNews.com the shooting happened during the club’s popular hip-hop night, where the club takes extra safety precautions by patting patrons down.
KnightNews.com is working to gather more on this story. If you were there or have information or pictures showing what happened, send them to news@knightnews.com. 
Check back for updates on this major breaking news.



