With the Daytona 500 coming up a week from today, NASCAR popularity is at a fever pitch. With that in mind, UCF’s America’s Society of Mechanical Engineers club and Red Bull are teaming up again to bring the Redbull Nascar to campus.
Check out the video from the last time the Red Bull Nascar was on campus:

The car is scheduled to be at the loading dock in between Engineering Buildings 1 and 2 at noon on Monday, and then driven through campus. The driver will also be taking questions about the car, and providing photo opportunities for those who want to take advantage.



Today launched the start of the four-day event entitled “Shack-A-Thon,” which is a shack-building event aimed at raising money for Habitat for Humanity.
Student partaking in the event have the goal of creating a habitat house built solely by UCF students. The event started Sunday and runs through Wednesday night with the following schedule:
Sunday // February 13, 2011
11:30 a.m. – Habitat home owner speaks
12:00 p.m. –  Groups start building
7:00 p.m. –  Groups clean up/ building ends
Monday // February 14, 2011
3:00 p.m. – Groups arrive and begin Scavenger Hunt
6:30 p.m. – Scavenger hunt ends
Tuesday // February, 15, 2011
All day –  Moon bounce
6:00 p.m. – Groups arrive and games begin for anyone
Wednesday // February 16, 2011
5:30 p.m. –  Judging of Shacks
6:30 p.m. – Three bands performances, as well as award ceremonies



Every February since 1976, we have celebrated Black History Month to inform and educate the community about the contributions Black Americans have made to today’s society.
Over the course of February’s twenty-eight days, we commemorate the memory of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., the Civil Rights Movement, and the numerous Black inventors, public figures, and firsts of the race, such as Barack Obama, our country’s first Black president. This year is no different. The UCF Black History Month Steering Committee kicked off the celebration on the 1st, with an Opening Ceremony in an effort to inform UCF students about the several events occurring during the month.
So far, there has been a blood pressure screening and an HIV/AIDS awareness day, aimed to highlight the serious health concerns of the Black community. On February 7th, there was a “Tribute to the Black Man” ceremony, sponsored by The Black Female Development Circle, and MASS put on a First Generation Round Table on the 9th, a gathering designed to discuss the pressures of being the first in the family to attend college. With at least one event a day, the opportunities to take part in this celebration are endless.
All month the UCF Library is hosting an African American studies exhibit, and on Tuesday, February 15, the MSC will present Dr. Steve Perry, who will speak at the Fairwinds Alumni Center.  Dr. Perry is probably best known for his appearances on Black in America, a documentary by CNN that aired this past summer, highlighting the African-American experience.
On the 16th, “The Power of the Black College Student” will be held in the Student Union and a pool party extravaganza will take place on the 23rd at 12pm at the Leisure Pool.
This month is the perfect time to learn more not only about Black history, but our country’s history and how far we’ve come in so little time. From movie screenings to speeches to pool parties to health forums, there’s sure to be something for everyone.
A complete list of all Black History Month events can be found by clicking here.



