KnightNews.com has found a YouTube account bearing his name. One of the disturbing videos he posted is below. Although he posted it as his “final thoughts,” Loughner did not die in the shooting. He is in custody now.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7uRjwPWaxiY
It talks about people not being able to read, and of a government that he has lost faith in. He also points out he doesn’t trust in US money — or God — when speaking of US Currency.
Congresswoman Giffords Shot
He also had a MySpace page which has since been deleted. Here is what it said prior to it being taken down:
Schools:I attended school: Thornydale elementary,Tortolita Middle School, Mountain View Highschool, Northwest Aztec Middle College, and Pima Community College.
Interests:My favorite interest was reading, and I studied grammar. Conscience dreams were a great study in college!
Movies:(*My idiom: I could coin the moment!*)
Music:Pass me the strings!
Books:I had favorite books: Animal Farm, Brave New World, The Wizard Of OZ, Aesop Fables, The Odyssey, Alice Adventures Into Wonderland, Fahrenheit 451, Peter Pan, To Kill A Mockingbird, We The Living, Phantom Toll Booth, One Flew Over The Cuckoo’s Nest, Pulp,Through The Looking Glass, The Communist Manifesto, Siddhartha, The Old Man And The Sea, Gulliver’s Travels, Mein Kampf, The Republic, and Meno.



Arizona Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, a democrat, is clinging to life after being hit during a mass shooting at a “Congress on Your Corner” public event held at an Arizona grocery store, leaving several shot and many of those victims feared dead. 
“We do not yet have all the answers,” Obama said. “What we do know is that such a senseless and terrible act of violence has no place in a free society.” 
At least five have been reported killed after the shooting at a Safeway grocery store, according to AZCentral.com. A federal judge, John Roll, was also shot and killed during the mass shooting, Fox News reported. He was nominated by former President George Bush in 1991. They later said they couldn’t confirm if he was indeed dead, citing breaking news. 
An Arizona newspaper reported someone in the crowd fired back at the gunman during Saturday’s shooting. 
That paper also reported that during a similar event in 2009 a protestor had brought a gun dropped the firearm at the event. Police were alerted and no one was injured at that event. The 2009 meeting took place during the height of the fury over President Obama’s health care reform debate.
One suspect is in custody at this point. Fox reported a search is ongoing for a possible second suspect, but it may just be a precaution as there’s no clear evidence a second suspect is at large. 
KnightNews.com will update this major breaking news. Check back later. 



