All photos by Nick Russett.




























Within a matter of a few years, Porter Robinson transformed from being a nerdy video game playing adolescent to one of the most demanded emerging DJ/producers in the country.  Developing an interest in music at the young age of 12, Robinson spent the past seven years working toward successful beat making and song writing, combining an eclectic of genres into his own sound, merely to engage his interest of the electronic music sound. But in the midst of applying for college, Robinson’s music was discovered and instead of spending his senior year stressing about his college decision, Robinson toured the country, sharing the stage with the EDM elite including artists such as A-Trak, Afrojack, Moby and Dadalife. Currently sleeping in a different hotel room every night, Robinson just returned from touring with Tiesto on his “Club Life College Invasion Tour” and is most recently on tour to promote his latest EP “Spitfire, ” which is signed to OWSLA, Skrillex’s record label. 
Though this college freshman-aged lad is constantly either touring, producing or catching up on sleep, he managed to update me about his quick rise to fame and his everyday schedule, after he entertained the Orlando EDM fans at Roxy Nightclub. 
Awesome show last night! No one could stop raving about you after it.
Ha, thanks. It was a lot of fun!
Where are you playing tonight?
Cleveland I think. Yeah, Cleveland. It’s hard to keep track, every day I’m in a new city. I forget where I am half the time.
Can you describe to me the process of reaching fame? It seems like within a matter of a few months you blew up within the EDM scene. 
Ha, that’s how it seems and it’s one way of looking at it. I’ve been producing since I was 12 but I didn’t get discovered until last year and I’ve been touring since.
What motivated you to start producing? I hear you’re from Chapel Hill, how is the scene there?
I’m almost embarrassed to say this but I use to be the biggest video game nerd growing up. Video games always played the best electronic music and I wanted to emulate the sound after hearing a few songs.  I never thought anything of it, nor was I trying to become a tour DJ or anything because it just wasn’t my world; Chapel Hill has absolutely no EDM scene.  Eventually though, I met a few promoters along the way who had heard some of my hits and overtime, they’d ask me to play at their clubs. I then started playing at a few clubs and just last year started touring.  My first gig was in Santa Cruz.
So what lucky video game can you credit to peaking your interest and ultimately, changing your life? 
Dance Dave Revolution. I was really obsessed with it and I bought one of the DDR soundtracks and totally loved it. After that, it was game-over and I started producing.
Ha, a favorite past time of mine! Do you play on tour?
No, I produce, party, eat and try to sleep in my free time.
What’s it been like touring? Crazy, I presume. 
Yeah, like I said, I wake up in a different hotel room every day and frequently forget what city I’m in. But it’s been a lot of fun. Originally I was going to tour and then go to UNC Chapel Hill for underground but there’s no way I’d go back to school now. Touring has allowed me to travel and meet people from all over the world.  Each show is a new experience.  I’m learning things that no textbook could ever inform me about. It’s been unbelievable. I just got back from touring with Tiesto and now I’m on my own tour.
Your life seems like your DJ sets, non-stop.   
Ha, ya it’s crazy, My sleep schedule is so messed up. I nap at the weirdest times and wake up right before a set.
Then what? How do you get ready for a show? Do you have any weird or special idiosyncrasies? 
I use to have rituals and routines but I realized it wasn’t benefiting me so now I pretty much order four Starbucks coffees and I’m good to go.
Throughout your shows, are you just playing to keep your fans amused and dancing, or are you trying to communicate something through your music?
I’ve noticed, in America at least, that a lot of fans are mostly into the high-energy, fist pumping type shows, which is great but there’s more to electronic music than just catchy melodies.
So are you trying to produce a different type of sound with hopes of pulling the American EDM scene in a different direction?
 It’s hard for me to make a prediction about what I’m doing next and where I’m going. I’d like to make music with a good-long emotional, epic break down and have the crowd enjoy that, rather than have them just enjoy the anticipation for the next drop.  I have a firm belief that I can totally persuade a crowd. These European trance DJs are great at it.
Kind of like the Afternova song you recently tweeted?
Yeah, “Serenity” is the most beautiful song I’ve ever heard.
What’s your story post-production?
It totally depends. I mean if it was a great show, I’m down to rage after. But then again, there are times it has been great but I’m so dead and just need to rest or fly out to the next city. I really love hanging out with fans, meeting new people, hanging with the ladies…
I hear you’re quite the ladies man. Have you been taking advantage of the fact that you’re only 19 but woman of all ages are throwing themselves at you?
Haha, well, let’s just say I’ve had some fun recently. I definitely like to keep myself in check and not do anything crazy of course, but I’ve had a few “23 year-old cradle lovers.”
So thus far in your career, who in the industry has inspired you most?
I have a few and each inspires me differently.  I love Wolfgang’s pioneered sound. Deadmau5 is extremely personal. I really dig Noisa from Holland. And as far as live performances go, I love the Pendulum DJ set and Skrillex’s high-energy.
When you’re at a show listening to their music, or EDM in general for that matter, what kind of fan are you? The typical neon club goer? Fist pumping tool? Awkward kid in the back? Smoother talker at the bar?
Ha, well I’ve never really raved. I mean, the first time I went to a club was for my first show!  Like I said, there’s no EDM scene in Chapel Hill. I love techno and I’d love to rock out and rage but I never really have time to with touring.
What’s in stock next for you after this tour?  Can we hope to see you at Ultra Music Festival 2012?
Can’t say either way yet but I’ll probably be back in Miami during that week for Miami Music Week. 



 David Lynch was crowned homecoming king and Chelsea Ball homecoming queen during the halftime of the UCF football game against Memphis. 

Here is video of the UCF Homecoming Court being announced at Skit Knight.




Bassnectar is out-of-control. He creates, innovates, socially impacts and is currently making every dubstup lovin’ individual go “bananas” on his current Divergent Spectrum tour. With his “long hair, don’t care” appearance, this Bay Area bred, base-making DJ/producer still manages to put on incredibly original shows during this popular electronica music era. 
Playing to a complete sold-out crowd last Thursday night at The Hard Rock, Bassnectar pushed limits as he intrigued all five human senses with his unique auditory skill. Combining the hip hop, reggae, electronic and dubstep genres with every type of bass imaginable, kids spent the show actually dancing rather than just fist pumping, while his music went from slow, to progressively faster heavy tempo. Each song spun was an experience within itself as his defining “womppppppp, womppppp, womp” sound projected from the stage’s subwoofer. And as if his music didn’t provide for enough pleasure for every bass head in attendance, a mind-blowing light show projected onto the crowd causing retinas to expand, mouths to open and a few attendees to scream out, “Oh my gosh, my face is melting!” 
A DJ/producer that can’t be criticized for a lack of stage performance, Bassnectar is a truly one-of-a-kind individual, transcending every aspect of electronic music into amusing live sets and really taking his fans on a journey into a Divergent Spectrum.



Click Next Page to view more. 



