Sunday, the Kappa Alpha Theta Sorority hosted its inaugural Color Wars event, where fraternities and sororities teamed up to compete in a series of field day activities in Memory Mall on the UCF campus.

One of the events was a barrel walk, where one contestant had to carry a member of their team on their back while holding another team member by their legs as that teammate walked on their hands to complete the relay.
Another event was a marshmallow relay, which required the contestants to spin around five times, then run to the end of the field and lie down while a marshmallow was dropped in their mouth along with chocolate syrup, and then run back to the other end and tag in their next teammate.
Sponsored Link (Story Continues Below)
In addition to the games, students could buy snow cones, body and face paint, participate in an Oxygen bar and visit several other stations, all which yielded proceeds to Kappa Alpha Theta’s official philanthropy, Court Appointed Special Advocates (C.A.S.A.)
The event’s chairwoman, Carly Griffo, was pleased to see such a great turnout at the event’s first year, and hopes for continued success in the future.



This coming week the Recreation and Wellness Center is getting ready to host its yearly Splash Down event.  The event will take place this Wednesday (April 13th) from 2-4 pm at the leisure pool.  Contributing to the fun alongside the beautiful summer weather will be live music from DJ Anthony Martinez, free food and T-shirt giveaways, prize winning contests, and unique poolside activities. 
A Situational Abs contest will be taking place at 2:30, with the winner earning a free personal training session at the Recreation and Wellness Center Gym.  For those who are sporting great pre-summer tans, at 3:00 a Best Tan competition will be welcoming brave competitors.  The winner of this contest will get free exercise equipment, also courtesy of UCF’s gym.
“The RWC is making an effort to give back to its students in the best way possible.  Splash Down is packed full of activities and fun.  It also offers students a brief escape from their studies before exam week,” says Splash Down’s organizer, Sam Tankersley.
Scheduled poolside activities for Splash Down 2011 are dollar-a-minute massages and a fake tattoo station to spice up your summer beach body.  Various UCF clubs and organizations will also be offering information and giveaways along the pool deck.   
With finals week fast approaching, Splash Down offers the perfect chance to take a break before delving into the book for the last time this school year.  Tankersley says, “Students should take the opportunity to enjoy music, free food, giveaways, and relaxation before stress takes over!” The Recreation and Wellness Center’s Splash Down 2011 festival promises to be an excellent opportunity to kick back and enjoy the beginning of a summer in the sun.  



Thursday, the Zeta Tau Alpha sorority held its annual King of the Campus competition, consisting of multiple fraternities vying to be their ‘sweethearts.’
The winners of the competition were Robert Rutner and Quinton Obrochta, both brothers of the Alpha Tau Omego fraternity. 
Sponsored Link (Story Continues Below)
TALENTS:

ANNOUNCEMENT AND INTERVIEW OF WINNERS:

The winner of the competition is decided based on their participation throughout the week in helping out the sorority and then at the actual event, where judges are used to award points int he pageant, which consists of a question and answer section, a formal wear section and a talent section.
KnightNews.com’s own Andrew Stein was honored to be a judge at the event, which was chaired by Rebecca Bormel, a sister of the sorority.



