See a replay of the live stream of the first SGA Presidential debate here:




Last year was a record year for UCF’s Student Government Association in many ways. 
The 2010 Fall Senate elections not only experienced the fewest amount of candidates running, but also one of the lowest voter turnouts in recent UCF history.
On the heels of that embarrassing turn out, those running in the Spring SGA presidential elections have stepped up their efforts to reach out to the UCF community. 
Typically, candidates participate in some form of a debate shortly before the elections, and aggressively campaign during voting. Supporters volunteer their time to talk to students during the voting period, and often bring their personal laptops to allow students to vote.
However, this year, tickets are engaging in all sorts of early campaigning, including some new techniques, ranging from social media to direct phone lines. 
“While campaigning, it is our strongest hope to include as many students in the process as possible,” said Matthew McCann, who is running for SGA President.
“To us, the student voice is number one, above all else. We truly care about what students expect,” said Nicholas Gurney, the SGA Presidential candidate on the the other ticket.
McCann & Brock's website has a new Facebook Tagging AppMcCann’s campaign launched its full website Monday, containing information about those who support the ticket, the ideas they represent, as well as some information about the candidates themselves. Gurney’s campaign plans to launch its website soon, but has first been focusing on reaching out through a grass-roots style Facebook campaign called 25 Issues in 25 Days which he launched before Spring Break. The initiative has included videos his campaign produced as well. 
Both camps are using the now common tactic of having their supporters tag a watermark with the candidates’ logos on their Facebook profile pictures. McCann’s camp has taken this method a step further by developing a Facebook app which uploads the photos automatically and also seems to be able to remotely update a supporter’s status with messages of support.
“We were the first campaign ever to reach out in this manner and we’re very excited to already be innovating some methods of communication which students are excited about,” McCann stated, adding that Facebook “allows us to reach out in ways that students find interesting and un-intrusive.”  
Outreach over Facebook is also one of the five main ways Gurney is “seeking student input,” through both his 25 Issues in 25 Days and traditional Facebook group pushing his slogan that students should “Expect More” of SGA and its leaders. The Gurney camp, keeping with the social media trend, also started a Twitter account for the ticket, as well as a direct phone line: 561-543-0267.



Check out some footage of the play, as well as performer interviews, below: 

Starting tonight, the Break Through: Bringing Down the Barriers, will be playing at the UCF Conservatory Theater.
Break Through is a play about living in the LGBTQI (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Questioning and Intersex) community, and the indignations, civil rights violations, and the hate-motivated stigmas that plague the community. According to the play’s website, the team that put it together “collected stories, research, and interviews from one of the most culturally diverse cities in the country, and transformed the raw material into heart-rending, eye-opening performance pieces that expose the everyday secrets of what it’s like to be queer in America in the 21st century.”
Eden Wetherell, the marketing director for the play, encouraged UCF students to come out and watch. “This show is an eye-opening production about society’s barriers and the amazing true stories of bringing them down, and is exactly what this world needs to see.”
The play, hosted by Knight Allies at UCF and sponsored by the UCF Office of Diversity Initiatives, Campus Activities Board, UCF Victim Services, Princeton Review, and the Office of Instructional Resources, will be free to UCF students with a UCF student ID. 

Below is a video preview of the play:

However, there is reserved seating and a VIP reception for those interested in paying $15 or $30, respectively. And for those who aren’t students, the price is $5 for general admission. All of the proceeds from Break Through will benefit The Zebra Coalition, a non-profit organization that provides services and safe spaces to troubled LGBTQI youth.
Show times for the play are 8 p.m. Thursday, Friday and Saturday. There will be a special 2 p.m. showing on Sunday as well.
For those interested in helping, there will be tables set-up at the show containing information from a few of the plays UCF sponsors (The UCF Office of Diversity Initiatives, UCF Victim Services, UCF Counseling Center), Registered Student Organization hosting Break Through (Knight Allies at UCF), Equal at UCF, and and the Zebra Coalition, who will be handing out information on how to help those in the LGBTQI community.



