Editorial
The other day, Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich had announced that he will be seeking the Presidency of the United States.  Speaker Gingrich is one of the people credited with the 1994 Republican Revolution, announced his decision to seek the Republican Nomination via his official Twitter Account. Gingrich called for American’s to stand up with him, because this is something that not “one person in the Oval Office,” can do on his own. 
Speaker Gingrich is an interesting candidate moving forward.  He is the first major candidate to officially declare that he will be seeking the nation’s highest office.  
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xRSz21Vedxc
To me, Gingrich is someone to really watch in the republican primaries.  If social conservatives across the country can get past the fact that he has been married three times, then he could be just who the Republicans need going up against President Obama.
Gingrich is what some would call a policy heavyweight.  He is well versed in Foreign Policy, as well as the country’s domestic problems.  Gingrich takes a lot of credit when discussing the Clinton era Welfare reforms.
Gingrich going head to head against Obama would make conservatives salivate.  Obama, who dare I say is not the best speaker without a teleprompter, would have a really tough time discussing policy on a lectern against the former Speaker. 
While I am not ready to endorse a candidate for President, what I will say is that I am very much looking forward to how Republicans across the country receive Gingrich in his second go around in Politics.  However, I will say that he better become a little more exciting, because if his candidacy is going to be anything like his announcement today, it could be a short run for him.



Update: UCF Spokesman Grant Heston said the construction relates to “the natural-gas energy facility UCF is building to save energy costs and reduce environmental impacts.”
Days after the Orlando Sentinel released a major investigative report on UCF’s controversial plans to eventually bulldoze the arboretum, KnightNews.com has noticed constructions crews at work right next to the treasured green space.
 
It’s not yet clear how, if at all, this construction relates to the arboretum, regarded by many as the Central Park of UCF. However, its proximity to the once lush ecosystem which fell into disrepair after UCF’s alleged mismanagement, could cause concern among the arboretum’s supporters. 
KnightNews.com is working to find out more from UCF officials on this construction, and also to see what the status of the arboretum is. The Sentinel reported that the St. John’s River Water Management District approved UCF’s request to remove protected status of the land, in exchange for another piece of land that is already too environmentally sensitive to build on. 
State officials — possibly Gov. Rick Scott himself — may have to approve the release of the arboretum’s protected status. That’s because Gov. Jeb Bush issued an order that it be protected. Read more of the Sentinel’s investigation here, which ran on the paper’s front page.  



Students at the University of Central Florida could soon study how to become dentists. 
The UCF Board of Trustees is expected to approve a proposal on May 26 which would establish a College of Dental Medicine. It would be located at the UCF Health Sciences Campus at Lake Nona, according to a UCF news release. UCF says it would create at least 110 local jobs as well as an initial economic impact of $73 million.  
“The College of Dental Medicine will mean opportunities for our local students to obtain a dental education that they must now leave our area to achieve,” UCF President John C. Hitt said in the statement. “The college will create opportunities to help more people in need of dental care who cannot afford it. And it will provide Central Florida with new jobs and an economic boost in challenging times.”
UCF says it has no intentions of using public money to pay for the project. A secret private donor is ponying up a $10 million donation to get it going. UCF says it will then  secure a loan of approximately $40 million to cover necessary startup costs of the facility, which will be built next to the College of Medicine in Lake Nona’s “Medical City.”
According to UCF, there are only two accredited dental schools with enrolled students in Florida – one in Gainesville and one in Fort Lauderdale. 
UCF estimates the initial economic impact to be $73 million, coming from construction and equipment costs. Once it’s up and running, the dental school is projected to generate approximately $69 million in annual economic impact, and that doesn’t include the research dollars the dental school could bring. 
The med school’s dean was excited. 
“This is a unique opportunity for us,” said Dr. Deborah German, vice president for medical affairs at UCF and dean of the College of Medicine. “There is a link between oral health and overall health. In fact, recent studies indicate that oral disease is often present in diabetes and cardiovascular disease. We expect to be conducting research in these areas, which will benefit our students and the community’s overall health.”



