Just in time for Valentine’s Day, President Obama submitted a 2012 budget to Congress that reflected painful cuts in order to reduce the national debt by $1 trillion over a decade. One of these painful cuts applies to the Pell Grant, reducing the year-round aid to the fall and spring semesters only. 
Obama administration officials say the current year-round program is a wasteful and ineffective use of funds that does not help students receive their degrees any faster than the traditional four-year ride.
President Obama hopes to save $90 billion over a decade by reducing the financial aid budget. Aside from cutting summer Pell disbursements, the president also proposed a plan to reduce loan subsidies for graduate and professional students. 
The government currently pays the interest on subsidized loans as long as students remain enrolled in classes at least half-time. President Obama’s plan would call for some sort of cutback on those interest payments. 
Administration officials believe the current system does not encourage students to further their education into graduate studies and is therefore a wasteful expense.
The money saved from these budget changes will aid in new programs for early education. According to the U.S. Department of Education, these investments include “competitive K-12 programs” and “new and expanded programs that support teacher and principal effectiveness.” 
“Career education is vitally important to America’s future, but we need to strengthen and reform our programs before expanding them,” Education Secretary Arne Duncan said on Monday morning.
The general idea of the budget changes seem to take the inefficiently used funds from college financial aid to add to early education programs, an area that desperately needs funding and reforming. 
Some of the increases in early education include $54 million more for low performing schools and $100 million more for after school programs.
While these increases are necessary for our budding future leaders, many college students in the middle of earning their degrees may be wondering how this new proposed budget will affect them. 
Without summer disbursements of Pell grants, students will be forced to compensate that loss by applying for institutional scholarships or Stafford and PLUS loans, potentially landing them in more debt pending graduation. Some low-income students may even have to forgo summer school to avoid resorting to borrowing.
“I think what they’re doing is political posturing,” says Mary McKinney, Executive Director of Financial Aid Assistance at UCF. “The current resources are not adequate in the first place and there are solutions that would be more efficient than just cutting across the board. Education is just a small piece of it. Cutting from the tiniest portion of the budget does not fix the problem.”
Like every issue since President Obama’s inauguration, the budget has become an instrument of political party tactics instead of what is best for the country. Congress has yet to approve the budget, as Republicans argue that the overall cuts to the government’s spending are not enough and Democrats say it’s too much. 
“They are always looking for immediate solutions instead of good solutions,” says McKinney.
As Congress and the president debate the budget indefinitely, the country can only hope they will come to a lasting solution that will paint a brighter future for all students.
*Ms. McKinney’s statement is based solely on her individual opinion. Her statement does not reflect the official opinion of UCF.



Paul Rusesabagina arrived on UCF’s campus to speak to a large and eager crowd in the Pegasus Ballroom on Tuesday. The real-life hero of the movie Hotel Rwanda recounted the horrible experience he survived in the middle of a savage genocide that occurred in 1994. Not only did he save his family, but Rusesabagina also saved over 1,200 refugees by allowing them sanctuary in his hotel in Kigali, Rwanda. He is recognized as a humanitarian for his bravery and, today, he travels the world sharing his message of survival and inspiration.
When most people hear about the Rwandan Genocide, they think of a ninety-day span during which an estimated 850,000 Tutsis were brutally slaughtered, but Rusesabagina says the threat of genocide was evident long before 1994.
“We saw it coming, but we did not want to act. No one wanted to get involved in that.” 
Rusesabagina explained to the packed ballroom that the division amongst Tutsis and Hutus in Rwanda has been a violent issue for decades, gaining momentum around 1959 during the Hutu Revolution. Up until that time, the Tutsis had maintained most of the power in Rwanda dating back hundreds of years and used that power to suppress and mistreat the Hutu majority population. 
“Genocide is not a thing that folds out of nowhere,” Rusesabagina said, thoughtfully. 
By 1962, the Hutu Emancipation Movement had successfully overthrown the Tutsi regime and the Rwandan Genocide of 1994 began as an act of retaliation against centuries of oppression.  
Because of his paternal Hutu heritage, Rusesabagina was theoretically safe from the genocide, but his Tutsi wife, Tatiana, was not, so he moved his family to the Hȏtel des Mille Collines to save his wife and children from imminent execution. Before long, neighbors and friends sought refuge with Rusesabagina and his family. He accepted them all. 
“We starved together,” he said, describing their time together as they hid. “To be a refugee is to be something. We had no food, no water, and no medicine. It’s an experience that cannot be explained.” 
For 76 days, Rusesabagina, his family, neighbors, and friends survived on dry beans and corn, scared for their lives as they hid in the shadows. The hotel was attacked many times; one of those instances Rusesabagina said was the “scariest day of my life.” Under the false pretense of amnesty, he led his family and the refugees out of the hotel to be carried to safety by the new government. Mid-way to a secure shelter, the guards escorting them called Rusesabagina a traitor and ordered him to kill every refugee that he’d managed to save.
“What would you do? What would you say?” Rusesabagina asked the ballroom as the audience stared back at him blankly. Because of quick-thinking, he was able to negotiate his family and the refugees’ lives by offering money to the guards.
“The best and worst weapons in a human’s arsenal are words,” Rusesabagina said. “I like to fight with words, not guns.”
This is a fact proven by Mr. Rusesabagina’s determination to speak out against violence and, more importantly, the lack of action being taken against it. As he travels the globe to encourage action and awareness against the mass-murder still occurring throughout the African continent, naysayers have denied Rusesabagina’s heroic past.
When the crowd was prompted for questions, three audience members asked Rusesabagina to explain his refusal to address the claims that question his heroism and connect him to a violent liberation front in the Congo. He replied that he’d never called himself a hero and that his only agenda was to promote peace and change.
Despite conflicting accounts of Rusesabagina’s story, his message is an important one. Today, the relations between the Tutsis and Hutus remain strained and the mineral war in the Congo has fueled the mass-murder of millions. His agenda to push awareness is crucial. As the old adage says, “Those who don’t remember history are doomed to repeat it.” 
In his closing, Rusesabagina addressed the audience with hope for the future and a call to action.
“If you want to get involved, we can change the world.”
To learn more about Paul Rusesabagina and his Hotel Rwanda foundation, visit http://hrrfoundation.org/



The UCF SGA Senate meeting started with another member of Student Body President Michael Kilbride’s cabinet stepping down. 
This time, it was Attorney General Nicholas Gurney, who announced it was  his “time” to move on from the position. Gurney made news recently for his opinion calling for Kilbride to share his Knightmare spending database with the SGA Senate. 
Kilbride stripped nearly the entire Senate of access the same day KnightNews.com published a story exposing how he spent $8,000 in student money to host a luxury weekend retreat at a lavish, five star Disney area resort. 
As of the last official word KnightNews.com has heard from Kilbride’s public relations staff, he had not complied with Gurney’s opinion and opened the Knightmare database up to Senate. However, Kilbride responded to a public records request placed by KnightNews.com this morning by agreeing to set up a time for KnightNews.com to directly access and review the Executive Branch spending records on Knightmare. 
KnightNews.com will continue monitoring the Senate’s fight for Knightmare and will let you know what we find in the database once we take Kilbride up on his offer to let us review the electronic records. 
In other SGA Senate news, the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana laws was also present at Senate. There was some issue they were addressing about not having an SGA logo on some promotional material. 
SGA rules mandate that its logo be branded on most promotional material when it helps UCF clubs fund it. 
Check back for more details on this issue and other major developments at Senate. 



KnightNews.com is on the scene of a motorcycle crash reported near UCF Greek Park by the Kappa Sigma house just before 4:30 p.m. Thursday. 
The victim appeared to have lost control and knocked down a light pole during the crash, according to spectators on scene.  

According to Orange County Fire Rescue, the victim was rushed to Orlando Regional Medical Center. His injuries do not appear life-threatening, but the damage to his bike will likely cause it to be totaled, officials said. 

A tow truck was on scene to remove the wrecked bike. Drivers should avoid the Greek Park area if possible during their commute home tonight, although the scene was being cleaned up quickly.

KnightNews.com will update this story if more information becomes available.



