The University of Central Florida was ranked 9th in Playboy’s list of top 10 party schools in the nation.
UCF was the only school in Florida to make the list this year. Miami and Rollins college were both in the 2010 rankings.
The playboy website wrote this when describing why UCF was ranked No. 9: “When you put 56,000 college students 20 minutes from downtown Orlando, you end up with an explosive mix of sun, sand and girls. UCF’s campus is well appointed (the dorms are akin to hotels), and though the school’s football team is unexceptional, prodigious tailgating makes up for any lack of athletic prowess. UCF students even get a discount on Universal Studios tickets. Sage advice from one student: ‘Never ride the Hulk drunk.’ Duly noted.”
According to a playboy press release, the rankings were put together by Playboy’s editors with input from students, alumni and Playboy campus representatives.

The rankings and reference to great tailgate parties come after KnightNews.com started covering tailgates with our “Tailgate Fan Cam.”
The release also says the rankings additional factors like “male-female ratios, academics, and the winning percentage of their sports teams, as well as their proximity to beaches, ski slopes and lively music scenes,” were taken into account.
The University of Colorado at Boulder topped the list at No. 1. A big reason why, according to Playboy, is because half the students participate in a giant 4/20 smoke out day. See video of that event below:
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aQ9gwROSuGU
Here’s the full top 10 Playboy party schools list:
1.      University of Colorado at Boulder
2.      Pennsylvania State University
3.      Arizona State University
4.      University of Western Ontario
5.      University of Texas at Austin
6.      University of Wisconsin
7.      University of Georgia
8.      University of Tennessee, Knoxville
9.      University of Central Florida
10.     University of California, Santa Barbara



If you walked by the Student Union’s Pegasus Ballroom this afternoon, you may have noticed workers setting up for an elaborate ceremony. But this wasn’t a setup for UCF alumni getting married on campus; it’s a lavish goodbye party embattled SGA President Michael Kilbride is throwing himself — courtesy of student activity and service fees.
The delay in producing requested records comes after UCF has so far refused to release an official copy of the scathing impeachment affidavit filed against Kilbride last week, alleging he should be kicked out of office for wasteful spending and questionable ethics. UCF may be breaking Florida Public Record law with this delay, if the delay is interpreted as illegal for taking longer than reasonably necessary to retrieve the records, redact and release them. 
The alleged ethics violations in the impeachment charges centered around how Kilbride’s SGA did $50,000 in business — often without getting bids –with a company Kilbride admitted gave him a $2 per shirt deal for his campaign shirts. When KnightNews.com exposed the situation around the time of the SGA presidential elections, Kilbride issued a statement to KnightNews.com saying he does not condone pay for play activities and made it clear it would be his “final statement” on that matter. 
He has released no further statement to KnightNews.com regarding the impeachment. KnightNews.com will work to find out more about the ceremony tonight, what’s on the menu and will try and track down Kilbride to interview him and ask why his SGA decided to spend money this way.
See a slideshow of the pictures below, just click Next Page on the bottom right to see the next one. 




Governor Rick Scott’s office announced today the four new trustees he has appointed to the UCF Board of Trustees, including former Orange County Mayor Rich Crotty.
The appointees also need to be confirmed by the Florida Senate, according to a press release sent out by the governor’s office.
Here’s the governor’s release the Orlando Sentinel published:
Tallahassee, Fla. – Governor Rick Scott today announced the reappointment of Olga M. Calvet and the appointments of Richard T. Crotty, Alan S. Florez and John R. Sprouls to the Board of Trustees, University of Central Florida.
Calvet, 61, of Orlando, is the chief financial officer for Palmas Services LLC.  She is reappointed for a term beginning April 13, 2011, and ending January 6, 2016.
Crotty, 62, of Orlando, is the executive vice president for Crossman and Company.  He succeeds Joseph Mantilla and is appointed for a term beginning April 13, 2011, and ending January 6, 2015.
Florez, 34, of Flagler Beach, is the executive vice president of Brown and Brown Insurance.  He succeeds Phyllis Klock and is appointed for a term beginning April 13, 2011, and ending January 6, 2016.
Sprouls, 52, of Windermere, is the executive vice president and chief executive officer of Universal Parks and Resorts.  He succeeds Judy Albertson and is appointed for a term beginning April 13, 2011, and ending January 6, 2016.
The appointments are subject to confirmation by the Florida Senate.



Michael Chandler is officially a Knight.
Donnie Jones and the UCF men’s basketball team announced that Chandler, the No. 4 center prospect in the nation according to Rivals.com, signed his letter of intent to play for the Knights on Wednesday morning.
The 6-foot-10 Chandler joins a recruiting class that already signed guard Rod  Days and forwards Wayne Martin and Kasey Wilson, making it one of the best classes in school history.
“We are extremely excited about adding Mike to our program,” Jones said in a press release. “He has a great skill  level. Mike is a big man who can score in the post, run the floor and  rebound. He has a huge upside with his abilities.”
As a senior at Lawrence North in Indianapolis, Ind., Chandler averaged 19.0 points, 12.0 rebounds, 4.0 blocks and 2.0 assists  per game. He did just as well his junior season, where he averaged 14.5 points, 7.6 rebounds and 2.1 blocks per game.
In addition to being ranked as the No. 4 center in the country, Chandler is also noted as the 47th-best  overall senior by Rivals.com. He is also at the top of the ESPN’s (No. 5  center, No. 42 overall) and Scout.com’s (No. 10 center) national rankings, and is regarded by some as one of the top centers in the nation.
“I really like Coach Jones,” Chandler said to the Orlando Sentinel in January. “We have a great  relationship. He showed me that he really cared about me and wants to  help me be a great player at UCF.”



