KnightNews.com received the following press release from Avicii’s management team:
AVICII * NYE * NYC – ARE YOU READY?
If you are one of the many millions still deciding what to do when the clock strikes midnight on January 1st, where to go, how to celebrate and of course more importantly ‘who with’…then pause for a second and consider this: You, your friends…and AVICII in New York City! 
On the 31st December 2011, Swedish superstar AVICII will descend upon the heart of New York City to play what will be, without doubt, the most intense farewell to 2011 the Big Apple has to offer!
Rest assured, this won’t be just any Avicii gig…with the production already looking bigger, better and more electrifying than Times Square itself, and as with anything Avicii and Ash (At Night) do – jammed full with off-the-wall surprises – this will be a night to truly cherish!
But be warned, celebrating the New Year with Avicii is an intimate and exclusive affair. Tickets are strictly limited and taking advantage of the PRE SALE is ESSENTIAL!
The exact location is still a closely guarded secret. In fact, we only know three things:
1.	Pre-Sale commences Thursday 22nd September at 12.00pm (ET).
2.	Tickets will sell out in minutes.
3.	When the ball drops, there’s nowhere else you’d rather be.
TICKETS
www.aviciinye.com



UCF students got a chance to vote for whether they support granting amnesty to students calling 911 for classmates suffering from alcohol poisoning  — and 83 percent of 4,124 UCF students answering that question on their SGA Senate Senate ballots said “yes.” 
UCF administrators have repeatedly rejected similar proposals students have been submitting for years. Previous policies were known as “Medical Amnesty” because they called for amnesty for students seeking help for emergencies arising from both alcohol and drugs. Following the repeated rejection of the full “Medical Amnesty” policy by UCF administrators, SGA has changed its tactic by pushing for a policy offering amnesty only for alcohol emergencies — and not drugs — known officially as the “Alcohol Emergency Policy.”
“We are pleased to learn that students would like to see this policy enacted here at UCF, and this support from the referendum will be a powerful lobbying tool for us going forward,” SGA spokeswoman Ashley Tinstman told KnightNews.com. “We will take this information to the UCF administration in hopes of eventually passing an alcohol emergency policy.”

In the video above, you can see the McCann/Brock administration pushing the policy during an SGA Senate meeting earlier this year. 
KnightNews.com will continue following the push for amnesty at UCF, and will update you if UCF administrators decide to pass the policy SGA plans to submit. 
The push for an alcohol amnesty policy at UCF has attracted widespread attention lately, in the wake of UCF freshman Ann Hefferin’s unexplained death and news that the University of Florida already adopted a similar policy earlier this year.
A full list of the winners of the SGA Senate elections is available in the SGA office. 



After their platinum certified single “Pumped Up Kicks” leaked on Hypem.com at the beginning of the year, Foster the People quickly transformed from being just another underground L.A. band to becoming one of the most demanded trios in the country. Currently on tour to support the success of their first album Torches, the band has started off the fall season with shows at ACL and Popped!, as well as several sold-out shows throughout North America. After being number one on the Alternative radio charts for seven consecutive weeks, number 15 on the Billboard Top Album Charts, receiving two MTV VMA nominations and being praised by The Washington Post and Spin, it’s safe to say that Foster the People has already reached huge success and their time is just beginning.
While they stopped to play to a sold-out crowd in Orlando, I caught up with their drummer, also an Orlando native, Mark Pontius to discuss their music, quick rise to fame and how they’ve managed to appeal to both the underground hipsters and the mainstream crowd.
You tweeted about being nervous for last night’s show in Orlando. How do you usually deal with your nerves prior to a set?
I usually just breathe deeply and stretch my arms but I don’t get nervous too often. Last night was unique because I’m from Orlando so my friends and family came out to watch. It ended up being an amazing show and just one big family reunion.
I guess you can’t afford to get nervous, especially at this point in your career. Only a week into your current tour and almost every show is sold-out, which is rare for such a new band. How does it feel? Did you expect such a great turnout from your fans?
It feels amazing! It’s pretty unbelievable. It’s crazy because at the beginning of the year we were playing shows in Southern California and barley filling 300 person venues, but now our tour is pretty much sold-out, minus a few cities. Tonight for example, we’re playing a sold-out show in Atlanta at a 4,000-person venue.
How are you dealing with all the fame?
It’s kind of weird. When you’re growing up you think, “Wow, that must be so fun!” but now that fame is happening to us, it’s weird and like a bubble. You kind of know what’s going on but on the other hand, not really. It’s funny because it’s usually friends of ours who inform us of our fame. The best though is when friends of mine who I haven’t seen in a while talk about this great band called Foster the People and I’m like, “Oh hey, I’m the drummer,” and they’re just so shocked!
It’s crazy how quickly fame prevailed for you guys! Foster the People went viral after “Pumped Up Kicks” became popular on Hypem.com, and then everything blew up once you guys played this year at SXSW and signed to Columbia Records?
Yeah, it was pretty nuts. Everything snowballed after SXSW and we had meetings with four or five different labels. Finally, we decided to sign with Columbia and have been pleased with our decision since.
What made you choose Columbia Records over the others?
Columbia has such a good roster with great bands that are career artists. And that’s exactly what type of label we were looking for.
What are you doing as a band to make sure you guys become career artists, rather than a band with just one successful album? Where do you see Foster the People in the future?
We’re really just focused on getting this record Torches going and then working on our second. It’s crazy because the second record really depicts the next five years of our lives as musicians. So we want to make sure that we keep the groovy and popness in our music. More than anything though, we want to step outside the box and push the levels. From there, hopefully we’ll push both realms and have something really successful.
The greatest and most unique part about your music is that it appeals to both the underground hipster culture and the mainstream crowd. How are you managing to appeal to both crowds?
Yeah, it’s great. In New Orleans for example, I remember looking around at the crowd to find a young children dancing and an older woman totally rocking out. And that’s exactly our goal: to create music for everyone to enjoy.



Described as one of electronic music’s most promising new acts, Zeds Dead has become an EDM favorite, thanks to YouTube and support from top artists such as Skrillex, Diplo, Rusko and Bassnectar. And After touring around the world and playing festivals throughout North America and the UK, the Toronto Based dubstep duo will finally be performing in Orlando on  September 29 at Firestone.
Click here to watch their music video with Omar LinX:  Rude Boy
For ticketing information please visit: www.firestonelive.net



KnightNews.com received the following press release from Rabbi Chaim Lipskier, the director of the Chabad Jewish Student Center, serving UCF students, regarding services for the Jewish New Year. See details below:
Jewish New Year — High Holiday Services
The Doors of Heaven are Open to All … So are Ours!
Orlando September 26, 2011
On Wednesday evening, September 28, 2011 the Jewish New Year, Rosh Hashanah will commence and continue through Friday night, September 30, 2011.  The Chabad Jewish Student Center will host a full High Holiday Services and meals schedule.  “Our services will be warm, friendly and traditional,” according to Rabbi Chaim Lipskier, the director of the center.  Organizers are expecting over 200 students to attend the first night’s service and dinner and plan to host well over 1,000 throughout the holiday.  The services will take place at the center; 600 Oak Circle, Oviedo, FL 32765
There are no fees or membership to join.  All are welcome, free of charge, regardless of background or affiliation.  “Despite the present economic crisis, the Chabad Jewish Student Center continues to stand by its philosophy that every Jew deserves a meaningful service, regardless of his or her financial wherewithal”, explained Rabbi Chaim Lipskier.”  Everyone is invited for services and meals, free of charge. The services will be user-friendly, making it enjoyable and meaningful for both the seasoned and the unversed.  The services will be in Hebrew and follow traditional customs interspersed with modern Jewish tunes and English readings.
“We are expecting and preparing for hundreds of people. We want everyone to know that the difficult financial situation has not slowed the efforts of the Chabad Student Center,” said Ari Tow, president of the Chabad Jewish Student Group at UCF.  “According to Tradition, at the New Year the Doors of Heaven are open and G-d accepts all prayers, from anyone.  The least we can do is open our doors as well, to the entire community,” added Rivkie Lipskier, co-director.
Services will be held on Rosh Hashanah – the Jewish New Year (September 28-
30), as well as Yom Kippur – the Day of Atonement (October 7-8).  They will be held at various times at the Center, 600 Oak Cir, Oviedo, FL, 32765.  For a full schedule of services times, please contact the center at 407.949.8838 or visit our web Site www.JewishUCF.com
The Center is a branch of the Chabad movement, an international Chassidic organization under the leadership of the Lubavitcher Rebbe, Rabbi Menachem M. Schneerson of righteous memory.  With over 3500 centers and establishments around the globe, it is by far the largest network of Jewish religious and social services in the world.
For further information on the above events, or if you have any questions related to the Jewish High Holidays, please contact Rabbi Chaim Lipskier at  407.949.8838 or at Rabbi@JewishUCF.com  



