After a controversial rave came to Orlando without any major problems reported, KnightNews.com is monitoring reports of at least one death following the Electric Daisy Carnival in Dallas and as many as 30 people being rushed to hospitals for drug, alcohol and heat-related illnesses.

Dallas police are investigating following the EDC festival at Fair Park Saturday night, which WFAA is reporting led to the death of 19-year-old Andrew Graf, who was pronounced dead at Baylor University Medical Center. His cause of death has not been released.
When the EDC rave came to Orlando, KnightNews.com talked to several University of Central Florida students who admitted to taking the club drug MDMA, also known as ecstasy, or Molly.  Students, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, told KnightNews.com many students who never tried the drug before gave it a shot during the rave — and snuck the drug into the festival in their underwear. 
This isn’t the first time a death happened following the EDC rave. During the event held last year in Los Angeles, a 15-year-old girl died after reportedly overdosing on ecstasy.
Officials who put on the rave released a statement in the wake of the Dallas death. 
“Our condolences and deepest sympathy go out to the family and friends of the man who passed away tonight. To go from a moment of happiness and enjoyment, to the loss of life, is very heartbreaking,” read the statement from Insomniac Events. “We would like to ask everyone to keep the concertgoer and his family in their thoughts and prayers. Along with the independent local promoters in Dallas, we will work with the authorities to understand how this tragedy occurred.”
It’s not yet clear what — if any — impact this situation in Dallas may have on the planned EDC event in Las Vegas. KnightNews.com will monitor the situation and update the story when new information is available on this breaking story. 



Severe weather hit the UCF area yesterday, with a tornado warning posted for Orange County and hail reported just north of campus. 
KnightNews.com got tips that the UCF Rec and Wellness center was briefly put on lockdown while the storms passed. 
One tree near the main entrance of campus was snapped near its base yesterday, but it’s not clear if that was due to the weather or something previous. 
Sunday afternoon and evening could also bring afternoon thunderstorms, with a rain chance of 40 percent.
When severe weather strike, text damage reports to 407-5-tip-ucf and email us pictures to news@knightnews.com. The picture of hail in the top right was sent in by Kim Galus, a KnightNews.com viewer in Oviedo. The hail was in her backyard. 



