Ryan Dyson is a UCF alum who was involved on campus academically, in the Greek community and as an avid UCF sports fan. Unfortunately, he was in a car accident leaving him in a comatose state from which he has yet to wake.
This unfortunate incident has turned his family upside down, and they have incurred hefty medical expenses. Fortunately for Dyson and his family, Ryan’s friends — also UCF students — have stepped in and taken the initiative to put on a local event to help raise money in support of Dyson and his family to assist with their medical bills.

The event, entiteld ‘Dance for Dyson,’ will take place April 15 from 8:30 p.m. until 2 a.m. at Cowboys bar, located at 1108 S. Orange Blossom Trail.
Tickets can be purcased online at www.DanceForDyson.com for $10 each, which grants a free $10 bar tab that night to be used immediately (for those 21 years of age).
There will be raffle prizes, which have been donated to the cause, such as 2 Trucks Gone Wild tickets with VIP parking, an Outback Steakhouse basket, a two-night stay at the Gaylord Palms, an Orlando Magic jersey signed by Dwight Howard, a Disney trip with four park tickets and a two night hotel stay at the Double tree, and many more.
All ticket sales go directly to support Dyson’s medical bills. 



After a shaky summer for Kappa Sigma, having had their charter revoked, this fraternity is clearly back in full force, having hosted their inaugural Key West Fest Saturday afternoon.

Former Florida Senator Lee Constantine, who was a brother of the Kappa Sigma fraternity here at UCF came down to visit, donate money for the cause and show his support for his fellow brothers.
After spending Friday turning the outside of their on-campus fraternity house into a beach full of sand, the event consisted of fraternity and sorority teams coming together to compete in sand castle-making competitions, bean bag tosses and other games.
Josh Frost, president of the chapter, was glad to see a great turnout. “Kappa Sig is back, everybody knows Kappa Sig is back, and we thought this was the best way to prove it,” said a pleased Frost.



