Orlando police arrested 19 Occupy Orlando demonstrators for trespassing in a city park after hours. 
The arrests happened just after 2 a.m. Saturday after police said “a small group” refused to comply with the city ordinance banning people from being in the park after hours. 
This has been the first major clash between police and the protesters. Prior to the arrests, police said the group had been in compliance with everything the City of Orlando asked. 
“The City of Orlando still respects this groups decision to exercise their freedom of speech but we request that they adhere to the ordinances that are in place,” according to a statement from Orlando police. 
KnightNews.com was first to report a UCF student was arrested up in New York City during the Occupy Wall Street protests. It’s not yet clear if any UCF students were arrested during Occupy Orlando. KnightNews.com is working to find out if any UCF students were arrested and to find video of the arrests. Send news tips to news@knightnews.com. 
The City of Orlando has clashed with UCF student activists before. In the past, a UCF Student Government Association senator was arrested for feeding the homeless in a Lake Eola park in violation of a city ordinance. 



The University of Central Florida is ready to host its 2011 Homecoming events. Below you can find a schedule of times and locations of the 2011 UCF Homecoming events. 
Movie Knight: Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2
Time: 8 p.m. | Harry Potter trivia starts at 7 p.m.
Location: UCF Arena
Cost: Free 
Comedy Knight: Ross Mathews, Dean Edwards, and Bo Burnham 
Time: 8 p.m.
Location: UCF Arena
Cost: Free with UCF ID
Skit Knight Dances, Performances 
Time: 7 p.m.
Location: UCF Arena
Penny Wars 
Time: 11 a.m. – 4 p.m.
Location: UCF Student Union Patio
Rosen College Movie Knight
Time: 5 p.m.
Location: Rosen Apartment Pool/Community Center
Spirit Splash
12 p.m. to 2 p.m.
Location: UCF Reflecting Pond 
UCF Homecoming Parade
Time: 11 a.m.
Location: Around campus streets
Saturday October 29th, 11am @ Campus
UCF Homecoming Football Game
UCF Knights vs. Memphis Tigers
Time: 4 p.m. at Bright House Networks Stadium
Homecoming King and Queen Crowning
Time: Halftime during Homecoming football game
Voting for King & Queen: 7 a.m. Oct 24 – 4 p.m. Oct 27
Voting is online at my.ucf.edu 



