Former UCF wide receiver Rocky Ross called former teammates who went to ESPN and talked to the media about the practice Ereck Plancher had taken part in before he died “cowards” Tuesday, during the wrongful death trial that has put UCF football under the microscope.
The plaintiff pointed out how Ross is a paid employee of the defendant and how other players testified differently.
“It seems clear you dont go outside the team,” Figueroa said. “He made it seem what happens in the family, stays in the family — you dont go air your problems with ESPN, you come to us. But what does that really mean? It’s not clear.”
Figueroa explained how what Ross said in court — and calling his teammates cowards for going public with what he said were lies about what happened during practice — could raise questions in the minds of the jurors.
“Does it mean regardless of right or wrong, fair or unfair, our business is our business and leave your morals at home?” Figueroa asked. 
“Or is it simply team spirit at its peak,” she added, meaning the players testifying against the Planchers “just didn’t see anything wrong here” and saw no need to go to the press because, based on their accounts, O’Leary didn’t do anything wrong. 
“Bottom line is that it is going to be the jury’s job to make the call as to whether or not the team was out of bounds in its actions or inactions,” Figueroa said.
KnightNews.com has been providing live streaming coverage of the Plancher trial every day. We expect a verdict by the end of the week — possibly Thursday — and will carry it live on KnightNews.com as it happens.



You asked for it and here it is. This is the opening statements in its entirety for the plaintiff and defense. 
To continue watching the opening statements after the video you’re watching is finished, click the “next page” link at the bottom of the page.

Judge Evans Explaining The Rules of The Case To The Jury.

Click next to view the other parts of the opening statements. 



The Orlando Sentinel is reporting that prosecutors in Sanford have dropped the case against Aaron Floyd, who sheriff’s deputies accused of meeting an 18-year-old woman through Match.com and raping her.
Assistant State Attorney Pat Whitaker told the newspaper “there was a very strong consent defense” and added that the woman didn’t want to prosecute.
Floyd had argued that the sex was consensual.
KnightNews.com reported in May how Floyd, 22, was an industrial engineering student at UCF, according to Facebook. Authorities had not released the age of the woman, who agreed to meet him for dinner at Orlando Alehouse in Sanford after he asked her sexual questions which made her uncomfortable a day earlier, according to the arrest report.
The story made national headlines, likely because deputies accused Floyd forcing the woman to drive with him in his vehicle to buy the morning after pill from a local pharmacy after the encounter. 
KnightNews.com has sent Floyd a Facebook message to try and get his reaction to this  major development in the story and to find out if UCF kicked him out of school before the criminal justice system had a chance to work. 
Check back for updates on this story. 



The UCF Athletics Association Inc. started to make its case Tuesday morning by calling Ronnie Weaver to the stand, a running back for the Knights who was present at the practice the day Ereck Plancher died.
One part of a mothers day card read: “I would like to personally thank you for raising me from a boy to a young man. Even with two jobs, you were always there for me, mommy.”
Gisele also talked about how she wanted her son to be a lawyer or a doctor and he wanted to be a business man.
Enock Plancher had testified before Gisele and talked about his trips with his son to Haiti, which they took together to learn more about their heritage and culture. 
The Plaintiff called more than twenty witnesses to make its case and it’s expected that the Defense will rest its case and a verdict will be reached by the end of the week. 



