At a school as young as the University of Central Florida, establishing tradition is a critical part of campus life. So when one of UCF’s few treasured traditions suddenly got ripped away, students became outraged. 
And that outrage is growing right now as UCF fraternity and sorority members are struggling to understand why male, tuition-paying students will be banned from standing on a public UCF sidewalk Saturday to welcome hundreds of new sorority members to their houses.
Several Greek students, who asked not to be identified because they’re afraid of retaliation from UCF Asst. Director of Fraternity & Sorority Life Scott Clark, complained to KnightNews.com about the decision to end this alcohol-free tradition. So KnightNews.com emailed Clark for an explanation. 

UCF told KnightNews.com the rule is not new — just UCF’s decision to enforce it. 
“This rule has been in place for a while,” according to UCF’s statement. “This past year at a conference the NPC passed a resolution asking its chapters to commit themselves to enforcing this existing rule.
“Thus, we have been working with sororities on campus and the IFC to make sure its members know about this development. We are helping spread the word about the national organization’s regulation. That means there are to be no men involved in the Bid Day events at UCF. This includes being in Greek Park and approaching any females on Bid Day.”
UCF also said it is planning to hold a BBQ for men to welcome the new sorority women at a yet to be determined date sometime after the traditional Saturday welcoming. 
But questions remain about whether UCF has the authority to ban a male, tuition-paying student from walking down a public sidewalk on the state university campus — during a celebration hosted by a registered student organization which benefits from state activity & service fees, which often mandate open access by law to all students. 
There are also questions regarding whether the national rule banning men at “Bid Day” extends past the moment when women find out which sorority they join — which if it didn’t would of course mean the UCF tradition wouldn’t violate the national rule. The issue could come down to a matter of interpretation.
KnightNews.com asked follow up questions to UCF regarding those issues — along with other major issues we uncovered while researching national sorority rules today — and we will be breaking new stories covering those additional angles throughout the rest of the week as part of our special investigative series on the end of this alcohol-free tradition. 
Check back for updates as this Saturday’s Bid Day event approaches. Find out when we post an update first by liking us on Facebook to get news of the updates right on your feed. 



Comedy Central’s Jon Stewart is speaking out over what he believes is the media’s decision to unfairly ignore Ron Paul as a serious candidate — even after he placed second in the Ames straw poll in Iowa. 
Stewart showed clips of major networks crowning a “top tier” of candidates — Michele Bachman, Rick Perry and Mitt Romney — while failing to mention Paul. 
“We are certainly disappointed, and we think that people are missing a very big story here,” Jesse Benton, Paul’s campaign manager, told Politico. “You look at ’07, and Mike Huckabee was able to turn what was a very weak second place — Mitt Romney had 4,516 votes and Huckabee had 2,587 — into a huge national story.”
KnightNews.com will continue to follow the race for the White House and update you on this controversy and others as the race heats up. 



