Plans have been announced to bulldoze “The Plaza” shopping center across from the University of Central Florida’s main campus, which hosts  popular bars like Deko, Knight Library and FUBAR, so it can be rebuilt with retail and residential.

(Advertisement – Story Continues Below)

After the current structure is bulldozed, plans call for developers to rebuild it with retail shops on the first-floor and then four floors of residential living above that, buyer’s representative Paul Guyet told the Sentinel.
The property situated on University Blvd. and Alafaya Trail will reportedly be built over two phases, with more than 500 residential units with about 1,527 beds.
 KnightNews.com will follow this major shakeup to the popular UCF nightlife and dining scene, and work to find out the time-table for the demolition and the schedule for when the new retail and student living center will open.



Starting tomorrow thousands of sorority girls and potential new sorority girls will be on Greek Row. 
Sorority Rush starts tomorrow and new girls will have to make the tough decision of which sorority to join.

(Video of Greek Row from 2010)
A UCF Panhellenic council twitter page said earlier today that over 800 people had registered for sorority rush.  
Schedule from the Panhellenic council of UCF’s website.
May 23rd: Registration opens for Panhellenic Formal Recruitment
July 14th: Final day to sign-up for early move-in for UCF Affiliated Housing (Pointe at Central)
August 14: Women participating in Formal Recruitment early move-in day between 11-4pm
August 15-20: Formal Recruitment Week!
August 20th: Bid Day!
KnightNews.com will update you throughout the week on sorority rush.



The UCF basketball team is arriving in Orlando today after 3 straight wins in Canada.
UCF def. Champlain College-Saint Lambert All-Stars 88-66 in St-Lambert, Quebec
UCF def. Carleton University 93-84 in Ottawa, Ontario
UCF def. McGill 100-58 in Montreal, Quebec
“This was a great trip. We had the opportunity to play against different styles and really had some competitive games,” Jones said. “I thought it was really good for our basketball team. The trip was great for team bonding. Our guys spent a lot of time together. We saw a lot of great things in Montreal and Ottawa, and overall it was a wonderful opportunity for our team.”
Against the Champlain College-Saint Lambert All-Stars, Marcus Jordan scored a game-high 24 points along with Keith Clanton’s 21 points and 13 rebounds. 
The Champlain College Saint-Lambert All-Star team consists of professional players that played in Champlain’s top prep basketball program. 
(Advertisement – Story Continues Below)

A.J. Rompza came through with 7 out of the 20 UCF assists. 
“I thought our guys did a great job,” UCF head coach Donnie Jones said. “We were competing against a very big, physical team. Our goal is to get 20 assists per game. That was excellent. Our guys really played hard despite the long travel day. They played with great energy and I was pleased with the effort.”
UCF edged out Carleton University by 9 points with Keith Clanton’s with 25 points and  P.J. Gaynor’s 23 points. A.J. Rompza also scored 16 points and six assists.
Carleton University has won 7 out of the last 9 national titles.
The trio of Keith Clanton, Dwight McCombs  and P.J. Gaynor scored 16 points each in the 100-58 victory at McGill. 
The Knights’ shot 54.5 percent from the field with 22 forced turnovers from McGill.
“We wanted to be able to work on our press up here and I was pleased with the effort we gave defensively,” UCF head coach Donnie Jones said. “Our guys played hard the whole trip and hopefully this will give us an edge once the season starts in October.”



Former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty dropped out of the US Presidential Race after losing the Ames Straw Poll in Iowa. 
He spoke with ABC News’ Jake Tapper to explain why he dropped out of the race for the Republican nomination. The video interview clip is below:
Pawlenty placed far behind Rep. Michele Bachmann, who won the poll, and Rep. Ron Paul.




