UPDATE (Feb 4 – 1:48 p.m.): Four-star quarterback DaMarcus Smith is officially joining the Knights. He is expected to challenge Jeff Godfrey for the starting job next year.
Four-star QB DaMarcus Smith picks UCF over Louisville
UCF just added to it’s already impressive recruiting class.
The Knights, which came into the day ranked as the No. 43 class in the nation according to Rivals.com, just added it’s most impressive player to it’s 2011 signing class.
DaMarcus Smith, a four-star QB out of Kentucky, chose to sign with the Knights over his hometown Louisville Cardinals, he announced at a press conference just after 1:30 p.m. EST.
“I love the University of Louisville, all the fans and the passion. .. But for the next four years I’ll be with Central Florida,” Smith said at his press conference.
Smith, the No. 11 QB prospect in the nation according to Rivals.com, already joins four-stars Tony Jackson and Leilon Willingham in UCF’s recruiting class. In his senior season, Smith passed for 3,150 yards and 30 touchdowns with just nine interceptions. He garnered Louisville Courier-Journal all-state first team recognition as well as a spot on the 2010 Class of the Commonwealth team his final year at Seneca High.
He missed his junior season with a knee injury, but still managed to amass over 8,000 yards and 75 touchdowns in his high school career.
“With DaMarcus’ decision, it is a great addition to a solid recruiting class,” O’Leary said in a press release. “He has so many great quarterback skills that will make him a very productive player at UCF.

ORIGINAL ARTICLE  – So after a long day in which I woke up at 7 a.m. to track down and cover the news of National Signing Day, I finally get the chance to take in what this day means for UCF.
It was a very early Christmas for the Knights.
And there could be some presents still left to unwrap under the tree.
Head coach George O’Leary and his staff recruited some of the top talent in the nation over the past year and many talented recruits will be joining the program for the 2011 season. Here is some news about some unsigned recruits, my opinion on the new Knights and a breakdown and grades of the class position-by-position (coming soon):
Three Players Left To Sign?
UPDATE FEB 4 1:48 P.M.: Four-star quarterback DaMarcus Smith is officially joining the Knights. He is expected to challenge Jeff Godfrey for the starting job next year.
UPDATE FEB 3 11:30 A.M.: UCF has officially received a letter of intent from four-star linebacker Leilon Willingham. He adds to an already solid class and chose UCF over Michigan, Colorado, Arizona State and Washington. The Knights are still waiting to hear from four-star QB DeMarcus Smith, who will announce tomorrow between Louisville and UCF. 
This is arguably the best class UCF has ever brought in, and it could get even better. O’Leary said in his press conference today that there are three players that he still hopes to sign in the coming days.
“There are three still out there and I was hoping to know before I came down here (for the press conference),” O’Leary said. “One state got snowed out and there is no school. They are trying to find a kinkos.”
Could those three players be DeMarcus Smith, Leilon Willingham and Rayshon Williams?
Williams, a WR and cousin of former UCF receiver Brandon Marshall, verbally committed to the Knights earlier in the week and according to UCFSports.com, he has signed his letter of intent. As for Smith, the No. 11 QB prospect in the nation according to Rivlas, rumors continue to swirl on whether the four-star, dual-threat quarterback out of Kentucky has selected the Knights or his hometown Louisville Cardinals. Earlier today, numerous outlets had reported that it seemed Smith had signed with UCF over Louisville. Smith did say he would announce his decision on Friday, but the rumor mill continues to churn.
Willingham is an interesting one. A teammate of Williams, the four-star linebacker has been rumored to be joining the Knights along with his teammate, but the University of Colorado is still in the mix. He’s ranked as the No. 13 player at his position according to Rivals.
Knights Filled Needs, Signed Athletes
As for my take, regardless of what happens with Williams, Willingham and Smith, this is still the best signing class in UCF history. The Knights went after what they needed and got a lot in return. Twenty of the 27 players that signed come on the defensive side of the ball, a unit that loses some really big pieces to it’s championship puzzle. UCF loses Bruce Miller, Derrick Hallman, Wes Tunuufi Sauvao, Darin Baldwin, Lawrence Young, Justin Boddie, Chance Henderson, Reggie Weams and David Williams to graduation, so it was a must to go out and get some big-time playmakers to fill those holes.
The most important note in this class is UCF signed pure, straight up athletes. Toby Jackson is a beast on the end position, Cam Henderson is a mobile defensive lineman, WR Jacques Mackeroy can fly with the football, Willie Mitchell was all over the field as a linebacker in high school and Rannell Hall is a WR who’s nickname is “speedy”, so you know he can move. The Knights went after pure athletes and upgraded in their speed department, something crucial to the program if they want to move up to a BCS conference.
Overall, I give this signing class a B+. UCF missed out on some big names, but if they nab two of the three prospects I mentioned above, this will be a solid A class. They didn’t get a quarterback, which really hurts them seeing as sophomore Jeff Godfrey and redshirt freshman Blake Bortles are the only ones listed as QBs on the roster. Other than that, they tied up loose ends on defense and secured some playmakers at the wideout position on offense to become more electric.
COMING UP: GIVING OUT GRADES AND A POSITION-BY-POSITION BREAKDOWN OF THE UCF FOOTBALL RECRUITING CLASS.
For names and bios of UCF’s 2011 commitments, click here.



