FIRST ON KNIGHTNEWS.COM AT 2:30 P.M.
The Orange-Osceola County Medical Examiner’s Office has confirmed to KnightNews.com the manner of Ann Hefferin’s death was “natural” — and was caused by a bacterial infection. 
Information that some sort of a bacterial infection caused Hefferin’s death was communicated by UCF administrators to Greek leaders this afternoon, KnightNews.com has learned. 
The medical examiner’s office has so far declined to release the full autopsy report, telling KnightNews.com the full autopsy report is not available at this time. 
The medical examiner’s statement indicates toxicology testing confirmed a “trace” amount of alcohol was detected in her fluids, along with the drug naproxen (it didn’t specify if it was the prescription drug or an over-the-counter version) and caffeine within her blood.
ALCOHOL BAN ALMOST LIFTED IN RECENT VOTE AT GREEK COUNCIL

We’re working to gather much more information and reaction from the Greek community as to how this could impact the unprecedented ban on alcoholic events in Greek Life. KnightNews.com has obtained public records that show half of the councils sitting on the board recently voted to lift the alcohol ban during a Sept. 9 meeting. 
Greek Council Almost Lifts Alcohol Ban, Read 9/9 MinutesThe councils representing traditionally minority Greeks, NPHC and DGC, were the ones which voted in favor of overturning the ban. IFC and Panhellenic, representing traditionally caucasian Greek organizations, along with an “at-large member” hand-picked by a UCF administrator, overrode the movement to lift the ban by a vote of 2-3. 
In a Sept. 12 email Greek Student Involvement Director Anthony Perry sent to his colleagues, he discussed push-back over the alcohol ban from minority councils in the Greek community. 
“I don’t consider this a legal matter, but the legal concepts of ‘disparate treatment’ and ‘disparate impact’ exist on some level with this,” Perry wrote in the email. “Some students may be headed that way based upon what I’ve seen and heard.” 
On Sept. 23, minutes show the Greek Council hosted another meeting where major changes to the moratorium were made. A vote passed unanimously which authorized organizations to now seek permission to host alcohol events, which would then be evaluated on a case-by-case basis before OFSL approval is given. 
Check back for more details as soon as we get them. 
Read the press release from the Medical Examiner’s Office on the next page.



Currently touring North America on their Night Falls Tour, Chromeo finally played in Orlando for the first time… ever. And unsurprisingly, they broke it down, engaged the crowd and caused their fans to dance in the most absurd of ways, which leads me to boldly conclude: Chromeo played the best show I’ve seen all year.

As Chromeo stepped on stage and their lights began flashing, the words “Chrome-o” projected from the speakers causing the crowd to roar in excitement. From there, the duo showed us what Fancy Footwork is all about as Dave1 sang and P-Thug jammed out on his keyboard and synthesizer.  Playing both new and old favorites, each second became funkier and funkier as they played “Bonafied Lovin’”, “Hot Mess”, “Don’t Turn the Light’s Off” and of course, “Tenderoni.” And when the duo finally jammed to their current hit “When the Night Falls,” it became obvious Chromeo’s music is the only beat their fans want to dance to When the Night Falls.  

Whether it’s their energy, great music, or their obvious ability to put the words “Chrome” in Chromeo, a night with Chromeo is like the night Juliett spoke about when missing Romeo. While I think back to other nights’ experience, I just want to relive it. Maybe I’m biased because Dave1 is part of the tribe, or because Chromeo is the only successful Arab/Jewish duo that I do know, but regardless, I’m looking forward to the next time these crazy cats roll into town again.  



