Former UCF Knight and current Detroit Lion Kevin Smith missed Wednesday’s practice with a high ankle sprain, but the running said he hopes he can play this Sunday against the New Orleans Saints. 
“If you had asked me am I going to play, I probably wouldn’t have answered. But I probably would have felt like I wouldn’t,” Smith told AOL Sporting News. “But like I said, every day I attack the rehab the next day. I’m a fast healer and it’s been going well.”
Smith went through team stretching before practice but did not participate in the individual drills. He was officially listed as a non-participant in Wednesday’s practice.
In 2008 Smith signed with the Lions, but this March the Lions declined to make Smith an offer to return. In October he attended UCF Spirit Splash, stating his knee was fully recovered and he was ready to play again anywhere. Two weeks later he was re-signed by Detroit after Jahvid Best was sidelined due to a reoccurring concussion.
In his first appearance back Smith rushed for 140 yards on 16 carries, scoring two rushing touchdowns, and caught four passes for 61 yards scoring another touchdown. Detroit went on to win the game against Carolina, and Smith was named the NFC Player of the Week.



Two days after Orlando police named missing mom Michelle Parker’s ex-fiance Dale Smith their prime suspect, a massive swarm of law enforcement searched for Parker’s body in and around Lake Ellenor — and police used the adjacent UCF South Orlando campus as a staging area.
KnightNews.com first told you about the search for the missing mom when it began making news about two weeks ago. The last time anyone heard from Parker was when a text message came from her cellphone indicating she was at Waterford, apparently referring to the popular Waterford Lakes shopping area and neighborhood south of UCF’s main campus.
View Larger Map
The massive search near UCF South Orlando, which is several miles away from the main campus, happened on the same day Dale Smith won a victory in court in the custody battle for his twins. On Tuesday Florida’s Department of Children and Families took custody of Parker and Smith’s twins, who he was watching over since their mother dropped them off hours before she disappeared. The judge ruled on Tuesday that there was not enough evidence that Smith posed a danger to the kids, so he ordered that Smith would regain custody.
The situation is gaining major national headlines, with national network morning shows and Nancy Grace prominently featuring the mystery.
Popular Orlando radio station XL1067 has also dug up pictures of Dale Smith from a “Hot Man” contest in his past. The pictures have flooded the airwaves. 
There was also a false alarm report that Parker’s body was found dumped in the woods near an I-95 exit in Woodbine, Georgia. It’s now been confirmed that the dead body found there was not that of the missing mom. 
The family is asking for volunteers to help search for Parker and donations for her twins. More information can be found on the Michelle Parker Facebook page. KnightNews.com will continue to bring you major updates on this story.



