The University of Central Florida’s geographically challenged rival to the west, the University of South Florida in Tampa, is enduring controversy over a change to its name.
USF Name Change Sparking Controversy
USF reportedly insists the name change — which adds “Tampa Bay” to the university’s name — is not a name change, but a “tweak” or “rebranding.” But USF students think that’s bull. They’ve set up a Facebook group named “Do NOT Change University of South Florida’s name” to express their outrage. 
USF students told Tampa’s WTSP news they don’t see a reason for the name change. The station reports, however, the reason for the name change is likely because USF is located in Tampa — and not near Miami — which is the area typically considered to be “South Florida.” Adding “Tampa Bay” to USF branding could clear up confusion, administrators told the station. 

Even though the change appears to be a done deal, the school won’t be changing every sign on its main campus. The reason? It’s too expensive to do that. 
UCF is expected to resume its football rivalry with USF soon, as both schools are projected to be competing together in the Big East conference soon. Check back to KnightNews.com for more information on the fight over USF’s name. 



This Thursday nearly 100 UCF students met at UCF’s Fairwinds Alumni Center to protest the decisions being made by several Central Florida Legislative Delegates who were meeting at UCF. 
Several key issues being rallied against included rising tuition at public universities, cuts to the Bright Futures Scholarship program and the passing of bill HB1355 which is said to hinder students’ ability to vote.
Check out the video of the “Occupy UCF” protesters trying to make their point.




Chaz Bono, a leading transgender advocate and recent contestant on Dancing With The Stars, came to UCF Wednesday night to discuss his experience transitioning from a woman to a man as shown in his documentary, Becoming Chaz. 
Check out the full video of the event which includes questions from students and other community advocates.




