The highly anticipated testimony of UCF head football coach George O’Leary was pushed back to Thursday morning — and KnightNews.com will stream live video of O’Leary’s testimony as it happens.

[ Copy this | Start New | Full Size ]
O’Leary was in court briefly Wednesday afternoon, but left after he was told he’d be testifying Thursday instead in order to accommodate witness scheduling issues.

Among those who did get to testify Wednesday was a computer expert, who told jurors that when going through Ereck Plancher’s computer he did not find evidence of searches for “sickle,” “sickle cell” or “sickle cell trait” or terms of that nature on Plancher’s computer. 
While the plaintiffs believe that helps prove Plancher was never told by UCF that he had sickle cell trait, the defense pointed out how Plancher could have searched those terms on other computers or on a cell phone.
Dr. Joshua Stephany of the Orange County Medical Examiner’s office was back on the stand Wednesday. Debate from his testimony centered around whether an independent doctor that corresponded with the medical examiner influenced his decision that sickle cell trait was a cause of Plancher’s death.
Stephany talked about how he did his own independent research and testified that he wasn’t influenced by the expert, who was later retained as an expert by the plaintiff. 
David Kelly, who was UCF’s wide receivers coach at the time of Plancher’s death, testified he did not know Plancher, a wide receiver, had the sickle cell trait via video deposition.



Update: 1:45 p.m. Wednesday: Coach George O’Leary came into the court, wearing a suit and ready to testify Wednesday afternoon. However, he left court after the lawyers decided they wouldn’t need him today after all, due to scheduling issues of other witnesses. It was the first time O’Leary came to court since KnightNews.com started gavel-to-gavel coverage of this trial. He’s expected to testify first thing tomorrow morning. Come back then to watch it on our live stream.

They all testified that they had not known about Plancher’s sickle cell trait until after his death.
One of the biggest moments of day seven involved Dr. Joshua Stephany, an Orange County medical examiner subpoenaed by the Plancher family lawyers to testify about how he didn’t believe Plancher had died from heat stroke or a sudden cardiac death, but rather from complications of sickle cell trait — a blood disorder that the plaintiffs contend can kill athletes if they are pushed too hard. 
UCF athletic association lawyers allege the medical examiner got the cause of death wrong. They contend Plancher died of an unknown heart condition — which would help shift liability away from the defendant. 
But the medical examiner who examined Plancher stood by his story. He testified how he had never seen sickling like Plancher’s before, out of all the other autopsies he conducted.

The defense has yet to question the medical examiner on cross examination, but will do so Wednesday morning before O’Leary is expected to take the stand. 
KnightNews.com will be in court again tomorrow, to provide live streaming coverage of O’Leary’s testimony — the most high-profile witness yet to take the stand. 



