MTV is planning to shoot a show about sex at the University of Central Florida, and is advertising that its casting UCF students for the show.
The show is hosted by sex columnist Dan Savage, who has been touring other universities across the nation for his planned MTV show, Savage University. He set up a Facebook page about his trip to UCF, which states, “MTV and Dan are coming to UCF and are interested in your stories, questions, tips & ideas when it comes to students, sex, dating, relationships and hookups.”
Savage and his producers are looking to find out what makes UCF special when it comes to sex and relationships. He’s also advertising that he’s trying to uncover the “sexual pulse” of UCF, what students believe is “too much” or “too little” sex, whether students are settling down or hooking up, and if UCF students “sexperiment.”

The advertisements make it clear “no topics are taboo” and welcome all views and perspective. Savage set up a twitter page for the UCF event, where he posted a picture of a flier promoting the event containing the logos of UCF’s Student Government Association and Campus Activities Board.
The flier says filming will happen from Nov. 14 – Nov. 17, both on and off campus. It asks students who are interested in appearing on the MTV show about sex to send a recent photo, name, phone number, along with a relevant question or story to mtv.ucf@gmail.com.



Thomas Hellinger, a former Student Government Association Senate Chairman and UCF student activist, was arrested overnight during an Occupy Orlando event downtown. Thomas Hellinger
According to the Occupy Orlando Facebook page, at least 11 people were arrested for refusing to leave Beth Johnson Park after hours.  
Members of the group have been arrested for trespassing before, but this is the first time KnightNews.com has confirmed a UCF activist was arrested at Occupy Orlando. 
The group posted video of the arrests on YouTube, which is below:
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J8xc-OVn97I
Hellinger was charged with trespassing after being warned and booked into jail at 1:37 a.m., according to jail records. KnightNews.com was monitoring Hellinger’s first appearance before a judge on a live video feed shortly before noon. It was ordered that he be released today, however, it could take a few hours before he’s done being processed and released from the facility. Occupy Orlando Arrests
This is not the first arrest associated with Hellinger’s activism. KnightNews.com reported how Hellinger has arrested a few months earlier for feeding homeless people near Orlando’s Lake Eola Park. The City of Orlando and Food Not Bombs group came to a deal to drop those charges after both sides found agreed on a new place to feed the homeless. 
KnightNews.com was first to report that another UCF student was arrested during the birth of the Occupy movement, up at Occupy Wallstreet in New York City. You can watch that student’s interview here at the preceding link.



