

The University of Central Florida has sent new information to the media concerning the party held at Simga Chi hours before Ann Hefferin’s death — and the punishment UCF is imposing as a result. 
A report filed with UCF’s Office of Student Conduct by Fraternity and Sorority Life Assistant Director Scott Clark alleges Sigma Chi and Tri-Delta leadership knew underage drinking was going on at the Sigma Chi house during a party held there hours before Hefferin’s death. Clark alleges “hard liquor shots” were served and drinking games were played at a party where up to 200 people showed up throughout the night. 
UCF released letters it sent to both organizations informing them that they were convicted of violating UCF’s rules prohibiting alcohol-related misconduct and disruptive conduct. Sigma Chi is banned from social activities through the end of Summer 2012. Tri-Delta’s ban lasts through Fall 2012. 
“Until the Medical Examiner’s Office completes its report, no one knows what caused Ann Hefferin’s death,” according to the UCF news release. “Depending on what new information comes to light in the medical examiner’s report or in the ongoing UCF Police Department investigation, the fraternity and/or sorority could face additional sanctions from the university or their respective national organizations.”
Also in the UCF documents was a letter from a member of Lead Scholars who claimed Hefferin complained about how Tri-Delta brought the girls out to “party every night” which made her consider dropping the sorority. The Lead Scholar reported Hefferin said she was “exhausted of all the girls drinking and partying.”
The UCF statement praised the Lead Scholar member for coming forward and confirmed the university is reviewing Delta Delta Delta’s activities involving new members in response to it.
UCF made sure to point out its investigation is not yet over. 
“The next step in our review of what happened the night Ann Hefferin died will occur when the Medical Examiner’s Office issues its report,” UCF spokesman Grant Heston said. “As we await that report, our thoughts remain with Ann’s family and friends.”
KnightNews.com is working to upload the documents released by UCF. Check back to read the documents yourself soon and for more information as we comb through it. 
Note: An earlier version of this story mistakenly stated Tri-Delta’s probation extended through Fall 2011. The sorority’s probation actually extends through Fall 2012. 



The Epsilon Omicron chapter of Kappa Delta Sorority is putting on its annual dance competition also known as KD shakedown this Monday at 7p.m..
The two day philanthropy consists of a barbeque and dance competition where charity and school supplies are collected for the Children’s Home Society. 
According to a press release sent to KnightNews.com, over 25 organizations are expected to compete in this years shakedown.
The winner of the overall competition is decided by attendance, tickets from the BBQ sold, school supplies donated, and the dance competition. 
Last year, Kappa Delta raised $1,300 for the charity including thousands of school supplies.
You can watch footage of last year’s KD shakedown here.
Anyone can donate school supplies or attend the BBQ and the dance competition.



