Christina Aguilera got the honor of singing at the Superbowl, but she fumbled the lyrics and now is taking flak all over Facebook and Twitter.
See video of Aguilera messing up the lyrics here:
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hvIv5dh4yys
When KnightNews.com was among the first — if not the first — to break this story around 6:45 p.m., we reported how Aguilera sang “watched” instead of “hailed.” That was true, but there’s more to it than just that. Here’s a deeper look at what seems to be her problem:
She never sang this complete line: “O’er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming?” 
When she got to that part, without missing a note, she started to repeat the earlier line she had already sung: “What so proudly we…” 
Then, she replaced “hailed” with “watched” — the word that should have been sung at that very moment — and then went back to the earlier line again to finish off that portion by singing, “…at the twilight’s last gleaming” instead of “…were so gallantly streaming.”
Here are the lyrics to our national anthem we found online. Follow along with the video to pinpoint what caused the problem:
Oh! say, can you see, by the dawn’s early light,
What so proudly we hailed at the twilight’s last gleaming?
Whose broad stripes and bright stars, through the perilous fight,
O’er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming?
And the rockets’ red glare, the bombs bursting in air,
Gave proof through the night that our flag was still there.
Oh! say, does that star-spangled banner yet wave
O’er the land of the free and the home of the brave?

She finished strong, but backlash was still noticeable over social media. Some people were unforgiving. Others gave her a pass because they couldn’t get the lyrics right themselves. 
So, what do you think? Share your comments below. 
And go ahead and clear this up for all your Facebook friends by recommending this story with all the info:

ALSO POPULAR ON KNIGHTNEWS: Miss UCF Swimsuit Competition Video | Frat House Shooting Leaves 11 Hurt, 1 Dead



httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t6HyXCHndmk
The highly-touted President Barack Obama interview conducted by Fox News host Bill O’Reilly is expected between 4:30 and 5:00 p.m. during the Fox pregame show.
Watch the latest video at video.foxnews.com
We may find out who Obama thinks will win before the game starts. KnightNews.com will let you know what he has to say, if you miss the pregame show while you’re out shopping for Superbowl party food.



Youngstown State University student Jamail Johnson, 25, is dead and 11 others are injured after a shooting broke out at an off campus fraternity house, CNN is reporting. 

This story is breaking right now, so details are still coming in. CNN is reporting police are piecing the incident together to try and find a suspect. 
Youngstown Police Capt. Rod Foley told UPI that a fight broke out during a party and it escalated into gunfire around 3 a.m.
Half of the 12 people shot were students at YSU, according to reports. This is the second frat house shooting we’ve told you about in as many months. An FSU student was shot at the Lambda Chi house in January.
KnightNews.com is monitoring this major national college news and will post updates when we get them. 



