As news of the sudden death of Ann Hefferin spread across campus and Orlando, it became clear how much the UCF student who just joined the Delta Delta Delta sorority meant to so many different people. 
While Hefferin was new to UCF, she was not new to Orlando. She attended Bishop Moore High School, where she was selected as a member of Homecoming Court. Those who knew her have started a memorial group on Facebook to share their memories of the UCF freshman. 
Just like her DDD sisters, her high school friends took her sudden death extremely hard. 
“It feels like just yesterday we were sitting in the same spanish 2 class and then talking about colleges together and now she’s gone,” Michael Echevarria posted on the Facebook memorial page. “I can’t believe she’s gone.  It wasn’t her time to go, she’s was too young and beautiful and so genuine. I love you annie, watch over me please?”
“We are so sad this day,” Valerie Pringle posted on the Facebook memorial. “Annie touched so lives with her inner beauty, her infectious smile, and her warm heart. Our prayers are with the family at this time.”
KnightNews.com will work to help get the word out about memorial plans and ways her friends, classmates and sisters can help those mourning heal. 
DDD told media that messages of condolences may be sent to Beta Lambda Chapter, c/o Delta Delta Delta Executive Office, 2331 Brookhollow Plaza Dr., Arlington, TX, 76006.
If you have a memory, pictures or video to share about Hefferin, feel free to post it below or email it to us at news@knightnews.com and we’ll do our best to share it with others. 
KnightNews.com sends its condolences to those in mourning. 



Update: A spokesman from the Orange County Fire Department, told KnightNews.com that a call was received from the Student Union about students smelling smoke in the union. 
He also said, engine 65 and Seminole Rescue 65 were first on scene and determined the smoke was from a burnt bagel and that the building had been turned over to UCF PD.  
Orange County Fire Department is on scene. It is stil unclear if there is a fire or it’s a false alarm.

KnightNews.com will update this story when more details come in.



KnightNews.com has received numerous tips about a new sorority member of Delta Delta Delta passing away after attending a Sigma Chi house party on campus.
UCF has confirmed that Sigma Chi did have a party last night. 
A University of Central Florida student died today after being found unresponsive in her on-campus residence.
Ann Marie Hefferin, an 18-year-old freshman from Maitland, was found by roommates in their Lake Claire residence. At about 4 a.m. 911 was called, CPR was performed and emergency units responded immediately. The student was transported to Florida Hospital East at about 4:30 a.m.
UCF Police are investigating the death and do not believe there is a threat to the campus community. A cause of death has not been determined and more information will be released as it is available.
“We lost a member of the university family today,” said UCF spokesperson Grant J. Heston. “This is a tragedy and we offer our assistance and most sincere sympathies to her family and friends.”
UCF counselors have been made available to the students at Lake Claire and are available to anyone who needs assistance. UCF Counseling Services will be at the Lake Claire Community Center all day today and can also be reached at http://counseling.sdes.ucf.edu/ or by calling 407.823.2811.  Counseling services are free for UCF students.



