Presidential hopeful Governor Jon Huntsman has officially opened up his campaign headquarters in the heart of downtown Orlando, about 15 miles from the UCF campus.  The Governor opened up his brief remarks by saying that his campaign is making history by being the first campaign to, “have its headquarters in Florida.”  
The Governor turned Ambassador turned Presidential Candidate is vowing to campaign a clean campaign, telling his staff that “jobs and the economy are driving this campaign,” and that “civility means something.”  
As his campaign gets underway, having announced formally on Tuesday, he is courting the young people around the country to join his campaign.  He wants the young voters to understand that our main priority should be “debt and spending.” He pointed out that right now we are inheriting a $14.4 trillion debt, and it certain to continue to increase if we don’t get someone in the White House with his level of experience.
The Governor doesn’t only have experience as the head of the state, but also, as the former Ambassador to China.  After President Obama took office, he nominated Huntsman for the position due to his experience in the region, and the fact that he is also fluent in Mandarin Chinese.  
Although Huntsman has mostly been touting his economic experiences as Governor of Utah, he clearly has experience in areas of foreign policy, which sets him apart from most of his other colleagues running for President.  He will be able to use his relationship and prior experience with China to bolster his case for President.  The Governor also served as Deputy Trade Representative under George W. Bush.
When asked about how he plans to utilize the nation’s second largest University, he pointed out that they have a lot of young people already signed on to his campaign.  Analysts believe that Huntsman picked up a good portion of the young vote, when Governor Mitch Daniels of Indiana decided not to seek the Presidency.
The Governor has announced that he will skip the Ames Iowa Straw Poll in August, which means that he will be setting his sights on New Hampshire as the first in the nation primary.  He pointed out that his campaign will take him from the Granite State, on to South Carolina and then Florida.  He hopes those states will help propel to a head-to-head battle against his former boss, and current President.  He has a tough battle in front of him; however, the Governor, and his family, seem like they are up to the task.
Stay tuned to KnightNews.com for all news related to the 2012 Presidential Campaign. 



