KnightNews.com is investigating several reports of UCF students being towed from an area they used to park in without any problems.
The new towing policy started happening all the sudden — without any warning — Friday night at “The Plaza” shopping center across from campus, where popular bars such as Knight Library, Fubar and Deko are located.
Parking is so tight, students often have to park all the way over in the El Cerro parking lot before going to the bars. It wasn’t a problem for students until yesterday — when we’re told five tow trucks swarmed in sometime after 10 p.m. and went to work.
KnightNews.com tried talking to the towing company at the location near Goldenrod Rd. and Colonial where students cars were towed to. No one was there, but an unrelated businessman next door suggested we call and “make an appointment” with the towing drivers to come by.
There were no posted hours KnightNews.com noticed on the towing business, and when you google the phone number, it shows up at another location off Orange Blossom Trail. KnightNews.com was trying to investigate reports that a tow truck driver may have damaged a vehicle and tried towing someone while still inside his car.
When KnightNews.com first called the number, the person who answered hung up on us without answering our questions. Here’s a preview video of what happened when we called back.
First, you’ll hear from a UCF student who was a victim of the towing. Then, KnightNews.com’s Andrew Stein confronts the towing company about dodging questions.
The towing company eventually talked to us some more, and said it was El Cerro who started this new towing contract without warning. A manager at El Cerro wasn’t there when we stopped by. We got video of that location, and will work to bring you more of our investigation when we can.
If you see a surprise towing happen, or any other breaking news, text us at 407-5-tip-ucf so we can investigate. Check back for updates on this story.
It’s not yet clear if this towing policy will cause a spike in ridership on the KnightLynx.



KnightNews.com shot video of controversial Imam Siraj Wahhaj giving a speech at the University of Central Florida in Orlando. 

UCF’s Student Government Association allocated $1,250 to pay the imam’s travel expenses and speaking fees. It sparked a controversy on campus, because of the imam’s history of being named by a US Attorney as an unindicted co-conspirator in the 1993 World Trade Center terrorist attacks.
The Muslim Student Association hosted the event and invited the speaker. KnightNews.com conducted an exclusive interview with the president of MSA, who said the event was designed to create an open exchange of ideas and to dispel misconceptions of Islam. 
Read our other story about how UCF police were deployed by university administrators to protect the imam and hold off the news media until the imam gave permission for them to bring cameras inside here. 




