US President Barack Obama made a stop in downtown Orlando Tuesday evening — to have a beer at an Irish pub right across from Vain Orlando, a bar popular with UCF students. 
Obama had a drink of Guinness with Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer and unemployed construction workers at the Harp and Celt Irish pub on Magnolia.
Obama has beer in OrlandoObama was pushing his “jobs plan” while stopping to meet with the unemployed construction workers, saying they are a reason it should be passed and that it would help the economy. Republicans killed the jobs plan around the same time tonight, saying it would amount to a tax increase that would hurt the economy. 
A Republican primary debate was also held tonight. Check back KnightNews.com to stay up to date on the race for the White House in 2012.




The group of Republican presidential candidates has gathered for an October 11 debate, hosted by the Washington Post and Bloomberg. 
Here is a live stream provided from washingtonpost.com/politics. 
(You can also watch the debate on live TV, on Bloomberg TV.)
Two of the front-runners in this debate are Mitt Romney and Herman Cain. Cain has promised to go after Romney and be prepared for attacks against his 999 plan. 



UCF SGA President Matt McCann joined UCF police Chief Richard Beary and others officials to host a town hall meeting with students Monday afternoon in the Student Union.
Issues discussed included the push for Medical Amnesty at UCF, better lighting on campus and other ways to stay safe on campus.

KnightNews.com was there for the meeting and put together video highlights (above) for those who didn’t make. 
“The town halls are a great way for students to voice their opinions and concerns,” McCann said in a statement. “It is so important for students to know that SGA wants to hear what they have to say, and this event is just one more way we can get that feedback.”
SGA indicated more town halls are planned throughout the year. Check back to KnightNews.com to find out more about town halls in the future. 



