Check out the video from UCF Spirit Splash 2011! Big crowds showed up — and Knightro even went crowd surfing!




The iconic UCF area chicken restaurant El Corral is closed and a “for lease” sign has been posted on its front door.
The "for lease" sign was added after the "reopening soon" sign.
KnightNews.com noticed the “for lease” sign today. A couple weeks ago when KnightNews.com stopped by, there was no “for lease” sign but there was a sign posted saying closed for repairs and renovations, and stating it would be reopening soon. 
The recent addition of the “for lease” sign, however, raises big questions as to whether El Corral will in fact be opening soon. 
KnightNews.com did a check of health inspection records of El Corral, and records show El Corral “met inspection standards” on Sept. 9, 2011 for health code. KnightNews.com is working to find out if the restaurant had any past violations.
KnightNews.com will also work to contact the El Corral managers to find out exactly what the future plans are for UCF’s favorite chicken joint, known for its famous white sauce and low prices. 
Last year, KnightNews.com’s Entertainment Unit shot a music video at El Corral to highlight its popularity with students and employees working in the UCF area. You can check that video out below:
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O85QFEsEyww



UCF Spirit Splash 2011 kicked off around noon. Below is a live stream being provided by SGA:


Check back to KnightNews.com for high quality video after the event. 



Photos from Comedy Knight this past Tuesday. Comedians included Ross Mathews, Dean Edwards, and Bo Burnham



























































































12► 




UCF President John C. Hitt announced Thursday UCF is moving to ban smoking on campus “out of concern for the health and safety of our campus community.”

The announcement came during Hitt’s State of the University address, which was held in front of students, alumni and community members in the Pegasus Ballroom of the UCF Student Union.  
Hitt declared that UCF will host public discussions and forums as the second-largest university formulates its new smoking policy, which would align UCF with anti-smoking moves being made by Orange County government and Florida Hospital. 
Hitt also addressed how underage drinking became a topic on campus following UCF freshman Ann Hefferin’s death. 
“As president of this university, let me be very clear: UCF has no tolerance for underage and excessive drinking, drinking while driving, or illegal drug possession and use on our campuses,” Hitt said. 
Ida Cook, Chair of the Faculty Senate, also spoke, along with UCF SGA President Matt McCann. 
McCann expressed how students are hurting following major blows the Bright Futures Scholarship program has sustained at the state level, combined with the tuition hikes students are being slammed with year after year. 
“Times are tough. These issues are being felt by all students within the State University System, some more than others,” McCann said. 
McCann also announced a plan to bring a video rental service, similar to “Red Box,” to campus. 
To read the full transcript of the speeches given by Hitt, Cook and McCann, click on the next page below to read the text released by UCF.



