University of Central Florida alumnus Daniel Tosh, now a famous comedian and Comedy Central television host, paid a visit to his alma mater Tuesday night to sign autographs outside the school’s iconic reflection pond.

Sponsored Link (Story Continues Below)

UCF students lit up Facebook Tuesday night, posting their pictures with one of their school’s most famous alumni. KnightNews.com broke the news he was on campus over our Facebook page. Make sure you like us so you know when major news like this breaks too:

Send us your pictures with Tosh by emailing news@knightnews.com. If you see news breaking at UCF, tip us off by texting our UCF news tipline at 407-5-Tip-UCF.
UPDATE: THURSDAY 4/7, NEW RAW VIDEO:




UPDATE 4/16/11: UCF has advanced to the Amazing Eight round of the tournament. As of 10 p.m., UCF is only 50 votes ahead of Virginia Tech. 
If we beat Virginia Tech, UCF would only have to beat 2 other teams to win the Collegiate Showdown.

Listen up UCF! Who wants to win a free concert?
LET’S WIN PINK NATION COLLEGIATE SHOWDOWN! What is this you ask?
The Pink Nation Collegiate Showdown is a bracket style voting competition during which 59 schools compete to have Victoria’s Secret PINK host their annual Back-To-School concert at your university!
– To Vote: In order to vote, you must be a member of Pink Nation. Simply log into your account (www.vspink.com/pinknation) and select the university that you would like to support, or CLICK HERE.
– Pink Nation members can vote once every 24 hours.
Past PINK Nation Back-To-School Concerts (aka what we will win):
– In 2009, PINK brought infamous DJ Girl Talk and headlining band Cobra Starship to Bloomington Indiana for the Pink Nation B-Town Bash. The City star, Whitney Port, and PINK Model Behati Prinsloo were also present to share the excitement with IU students!
– The WVU Blue and Gold and Blue Bash was hosted in Morgantown, WV in 2010. PINK brought hip-hop artist Drake and DJ Irie to Mo-Town for an unforgettable night of games, concerts, and fun. PINK model Chanel Iman was also there to keep the crown pumped up all night long. 
Sounds pretty cool, huh? Well, start voting fellow knights! We’ll need to beat out rivals like UF and FSU as well as other huge universities around the country! With over 50,000 students I think we got this. Let’s show everyone how UCF does it!
Date to Vote: April 1st – April 20th 
Elimination Time Periods:
o All 59 schools: 10 days 4/1 – 4/11
o Top 16: 4 days 4/11 – 4/15
o Top 8: 3 days 4/15 – 4/18
o Top 4: 2 days 4/18 – 4/20
o Top 2: 1 day 4/20 – 4/21 
We’re currently #11 in the rankings, c’mon people! Vote now!



The Campus Activities Board gave UCF students a great night of comedy on Thursday. Students ignored the terrible rainy weather, which had struck all day, and lined outside the UCF arena for national renowned standup comedian, Nick Swardson. Once the doors opened, students piled in making the arena a near full house. 
The show started with opening act, Jay Larson. He was able to warm up the crowd with his jokes about being in the marching band and how there was a huge difference between being in “the band” and being in “a band” when it comes to impressing the ladies. He also went on to tell how he enjoys sneaking food into a movie theater and is able to get away with it by telling the employees he has diabetes. Finally he ended his half hour set with an amusing story of a group of business executives who had the wrong number and called him, and how we was able to convince them that he was one of their employees. 
The next comedian to take the stage was Tommy Ryman, who was even funnier than the opener. He got the crowd laughing immediately after talking about his favorite show “The Deadliest Catch” and how it’s about a bunch of guys who catch crabs. He goes on to tell of how sometimes he likes to go down to the humane society and drop off stuffed animals, claiming they don’t love him like they used to and they should be put down. He ended his set strong, explaining how he enjoys making a bowl of soup with classical music in the background because it makes the process more epic and intense. 
Finally the moment everyone in the arena had been waiting for. Students yelled and cheered as Nick Swardson took the stage, making this his fifth appearance at UCF. Nick made quite the entrance as he jumped off the stage and proceeded to high five students in the first couple of rows.  He then went on to open up his set and goes on to praise the “gorgeous” Florida weather that he got to experience that day. Nick then goes on to talk about his amazement with how big of a school we are, boasting over 50,000 students. With such a large student body he jokingly asks why UCF students don’t gather together in a massive army like “Braveheart” and attack Disney World. He also explains how he wants to go to Epcot with everyone in the audience, each with a joint in hand, and smoke out the giant sphere in the park then push it down and roll it through Orlando. Nick also proclaimed his love for basketball and that he is a Magic fan because their name isn’t an animal like everyone else, but it’s something you can’t even see. 
The audience cheered even louder when Nick claimed Florida as his number 1 party state. According to him, everyone in Florida loves to party, whether they are a baby doing a Jägerbomb or the old retired folks who just spend all their retirement money on booze. Then he describes his amazement with how many different kind of shots girls order at the bar. They are never regular shots he says, but rather something crazy like a “peanut butter burrito” shot.  
Staying true to his love for partying, he explains his new fascination with day drinking. Just get really drunk by noon, he says, and then go about your regular errands throughout the day. Nick also touches on a topic that most college students have probably experienced once in their life. Waking up and receiving the “Are you alive?” text. He also points out an ad for Jack Daniels whiskey that he saw which read “Jack Daniels. Be Responsible.” Everyone in the audience agreed when he explains how being responsible in the last thing he can be on a Jack Daniels infused night. He goes on to say that the ad should be changed to “Jack Daniels. Good luck.” Nick also talks about a movie idea he wants to pitch that is based off of the blockbuster hit “Inception.” His version however is about invading wet dreams and it is called “Insertion.” He also describes his crazy life, living out in Los Angeles. The people there are different, he says. Some people are hardcore vegans and won’t even drink milk, but will more than happy do a line of cocaine. 
Overall Nick put on a stellar performance and certainly did not disappoint. He stayed true to his roots in potty humor, and entertained everyone with his crazy party stories. Students were treated to a lot of new material along with some of his classic jokes sprinkled in as well. After a long day of nasty weather, the audience was happy to end it on a good note with this amazing performance. For those that missed the chance to see Nick Swardson live, you can still get your fix of his stand up on YouTube and fans can also look forward to a second season of his sketch comedy show “Nick Swardson’s Pretend Time” which will be coming back to Comedy Central soon. 



It’s that time of the year again, when sorority girls are treated to lavish dinners, personal chauffeurs to class and chapter serenades.
This Sunday, every fraternity will serenade a select group of sororities in addition to everything they’ve been doing throughout the week.
The special treatment happens this week, before the sororities make their decision’s for which fraternities to pair up with for homecoming.
KnightNews.com will be there to update you on their final selections as they happen, but as of now here’s how our sources in the Greek community are saying how the situation is shaping up.
Alpha Delta Pi and Lambda Chi
Zeta Tau Alpha and Alpha Tau Omega
Kappa Delta and Phi Delta Theta
Delta Delta Delta and Sigma Chi (We’re checking to see if another fraternity is pairing with Sigma Chi, possibly Delta Tau Delta)
Kappa Alpha Theta: Theta Chi vs. Beta Theta Pi
Pi Beta Phi and Kappa Sigma
Alpha Xi Delta and Delta Upsilon (We’re checking to see if another fraternity is pairing with Delta Upsilon, possibly Sigma Pi)  
KnightNews.com is still working on finding out which remaining fraternities and sororities will be paired up.
KnightNews.com is constantly getting new information, we plan on updating this list as tips come in. This list by no mean is the final selection.
If you have any tips for KnightNews.com you can contact us at news@knightnews.com or text/call us at 407-5-tip-UCF. Let us know when you’re about to be serenaded or when you will serenade someone and we’ll try and rush a crew there to capture the guys going in your house, or if you do serenades outside, catch it on camera! Last year we captured Theta Chi serenading Alpha Xi Delta:
Last Year Serenade Caught on Camera:
KnightNews.com caught up with Theta Chi as they serenaded Alpha Xi Delta during last year’s serenade. Take a look at the video we shot of the songs, and the interviews with a couple brothers who explained how the whole process works.

If your fraternity or sorority has pictures/video of a serenade, e-mail us at news@knightnews.com and we’ll include it.



