This week, ‘The Plaza,’ the shopping center containing the majority of the UCF bars right across the street from campus, will be home to World Famous Burgers and Beer. The restuarant is undergoing some final renovations, and is expected to soft open any day now.
Founded by Romi Mawardi, the owner of Scoop and Deko, this will not be an ordinary burger stop. He said he wants to it be a more unique place for students, especially after-hours, since it will be open from 11am until 4am each day.
Here’s how it will work.
Step 1: Pick your bread – you will be able to choose from many types of bread, including a dusted kaiser roll, sourdough, pesto, challah, onion, potato and a wheat bun.
Step 2: Pick your protein — you will be able to choose from different types of meat, including Angus beef, Kobe beef, a 6 oz.tuna fillet, a chicken breast, a veggie sandwich or an everything burger (meatloaf style mix of meats, Mediterranean style) or even a hot dog (served on potato roll).
Step 3: Pick your cheese — You will be able to choose from American, cheddar, pepper jack, Swiss, provolone, blue cheese crumbles, muenster, smoked Gouda and Havarti.
Step 4: Pick your veggies — you will be able to choose from iceberg lettuce, tomato, red onions, sautéed onions, green peppers, mushrooms, pickles, back olives, jalapenos and grilled tomato.
Step 5: Pick your extras (starting at $.50 each) — choose from add-ons of bacon, egg, avocado, fries, onion rings, chili, pepperoni or a double patty of the meat you’ve chosen.
Step 6: Pick your sauces — choosing from chipotle mayo, horseradish, A1, ketchup, honey mustard, honey BBQ and ranch.
Step 7: Pick your side — you will have the option of adding on fresh, homemade sweet potato fries or regular fries fries, fresh cut potato chips, onion rings, side salad, cole slaw, chili or baked beans.
Step 8: Pick your beverage — you can choose from a fountain soda (they will have Pepsi products) or a beer on tap.
Mawardi estimates that a regular burger, fries and a drink will cost less than $6, making it competitive with other late-night restaurants in the shopping center.
With full, cooked-to-order, never frozen meals ranging from $5 – $10, this new late-night burger place is expected to be a hit amongst college students and the surrounding community — not to mention, they will serve $1 drafts all day, every day.



NFL Quarterback Brett Favre filed retirement papers with the NFL on Monday, ending an unbelievable career, according to reports.

Although Favre has come back after retiring before, this time could be his last.
“I know it’s time, and that’s OK. It is,” Favre told the media after his last game. “Again, I hold no regrets, and I can’t think of too many players offhand that can walk away and say that. Individually and from a team standpoint, it was way more than I ever dreamed of.”
Back in 2008 Favre retired from professional football after building up a big name in Green Bay. Then he played for the Jets, and retired from them in 2009. He then returned again with the Vikings.
Should this be Favre’s final retirement, he’ll leave the game with a record 297 regular season game consecutive starts, according to reports.
What do you think, is he gone for good? Feel free to share your comments below with other KnightNews.com readers.



