After Herman Cain won the Florida Presidncy 5 (P5) Straw Poll and surged to third-place in the national polls, KnightNews.com dug up the entire raw video footage of Cain’s comments after the Orlando Republican debate.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LxOGE2CXz7I
As you can see in the video, Cain addresses a host of issues including whether he’d accept a vice presidential spot, gays in the military, muslim terrorism — and even those infamous $16 muffins bought for government officials on the taxpayer’s dime. 
Cain is polling at second-place for US President among Florida voters, according to a statement from SurveyUSA. 
“In the Florida Republican Primary for President, Mitt Romney at 27% edges Herman Cain at 25%, according to a SurveyUSA poll conducted for WFLA-TV Tampa. Rick Perry finishes 3rd with 13%, others further back. The Primary is tentatively, and controversially, scheduled for 4 months from today, on 01/31/12.

“Romney is strong among older voters, women, moderates and in Southeast Florida. Cain is strong among men, younger voters, Tea Party members, affluent voters and in Northeast Florida. Perry is strong among those who say they are “very conservative,” among those who attend religious services regularly, among Evangelicals and in Northwest Florida.”
The other front-runners in the national polls, Mitt Romney and Rick Perry, declined to talk to KnightNews.com or other media gathered to interview candidates in Orlando following the straw poll. KnightNews.com will bring you interviews from other candidates as well if they are willing to grant them at future Florida stops. 



KnightNews.com was sent the following results for the 2011 SGA fall senatorial elections. Four of the seats being contested did not have a winner capture more than 50 percent of the vote, so those four will go into a run-off election next week. 
Several seats went unopposed, the majority of which were from the Graduate Studies slate. 
Here are the results sent by SGA:
Senate Election Results
Voting September 26th-28th, 2011	
COLLEGE	SENATOR
College of Business Administration 	
Seat 1	Nicholas Simons
Seat 2	Carlos Bolanos
Seat 3	Thomas Waterman
Seat 4	Patrick Boyd
Seat 5	Morgan Sonntag
Seat 6	Chloe Textor
Seat 7	Gabriella Perez
Seat 8	Medardo Cevallos
College of Arts & Humanities	
Seat 1	Sawyer Frescoln
Seat 2	Christopher Hixon
Seat 3	Matthew Arbos
Seat 4	RUN-OFF 
College of Medicine
Seat 1	Leonel Atencio
Seat 2	Daralys Lopez
College of Nursing
Seat 1	Anthony King
Seat 2	No candidate 
College of Engineering and Computer Science
Seat 1	RUN-OFF
Seat 2	Jonathan Cannon
Seat 3	Matthew Goodison-Orr
 Seat 4	Megan Wetzel
Seat 5	Kailyn Perez
Seat 6	Andrew Dugan
College of Education
Seat 1	Brooke Sheetz
Seat 2	Emily Jaworski
Seat 3	Wesley Jones
Seat 4	Amanda DiGregorio 
Graduate Studies
Seat 1	Prabhu Doss Mani
Seat 2	Graham Austin
Seat 3	Kevin Gay
Seat 4	James Gilmore
 Seat 5	Swetha Barkam
Seat 6 	No Candidate
Seat 7	No Candidate
Seat 8	No Candidate
Seat 9	Joshua Jemegbe 
Rosen College of Hospitaltiy Management
Seat 1	Kathryn Andriotis
Seat 2	Jaclyn Graham
Seat 3	David Moskovitz 
Colleg of Health and Public Affairs
Seat 1	Eric Katz
Seat 2	Brandon Silverman
Seat 3	RUN-OFF
Seat 4	Michael Porcella
Seat 5	Ryan Dury
Seat 6	Alex Meleis
Regional Campus
Seat 1	Grey Dodge
Seat 2	No Candidate
College of Sciences
Seat 1	Joshua Scriven
Seat 2	RUN-OFF
Seat 3	Matthew Gruda
Seat 4	Sarah Wesson
Seat 5	Dell O. Barnes
Seat 6	Rebecca Bormel
Seat 7	Arianna Young
Seat 8	Jacob Kahn
Seat 9	Dale Bernstein
Seat 10	Alina Siddiqui
Undeclared
Seat 1	Anne Shirley Lewis
Undergraduate Studies
Seat 1	No Candidate
Seat 2	No Candidate 



A teacher in Northern California has banned the phrase “God bless you” from being said in his class following a sneeze, according to multiple reports. 
The teacher, Steve Cuckovich, has even punished a student by lowering that student’s grade for uttering the phrase that’s a common courtesy across the world, according to reports. Cuckovich teaches health in Vacaville.

“When you sneezed in the old days, they thought you were dispelling evil spirits out of your body,” Cuckovich told local media. “So they were saying, ‘god bless you’ for getting rid of evil spirits. But today, I said what you’re doing doesn’t really make any sense anymore.”

The teacher stopped lowering grades for students who say “bless you” after parents complained. But make no mistake – he plans on coming up with another way to punish students who utter that phrase after someone sneezes. 



