University of Central Florida’s NASCAR Kinetics team will be hosting an official NASCAR viewing party of the Goody’s Fast Pain Relief 500 at Martinsville Speedway on April 3.The party will be hosted at Tilted Kilt Pub & Eatery on University Blvd, just down the street from UCF. It will begin at 12:30 p.m. and conclude at the end of the race. This is a free event, open to the public, and will be filled with food, activities and giveaways.
This event is part of the NASCAR Kinetics program, which offers select college students to become brand ambassadors for NASCAR; five students at UCF are involved in this particular team.
NASCAR  developed  the  NASCAR  Kinetics:  Marketing  in  Motion  program  in  2009  with  the  mission  of  exposing  college students  to  and  educating  them  about  the  NASCAR  brand.  This  innovative,  engaging  program  gives  the  teams  an opportunity  to  work  through  real‐world  business  challenges  facing  the  motorsports  industry. 
Students  will  leverage  techniques  and  lessons  taught  in  the  classroom  to  complete  case  studies  and  projects.   Each student  chosen  for  the  NASCAR  Kinetics  program  is  tasked  with  fostering  brand  awareness  throughout  their  college and  the  community.  Students  who  have  taken  part  in  the  program  credit  it  for  giving  them  a  leg  up  on  the competition  fo r internships  and  jobs  in  the  sports  industry.  
For  more  information  on  this  event,  or  NASCAR  Kinetics,  please  contact  the  team  leader,  Aviel  Solar  at  aviel.solar@knights.ucf.edu  or  561‐212‐8848. 



Popular artist Sean Kingston will perform during Universal Studios Orlando’s Mardi Gras concert Friday at 8:30 p.m. — and no, it’s not an April Fool’s joke. 
Known for hit songs such as “Beautiful Girls,” “Take You There” and “Fire Burning,” Kingston is popular with today’s youth. Kingston was nominated three times for the Teen Choice Awards and won the honor once. UCF and other college students may remember his appearances on the MTV reality show The Hills and MTV’s Cribs, as well as the Nick Jr. series Yo Gabba Gabba. 
On Saturday, it’s Ne-Yo’s turn to take the stage at Universal Studios Orlando. This artist has seen five top 10 songs on the Billboard Hot 11. He’s known for his such as: “So Sick,” “Sexy Love,” “Because of You,” “Closer”, “Mad” and “Miss Independent.” The artist has 12 Grammy nominations under his belt, and will take the stage at Universal’s Mardi Gras at 8:30 p.m. Saturday, April 2. 
For ticket information and see other Universal Mardi Gras concert acts, click below:



