
KnightNews.com will be there and plans to live stream it for those who cannot attend. 
If you have a picture, video or memory of Ann you’d like to share with others, email it to news@knightnews.com and we’ll compile it with others to add to our memorial coverage of our fellow student. 



UCF just confirmed details in the UCF student death story KnightNews.com was first to break Thursday — Ann Hefferin was partying at the Sigma Chi house before she died. 
Although UCF now confirms there was evidence she was drinking alcohol, it’s still not clear whether alcohol contributed to her death. The Orange County Medical Examiner’s office told KnightNews.com Friday afternoon toxicology reports are needed before that determination can be made. That process is expected to take five weeks. 

Ann Hefferin on Homecoming Court“Although we do not know if it played a role in Ann’s death, alcohol was at the Sigma Chi house, which is a violation of university policy,” said UCF spokesperson Grant J. Heston. “This is a serious matter; the fraternity is immediately subject to our disciplinary process and will be held accountable for its actions. We await news from the medical examiner that will help further guide our investigation and response.”
KnightNews.com has uploaded the heartbreaking 911 call placed by Hefferin’s roommate as she tried to save her. Be warned it is very tragic and difficult to listen to. KnightNews.com is only posting it because it is a public record and was released by UCF police and it can help shed light on what happened. Click here to listen to the 911 call.   
Read UCF’s full media statement on the death investigation the next page below. 



One day after UCF announced to media outlets it was investigating a party held by Sigma Chi following student Ann Hefferin’s sudden death, the fraternity lowered its flag to half-staff. 
Multiple sources inside the UCF Greek community told KnightNews.com Hefferin attended the party before she died. 
KnightNews.com tried confirming whether Sigma Chi was expressing its condolences, but a spokesman from the fraternity’s national office has not returned calls to do so. 
Meanwhile, the mystery surrounding what caused the new Delta Delta Delta sorority member’s death continues. KnightNews.com checked in with the Orange County Medical Examiner’s office Friday afternoon and found out it is expected to take about five weeks before toxicology tests are back. 
Toxicology reports will show whether alcohol or drugs were in her system, and that information could be used to determine the cause and manner of death, according to the Medical Examiner’s office. 
At this point the autopsy’s official status is “pending” and officials said they do not yet know if alcohol played any role in her death at all. 
KnightNews.com will continue following this major UCF news. Check back for updates. 



