Pastor Terry Jones of Gainesville, known for ordering the burning of a Koran, is out of Dearborn police custody after paying a $1 “peace” bond stemming from his attempt to protest at a Michigan mosque

But the court battle in Michigan, which resulted in an order forbidding him for protesting near the mosque, isn’t the pastor’s only problem tonight — the signs at his Gainesville church have been vandalized by someone who apparently didn’t like his message. 
The signs originally said: “Islam is of the Devil.” 
Someone scratched out those words and replaced them with: “Love all men.”

What do you think about the free speech issues at play here? Feel free to comment below.



Most of you may remember a man last year who walked around campus singing “sanitary” parodies of popular songs while giving out shots of sanitizer to students and dragging a plastic “urinal.”
David Cohn, was the face of the “UCF 5th Guy” campaign, which was started by the UCF Student Health Center and aimed to promote hygiene and better hygienic behaviors amongst students, according to Cohn. 
His “UCF 5th Guy” Facebook fan page had even gotten up to 340 members last year.
KnightNews.com reached out to David Cohn to find out what he has been up to after finishing up the fifth guy campaign and graduating UCF. 
After graduating UCF he went on to preforming in an a cappella/beatboxing show at Hersheypark Theme Park. 
“Working at Hershey Park allowed me to meet super talented people who had similar aspirations, and we were able to work alongside each other while learning new ways to fine-tune our crafts,” Cohn said.
Since then he has moved back to Florida and has been working in the recording studio with all different styles of music and putting out new songs.
Below is one of his new tracks “Life I Lead.”
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UowDq2w2jVI&feature=player_embedded#at=20
“Working in the studio is like nothing I’ve ever done before.  When I’m there, I have the ability to bring to life sounds and ideas that only previously existed in my head. It’s surreal to hear something of my own play through the speakers of my car sometimes,” Cohn told KnightNews.com.
He has been told by his fans that his work is similar to the styles of “One Republic.” 
If you would like to follow David Cohn you can follow his Facebook fan page here.



UCF guard Marcus Jordan has a solution for all the “one-and-done” players in college basketball: enabling student athletes to sign endorsement deals.
“If student athletes had the opportunity to make endorsement deals I bet students would stay longer.. And it’s just the right thing to do,” Jordan tweeted Friday afternoon.
The twitter discussion started after Jordan, son of NBA legend Michael Jordan, tweeted about an article on ESPN.com by Pat Forde showing how the Josh Selby situation, in which he attended Kansas for one year out of high school due to the NBA draft age regulations which don’t allow you to declare for the draft unless you are 19, exposes the problems with the NBA age restriction. Jordan tweeted that the “NCAA should make something happen.”
Jordan said that players should be able to make endorsement deals off their own skills and that “either we all get paid or nobody get paid.”
“Coaches and schools make millions of dollars but the players can’t make money off of their own skills and the same thing coaches n schools,” Jordan tweeted.
Jordan also hinted via his twitter account that the players are the only ones not getting paid, when they are responsible for bringing fans to the arenas.
“All I’m saying is the system ain’t right. And they know what they doing… Everybody getting paid except for the people that fill the stands.”
Article X, Section 1 of the 2005 NBA Collective Bargaining Agreement states that “all drafted players must be at least 19 years old during the calendar year of the draft. To determine whether a player is eligible for a given year’s draft, subtract 19 from the year of the draft. If the player was born during or before that year, he is eligible.”
The rule was put into effect with the 2005-06 NBA basketball season.
Jordan suggestion for keeping these players is simple: let them sign endorsement deals.
“Kids don’t even get to use they scholarship anymore cuz they end up leaving… If top players had a smal endorsement deal I bet they’d stay.”



Helen Beard, the British tourist who caught a 1-year-old child who fell from a four-story balcony at an Orlando hotel will be recognized by Orange County Sheriff Jerry Demings Friday afternoon. 
The Orange County Sheriff’s Office told KnightNews.com that together with the International Drive Resort Area
Chamber of Commerce and the Department of Children and Families, the groups will meet with Beard to “recognize her for her quick thinking and heroic actions in saving the life of a 1-year-old.” 
Beard will get a medal of merit for her actions on the night of April 21, 2011, where officials say she saved the life of the child who, after clinging from the railings of a fourth story Econolodge hotel balcony, fell to the ground. 
“Mrs. Beard showed unusual instinct and initiative when she exited from the swimming pool area and was able to catch the child as she fell, thus saving her from extreme physical injuries and/or death,” an Orange County sheriff’s spokesman said. 



