All the money the University of Central Florida spends on lobbying wasn’t enough to stop Gov. Rick Scott from swinging his budget ax and hacking away several multi-million dollar “special-interest earmarks” the Legislature steered to UCF.
Gone are the following line items impacting UCF:
– $5.2 million for Classroom Building II
– $3.9 million for a physics building
– $3.6 million for an engineering building
– $6.3 million for a research and incubator facility
– $2.3 million for roof repairs and other improvements
The $21.3 million total slashed from UCF represents only a small portion of the $615 million Scott vetoed out of the state’s now $69.1 billion budget.
Even though many of Scott’s budget cuts hit higher education, Scott released a statement insisting he supports education because he directed the Legislature to steer the millions he vetoed to K-12 education.
“Special interests probably aren’t happy with the tough choices I made, but I am confident everyone can agree that funding for our children and students is more important than pleasing Tallahassee’s special interests,” Scott said in a statement. 
Powerful lawmakers issued statements expressing frustration with Scott for waiting until the budget was passed to veto items instead of working with them during the legislative session.
UCF President John C. Hitt is already expressing his disappointment with Scott’s decision, seemingly taking a shot at Scott’s platform as the “jobs governor.”
“For a state that really needs new jobs, this is not good news,” Hitt told the Orlando Sentinel. 
KnightNews.com will check with UCF to find out where school leaders hoped to build the engineering or physics building to find out if the UCF arboretum was a site being considered. 



Lewis Neal (24, left) of Orlando City celebrates with teammates after he scored a goal in the 4th minute at the Citrus Bowl in Orlando, FL on May 25, 2011. Orlando City defeated the Richmond Kickers 2-0. (Kurt Rivers/KnightNews.com)
Lewis Neal (24) of Orlando City shooting a goal in the 4th minute at the Citrus Bowl in Orlando, FL on May 25, 2011. Orlando City defeated the Richmond Kickers 2-0. (Kurt Rivers/KnightNews.com)
Orlando City (7-1-2, 23 points) wanted revenge from the Richmond Kickers (6-2-1, 19 points) deriving out of their only loss in the first game of the season. 
Orlando City on Wednesday night at the Citrus Bowl came out strong with a goal in the 4th minute by Lewis Neal assisted by Kevin Molino. Soon later in the 13th minute, Molino scored a goal assisted by Luke Boden. With the fast quick play up front by the Lions, Richmond was unable to come back during the rest of the game. 
The Kickers did make a strong effort with Orlando City playing aggressive at the end resulting in Orlando goal leader, with 6 on the season, Max Griffin in a yellow card and many other penalties plus grabbing I noticed from on the field. 
Both teams were close in shot attempts with Orlando leading 13-12 but Miguel Gallardo-Aparicio of Orlando City had a successful night with 4 saves compared to Ronnie Pascale of Richmond with only 1 save. 
Next game for Orlando City at the Citrus Bowl is against the Charlotte Eagles on June 2nd. 

Media Links:
Website
Twitter
Facebook

Single game tickets start at only $12.00 http://www.orlandocitysoccer.com/tickets/



KnightNews.com caught up with several UCF students who actually sat in on the Casey Anthony trial on Wednesday. During their lunch break, here is what they had to say:

In case you want to go watch the trial yourself, KnightNews.com has done some digging to find out how. Only 50 seats are available for the public, while the other 50 are reserved mostly for media. Simply show up to the courthouse as early as 5:30 a.m. to get yourself a spot in line. You can line up on the north side of the courthouse outside the doors. No overnight camping is allowed.
If you do go, email us at news@knightnews.com to let us know how it went, and to see if we can come interview you about your experience. 
Watch a live stream of the trial at www.caseyanthonytriallive.com.



