As of the 5 p.m. report from the National Hurricane Center, Tropical Storm Emily has been downgraded to a tropical disturbance.
Moving north west at 16 mph, Emily’s remnants have max sustained winds at 35 mph.

KnightNews.com will continue to follow Emily and the potential effects it could have on Central Florida.



The campus lockdown has been lifted.
KnightNews.com is following this major breaking news. See the information posted on VT’s homepage below: 
Thursday, Aug. 4, 2011
Update to VT Alerts
2:41 p.m. Update
The campus alert is lifted. There will continue to be a large police presence on campus today.  Police have not received nor discovered additional information about a person possibly carrying a weapon beyond that reported this morning.  The university community may resume normal campus activity. Only Blacksburg campus classes have been cancelled today. 
The university will hold a press briefing at 3:15 p.m. in front of Burruss Hall.
While the alert has been lifted, as always, we suggest that people remain vigilant and report suspicious campus activity to Virginia Tech Police at 911 or 231-6411.
(1 p.m.) Update
Campus alert remains in effect.  We recommend that students, employees, and others on campus remain secured indoors.  Classes are cancelled for remainder of the day.  Students are asked not to come to campus.
The university understands that it has been several hours since this began.   Many officers from many police departments continue to search campus buildings. We have a very large campus and this will be a long process. There have been no further sightings or reports.
Police have released a composite of the person who was sighted earlier today and is posted on www.vt.edu.  If you believe that you are this person and that your activity was mistaken, please contact VT Police at 231-6411.
We will continue to update you this afternoon.

(12:44 p.m.) Update
Virginia Tech Police have released this composite sketch based on reports of the person who was believed to be carrying a weapon on campus.
(11:51 a.m.) Update
VT Police in conjunction with four other police departments continue to search the campus for the person reportedly with a weapon.  There have been no other sightings.  We have no further information to report. 
We ask people to remain secured indoors.   Report suspicious activity the VT Police Department at 231-6411 or 911.
(10:35 a.m.) See VT homepage or email for further information on possible person with weapon.  People on campus stay indoors until further notice.
Update to VT Alerts
At 9:09 a.m. three juveniles attending a camp at the university reported seeing a white male, 6 feet tall, with light brown hair outside of New Residence Hall East holding what may have been a handgun.  They say the weapon was covered by a cloth or covering of some sort.  He was walking fast in the direction of the volleyball courts.   He was wearing a blue and white striped shirt (stripes were vertical), gray shorts and brown sandals.  The subject had no facial hair or glasses.
Officers responded immediately to the area but found no one matching the description.  Police have encountered no other witnesses reporting this individual or anything suspicious.  Law enforcement officers from VTPD, Blacksburg PD, Christiansburg PD, Virginia State Police, and Montgomery County Sheriff’s Office are patrolling the campus, continuing to look for the subject. 
If anyone sees anything suspicious contact the VT Police Department at 231-6411 or 911
Campus individuals should remain indoors.



