The University of Florida suffered a major legal loss in its effort to keep secret Student Government records requested in 2009 by then student Frank Bracco under Florida’s Public Record Law. 
In a statement Bracco released to KnightNews.com, he praised Monday’s decision by the Eighth Judicial Circuit of Florida which ordered the University of Florida and its Student Government to release meeting records pertaining to Student Senate.
“Today was a major victory for Sunshine advocates in higher education,” Bracco said in his statement. “I hope this case sends a message to the State University System that public meeting records are just that: public.”
An email sent to UF spokesman Steve Orlando Tuesday seeking comment was not returned. 
The University of Florida argued a federal education privacy law, known as FERPA, prohibited the university from releasing UF records. UCF SGA routinely uses the same argument in denying similar records to KnightNews.com. Sunshine Law experts and advocates have repeatedly said universities are abusing and misusing FERPA to justify hiding public information. 
The major loss to the UF Student Government came on the same day KnightNews.com received an opinion from SGA Attorney General Nicholas Gurney which could save UCF from facing a similar lawsuit from KnightNews.com. 
Gurney’s opinion recommends that UCF SGA repeal a statute allowing secret meetings to be held during impeachments. The issue became heated last Summer when SGA President Mike Kilbride refused to back down and open the meetings after a KnightNews.com attorney sent him a letter demanding his administration stop allowing secret meetings. 
After pressure grew, Kilbride’s Student Government released a statement saying they’d review SGA policies. 
KnightNews.com’s attorney at the time, Rob Rivas, made it clear it was illegal for SGA to continue its secret meetings.
“If the Student Senate expeditiously repeals every provision for secret meetings, they will have done what is required of them by the law,” Rivas said last Summer. “If they don’t, we will make an appointment for a judge to explain it to them, and the SGA will pay my fees. No real lawyer would argue in court in defense of their position.”
SGA dragged its feet on the issue for months, and when KnightNews.com visited the Senate in Fall, almost everyone was unaware of the review Kilbride’s administration said was ongoing. It appeared the review announced by Kilbride’s administration was moving nowhere and a lawsuit from KnightNews.com would be inevitable.
Now that Gurney has released his recommendation stating the statute allowing secret meetings should be removed, KnightNews.com will continue to delay any legal action to allow SGA a chance to follow his advice. If the Senate follows Gurney’s advice, it could help make SGA more transparent.
We’ll have a bigger update over the next few days about other legal issues SGA has faced last year and provide more detail on Gurney’s opinion. We’ll also examine what ripple effects the UF lawsuit could have here on public records at UCF. 
Check back to KnightNews.com for updates. You can read Bracco’s full press release on the next page. 



The Apple iPhone will be sold by Verizon starting in early February, officials announced Tuesday morning, ending the exclusive hold AT&T had on the popular smart phone since 2007. 
The announcement was made in New York City at a press conference where officials said the Verizon iPhone will cost $199 for the 16GB model and $299 for the 32 GB model, according to reports. 
Those prices are for 2-year contracts. 
What’s the difference between AT&T’s iPhone and Verizon’s iPhone? 
AT&T users can talk and surf at the same time, while Verizon users won’t be able to. However, Verizon users can turn their iPhone into a personal wireless hotspot, where up to five devices can connect to the internet — and AT&T’s iPhone can’t do that. 
Both will have FaceTime. 
Current Verizon customers can pre-order the iPhone starting Feb. 3. Others will have to wait until Feb. 10 to order the new phones either online or in a store. 
Check back to KnightNews.com for updates on this story when available. 



The UCF Football team won it’s first ever bowl game this season and, as a reward, is ranked in both the Associated Press and USA Today/Coaches’ Final Top 25 polls for the first time in school history.
After defeating Georgia 10-6 in the 2010 Autozone Liberty Bowl, the Knights (11-3) received the No. 20 spot in the USA Today Coaches’ Poll and the No. 21 spot in the AP Poll, the highest chip this season in the rankings and the highest ever for UCF in program history.
The 11 wins were the most in school history, while the Knights won their second Conference USA Championship in school history this season, defeating SMU 17-7 back on Dec. 4.
The ranking in the final polls is huge for UCF in many ways. It will be a huge edge for recruiting as the Knights finish up adding the final pieces to their 2011 recruiting class and it will also increase their chances of being ranked in the 2011-12 preseason polls prior to next college football season.
UCF is the second-highest ranked team in the state of Florida, as the Florida State Seminoles (10-4) nabbed the No. 16 spot in the Coaches’ Poll and the No. 17 spot in the AP poll. The Florida Gators were not in the final rankings, although they did receive votes in both national polls. Unofficially, the Gators are ranked No. 31 in the AP and No. 32 in the Coaches’ poll.
The Knights will open up spring practice on Friday, March 18, with the Spring Football Game scheduled for Saturday, April 16.



