KnightNews.com has just received this press release from UCF police.
Subject: Crime Alert- Armed Robberies with a Knife
At approximately 2:30 a.m. Saturday morning, March 26, 2011, two robberies occurred on campus. In both incidences, the victims had just left the Knight Library bar located at Alafaya Trail and University Boulevard.  Once the victims arrived on campus, 3 or 4 suspects used knives to rob them. One group of students was robbed at Aquarius Agora and Gemini, and the other location was off of Libra Drive near Academic Village. No one was injured.
The suspects are described as 3 or 4 Hispanic males, age range between 19- 25 years old, driving in a green or gray low-riding Honda.
The University Police are encouraging all students to be extremely careful and to not to be out during the late night or early morning hours walking on campus roadways, especially if you are returning from a late-night drinking establishment.  If you are confronted by these suspects, don’t put yourself in danger and give them what they want.
University Police are on alert and will pay extra attention to the housing area parking lots and roadways of the campus. The Office of Housing and Residence Life will be alerting student employees of the Residence Hall and Apartment Patrol program, which operates nightly.
In an emergency, dial 9-1-1 on any phone or to reach the University Police by your cell phone, preprogram your phone to 407-823-5555.
If anyone has information about these crimes, please contact our office or contact Crimeline at 407-423-TIPS (8477).



The University of Central Florida released several written complaints regarding “roofies” filed by women of the Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority to KnightNews.com Friday morning — about 60 hours after UCF Director of Fraternity and Sorority Life Belinda Boston denied she had any.
Boston did not immediately respond to an email from KnightNews.com expressing concern with her statement denying having a written complaint and seeking an explanation about why portions of the records were redacted, or blacked out. Belinda Boston
The records show the allegations made by KKG stem from a social with the Delta Upsilon fraternity, which happened back on Feb. 10. The records include a letter from KKG Regional Director of Chapters Susan L. Pile to the UCF sorority members scolding them over the roofie scandal. 
“I am embarrassed to hear of excessive drinking, possible drug use and inappropriate behavior by your members that occurred at a recent function,” Pile wrote.  
KnightNews.com first broke the possibility of allegations against DU brothers last week when we did an update on Greek organizations in trouble. While UCF provided KnightNews.com information about DU being in trouble, a response sent on Boston’s behalf left out how KKG was in trouble. 
The letter from the KKG national office strips the sorority of the right to have socials involving alcohol for the rest of the semester. It went on to say it will only allow two alcoholic social events in Fall if there are no further violations. 
The KKG members accused Delta Upsilon brothers of playing a date rape drug drinking game, the documents show. The story has since picked up local media attention, and now UCF police and the Office of Student Conduct have both launched investigations, according to the reports. 
Delta Upsilon brothers have denied they played any game with a date rape drug, and denied they had any such drug. There was no indication anyone — either a fraternity or sorority member — was hospitalized or severely intoxicated in the records KnightNews.com obtained. 
We’re working to gather more information on what has become another scandal out of the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life and will post updates as we get them. 



