After the first day of the Ereck Plancher wrongful death trial a jury has not been selected. By the end of the day, over 50 different people from the jury pool were interviewed as potential jurors. 
The potential jurors were questioned for possible bias or previous knowledge of the case. They were also asked about their upcoming schedule over the next three weeks and how serving would affect their jobs and financial situation.
One of the first possible jurors was dismissed for possible bias, for having affiliation with UCF and its athletic association. Several others were also dismissed throughout the day for various reasons.
At the end of the selection process the jury pool will be narrowed down to only six jurors with a couple of alternates. 
It is expected that a jury will be selected tomorrow. If that happens early enough in the day, the opening statements would also begin tommorow. 
The Plancher legal team also dropped the case against the UCF Board of Trustees and now the trial will deal with just the UCF Athletic Association.
Knightnews is the only local news source providing live streaming, gavel to gavel video coverage of this major trial. Our team of reporters will be back at the Orange County Courthouse throughout the week and for the rest of the trial. Check back for continuous updates.



The damaging onslaught of negative publicity UCF and its Athletics Association have suffered while defending themselves against a wrongful death lawsuit filed by Ereck Plancher’s parents is not the institution’s only problem — a nearly $300,000 legal bill for the case is looming during a time when tuition is rising another 15 percent.
That number shouldn’t go up, Heston said, “Because UCFAA’s insurance company has recently assumed the cost of defense for UCF…”
In what appears to be an unprecedented move, the Plancher case will go to trial even though most similar situations involving the death of collegiate athletes nationwide had been settled out of court. Lawyers for Plancher’s family are seeking punitive damages in the millions from UCFAA’s insurance company. They contend UCF needs to be punished so future lives will be saved. 
UCF has come under fire for refusing to release witness statements Plancher’s teammates gave a month or two after his death detailing his final moments during what some players described as a grueling workout. UCF initially described the workout as a short, non-taxing workout. UCF officials later backtracked and admitted it was more intense than originally announced, although they deny UCF did anything that caused Plancher’s death — and instead did all they could to save him.

UCF says it doesn’t have to release those witness statements because they are protected, legal work product and Circuit Judge Robert M. Evans agreed. However, some public records experts KnightNews.com contacted believe the statements should be made public and UCF would be forced to release them if that ruling were appealed. 
UCF has disagreed with the judge on other rulings and filed appeals, but so far the Fifth District Court of Appeals has not intervened and pushed back the case, as UCF had requested. 
Heston pointed out it’s possible the legal costs already incurred by the University may still be avoided. “We also anticipate that some, or all, of the amount previously spent by UCF will be reimbursed by the insurance company,” he said. 
KnightNews.com will let you know if we hear an update from UCF regarding whether the insurance company issues an reimbursements, or if a deductible is required before that could happen. 
Check back to KnightNews.com later this morning for live continuous coverage of jury selection in the wrongful death trial which is scheduled to begin by 10 a.m.



