After getting several tips and hearing rumors that certain fraternities and sororities at UCF were in trouble or under some sort of review, KnightNews.com checked with UCF to get to the bottom of it. 
The most major news UCF officials told KnightNews.com is that UCF’s Delta Upsilon fraternity is under a “general suspension” from nationals, and is “not allowed to participate in socials where alcohol may be present.” UCF confirmed that educational sanctions have also been assigned. 
Delta Upsilon is being forced to undergo a “membership review” and it appears that certain brothers will be shown the door. UCF stands behind the national office, and although several members may be gone, UCF says it doesn’t want to see DU disappear altogether from campus. 
“As for DU, the university is in full support of the national office membership review process,” said UCF spokeswoman Christine Dellert. “We stand by the national office’s findings, and UCF’s Fraternity and Sorority Life office is looking forward to working with the remaining members to build a solid future for the DU chapter at UCF.”
UCF did not release any specific reasons that this action was taken. DU members, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they aren’t authorized to talk to the media, were disappointed with the way the situation was handled. Within a matter of weeks, the fraternity the brothers worked so hard to build up as one of the largest and most popular on campus was gutted — even though the brothers say they were open, honest and a non-secretive fraternity.
According to documents UCF released to KnightNews.com, only 48 members of DU have maintained their full undergraduate member status. The remaining 65 members of DU had action taken against them including 17 facing either academic or financial probation, 32 being recommended for expulsion and 16 had to become alumni early. (KnightNews.com will work to post these documents soon, check back to see them). 
KnightNews.com is working to gather more information about this situation. We are looking into reports that some members of the UCF community may have made allegations against DU which never could be fully substantiated. It’s not clear to what extent this impacted the national office’s action. 
KnightNews.com asked UCF for a full list of all fraternities or sororities which are under review or facing probation, etc., and that list is pasted below:
Delta Upsilon – General suspension from nationals, not allowed to participate in socials where alcohol may be present. Educational sanctions have been assigned. 
Iota Phi Theta – Suspension until Fall 2011 for failure to meet academic standards.
Pi Beta Phi – Restrictive probation until end of Spring 2011, and disciplinary probation until end of Summer 2011. Any social events they participate in or host must be dry.
Mu Sigma Upsilon – Organizational suspension until end of Spring 2011, on disciplinary probation until the end of Spring 2011.
Sigma Nu – Disciplinary probation until end of Spring 2011, education sanctions have also been assigned.
Zeta Tau Alpha – General suspension from nationals, not allowed to participate in socials where alcohol may be present. Educational sanctions have been assigned.
KnightNews.com will continue following this Greek Life Shakeup as it develops. We are also looking into a story to compare how Greek Organizations are treated versus other Registered Student Organizations when it comes to enforcement and accountability of UCF rules and procedures. If you have any tips for us to look into, please email news@knightnews.com. 



Universal Studios Orlando is amping up its concert line up this weekend during its Mardi Gras celebration by throwing a concert both Friday and Saturday.
As KnightNews.com reported last week, Neon Trees is coming this Friday, March 18. The group is best known for its hit “Animal.” Check out the YouTube music video below:
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gM7Hlg75Mlo
On Saturday, Universal Mardi Gras is bringing in the five time Grammy-nominated band The Roots. The band, which was nominated for both Best Rap Album (for How I Got Over) and Best R&B Album (John Legend & The Roots for Wake Up!), is currently the house band on Late Night with Jimmy Fallon, according to Universal.
The roots have had their songs featured in films like Men in Black, in video games and the band has even made a TV appearance on the popular children’s program Yo Gabba Gabba.
Find out more about tickets and other acts coming to Universal at the link below:



