If you thought you’re day was stressful, it’s probably nothing compared to what the thousands of aspiring law school students taking the LSAT are going through. 
At 12:30 p.m. today, Monday, June 6, those hoping to get into law school will take one of the most grueling admissions tests there are. 
Law schools use the LSAT and your undergraduate GPA as major factors in determining whether you’ll be admitted to law school. You can use this LSAT calculator to see what law school your GPA and LSAT score may get you into to.
KnightNews.com has learned the University of Central Florida is one of the schools hosting the LSAT test today. Students should be on alert to remain quiet on campus today, to avoid disrupting the test. 
Students are allowed to cancel their scores after the LSAT, if they decide they don’t want to have it scored and cancel the score by the deadline.



Fox News host Geraldo Rivera is making bold statements about Casey Anthony, condemning her as a “child killing slut” during his national 10 p.m. show Sunday.
Casey Anthony partied after her daughter's death
His comments came while explaining his belief that any conviction against Anthony, currently on trial for first degree murder, will be overturned because she wasn’t read her Miranda rights during questioning. 
“I understand that most of the nation is appalled by the idea of a guilty verdict against Casey Anthony being overturned because she didn’t get her Miranda warnings,” Geraldo Rivera said. “But get used to it. Because I swear to you, in my opinion, it’s going to happen.” 
The reason it would be overturned, Rivera says, is because “the constitution protects everyone, even unpopular, selfish, narcissistic child killing sluts like Casey Anthony.”
Rivera further explained that even though Anthony is unpopular, that doesn’t mean she should have been deprived of her right to remain silent. 
“Think of her as the sweetheart of Sigma Chi who committed the crime, not this bitch that we hate,” Geraldo Rivera said, to try and put his point of view into perspective. 
Guests on his show, including Florida prosecutor Stacey Honowitz, disagreed.
“First of all I wasn’t in a sorority so I don’t care about the Sigma Chis,” Honowitz quipped. “I could care less if she was the lowest of lows or she was prom queen. Who cares?” 
If the issue gets appealed, Honowitz explained, “The Supreme Court isn’t looking to see if she was a narcissistic bad person so we don’t read her her rights. They look at the totality of the circumstances. How was she involved? What info was she given? Did she feel like she wasn’t free to leave? Would a reasonable person feel they’re not free to leave?
Honowitz also agreed with former LAPD Det. Mark Furham, who pointed out there is a public safety exemption to the Miranda rights, such as in a case where a child is still believed to be alive and police are working to find her before she dies. 
Geraldo Rivera said that exemption wouldn’t apply here. 



