A major meeting of Republicans and big name national conservative leaders will take place in Orlando this Friday, Sept. 23. 
It’s called the Conservative Political Action Conference – Florida. And all the major Republic presidential candidates are listed as confirmed speakers. Also headlining the event is U.S. Sen. Mario Rubio, R-Fla., who KnightNews.com interviewed earlier this year regarding his thoughts on the massive national debt. 
According to the event’s website, “CPAC FL will bring national and state conservative leaders and regional grassroots activists together for a day of blockbuster speeches, policy discussions and networking opportunities — all celebrating the shared principles of limited government, a strong national defense and traditional values.”  
The event, which also includes a Fla. US Senate Primary straw poll, begins at 8:30 a.m. Friday. Student registration is discounted to $25 from the normal general registration price of $45, according to a flier on the CPAC website.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_1lkOqibwF4
The following speakers and panels were listed on the CPAC website Sunday night:
Speakers – Presidential Candidates:
Michele Bachmann – Confirmed
Herman Cain – Confirmed
Newt Gingrich – Confirmed
Jon Huntsman – Confirmed
Gary Johnson – Confirmed
Thaddeus McCotter – Confirmed
Ron Paul – Confirmed
Rick Perry – Confirmed
Mitt Romney – Confirmed
Rick Santorum – Confirmed 
Confirmed Speakers Include:
Dick Armey
Jeff Atwater
Pam Bondi
David Bossie
Dean Cannon
Al Cardenas
Ann Coulter
S.E. Cupp
Luis Fortuño
Mike Haridopolos
Bill Kristol
George H. Nash
Grover Norquist
Adam Putnam
Ralph Reed
Marco Rubio
Matthew Spalding
Jim Talent
Panel Discussions Include:
An Inconvenient Truth? Can We Balance Our Energy Needs with Environmental Stewardship in a Post-BP Spill World?
Freedom, Competition & Schools: How Florida is Leading the Next Generation of Bold Education Reform
Consent of the Governed: The 2012 Political Landscape
Florida’s Property Insurance “Reform”?
Controlling Government Spending: Would a Balanced Budget Amendment Work?
Defending Defense vs. Isolationism: What is the price of Freedom in the 21st Century?
The State of the Conservative Union: The Present & Future of the Conservative Movement & the Tea Party
Our Enduring Values – Faith, Family & Freedom: Should There Be a Truce on Social Issues in 2012?
Health Care Freedom & Constitutionalism: Reining in the Rogue Federal Government
Recruiting the Next Generation of Conservative Activists: Are Youth Awakening from an Obama Hangover?
The Lightning Round: Politics & Punditry from Washington to Orlando
In the Grips of Communism: Freedom of Expression in Cuba
Grassroots Activism & New Media Training
Training Sessions Include:
Social Media 101 (10:30-11:30; Hosted by Americans for Prosperity)
Using Humor for Effective Content (10:30-11:30; Hosted by Americans for Prosperity)
Importance of State & Local Journalism (11:45-12:45; Hosted by Americans for Prosperity)
Creating & Maintaining an Effective Interactive Website (11:45-12:45; Hosted by Americans for Prosperity)
Building Coalitions & Recruiting Volunteers (2:15-3:15; Hosted by The Leadership Institute)
Organizing Successful Events (3:15-4:15; Hosted by The Leadership Institute)
GOTV: Planning Your Ground Game (4:15-5:15; Hosted by The Leadership Institute)
Movie Screenings Hosted by Citizens United:
Fire From The Heartland: The Awakening of The Conservative Woman (11:00-12:30)
Ronald Reagan: Rendezvous With Destiny (2:15-3:15)
*This schedule is subject to change



KnightNews.com has obtained new information just released regarding UCF sorority recruitment, including the sorority chapter sizes. 
There were 835 women who registered to participate in sorority recruitment, according to a report obtained by KnightNews.com. The number of women who actually attended recruitment dropped by 65 to 770, however, after women with low GPA’s, or who didn’t pay, were dropped before recruitment began. 
Of the women who entered recruitment, they broke down along this class standing: 436 Freshmen; 213 Sophomores;  105 Juniors; 6 Seniors.
The “quota” for each sorority was 60 members.

Delta Zeta didn’t participate in the full recruitment because they just began colonizing at UCF.  
KnightNews.com will post the fraternity sizes after this most recent rush once we obtain that information. Check back for updates.



