The University of Central Florida sent the media an email Friday containing details of a rowdy formal hosted by Delta Delta Delta, the UCF sorority under investigation following Ann Hefferin’s death. 
The formal, however, happened in April 2011, before Hefferin was a Tri-Delta member — or even a student at UCF.
The documents also claim a male guest of the sorority streaked across the hotel and underage drinking was happening.  
Delta Delta Delta is not commenting on the issue, according to the Orlando Sentinel. 
Attached are two documents related to the UCF chapter of Delta Delta Delta being placed on probation as a result of an incident that occurred in April. The first describes the terms of the probation. The second is the letter sent to Delta Delta Delta in May, which includes the incident report filed in April.
This is unrelated to the death of Ann Hefferin, who was not yet a UCF student in the spring. That case remains under investigation. We still do not know the cause of her death, and there are no updates at this time.
Feel free to use this statement regarding the probation. You can attribute it to me as a UCF spokesman.
“We are pleased that Delta Delta Delta has accepted responsibility for the inappropriate behavior of its members at a spring formal. We are hopeful that the sorority will successfully complete the terms of its probation and that Delta Delta Delta members will live up to the high standards of conduct that we expect from all of our students.”
Also, the national office of Delta Delta Delta is working with the UCF chapter to update its risk management policies.
Thanks,
Chad
Chad Binette
Associate Director
UCF News & Information



KnightNews.com received multiple tips early Friday morning that Boardwalk had been closed and residents were not allowed in the apartment complex. 
Fox 35 is reporting that deputies are searching for two suspects after a home invasion in which one of the suspects fired a shot and the other searched an apartment in Boardwalk Apartments. 
No one was injured and those inside the apartment hid in the bathroom, according to the report.
The victims described the suspects as two dark skinned males wearing dark clothing and also said nothing was taken from the apartment. 



