Signups have officially begun to participate in Kappa Delta’s annual Shamrock 5k run around the UCF campus.
This event, which sends proceeds to Prevent Child Abuse America, will take place on Sunday, March 20. Registration begins at 7:00 a.m., and the race begins at 8:00 a.m.
Starting at the Kappa Delta sorority house and going around a mapped out route on campus, the event has a history of being extremely well organized, not only with professional time bands for accurate race results, but even with snacks and event t-shirts given out after the race before the trophies are awarded to the winners.
The entry price is $20 through March 2, $25 through March 16 and $30 if you sign up the morning of the race.
In order to enter, simply contact any sister of the Kappa Delta sorority, or register online here.



The Associated Press is reporting, 2 U.S. airmen were shot and killed hours ago at an airport in Frankfurt, Germany.
The gunman attacked the airmen on a bus that was waiting outside Terminal 2 at the Frankfurt airport, killing the bus driver and a passenger, seriously injuring another person, and inflicting light injuries on a fourth.
The U.S. Air Force Europe spokeswomen Maj. Beverly Mock told the Associated Press that all four victims were airmen.
The shooter, Arif Uka, is a male from Kosovo, a disputed territory in Eastern Europe, which was a part of the now disintegrated Yugoslavia. Kosovo has been fighting for its independence in the early 1990s, which lead to the Kosovo War in 1998. The UN stopped the war with force, and today, many countries recognize Kosovo as an independent nation. 
The Kosovo Interior Minister, Bajram Rexhepi, is quoted in the AP article, stating, “This is a devastating and a tragic event. We are trying to find out was this something that was organized or what was the nature of the attack.”
US House Homeland Security Committee member, Rep. Patrick Meehan, who is currently located in Washington, said that it looked like a terrorist attack.
However, the German news agency quoted the Interior Minister for the state of Hesse Rhein claiming that there are no indications of this being a terrorist attack.
U.S. Troops are still stationed throughout Germany, with their numbers totaling about 50,000. They are responsible for multiple operations in Frankfurt, such as the Ramstein Air base, a logistical hub for the Middle East operations.



According to multiple sources, it appears Villanova is on the verge of moving it’s football program up to the Football Bowl Subdivision and joining the Big East conference in football.
That leaves UCF out of the picture.
Multiple sources close to ESPN.com and Sportingnews.com are indicating that the Wildcats are the leading program to jump up to the Big East as the 10th member in football, seeing as they are already a member of the 16-team basketball conference.
The biggest hurdle for the Wildcats is money, as they are putting together a package of $25-30 million in start-up revenue. If major donors to the program can produce that amount of money, the vote will be “yes” from Villanova to move up.
The announced time frame for a decision was Mar. 1, but people close to the athletics department for Villanova have said that April was a deadline for a decision.
The Big East is looking for a school that can immediately add television revenue as well as not upset the balance of power that rests among the coaches of Big East basketball.
At this point, it seems all UCF can do it wait and hope the Wildcats cannot come up with the money. If the Big East wanted UCF, they would have pulled the trigger on the up-and-coming program a long time ago. It’s not about the potential anymore, it’s about what will make the basketball coaches happy and what will bring the most revenue to the Big East.



KnightNews.com is once again breaking news in the race for SGA president at UCF.
KnightNews.com received a press release early Wednesday morning from former Attorney General Nicholas Gurney and SGA Sen. and CRT Chairman Fernando Gonzales formally announcing their candidacy.
Gurney and Gonzales both earned reputations for fighting for more transparency and openness in how SGA spends student money. The team promises that you can “expert more” from them.
Below is full press release they sent to KnightNews.com:


GURNEY AND GONZALES DECLARATION ANNOUNCEMENT
Orlando, Florida – March 02, 2011
Today, I am very proud to announce my Candidacy for Student Body President along with friend and running-mate, Senator Fernando Gonzales. As we kick-off our campaign, we are excited to get down to business. Over the next few weeks, we want to hear from you: the UCF student body. One thing that often gets lost in elections is student input. But this year, things will be different.
We admit it — we don’t know everything.
That’s right.
However, we do know how to get the things you want done. Over the next few weeks, keep in mind what it means to have experience.
As fellow Knights and Your candidates, Fernando and I want to change the culture of SGA to better represent all of the students. With such a diverse student body, we know that you might not agree with us one-hundred percent, however, that does not mean we don’t want to hear from you. We understand that the best way to get things done is to work with one another.
Over the course of the campaign, Fernando and I will be working tirelessly to earn your vote. We earnestly hope that as the days pass, we can continue our conversation. If you see us on campus, stop us with questions or concerns.
As for myself, I hope that you will entrust me with the privilege of being your Student Body President. I want you to be able to EXPECT MORE from me, my cabinet, and the rest of your SGA. Thank you.
—
Be Loud. Be Proud. Go Knights.
Nicholas S. Gurney
###
The candidates provided an email contact of nick@gurneyandgonzales.com and promised their website is coming soon.
Count on KnightNews.com for continuing coverage on the race for SGA president and vice president.



