UCF Quarterback Jeff Godfrey was arrested for driving with a suspended license, KnightNews.com has learned.
Godfrey was stopped on campus at Gemini Boulevard East for illegal tints.
Godfrey got out of jail Sunday after posting a $250 bail.
Records show his license was suspended for failing to pay two traffic tickets in 2009 and one from a month ago. Records also show his drivers license expired May 25.
Godfrey is scheduled to appear in court Aug. 5. KnightNews.com will be there and report the outcome as it happens.
A UCF Athletics Association spokesman told the Sentinel that coach George O’Leary was “aware of the situation and has spoken with Jeff in regards to correcting his driver license status.”



Update: UCF spokesman Chad Binette told KnightNews.com the incident yesterday was related to a domestic battery call. It is unclear whether it was related to anyone in athletics. Tower IV houses many student athletes.
Update: FBI spokesman David Couvertier has confirmed that FBI was not present at this incident on campus earlier today. KnightNews.com is waiting to hear back from UCF regarding what prompted today’s police activity in the area popular with UCF athletes.
KnightNews.com received a tip about police activity near Tower IV this afternoon around 4:00 p.m.. 
At the scene there were unmarked cars and UCF police cars surrounding Tower IV.
Eyewitnesses told KnightNews.com that three more UCF police squad cars, and one more unmarked car, were speeding in the direction of the Towers community.
KnightNews.com is awaiting word from UCF News and Information to see if this is connected with yesterday’s FBI raid.
No other explanition for the mysterious activity has been provided to KnightNews.com at this time.



University of Central Florida honors student Scott Arciszewski was back in the same campus dorm room Tuesday night that FBI agents had hauled him out of just hours earlier while arresting him on hacking charges.
Scott Arciszewski's Facebook photo
That’s according to a new report out of Southwest Florida’s WINKTV, which conducted an exclusive interview with Arciszewski’s father, Gary Arciszewski Tuesday evening.
Scott Arciszewski’s father told the station authorities released him and allowed him to go back to his dorm room, which houses mostly UCF athletes and honor students, so he could prepare for an exam today. 
Gary Arciszewski didn’t even know about his son’s arrest until a reporter from the station knocked on his door and told him. FBI Raids UCF Tower III Dorm in Hacking Arrest
“The kid hasn’t called me, nobody has called us, no one has told us. We’re in the dark until we find out what is going on,” Gary Arciszewski told WINK. 
Scott Arciszewski’s mother told the station she got a hold of her son on Facebook, who told her he was in the UCF library studying for his Wednesday exam. 
KnightNews.com has reached out to Scott Arciszewski over Facebook to give him the chance to tell his side of the story. If he accepts the invitation for an interview, we’ll let you know. 
KnightNews.com’s Kevin Wolkenfeld was first to break this major, national story yesterday. KnightNews.com needs help from the UCF community again to gather more information about this developing story. 
If you know Arciszewski from class, email us at news@knightnews.com to share your thoughts or call our tipline at 407-5-TIP-UCF (584-7823). 



