UPDATE 5/25/2011: New video of AIPAC protests and a slideshow of pictures have been posted.
KnightNews.com has a crew in Washington D.C. where protests against Israeli and US foreign policy are breaking out outside the AIPAC convention. 
KnightNews.com ilive streamed video of the protests, and we have concluded the live stream to go inside the conference and get video interviews with the other side. An updated video story with both sides will be posted as soon as possible.
The protests came before, during and after US President Barack Obama spoke at the conference. 
Matthew McCann, the Student Body President from the University of Central Florida, attended the conference at the invitation of AIPAC. KnightNews.com caught up with him after hearing Obama’s speech and get his reaction. 



UPDATE 5/25/2011: New video of AIPAC protests and a slideshow of pictures have been posted.
UPDATE 3:59 p.m. AIPAC releases statement on Obama’s 2011 speech. 
UPDATE: See video of Obama’s AIPAC speech; Protests break out. 
UPDATE: 5/22 8:50 a.m: Live Stream of President Obama’s Speech at AIPAC starting at 10:35 a.m. 
Update 5/21/11: KnightNews.com caught up with UCF Student Body President Matthew McCann, who explained his plans for representing UCF at this major conference where he’ll gain insight into the situation in the Middle East to share with UCF. He also shared how he plans to take the opportunity network with other student body presidents from across the country.

Check back for updates on how UCF is being represented here in DC.
The AIPAC policy conference brings together thousands of people, including students, political leaders and powerful lawmakers to discuss Israel. The conference is where pro-Israel activists influence policy and strengthen the bond between the United States and Israel, according to the AIPAC website.
AIPAC Prepares for 3 p.m. Registration
This year’s AIPAC conference comes on the heels of US President Barack Obama making a speech suggesting Israel should return to its 1967 borders in the name of bringing peace to the volatile Middle East region. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu rejected that possibility as “indefensible.”
KnightNews.com will be working to talk to political leaders, students and others attending this major conference about this important international issue. If you have questions you’d like discussed, email us at news@knightnews.com.
Check back for updates.



