A UCF Police officer was recently honored for saving a man’s life using CPR and his Crisis Intervention Training.
Corporal Adam Casebolt, the UCF police officer who saved that life, was awarded the “Central Florida’s CIT (Crisis Intervention Team) Officer of the Year 2010.”
According to a UCF press release, Casebolt and two UCF police officers arrived at a scene where a man under the influence was experiencing mental distress and appeared to be under the influence of alcohol. The man had resisted the police at first but the police responded using their CIT training and settled the man down before he agreed to be brought to a a mental health facility.
In the car ride, “the man displayed manic and depressed behaviors and banged his head against the window” and as they arrived at the facility “Casebolt realized that the man had no pulse, so he performed CPR and saved his life,” according to the release.
The UCF Police Department was also honored as the Central Florida’s CIT Police Department of the Year for 2010.
Chief Beary said in the release, “Our ultimate goals are to reduce the potential for violent encounters and incarceration and to connect people in need of professional help with appropriate community resources.”



A few of the more popular Spring Break destinations for UCF students have made the list of “Most Dangerous Spring Break Cities,” with UCF’s home, Orlando, taking the top spot. 
The New York Post is reporting the list, drawn from an analysis by AWO.com, a website that has ratings and profiles for lawyers and doctors. The list took cities like Las Vegas, San Diego, Miami and others, and placed them in order of most dangerous to least.
Daytona, a popular Spring Break destination for UCF students, comes in at #2, and Key West, another popular destination, comes in at #15.
Some hometown cities for UCF students also make the list, with #5 Palm Beach, #9 Jacksonville, and #10 Miami.   
(Below is a list of the rankings)
1. Orlando 
2. Daytona Beach 
3. Las Vegas 
4. Myrtle Beach 
5. West Palm Beach 
6. South Padre Island 
7. New Orleans 
8. Panama City, Fla. 
9. Jacksonville, Fla. 
10. Miami 
11. Fort Myers, Fla. 
12. Galveston, Tx. 
13. Fort Lauderdale 
14. Lake Havasu City, Ariz. 
15. Key West 
16. Kihei/Maui, Hawaii 
17. Lafayette, Louisiana 
18. Naples, Fla. 
19. Virginia Beach 
20. Park City 
21. Steamboat Springs, Colo. 
22. San Diego 
23. Reno 
24. Santa Barbara, Calif. 
25. Honolulu 



