The UCF Women’s Soccer team has already experienced an array of success this season, including a top 25 national ranking, as well as senior Aline Reis’ nomination for the Senior Award.
Now, five Knights were named to the All-Conference USA team, capping off a very honorable season for the ladies.
Junior Tishia Jewell (Satellite Beach, Fla.) and sophomore Marissa Diggs led the pack by earning spots on the All-C-USA First Team.
Senior Stacie Hubbard was named to the all-conference second team, while Carleigh Williams was selected to the all-freshman team.
Reis, who has already been named a finalist for the Lowe’s Senior CLASS Award, was named to the all-conference second team.
Those five Knights have helped UCF have a great season so far, which included an eight-game unbeaten streak and a top-20 ranking.
Jewell, who earned her second straight conference first-team honors, leads the league in assists with eight, while also posting six goals for 20 points this year. Her 20 points lead the team.
Diggs leads the Knights in minutes and has started all 19 games this year, posting two goals.
Hubbard has had a solid campaign with 12 points, five goals on 29 shots and two assists.
Williams has started all 19 contests at left back as a freshman and played 1,633 minutes during the regular season.
Reis, who was voted to the Preseason All-C-USA team, is boasting her fourth all-conference honors. The goalkeeper has registered 68 saves and eight shutouts, while posting a 9-3-5 record for UCF.
The Knights currently stand at 11-3-5 overall, and begin their route to a conference title when they play East Carolina in Memphis, Tenn., on Wednesday in the C-USA championships.




Bear Creek Music Festival kicks off in less than two weeks and I can hardly contain my excitement! For five days straight, Like Oak, Florida’s Spirit of the Suwannee Music Park will be graced with art, social activism and thousands of festival goers ready to jam out all weekend long to an eclectic mix of funk, jam and electronica bands. 
Beginning on the evening of Wednesday, November 9 and lasting through the weekend, funk will prevail throughout the Suwannee as festival goers dance, camp and form new friendships over the sounds of Trey Anastasio Band, Medeski Skofield Martin and Wood, Galactic, Beats Antique, Big Gigantic and dozens of other great bands. 
KnightNews.com will be at Bear Creek this year covering the fest. Tickets can be bought online or at the gate for $175-$225. For a list of the full line-up and schedule, please visit www.bearcreekmusicfestival.com
See you there!




