It’s that time of the year again.
With the dread of classes starting, the pain of moving back in, and finding books that don’t cost an arm and leg, there is a silver lining.
It’s football season.
The UCF Knights are coming off an impressive 11-3 season, and after winning the Liberty Bowl over the Georgia Bulldogs, the Knights are coming into this season with high hopes. With preseason camp officially wrapping up yesterday, the Knights have their sights set on preparing for September 3rds match-up with Charleston Southern. The game will take place at Bright House Stadium at 7 p.m. The season’s schedule is as follows:
Charleston Southern @ UCF – September 3, 2011
Boston College @ UCF – September 10, 2011
UCF @ Florida International – September 17, 2011
UCF @ BYU – September 23, 2011
Marshall @ UCF – October 8, 2011
UCF @ SMU – October 15, 2011
UCF @ UAB – October 20, 2011
Memphis @ UCF – October 29, 2011
Tulsa @ UCF – November 3, 2011
UCF @ Southern Miss – November 12, 2011
UCF @ East Carolina – November 19, 2011
UTEP @ UCF – November 25, 2011
The Knights have all the tools to finish this season with an even better record than last. With a more experienced Jeff Godfrey behind center, and a triple threat of running backs in Brynn Harvey, Ronnie Weaver, and Latavius Murray the Knights look to have a lethal offensive attack. Wide receivers A.J. Guyton and Quincy McDuffie are never to be overlooked, however, they combined for 43 receptions and five touchdowns last season. 
On the defensive end of the ball, the Knights sport Conference USA’s, and possibly one of the nation’s most respectable defensive backs. Cornerback Josh Robinson is on the watch list for the Thrope award (top defensive back) and Bronko Nagurski (top defensive player) award. The Linebackers are led by senior Josh Linam coming off a huge junior year, Linam will have to build off his strong junior season since he lost three senior linebackers this past year. 
Finally, the return unit is one of the nation’s best, the Knights are known for their kick returner, Quincy McDuffie, who has three kick return touchdowns under his belt. Senior kicker Nick Cattoi, is coming into his final season looking to improve of last season’s 11-19 on field goal attempts. 



While many students spent their first Friday night back at UCF partying, some students were lining up as early as 12 a.m. to buy an HP TouchPad. Last week HP discontinued the tablet and started selling them for $99 for a 16GB and $150 for a 32GB machine. That price sparked a frenzy for consumers wanting the machines and resellers hoping to cash in.

Those waiting in line said they were told approximately 50 TouchPads would be available, which could be bad news for many people waiting. At 8:30 a.m. a KnightNews’ reporter estimates a 130 people were outside the Best Buy located at Waterford Lakes, and the store does not open until 10 a.m.




KnightNews.com got several tips that deputies from the Orange County Sheriff’s Office were on the hunt for underage drinkers Friday night and early Saturday morning.

The deputies lined up along the side of “The Plaza” across from UCF — out of direct view from those visiting the UCF bars. They were spotted writing citations to underage drinkers, the tipsters said. 
Several pictures were sent into KnightNews.com. One picture shows the OCSO deputies actually inside one of the bars. 
If you see news break text our tipline at 407-5-Tip-UCF. You can also email us breaking news tips, and send pictures to news@knightnews.com. 
KnightNews.com will continue monitoring law enforcement activity in the UCF area. Check back for updates. 



