Matt Luzunaris of Orlando City celebrating with fans after he scored a goal at the Citrus Bowl in Orlando, FL on July 17, 2011. Orlando City defeated the Rochester Rhinos 2-1. (Kurt Rivers/KnightNews.com)
Rochester scored first in the 15th minute but Orlando came back strong late in the first half with a classic cross from Jack Traynor that found the head of head of Matt Luzunaris in the 38th minute then Lewis Neal in the 41th minute from a free kick.
Orlando City won the game 2-1 against the Rochester Rhinos.
Matt Luzunaris is a former UCF Knight that is on loan from the MLS team San Jose Earthquakes. 
The game came to a stop early in the second half due to lightning in the area for about a hour then resumed with a light drizzle of rain for the rest of the game. 
Orlando City now leads the USL PRO by 9 with 42 points. 
Tonight, July 17, starts the 2011 Premier League Challenge for Orlando against European Premiere League team Bolton Wanderers that starts at 7:30 pm at the Citrus Bowl. Next Saturday, July 23, Orlando will be playing against Newcastle United. Tickets start at $25 for each game. Call 855-ORL-CITY (855-675-2489) for ticket info. 
An Orlando City dancer at the Citrus Bowl in Orlando, FL on July 17, 2011. Orlando City defeated the Rochester Rhinos 2-1. (Kurt Rivers/KnightNews.com)
Max Griffin (11) of Orlando City falls over a Rochester player at the Citrus Bowl in Orlando, FL on July 17, 2011. Orlando City defeated the Rochester Rhinos 2-1. (Kurt Rivers/KnightNews.com)



Casey Anthony has been released from the Orange County jail, just a few minutes after midnight. An SUV drove her away from the jail. KnightNews.com is working to see where she’ll go next.
 
National media personalities — including Casey Stegall from Fox News, Vinnie Politan of HLN, Jane Velez-Mitchell of HLN and others — have descended upon the jail along with local news media to document Casey Anthony’s release. HLN and local Orlando TV stations have promised live coverage of Anthony’s released, which could happen as early as midnight Sunday. 
Anthony was found not guilty of murdering her daughter, Caylee, but many, including HLN anchor Nancy Grace, have excoriated the jurors for not finding Anthony guilty. Jurors have indicated there wasn’t enough evidence to convict Anthony, but many legal experts, including Grace, disagree. Casey Anthony to be released from jail Sunday
Anthony, who has been dubbed “tot mom” by Grace, caused a media firestorm after she never reported her daughter missing or dead and then partied for a month in bars near UCF, including at the former Fusian Ultra Lounge nightclub — where she participated in a hot body contest. She reportedly did not win. 
KnightNews.com will monitor the news of Anthony’s release and let you know when that happens. Jail officials will not release the exact time, citing security concerns. Anthony has reportedly received death threats since her not guilty verdict was handed down. Anthony’s defense attorney Jose Baez is not releasing information about where he’ll take Anthony once she’s released. 



