It’s a tweet from UCF basketball star Marcus Jordan that UCF students just don’t want to believe: “the last night of scoop??? daaaaang”.
But it seems that this tweet isn’t a joke — it appears Scoop, one of UCF’s most popular bars, may shut down. KnightNews.com has heard from several reputable sources that Scoop could close its doors as early as tonight. 
Closing or not, the rumor out there that tonight will be Scoop’s last night will likely draw a big crowd of students worried it will be their last time ever stepping foot in Scoop. 
KnightNews.com did get in contact with Scoop owner Romi Mawardi, who said more details will be released in the coming week about the future of Scoop, but he did acknowledge the possibility of it closing very soon. 
If Scoop does close, Mawardi, who also owns Deko, would likely open Deko more nights of the week to give students other options. 



If you are outside taking a look at the moon at about 7 p.m. Saturday night and it looks a little bigger than normal, don’t worry — you’re not going crazy. 
The moon will actually be making its closest approach to Earth in 18 years. It is also a full moon, and when its gets this close, it earns the distinction of being an “extreme supermoon.”
While the moon will look great for stargazers, it may cause headaches for others. The moon’s proximity to Earth could cause abnormally high tides from Friday through Sunday. That could prompt some minor beach erosion and minor flooding near shores. 
If you get any great pictures of the moon, send them to news@knightnews.com and we’ll post them here.
KnightNews.com is getting pictures of the extreme supermoon from around the globe. Check out the full-sized pictures from Europe and Asia we’ve already gotten emailed to us by clicking here to see the next page or on the supermoon below.
Supermoon UK



The United States joined in a coalition attack against Libya’s air defense system Saturday using Tomahawk cruise missiles and aerial jamming, according to the Pentagon. 
White House officials and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said ground troops won’t be sent by the U.S., and the Pentagon reiterated that during a Saturday briefing.

The goal of Saturday’s operation was to establish a no-fly zone. As many as 25 U.S., Canadian and Italian vessels participated in the attack, Bloomberg reported, adding that the armada boasts three Navy submarines: the USS Florida, USS Scranton and USS Providence. 
During the Pentagon briefing, it was stressed that arab and UN nations were on board with this attack to stop Libya’s leadership from attacking its own people. 
Watch President Barack Obama address the Libya military action:




