KnightNews.com is partnering with Paramount Pictures to bring UCF students an opportunity for a free movie screening of Rango, starring Johnny Depp, this Saturday at 11:00 a.m. at Regal in Winter Park.
From the director of ‘The Pirates of the Caribbean,’ this in an original animated comedy-adventure that takes moviegoers for a hilarious and heartfelt walk in the Wild West.
Sponsored Link (Story Continues Below)
To find out more, log onto: www.RangoMovie.com. Rtango will be in theaters nationwide on March 4.
For your free ticket to this advanced screening, comment under this story using your real email address andname, and tell us what makes you unique. Then, email Carli Saldsman at carli.saldsman@gmail.com and she will send you a digital copy of your free screening ticket.



Thursday night, students are invited to an advanced screening of Universal Picture’s newest films, ‘Paul,’ starring Seth Rogan, Jason Bateman and Sigourney Weaver.
This comedy adventure is about two sci-fi geeks whose pilgrimage takes them to America’s UFO heartland. Check out the trailer for this movie here.
The screening will take at Regal in Waterford Lakes on Thursday at 8:30 p.m. In order to receive your free ticket, simply comment on this story using your real email address and tell us if you believe aliens are real. Then, email the Universal Pictures representative asking for a ticket. Her email address is: gab_motto@knights.ucf.edu
Sponsored Link (Story Continues Below)
Paul hits theaters for the general public on March 18. For more information on this and future movie screenings, check out the Facebook page here.



When many people think of the city of Orlando, they think of the obvious: Disney World, Universal Studios, maybe even an outlet mall or two. But what’s the last thing they’d think of? Fast food.
The Daily Beast website asked independent data collector AggData to compile a list of cities that could be considered “The Fast-food Capital of America.” And surprisingly, the theme park capital of the world is the front runner.
Sponsored Link (Story Continues Below)
The data shows that there are 463 fast food restaurants in Orlando, meaning there’s a total of 196.3 fast-food joints per 100,000 residents, the most of any city qualified for the list. The list takes into account the 30 largest fast-food chains, and only cities with 200,000 or more residents.
Louisville, Richmond and Miami were the next on the list. 



Between the iPhone 4 coming to Verizon, a new Android phone coming out seemingly every week, and the 4G revolution, cell phones seem to be on everyones mind. But how do cell phones, which emit electromagnetic radiation, affect you mind? 
For years now, scientists have been conducting study after study attempting to prove whether or not extended cell phone use has an effect on the human brain. Many people believe that the radiation emitted from cell phones is too weak to have an effect on the brain.
However, in a year long study recently published in JAMA, the Journal of the American Medical Association, acute cell phone exposure does, in fact, affect your brain.
The lead researcher of the study, Nora Volkow, who is the director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse and one of the world’s leading brain scientists, took brain scans of 47 healthy participants after they held a cell phone to their ears for 50 minutes.
Sponsored Link (Story Continues Below)
“50-minute cell phone exposure was associated with increased brain glucose metabolism in the region closest to the antenna,” the study’s conclusion read.
To neutralize the any effect a conversation would have on the brain, the researchers placed the phone on mute. 
There were two groups in the study– one whose cellphones were on, one whose cellphones weren’t. Scientists observed that the group with the active cellphones showed a 7% increase in brain glucose metabolism, which is how neuroscientists track brain regions responsible for everyday activities, like talking, moving, and listening to music.
Scientists are unsure of the repercussions of these findings as of now, but are on their way to understanding the overall effect cellphones have on our brains.
To read the entire case study from JAMA, click here.



UPDATE: Read Kilbride’s Knightmare by clicking here.
KnightNews.com showed Conference Registration and Travel Chairman Fernando Gonzales the portion of Kilbride’s Knightmare database KnightNews.com exclusively obtained through a public records request. One item that caught his eye was how SGA’s Executive Branch spent about $2,000 to fund UCF’s Best Dance Crew in 2010.
UCF’s Best Dance Crew, a philanthropic dance competition, was started by Beta Theta Pi fraternity in 2009. When 2010 rolled around, Beta was unable to host the event because the fraternity was suspended from UCF. So SGA, whose Vice President was a member of Beta at the time, decided to step in and host the event itself. That raised red flags for Gonzales, who said he could only give an unofficial comment on what he considers a “hypothetical” situation, because he still can’t officially see the spending activity directly on Knightmare for himself.
“Over my nearly two years of Senate experience, I have never seen any event be taken over by SGA if the Registered Student Organization couldn’t do it,” Gonzales said. “There are many cases of great events not coming to fruition due to lack of funding, or the organization is no longer registered with KORT, etc. If this former Greek event was indeed adopted and funded by SGA, it will be the first time that I have ever seen SGA continue an organization’s event. This can raise questions of fairness.”
Kilbride, who was Chief of Operations, a top-level cabinet official during the Peterson/Lewis Administration, refused to comment about SGA’s decision to take over UCF’s Best Dance Crew. Specifically, he refused to answer questions relating to whether SGA took any steps to prevent individual members of Beta from being part of or helping with the event while suspended, or whether Kilbride or SGA had any concern of how it might look to the students that SGA took over a suspended fraternity’s event.
“The event you’re asking about happened during the previous administration, and President Kilbride can not speak on their behalf as they have both graduated,” Kilbride’s spokesperson said in a late night email to KnightNews.com.
Kilbride seemed to be heavily involved in the event, as he was an admin for the 2010 Best Dance Crew Facebook page, KnightNews.com uncovered.
According to SGA records, the Best Dance Crew event happened April 14, 2010 — after the Passing of the Gavel Ceremony where Kilbride was symbolically handed power by Peterson. Although Kilbride officially wasn’t sworn in until May, he had considerable power and knowledge over SGA at the time of the event, as his transition from a top cabinet official to president was under way.
Although Kilbride refuses to directly address the issue, Gonzales still has serious questions about SGA’s decision to take over an event a fraternity started but couldn’t host while suspended.
“Why would this event have been deemed worthy of continuing and not the multitude of other events that are often discontinued?” Gonzales asked. “And who exactly made this determination? It is strange that the Exec branch allegedly made a decision like this, when Senate is the branch that directly deals with RSO funding. Of course this event in question being previously run by a Greek organization also raises questions of fairness.”
KnightNews.com had been working since Monday morning to gather information from all parties involved. While Kilbride’s paid team of public relations staff waited until the end of the day to respond, Beta’s Vice President of Communications Jared Greenbaum was available all day and more than happy to handle questions about the event.
While Greenbaum said it was saddening that an event aimed at helping others could become controversial, he was up front about the situation in 2010 when asked about whether members of Beta may have enjoyed or participated in the event while the organization was suspended and not an official registered organization on campus.
“There is no way to control or know if individual students may or may not have helped setup or assist with running a student event,” Greenbaum said. “It must be understood that members of our fraternity are highly involved in other areas of campus, so brothers may have been supporting the event for a different group that they are a part of. As students, we feel we need to support philanthropies put on by the UCF community.”
Now that Beta is back on campus — after UCF Associate General Counsel Youndy Cook signed a settlement agreement following a lawsuit from Beta over what it called an illegal suspension by UCF — Beta is back to hosting the Best Dance Crew event itself. SGA, however, is not completely out of the picture.
This year, SGA helped Beta put on the event by awarding the fraternity one of the limited amount of days where it can allow groups to enjoy heavily discounted rates at the Venue. Kilbride’s spokesperson defended that decision, but provided few details about the approval process.
“These days have been used in the past for events such as KD Shakedown, Zeta Lip Sync, CAB comedy events, Freshman Frenzy, etc.,” the statement released on Kilbride’s behalf said. “Student Government is happy to be able to assist these organizations whose successful events have outgrown the Pegasus Ballroom.”
Kilbride’s office did not respond to questions emailed Tuesday night asking for more details about what agreement SGA has with the UCF Arena, and how many days are available at the reduced rate. For that reason, it’s not clear if SGA has to spend a certain amount of money to qualify for a certain amount of reduced rate days.
The statement from Kilbride’s staff did say, “The venue’s reduced rates days are available to any student organization who hosts an event requiring such a capacity. These days are given out on a first-come first-serve basis, and the application is available on the SGA website and through the Office of Student Involvement.”
Kilbride’s office refused to answer questions posed earlier Tuesday regarding who specifically approved Beta’s application to enjoy one of the discounted rates.
Records provided by Beta show that the fraternity paid the arena $1,260 to rent the space for Best Dance Crew in 2011. When SGA hosted the event in 2010, SGA paid nearly $1,960 to the Arena, records show.
Kilbride’s office also provided information which seemed to conflict with that of the Beta spokesman regarding the fraternity’s intentions to have SGA’s recently created video service cover the event and post videos online.
“And finally, in regards to the incorrect assumption about SGA Extra covering the Beta Theta Pi event, the organization never requested the service. Therefore, SGA Extra never planned on covering the dance competition,” Kilbride’s office said.
But according to Greenbaum, it appears Beta did try to book SGA to shoot the event — just not in time.
“As far as filming goes, we did not book SGA extra in time. There are two cameramen, one was booked for a CAB event at the same time and the other had class, Greenbaum said. “There was no problem or hard feelings, we understood that they couldn’t make it.”
Gonzales wanted to make it clear that he is “not contesting or diminishing the merit of the event in question,” which raised about $5,000 for the American Cancer Society this year. Gonzales indicated that he just wanted to make sure Activity & Service Fee dollars were spent in the most responsible and legal way in this situation.
KnightNews.com also contacted former SGA Chief Justice Matt McCann for his take on the situation.  McCann pointed out that while Student Government cannot legally provide funds to Greek Organizations, SGA can certainly do many things to help out and highlight the Greek Community and its accomplishments, which he considers an “integral part of the UCF community.”
“If Student Government can legally and ethically assist in the continuation of a program that brings interest from hundreds of UCF students, Greek and non-Greek alike, then by all means I feel the organization should do so,” McCann said. “It is important, however, to remember that all organizations must be given access to this assistance equally, and with no bias present.”
KnightNews.com will continue investigating SGA’s arrangement with the UCF Arena for allowing organizations discounted rates at the Venue and will post updates when available.
Read Kilbride’s Knightmare records he released on the next page:



This afternoon, Christchurch, New Zealand was hit with an enormous earthquake that measured 6.3 on the Richter scale. According to the New Zealand police, who released limited statements to the media, emergency services have been called all over the city since the quake happened. The police reported that buildings fell, buses and cars were crushed, and that people are trapped in buildings. The most recent death toll has climbed to 75.
The New Zealand Prime Minister, John Key, spoke about the terrible natural disaster that hit his nation couple hours ago, saying “It is a very populated time with people at work, children at school. Sadly I cannot rule out whether there have been fatalities or not, but we are aware of significant damage to buildings that had people in them at the time.”
A 7.0 magnitude earthquake hit New Zealand in September 2010.
If you or your organization is planning anything to attempt to aid New Zealand in the wake of this natural disaster, please send an email to news@knightnews.com



