PHOTOS BY JAIME COLON
The “Welcome to the Family” tour stopped by UCF Monday night, bringing heavy rock bands Bullet For my Valentine, Three Days Grace, and Avenged Sevenfold to the UCF Arena.
Bullet for my ValentineBullet for my Valentine, a viewed as a contemporary metal band by many, opened the show and got the crowd pumped with “Waking the Demon” and “Scream, Aim, Fire!” After getting the crowd revved up, they closed with “Alone,” off the band’s most recent album, “Fever,” before introducing Three Days Grace.
Next up was Three Days Grace, an alternative metal/hard rock band originally hailing from Canada, who played an amazing set highlighting hits from throughout their entire career. The set opened with “The Good Life” and “Break,” from the band’s most recent album, “Life Starts Now.” They also played “Pain,” “Never Too Late,” “I Don’t Care,” “Home,” and a hard rock cover of Eminem’s “Lose Yourself.”
At one point, lead singer Adam Gontier asked the audience for requests– prompting a “Riot” chant from the audience (a song off their “One-X” album). The band closed with “Animal I’ve Become,” during which Gontier roamed the crowd, getting everyone on their feet.
After Three Days Grace, a black curtain was set up, blocking the stage from view so it could be transformed of Avenged Sevenfold. Almost 30 minutes later, when the lights dimmed and the curtain dropped, the crowd got their first glimpse at the visually stunning graveyard-esque stage, complete with metal gates, a haunted house backdrop, heavy fog, and plenty of pyro.
The stage for Avenged SevenfoldAfter the curtain dropped, the audience was greeted by a stagehand falling from the catwalk, with a noose around his neck, as part of the show. The band then came out, opening with “Nightmare,” which their most recent album was titled after. The band then performed hits ranging from earlier in their career, such as “Bat Country,” and “Almost Easy,” to newer songs, such as “Welcome to the Family.”
Avenged Sevenfold keep the crowd energized and at a fever pitch all night, making for a great show.

To see more pictures, click “Next Page” below.



KnightNews.com has obtained the 2011 UCF fraternity and sorority grade and chapter size report. We have been working to analyze the data and compile it in an easy to read format, grouped by relative chapter size so the data is easily compared against the most similarly composed organizations.
One of the biggest things to stand out was that Delta Tau Delta outgrew Alpha Tau Omega — albeit by only one brother. Previously among UCF’s smaller fraternities, Delt’s 91 members puts it ahead of Sigma Chi’s 89 members and ATO’s 90 members. Delt sits behind three other UCF fraternities, including Theta Chi’s 112 members and Lambda Chi’s 115 members. Phi Delta Theta grew into UCF’s biggest fraternity with a 121 man chapter, fueled by having the largest spring fraternity pledge class. 
SEE UCF FRATERNITY SIZES, GRADES | SEE UCF SORORITY SIZES, GRADES 
*Both UCF sorority and fraternity GPA’s were higher than the all male GPA average of 2.78 and the UCF all female GPA average of 2.99.



