A 27-year-old man named Bradford Young was the man shot and killed Wednesday night near “The Plaza,” housing UCF bars and the McDonald’s across from campus, according to reports.
Deputies told KnightNews.com yesterday that the victim was found in a blue sedan with shattered windows, a few blocks west of “The Plaza” McDonald’s, in between the plaza housing World of Beer and IHOP.
Portions of University Blvd. were shutdown while deputies appeared to look for shell casings near El Cerro. Students trying to go enjoy a night out at the bars were not allowed access to the parking lots at some points as well. 
Watch our video report from the scene below, or click here to read more details on the shooting from our previous story.

KnightNews.com will update this story with more information when we get it, including an update on whether OCSO can find a suspect. 



The search for a gunman that killed a campus police officer after a traffic stop at the Virginia Tech campus on Thursday is over, now that officials have found the body of the apparent shooter — who is believed to have shot and killed himself after fleeing from the first shooting scene. 
Authorities had placed the campus on lockdown, canceling all classes until further notice, and ordering all students and staff to stay indoors until the shooter was found.
The 30,000 student campus already had one of the most intricate security alert systems after the 2007 massacre, which was the single deadliest shooting by a gunman in U.S. History. The system was put in place after the school’s response in 2007 was heavily criticized. 
During today’s search, Virginia Tech school spokesman, Mark Owczarski, told the Associated Press, “Various alerts were sent out to students and the university is sending updates about every 30 minutes, regardless of whether they have any new information.”
SWAT vehicles helped with searching the campus and its surroundings. As of right now the shooter has been described as a white man wearing a maroon sweatshirt, gray sweat pants, and a gray hat with a neon green brim.
Ironically, this shooting takes place on the same day that Virginia Tech officials went to Washington to appeal a $55,000 dollar fine, given to the university over the way they alerted students about the 2007 massacre. 
Knightnews.com will continue to update you as more information is released. 



