The following is a KnightNews.com editorial opinion piece:
The disgraceful way the Delta Upsilon fraternity has been treated by the University of Central Florida should serve as a wake up call to everyone on this campus whether you’re Greek, progressive, liberal, conservative or communist — you could be next. 
UCF has shown the same amount of respect and decency to DU and the people who care about it as it has to the UCF Arboretum: zero. And the more student leaders sit back and let UCF reduce student rights without a fight, the more often and comfortable the administration is with pushing the line in unethical and dishonest ways. 
Take the current situation for example: UCF is lying about how it handled the outrageous allegations suggesting that DU brothers had several bottles of alcohol mixed with roofies on a bus — drank out of the bottles (meaning they would be drugging themselves) — then admitted the drinks were drugged to Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority girls as they supposedly offered them a sip of the drugged concoction in hopes of drugging them. 
How the hell does this make any sense at all? 
Why would you warn someone you were trying to date rape that the drink you were offering them was spiked with a date rape drug? The simple answer is, you would not. But this is the story told in the written complaints by three KKG members — who DU’s have not been told the names of — making such serious allegations against DU’s that also haven’t been named. 
Yet, a month and a half after the alleged roofie attempt happened, UCF still hasn’t gotten to the bottom of it. UCF still hasn’t sustained or dismissed the accusations, allowing DU to deteriorate while the heinous accusations hang over the brotherhood like a swarm of locusts, consuming the fraternity at the worst possible time — while its national organization was reorganizing the chapter. 
The closed-door action was moving right along. Then, on Friday, when the local TV media caught wind of it, UCF covered up its failure to quickly resolve the situation, and misled the public by claiming UCF just found out about the allegations, so it just decided to launch a police and Office of Student Conduct investigation. 
By this point, though, those investigations don’t matter. UCF already got what it wanted — DU’s national office gutted the chapter. 
And UCF didn’t have to worry about fending off a pesky lawsuit like Beta Theta Pi filed against the university when it felt it was wrongly accused of raping a girl. (After Beta sued for the violation of its rights, UCF backed down, and Associate General Counsel Youndy Cook settled with the fraternity to reduce the punishment.)
Students in the Greek community know it is nonsense to claim UCF just found out about these allegations, because the Greek community has been talking about the likelihood that UCF was pressuring DU’s national office to gut the chapter for weeks. KnightNews.com has also learned from credible sources that UCF knew about the allegations very soon after it happened. 
Why? Well let’s think about what we know so far, based on the documents we’ve uncovered, our reporting and our network of sources:
1. There is no indication anyone was drugged that night, became extremely intoxicated or was hospitalized. 
2. UCF staff apparently didn’t think the complaint was credible or serious enough to request a UCF police investigation when it first learned of the alleged crimes.
3. There is evidence UCF tried covering this up, as OFSL Director Belinda Boston told KnightNews.com: “I don’t have a written complaint from KKG.” Then about 60 hours later, UCF released three written complaints from KKG. (Either Boston has a really odd definition of “written complaint” or she failed the students by not reviewing and maintaining records submitted to UCF containing such disturbing accusations of a group she is over.)
Students pay good money to attend UCF. As UCF student journalists, we should expect honest, straightforward and direct answers from UCF when we are seeking information to report to the student body about how the individuals students pay to run this university are doing their jobs. 
UCF students who treasure the Arboretum believe their right to enjoy a protected piece of land is being ripped away — without a proper chance for meaningful public comment. 
Greek students have had their First Amendment right to assemble peacefully at locations of their choosing have been abridged by UCF without a Student Conduct hearing. (UCF blames the Greek Week committee for imposing these restrictions, but the Greek Week committee denies it has the power to do this.)
Monday at 7 p.m., a vice president with the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education, Adam Kissel, will speak to UCF students about how to protect their rights. KnightNews.com, which has benefited from FIRE’s help in the past, is proud to be a media sponsor of this event. 
FIRE has also helped Students for a Democratic Society at UCF fight for free speech. Kissel knows the tactics used to strip rights, and can be a big help to anyone fighting for free speech and student rights at UCF. 
We hope to see you there, and that all parts of the diverse UCF community can agree on this point: It’s time to stand united and fight together for our rights, before UCF strips even more away. 



UCF police Sgt. Troy Williamson talked to media today about this past weekend’s robberies that took place late Friday night and early Saturday morning.
There were two reported incidents; one was an armed robbery and the other an attempted armed robbery. The incidents took place in two different areas; one in the north and the other in the south part of campus. 
The two groups of victims were both leaving the bar scene and appeared to have been targeted as they went home and to UCF.
“One set was walking home and the other was getting off the Lynx bus, it was a drop-off point. These victims were out at the drinking establishments in the area and I think they were targeted specifically at these drinking establishments and followed back to UCF,” said Sgt. Williamson.  

In one case, the victims had even left the KnightLynx bus– the bus program started to bring home students safely — before they were attacked by the suspects.
“One group got off the KnightLynx bus and just down the street here by Libra and Gemini… they just got off the bus and were walking down the street”.
The knife-wielding suspects had even used his knife to slash one of the victim’s shirts.
“In one of the scenarios, the victim did get his shirt cut, across his shirt. It scared him,” said Williamson. 
Williamson went on to say that UCF has a good record of safety on campus and there have been very few armed robberies in the past, adding that in this case “[the suspects are] getting brazen.” 
The suspects are three to four Hispanic males between the ages of 19 and 25 years old and were seen driving a green or gray Honda. 
The number for the University Police is 407-823-5555, but in case of an emergency call 911.
If anyone has information about these crimes they can contact UCF police or CrimeLine at 407-423-TIPS (8477).



Two people were shot in another robbery attempt near UCF. It happened at the Arbour Apartments and it’s one of several that has happened over the past 2 days. 
KnightNews.com was able to talk to the Orange County Deputies and some concerned UCF students who live in the area:

If you have information call the Crimeline at 800-423-TIPS.



