Ann Hefferin’s father, Mark Hefferin, is making his first public statement since his daughter’s sudden death at UCF. 
Mark Hefferin broke his silence by writing a Facebook post addressed to his daughter on the RIP Annie Marie Hefferin Facebook page, which has more than 4,000 members. The message is as follows:
Ann Hefferin graduation picture
To Our Daughter Ann Marie,
We know you are in heaven looking down upon your family and friends. We listen for your voice and await your next text as we pray that God will cradle you his Angel taken from us. Your radiant smile is playing to your favorite song (“Forever Yours” by Michael W Smith) as we prepare for your “Celebration of Life” tomorrow evening. For those that knew and loved you we are posting your obituary and graduation picture to communicate some details of your life and memorial services. Know that you will always be loved. God Bless Your Mother, Father and Brothers.
KnightNews.com was on campus earlier tonight when a candlelight vigil was held in Ann’s honor. Hundreds attended, including many Ann’s classmates from Bishop Moore High School. 

Mark Hefferin also shared Ann Hefferin’s obituary on Facebook. It’s pasted below:
Obituary
Ann Marie Hefferin
On August 25th, 2011 we gave back to God our daughter/sister Ann Marie to the Lord. Ann was an “Angel” in disguise to all that knew and met her, as she lived her most spirited life as a child and young woman.
Born in Richmond, Virginia on September, 29, 1992, Ann began to celebrate her life of happiness, kindness and love for all. Her caring and devotional way of life extended beyond just people and included God’s animals along with the environment in all things she touched. Passionate and compassionate, she aspired to take up a career as a caregiver; and began this journey in full force as she started her continued education at the University of Central Florida this past weekend. Her educational dreams lead her on the path of working towards a Master Degree as nurse practitioner. As a starting freshman at UCF, Ann quickly became active with her schoolmates earning a spot in the LEAD scholar program. This followed on the heels of being a Graduate of Bishop Moore Catholic High School in Orlando, Florida. During her high school years Ann was very active as an officer in the English National Honor Society, member of Rho Kappa, Science National Honor Society, National Honor Society, Junior Civitan, Varsity lacrosse and participated in Peer Ministry and Eucharistic Ministry for Bishop Moore Catholic High School.
Ann was born into a loving family and is survived by her parents Mark and Kelley Hefferin, brothers John Daniel Hefferin and Nicholas Hefferin of Maitland, Florida. She is also survived by her maternal grandmother Calla Frederick of Grafton, WV, paternal grandmother Veronica Hefferin of Grafton WV, along with numerous Aunts, Uncles and Cousins.  Ann was preceded in death by her brother Gregory Hefferin, maternal grandfather Francis Frederick, paternal grandfather John Hefferin II.
In honor and memory of Ann Marie the family has arranged a viewing for all family, friends and fellow students on Monday, August 29th, at St. Margaret Mary Church in Winter Park, Florida from 6:30 pm to 8:30 pm. At 7:00 PM a special prayer service will be held in her honor. Following the Wake a reception will be held in the parish social hall to continue the “Celebration of Life”. On Tuesday, August 30th the life celebration liturgy and Mass will be held at 10:00 am at St. Margaret Mary Church with burial services being arranged out of state.
In lieu of flowers, the family kindly requests that donations be made to Bishop Moore High School: Ann Marie Hefferin Scholarship Fund. These gifts will go to needy Children who otherwise would be unable to attend. The address is 3901 Edgewater Drive, Orlando, FL 32804.
With Love-The Hefferin Family



KnightNews.com was at the UCF Reflecting Pond when hundreds of UCF students showed up to remember UCF freshman Ann Hefferin, who died during the first week of Fall classes.

Hefferin’s former classmates from Bishop Moore high school also showed up. KnightNews.com got the chance to talk with the group who stuck around the Reflecting Pond after the vigil ended to remember their friend. 

UCF President John C. Hitt was also in attendance at the vigil, which started at 8 p.m.
KnightNews.com produced the memorial video below, based on songs and pictures posted by her friends.




