According to an FBI press release, Scott Arciszewski, a UCF student, was arrested this morning for cyber hacking an Infragard Website.
KnightNews.com broke the story this morning when we first reported that law enforcement had put a suspect into the back of an unmarked vehicle near Tower III and then reported first that the FBI was involved.
Click here to view the FBI report.
Below is the press release sent out.
UCF STUDENT ARRESTED BY FBI FOR ALLEGED COMPUTER INTRUSION
Orlando, Florida – On Tuesday, July 19, 2011, Scott Matthew Arciszewski, 21, was arrested by FBI special agents at the University of Central Florida in Orlando, Florida without incident.  FBI agents also executed a federal search warrant at Arciszewski’s residence, 132 East Plaza Drive, Orlando, Florida.
FBI intelligence gathering efforts uncovered an attempt, by unknown individuals, to target and attack the Infragard Tampa Chapter website.  With the assistance of the local InfraGard website host, FBI agents were able to develop information which led to today’s law enforcement actions.
InfraGard is an FBI program designed to establish an alliance between academia, private industry and the FBI.  InfraGard members and the FBI exchange information in a concerted effort to protect national and private sector assets.  This information is exchanged to help protect our nation’s critical infrastructure—both virtual and physical—from attacks by terrorists and criminals.
The FBI is requesting anyone with information about this matter, or similar crimes, to contact the FBI Tampa office at 813/253-1000.
As in any criminal case, a person is presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty in a court of law.
###



 Read our full update from the FBI and see a picture of the student arrested for the alleged hacking. 
Update: FBI spokesman Dave Couvertier released this statement regarding the incident earlier today at UCF, “there is ongoing law enforcement activity regarding a cyber investigation.”
Update: UCF Spokesman Chad Binette confirmed to KnightNews.com that UCF Police are assisting an FBI investigation.
Update: University of Central Floirda police gathered around the Tower 3 housing complex Tuesday morning — which houses UCF athletes and honors students — for a reason the university hasn’t yet revealed.
KnightNews.com noticed the UCF police presence after driving to the scene to check out a viewer tip that someone who appeared to be wearing clothing with FBI lettering, was seen taking an individual into the back of vehicle.
TEXT US TIPS AT 407-5-TIP-UCF (584-7823) | OR EMAIL NEWS@KNIGHTNEWS.COM
A man on scene in an unmarked vehicle, dressed in plainclothes and who identified himself as a UCF police officer, told KnightNews.com someone was arrested there today.
 
Eyewitnesses who tipped KnightNews.com off to the apparent arrest asked not to be identified due to the bizarre circumstances, but watched everything unfold from inside Barnes and Noble bookstore. They told KnightNews.com the man appeared to be white, with long curly brown or dirty blonde hair and was wearing a grey shirt. They said the man looked disheveled and had a heavy build.
Police have since cleared the scene. KnightNews.com has placed calls to UCF police and UCF News and Information to try and gather more details, however, no further information has been released at this point.  Check back for updates.
KnightNews.com first broke this story at 12:05 p.m.



