If you are trying to watch your favorite TV shows or movies on Netflix tonight and are having trouble, you’re not alone.
KnightNews.com has found hundreds of Netflix customers complaining of an outage on Twitter.
Here’s what one Twitter user, @elinahopper, posted: “Okay, so Netflix is down, no ETA for return. What am I gonna do tonight, watch live HD TV? pfft That’s soooooo two-thousands-ies.”
The outage comes at a bad time for Netflix. Today Facebook and Amazon announced plans to offer streaming content for little or no cost.
KnightNews.com will monitor the Netflix outage and post updates as we get them.



A Facebook campaign aimed to stop free Pizza handouts during SGA Presidential election is getting lots of attention. As of this afternoon, the event page already has 251 people attending.
The event is called “Expect more Free Pizza/Redefining Bribes (Eat Free Pizza Protest),” a playful title aimed at the two SGA campaign slogans “Expect more” and “Possibility Redefined.”
Watch the SGA Presidential Debate between both tickets here:

The event page states, “During this time rich kids on power trips will try and buy your vote so they can buy their way into office” and calls for student’s to eat campaigners’ pizza. “Starting Monday I implore you to eat as much as the free pizza (and whatever other food they may have) as possible!” it states. “Spread the word and tell your friends!”
“If you can’t beat the system, eat the system,” said Tyler Smith, one of the administrators of the event page.
Smith went on to add, “In short, we are hoping to end pizza politics and the manipulation of student voters through education. We hope to either entice candidates to stop food handouts or to consume their number one commodity. Hopefully, then students can vote for the issues and not the freebies.”
Kyle Schumacher had brought up some of the problems with pizza in the last SGA Presidential election in a letter he sent to KnightNews.com and its readers last year.
“In my three years at UCF, I have seen how elections can be swayed by false promises, appealing signs and infinite slices of pizza… Additionally, the current election process favors those with the deepest pocketbooks and largest pledge classes, not those best suited for being responsible of a $14 million budget,” Schumacher said.
The Facebook event could be found in this link http://www.facebook.com/event.php?eid=136923366376489.



Check out some video KnightNews.com crews shot from the event:

The Delta Delta Delta sorority will be hosting DHOP, standing for “Delta’s House of Pancakes,” on Wednesday, March 23 from 5:00 p.m. until 9:00 p.m. at their sorority house on Greek grow on the main UCF campus.
With all proceeds benefiting the St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, tickets can be purchased from any member of the sorority for $7 before the event, or for $8 at the door. A ticket grants admission and ‘all-u-can-eat’ pancakes and bacon, as well as a pancake-eating competition at 7:00 p.m.



The now infamous 13-year-old Rebecca Black who has earned more than 30 million YouTube views for her single “Friday” is laughing all the way to the bank — she became a millionaire in less than a week.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CD2LRROpph0
That’s according to Hollywood Life, who reported that Black “has incurred over 2 million downloads which, at the iTunes payout rate of $ .70 a single, has earned the singer roughly $1.4 million.”
KnightNews.com reported yesterday how a UCF student, Brandon K. Howard, posted his own music video just days after Rebecca Black’s Friday. After our story, his YouTube video has climbed from about 300 views to 1,694. Check it out below, and click here to learn more about his video from our original story.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lA1rkrF4ewA



