The second week of the wrongful death trial started off with more testimony and Judge Robert Evans ruling he’d allow the jurors to take a trip to UCF and visit the place where Ereck Plancher practiced the day he died.

The Plancher family attorney, Steven Yerrid, objected, stating his concern that things could have changed in the last three years and the representation may not be accurate.
Nevertheless, the judge granted the motion made by the defendant, UCF Athletics Association Inc., but also said it would count against their time and the jurors would not travel in a UCF bus.
The day went on to continue with the defense questioning Dr. Douglas Casa.
During the questioning Dr. Casa revealed he had been payed by the plaintiff during his years of work preparing for this trial, which is common practice with expert witnesses.
Casa went on to say that the training that took place that day would be acceptable for athletes without sickle cell — but not for athletes with it.
He also continued to say how understaffed he believed the UCF athletics training staff was at the time.
The trial came back in session after the lunch break with the former UCF receiver Anthony Davis testifying. (Watch Anthony Davis testimony here.)
Anthony Davis testified that when he saw Plancher running the drills that he had looked like jello and collapsed. No trainers intervened and it was obvious he could not continue —  but he did without mumbling a word because that was the type of player he was, according to Davis, who also testified that trainers and waters were ordered out of the indoor practice facility. 
He also stated how he was one of the players who carried Plancher out of the indoor practice facility to get some air; a statement which the defense attorney’s would say was inconsistent. UCF also denies that water and trainers were unavailable to players. 
After hearing the sirens of the ambulance, Davis led the team in prayer for Ereck Plancher before going to his apartment and afternoon class.
It was after that class when he would find out Ereck Plancher’s fate. 
Davis said in the following days O’Leary called the wide receivers in a room and told them that they would have to give witness statements about what happened.
Davis testified that he was put in a room with Jordan Clark, a UCF attorney, a clerk to keep notes and a friend of Coach O’Leary’s named “Manny” back on April 18, 2008 — about a month after Plancher’s death.
Anthony Davis Takes Stand for Ereck Placher Trial
Davis said the Planchers and himself were both not represented and that when he gave his testimony he was worried that “Manny” would tell whatever he said to O’Leary.
Plaintiff attorney Steve Yerrid attempted to prevent that testimony from coming to court because he wasn’t given access to those records originally, due to attorney work product, but the judge allowed it in as long as it wasn’t used in a specific manner.
The defense attorney, Kevin Taylor, brought up some inconsistencies with Davis’s statement, including a couple statements about carrying Plancher and a trainer helping Plancher with the April 18 witness testimony, in which Davis brought up how there was a stranger in the room and he felt uncomfortable.
At the end of the day the Judge discussed the field trip to UCF the jury will take possibly early next week. The judge brought up how there will be specific instructions for how things will go and how the media will be able to cover it. The discussion from the judge about media access came after KnightNews.com requested access earlier in the day. 
KnightNews.com will continue to our gavel to gavel coverage and provide a live stream throughout the day. Check back for continuous updates. 



Ereck Plancher Memorial Videos: Remembering a Fallen Knight
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WnSC4NYcD1A
A tear runs down Giselle Plancher's face during testimonyThe son of Haitian immigrants, Ereck Plancher is said to have exemplified the American dream.  Through his hard work in the classroom and on the field, he would work his way up to playing college football at the University of Central Florida.
He wasn’t the typical stereotypical jock who put athletics over academics. He graduated Lely High School with a 3.9 GPA and continued his success in the classrooms at UCF.
Only positive things can be said about Ereck on both sides of this lawsuit, and his high school principal said there will never be another man like him.
A God-fearing man, he conducted himself in a manner that parents would respect and his peers would look up to. Ereck wouldn’t use swear words, he didn’t drink or do drugs and he always did what he could to help his fellow man, friends said. 
He was also a family man, and was very close with his mother. Their relationship is described as so genuine and beautiful — the type every mother would want to have with her son. He also took care of his little brother, whether it be taking him to Olive Garden or playing football with him, he was there for him.The people who have met him said he had always put his all into everything that he did and that’s exactly how he went out.
When he was laid to rest, his high school had to donate space to hold the service. It was the only place big enough, and it was still standing room only. 
Ereck’s reputation makes his sudden death — and reliving it in a courtroom — that much more emotional for his family, friends and teammates. 



