KnightNews.com is working to get reaction from local and state leaders to the news that Osama bin Laden has been killed. 
We’re still waiting to hear back from SGA President Michael Kilbride for his reaction, however, former state Chief Financial Officer Alex Sink just sent us a statement sharing her reaction.
“Today, Floridians and Americans and freedom-loving people across the globe are celebrating the demise of Osama bin Laden. I am incredibly proud of President Obama and the American military and intelligence forces for their persistence, focus and decisive leadership in successfully hunting down bin Laden and delivering justice for the Floridians and Americans who perished on September 11th, 2001. I am humbled by the extraordinary courage and skill our military and intelligence community displayed in executing this mission. Our resolve to continue fighting terrorism and protecting our homeland is strengthened by today’s news,” Sink’s statement read. 
KnightNews.com will let you know if we get any other reaction from student leaders or students here at UCF. Feel free to share your thoughts with us by emailing news@knightnews.com.



Osama bin Laden’s hideout. 
It was a $1 million compound right down the road from Pakistan’s version of West Point. Now it is in ruins. And KnightNews.com has the video obtained by ABC news showing the aftermath of the place where the man who plotted the worst terrorist attack in US history called home. 

Because bin Laden’s hiding spot was so close to Islamabad, Pakistan and just about 1,000 feet away from the Pakistani military academy, questions are being raised by ABC news and others regarding how Pakistan wasn’t able to find out where it was harboring a terrorist. At the order of US President Barack Obama, navy seals stormed the compound and killed bin Laden after he refused to surrender. The US didn’t warn Pakistan of the operation. 
See more from ABC news below, including a map showing where Bin Laden’s hiding place was and video of the area.

KnightNews.com’s Andrew Stein and political analyst Evan Weiss reported during our live streaming coverage last night how Adolf Hitler was also declared dead on May 1, marking the end of his evil reign of terror. Now, once again, May 1 is a day that will live on in the minds of a new generation of Americans, as a reminder of how justice will be done when Americans fight to achieve it. As Obama declared last night, “Justice has been done.”
Most UCF students were just around 10 years old when they learned that airplanes slammed into the Twin Towers in New York City, the Pentagon and a field in Shankesville, PA. Nearly a decade later, after having grown up in a different world than those before them, where many undoubtedly lost a friend who ended up fighting in the War on Terror, college students celebrated the fall of the man whose attacks spurred changes in Americans’ daily lives, including how we get onto airplanes and which brought on the Patriot Act.
Video still of Osama's Compound
During this announcement, UCF students weren’t confined to a grade school classroom — and neither was their reaction. Fireworks were heard being shot off after we broke the news to students on our Facebook page about bin Laden’s death. Campus was quiet with finals wrapping up, but many on campus found a place to watch Obama’s speech, whether it was on KnightNews.com’s live stream, in their dorms, or in the Student Union at Wackadoo’s sportsbar, like Brianne Barta. 
She, like so many others was overcome with emotion, relieved that bin Laden is dead, but still angry over the carnage he caused — and left wishing there was a way to make him pay more. 
“It’s been nearly ten years since Osama Bin Laden caused our country so much pain. I’m relieved to know that the search is finally over,” Barta told KnightNews.com, after watching the president’s speech with a small, yet passionate crowd, which broke into applause after hearing the news.  
Of course, there won’t be any defiling of bin Laden’s body, and there won’t be any shrine or tombstone where his fanatic supporters who see him as a martyr can pay tribute. Bin Laden, the AP reports, was quickly buried at sea, after being handled according to Islamic practice and tradition.
Ronald Freeman Died Fighting in Afghanistan on his Daughter's 1st Birthday
Bin Laden’s death was made possible by an aerial operation US forces launched from bases the military has established in Afghanistan. But justice came with a price. Kaitlyn Michelle Freeman will never know her father. The Plant City father, Lance Cpl. Ronald D. Freeman, 25, died in Afghanistan just last Thursday while conducting combat operations in the Helmand province — on his daughter’s first birthday.
Freeman is one of 1,566 US forces who died in Afghanistan following the 9/11 attacks.  One day earlier, Pfc. Jonathan M. Villanueva, of Jacksonville, Fla., died in the Wardak province, after suffered wounds from enemy forces attacking his unit with small arms fire. He was 19 — the same age as many students finishing finals today at UCF. Some may even have known him from attending Englewood High School together, where Villanueva was a member of the ROTC.
Pfc. Jonathan M Villanueva, 19
With bin Laden’s death, the State Department has put Americans are on alert. The terrorists will likely seek revenge. And more people like Villanueva and Freeman may end up making the ultimate sacrifice so that that UCF students can go to class, their parents can go to work and children, who are still in grade school, can play outside while the military fights oversees to try and prevent another 9/11 type attack from happening on US soil. 
And almost a decade after the man who implemented that strategy stood up on a pile of rubble where the Twin Towers once stood, and with a bullhorn announced, “I hear you, the rest of the world hears you, and the people who knocked these buildings down will hear all of us soon,” former President George W. Bush spoke out once again, but this time, quietly from his facebook page.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x7OCgMPX2mE
“This momentous achievement marks a victory for America, for people who seek peace around the world, and for all those who lost loved ones on September 11, 2001,” Bush wrote yesterday. 
“The fight against terror goes on, but tonight America has sent an unmistakable message:  No matter how long it takes, justice will be done.”



UPDATE: See video of bin Laden’s compound where he hid from US troops.
Twitter was on fire last night with tweets linking to an alleged photo of a dead Osama Bin Laden. 
But Fox News reports they checked with US officials who confirm the photo flooding the internet is not real. Fox News did confirm, however, there are some real photos of the dead terrorist mastermind the military took, but the military has not released these real photos yet. 
The doctored photo is very graphic. If you want to see the doctored dead Bin Laden photo, click that link. 
KnightNews.com will continue to monitor twitter and other feeds, as well as official information coming out of the White House to let you know if and when a real photo may be released. 



Around 10:30 p.m. Sunday, KnightNews.com let our viewers know CNN reported on Twitter Osama Bin Laden is dead. Minutes later, we got several reports of fireworks being shot off across from UCF. 
US President Barack Obama was set to address the nation just about the same time, but he held off until sometime around 11:30 p.m. Based on our Facebook comments, the anticipation was intense.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zqAMkDstPiU
KnightNews.com’s Kevin Wolkenfeld was on scene in Wackadoo’s, calling in updates of UCF students reacting to the news. Here’s a picture of the small, but passionate, impromptu gathering, which drew applause during Obama’s speech. UCF students react to Osama's death in Wackadoo's
KnightNews.com interviewed one UCF student who rushed out of the UCF library to find the TV in Wackadoo’s to watch the historic announcement, after she heard from a family member Obama was set to address the nation.

Below is a copy of Barack Obama’s speech released to the media. KnightNews.com will post video reaction from students once we upload it. KnightNews.com crews did see some students walking into Knight Library bar dressed in patriotic clothes, one was even wearing a white t-shirt that had “USA” written on in black marker she apparently made herself upon hearing that historic news — Osama Bin Laden is dead. 
Good evening. 
Tonight, I can report to the American people and to the world that the United States has conducted an operation that killed Osama bin Laden, the leader of al Qaeda, and a terrorist who’s responsible for the murder of thousands of innocent men, women and children. It was nearly ten years ago that a bright September day was darkened by the worst attack on the American people in our history. The images of 9/11 are seared into our national memory.
Hijacked planes cutting through a cloudless september sky, the twin towers collapsing to the ground, black smoke billowing up from the pentagon, the wreckage of flight 93 in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, where the actions of heroic citizens saved even more heartbreak and destruction. 
And yet we know that the worst images are those that were unseen to the world, the empty seat at the dinner table, children who were forced to grow up without their mother or their father, parents who would never know the feeling of their child’s embrace, nearly 3,000 citizens taken from us, leaving a gaping hole in our hearts. On September 11th, 2001, in our time of grief, the American people came together. 
We offered our neighbors a hand, and we offered the wounded our blood. We reaffirmed our ties to each other and our love of community and country. On that day, no matter where we came from, what God we prayed to or what race or ethnicity we were, we were united as one American family. 
We were also united in our resolve, to protect our nation and to bring those who committed this vicious attack to justice. We quickly learned that the 9/11 attacks were carried out by al Qaeda, an organization headed by Osama bin Laden, which had openly declared war on the United States and was committed to killing innocents in our country and around the globe. 
So we went to war against al Qaeda, to protect our citizens, our friends, and our allies. Over the last ten years, thanks to the tireless and heroic work of our military and our counterterrorism professionals, we’ve made great strides in that effort. We’ve disrupted terrorist attacks and strengthened our homeland defense. In Afghanistan, we removed the Taliban government which had given bin Laden and al Qaeda safe haven and support. 
And around the globe, we worked with our friends and allies to capture or kill scores of al Qaeda terrorists including several who were a part of the 9/11 plot. 
Yet, Osama bin Laden avoided capture. And escaped across the Afghan border into Pakistan. Meanwhile, al Qaeda continued to operate from along that border and operate through its affiliates across the world. And so shortly after taking office, I directed Leon Panetta, the director of the CIA, to make the killing or capture of bin Laden the top priority of our war against al Qaeda. 
Even as we continued our broader efforts to disrupt, dismantle and defeat his network. Then last August, after years of painstaking work by our intelligence community, I was briefed on a possible lead to bin Laden. It was far from certain. And it took many months to run this thread to ground. I met repeatedly with my national security team as we developed more information about the possibility that we could located bin Laden hiding within a compound deep inside Pakistan. 
And finally, last week, I determined that we had enough intelligence to take action and authorized an operation to get Osama bin Laden and bring him to justice. 
Today, at my direction, the United States launched a targeted operation against that compound in Pakistan. A small team of Americans carried out the operation with extraordinary courage and capability. No Americans were harmed. They took care to avoid civilian casualties. 
After a firefight, they killed Osama bin Laden and took custody of his body. For over two decades, bin Laden has been al Qaeda’s leader and symbol and has continued to plot attacks against our country and our friends and allies. The death of bin Laden marks the most significant achievement to date in our nation’s effort to defeat al Qaeda. 
His death does not mark the end of our effort. There’s no doubt that al Qaeda will continue to pursue attacks against us. We must and we will remain vigilant at home and abroad. As we do, we must also reaffirm that the United States is not and never will be at war with Islam. 
I’ve made clear, just as President Bush did shortly after 9/11, that our war is not against Islam. Bin Laden was not a Muslim leader. He was a mass murderer of Muslims. Indeed, al Qaeda slaughtered scores of Muslims in many countries including our own. So his demise should be welcomed by all who believe in peace and human dignity. 
Over the years, I’ve repeatedly made clear that we would take action within Pakistan if we knew where bin Laden was. That is what we’ve done. But it’s important to note that our counterterrorism cooperation with Pakistan helped lead us to bin Laden and the compound where he was hiding. Indeed, bin Laden had declared war against Pakistan as well and ordered attacks against the Pakistani people. 
Tonight, I called President Zardari, and my team has also spoken with their Pakistani counterparts. They agree that this is a good and historic day for both of our nations. And going forward, it is essential that Pakistan continue to join us in the fight against al Qaeda and its affiliates. 
The American people did not choose this fight. It came to our shores. And started with the senseless slaughter of our citizens. After nearly ten years of service, struggle and sacrifice, we know well the costs of war. These efforts weigh on me every time I, as commander in chief, have to sign a letter to a family that has lost a loved one or look into the eyes of a service member who’s been gravely wounded. 
So Americans understand the costs of war. Yet as a country, we will never tolerate our security being threatened, nor stand idly by when our people have been killed. We will be relentless in defense of our citizens and our friends and allies. We will be true to the values that make us who we are. And on nights like this one, we can say to those families who have lost loved ones to al Qaeda’s terror, justice has been done. 
Tonight we give thanks to the countless intelligence and counterterrorism professionals who have worked tirelessly to achieve this outcome. The American people do not see their work nor know their names, but tonight they feel the satisfaction of their work and the result of their pursuit of justice. 
We give thanks for the men who carried out this operation, for they exemplify the professionalism, patriotism and unparalleled courage of those who serve our country. And they are part of a generation that has borne the heaviest share of burden since that September day. 
Finally, let me say to the families who lost loved ones on 9/11, that we have never forgotten your loss, nor wavered in our commitment to see that we do whatever it takes to prevent another attack on our shores. And tonight, let us think back to the sense of unity that prevailed on 9/11. I know that it has, at times, frayed. Yet today’s achievement is a testament to the greatness of our country and the determination of the American people. 
The cause of securing our country is not complete, but tonight we are once again reminded that America can do whatever we set our mind to. That is the story of our history. Whether it’s the pursuit of prosperity for our people or the struggle for equality for all our citizens, our commitment to stand up for our values abroad, and our sacrifices to make the world a safer place. Let us remember that we can do these things not just because of wealth or power, but because of who we are, one nation under God, indivisable with liberty and justice for all. 
Thank you. May God bless you. And may God bless the United States of America.



