KnightNews.com has received tips from multiple sources in various fraternities with the pledge class numbers from Spring rush last week.
Although it’s a tradition for fraternities to announce their rush results in the first meeting after rush, official numbers aren’t turned into the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life until January 31.
Some fraternities numbers were unable to be found. Keep in mind that those that were found are unofficial and subject to change. Some fraternities have already inducted their pledges and don’t take late pledges, while others continue adding to their pledge classes after induction. 
If you would like to have your pledge class number officially updated, have a member of your fraternity’s executive board contact KnightNews at news@knightnews.com, or call 407-5TIP-UCF.
Update: We kept our unofficial information we learned before this was officially announced in IFC on the left and added the official number announced in IFC on the right. Pretty close!
Alpha Tau Omega – Brothers we contacted refused to tell us. | 19
Alpha Epsilon Pi – 8 | 8
Beta Theta Pi – 10 | 10
Delta Tau Delta – 11 | Not listed
Delta Upsilon – 27 | 27
Kappa Sigma- No early data | 22
Lambda Chi Alpha – 35 | 30
Phi Delta Theta – 23 | 23
Phi Gamma Delta – 10 |8
Sigma Chi – 16 |16
Sigma Nu- No early data | 7
Sigma Pi- No early data | 8 or 11
Tau Kappa Epsilon – 26 | 28
Theta Chi – 26 |27
Zeta Beta Tau – 23 |23 
*If your fraternity is not listed, we couldn’t reach anyone in it to find out unofficial numbers. Go ahead and post them below or email them to us at news@knightnews.com. 
We’ve also reposted the Fraternity Report Card poll we put up a few days ago, which asks you to vote on which UCF fraternity had the best pledge class this entire school year — so consider both Fall 2010 and Spring 2011 pledge classes when voting. 
Be sure to check out our hilarious video coverage of both nights of Spring Rush, and don’t forget to like us on Facebook, so you can be the first to know about the major Greek and UCF news that everyone will be talking about!



UPDATE 1/25/11- KnightNews.com was just sent the following statement from Taco Bell President and Chief Concept Officer Greg Creed, concerning the lawsuit being filed against them:
“At Taco Bell, we buy our beef from the same trusted brands you find in the supermarket, like Tyson Foods.  We start with 100 percent USDA-inspected beef.  Then we simmer it in our proprietary blend of seasonings and spices to give our seasoned beef its signature Taco Bell taste and texture.  We are proud of the quality of our beef and identify all the seasoning and spice ingredients on our website.  Unfortunately, the lawyers in this case elected to sue first and ask questions later — and got their “facts” absolutely wrong.  We plan to take legal action for the false statements being made about our food.”
One of the most popular late night restaurants for college students is lying about what’s in its tacos, according to a lawsuit filed against Taco Bell.
The lawsuit contends Taco Bell’s beef tacos have so little beef, it’s false advertising to call them beef tacos, according to a report in the Sentinel.

Things like water, isolated oat product, wheat oats, soy lecithin, maltodextrin, anti-dusting agent, autolyzed yeast extract, modified corn starch and sodium phosphate, as well as some beef and seasonings, the suit states. 
The paper reported that attorney W. Daniel “Dee” Miles III, who filed the lawsuit, claimed just 35 percent of the taco filling was a solid, and just 15 percent overall was protein.
The USDA defines beef as “the flesh of cattle.”
“You can’t call it beef by definition,” Miles is quoted as saying. “It’s junk. I wouldn’t eat it.” The suit does not ask for money, instead, it wants Taco Bell’s alleged false advertising to stop.
Taco Bell has told media it denies it’s doing anything wrong, and plans to vigorously defend itself against the suit.
KnightNews.com Facebook fans sounded off immediately after hearing the news. 
“Is anyone really surprised by this?” Amanda Leezer asked. “Seriously?”
“Who cares?” asked Noel Calzolano. “I’m sure anyone that eats it, isn’t too worried about what it technically is or isn’t. Taco bell is delicious nevertheless.”
Feel free to share your thoughts in our comments section below.



