Keith Clanton recorded a double-double with 15 points and 13 rebounds and the UCF men’s basketball team upset Conference USA’s top team, UTEP, on Monday with a 74-68 victory.
The Knights (17-9 overall, 4-9 in C-USA) led by as many as 19 points in the first half and played arguibly their most complete game of the season, shooting just under 48 percent from the field for the game, en route to topping the Miners (20-7, 8-4). Marcus Jordan added 13 points and P.J. Gaynor chipped in 10 on 4-of-5 shooting.
The game against UTEP was the final game of a three-game road trip for UCF, one they came out of with a record of 2-1.
“I am so proud of our guys,” UCF head coach Donnie Jones said in a press release. “What these guys have been through on this road trip – three games in six days. We’ve had a few chances to win games, but shots were not falling for us. Today, shots went down. We worked the clock, and got the ball to the right people. I am really proud because we got the lead in this game, and when we had it, we never lost it, and that is a tough thing to do against a team as good as UTEP.”
UCF jumped all over UTEP in the first half, shooting 66.7 percent from the field en route to a 39-25 lead at the break. A pair of A.J. Rompza 3-pointers and seven points from Isaiah Sykes sparked the Knights during the period, helping them reel off a 23-8 run on the Miners to break the game open.
Sponsored Link (Story Continues Below)

Randy Culpepper nearly pulled the Miners back into the game in the second half. Culpepper, who led all scorers with 25 points, hit a jumper with 10:05 left in the game that pulled the Miners to within eight. UCF then answered back with an 8-0 run of their own, with Clanton scoring six points during that stretch to lead the team.
The game against UTEP was originally scheduled on Feb 2, but was moved to Monday due to a bad weather.
Without center Tom Herzog who was sitting out due to a concussion he suffered on Saturday, the Knights were still able to pull out the win and snap the Miners 15-game home winning streak.
“I thought it was the whole team effort,” said Rompza, who has recorded back-to-back double-figure scoring games. “We huddled up before the game, and I said `let’s play as a team today. Let’s have fun. Let’s share the ball. You can definitely tell that we did that today.”



Today, election petitions became available for students seeking to run for the highest office in Student Government.
Students hoping to run for Student Body President and Vice President need to collect 500 valid signatures from students along with attending an informational session.
KnightNews.com has learned from several SGA sources that two tickets have emerged, collecting signatures for their petitions.
Sponsored Link (Story Continues Below)

According to those sources, Nicholas Gurney, the former Attorney General and Fernando Gonzales, the current CRT chair and member of A&SF committee, are collecting signatures, along with Matthew McCann, the former Chief Justice, and Adam Brock, the current KnightDrive director.
Candidates are not allowed to actively campaign until they declare as a candidate with the Election Commission.
KnightNews.com will continue to update you on the election and update you with the candidate’s experience in SGA.



A group of football players hoping to make it into the NFL got a scare from what they thought was a gorilla at Disney’s Wide World of Sports.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6-hpSSFZGwg
The NFL prospects were getting ready for next week’s NFL Scouting Combine at one of the most popular camps, run by Tom Shaw in Orlando.
According to WSBTV Channel 2 Action News, earlier in the day, before the man in a gorilla suit jumped out at them, the players were told gorilla had escaped Disney’s Animal Kingdom. 
The players got a scare and went running, only to see the gorilla take off his head moments later. 
UCF alum Corey Hogue appeared on ESPN2 Monday just before noon to talk about the prank, earning some national exposure before the Combine.




