According to a press release obtained by KnightNews.com, red-light cameras were installed at intersections in the UCF area.
The cameras near the main UCF campus are located at University Boulevard and Rouse Road and Alafaya Trail and Lake Underhill Road.
The press release states 10 cameras have been installed around Orange County.
WFTV reports the cameras will cost $47,500 a month to monitor out of a $1.7 million contract awarded to American Traffic Solutions.
“Our goal is to stop red-light violators, prevent collisions and the injuries that result from running a red light,” said Orange County Mayor Teresa Jacobs in the release. “We are publicizing the program to remind people that red means stop.”
A ticket for running a red light is going to cost $158, and cameras are expected to go online February 28.
Below is the list of the intersections where the cameras were installed:
NB John Young Parkway at Central Florida Parkway
NB Dean Road at University Boulevard
WB Lake Underhill Road at Dean Road
EB Oak Ridge Road at Texas Avenue
NB Hiawassee Road at Clarcona Ocoee Road
NB Hiawassee Road at Old Winter Garden Road
EB Oak Ridge Road at John Young Parkway
EB University Boulevard at Rouse Road
NB Alafaya Trail at Lake Underhill Road
SB Chickasaw Trail at Lake Underhill Road



1:30 A.M. UPDATE 1/26 UCF SEVERE WEATHER :
Cars lined up to get out of Parking Garage B after evening class and activities were canceled due to stormy weather at UCF on January 25, 2011. (Kurt Rivers/KnightNews.com)
Campus is back to normal now after severe storms rolled through Central Florida and the UCF area late Tuesday afternoon and night. 
KnightNews.com had been monitoring the severe weather potential and warned our readers on our Facebook pages very early Tuesday morning. 
After it became clear the severe weather we first warned you about would be coming, UCF sent out text and email alerts announcing campus would be closing at 6 p.m. Tuesday. KnightNews.com helped spread the word on Facebook and on our site Tuesday afternoon. It’s a good thing we did, because we got multiple reports from students that they never got the text alert from UCF.
No tornadoes were reported near UCF, but local news media is reporting a possible tornado may have ripped through Groveland, in Lake County Fla., about an hour or so west of UCF. While there were no tornadoes on campus, you can see the lightning and strong storms that moved in thanks to KnightNews.com’s Kurt Rivers shooting these great storm photos.
If you have any storm photos, send them to news@knightnews.com and we’ll post them online too.
See our previous coverage on the next page.



