FIRST ON KNIGHTNEWS.COM AT 12:26 P.M.
Video posted on YouTube shows a football fan getting into a brawl with a law enforcement officer during the UCF home game against Boston College Saturday. Check out the disturbing video below:

After KnightNews.com uncovered the disturbing video, we asked for information from Orange County Sheriff’s Office spokesman Angelo Nieves, who confirmed the suspect fighting the deputy is UCF student Andrew Galbo, who stands 6-foot-4 and weighs 210 pounds. 
“Your request has brought this to my attention and it will most certainly assist the State Attorneys Office in the prosecution of this case,” Nieves told KnightNews.com “Deputy Shaun Halleran suffered minor injuries to his person as he was attacked by the suspect; and the concern of the bodily fluids spat upon the deputy will continue to be a source of concern and follow-up.”
Other deputies came to help, including some from the Seminole County Sheriff’s Office, according to SCSO spokesman Kim Cannady. It was not immediately clear from the video whether the officers coming to give aid were able to deploy a taser on the fan. 
The person who posted this video on YouTube, named, irishman909121, wrote: “By the time I started recording I hadn’t gotten about 3/4 of the whole thing. But just before I started the sheriff was holding the fans neck over the railing… What I recorded doesn’t accurately reflect the whole confrontation.”
According to the arrest report, Galbo disrespected the deputies during the brawl. “That badge don’t mean sh*t, don’t touch me bro,” Galbo told the deputy, according to the report.

KnightNews.com is working to gather more information on this story and trying to find out how the situation got to that level. KnightNews.com will post updates when we have more information. 
On the next page, read the full narrative the OCSO deputy filed when charging Galbo with battery on a law enforcement officer, attempted aggravated battery on a law enforcement officer, among other lesser charges. 
Galbo was released at 4:41 a.m. on Sept. 11 on a Surety Bond of 5,400 dollars, according to the Orange County Jail. He had never been booked into that jail before, spokesman Allen Moore said. 



