More than 300 students and 10 UCF organizations joined UCF’s Beta Theta Pi fraternity to help raise money for a great cause — the American Cancer Society.
The philanthropic event, named “Beta’s Best Dance Crew,” was held in the Venue and featured teams that performed a three-minute dance routine. The Delta Delta Delta sorority won the overall competition, and the Zeta Tau Alpha sorority won the award for best dance routine. 
According to a Beta press release, more than 1,000 people came out to the event to show their support.
Students also raised money through t-shirt sales and donations, contributing nearly $5,000 to the ACS, a health organization dedicated to eliminating cancer as a major health problem. It wasn’t clear from the press release whether Beta had to pay to rent out the Venue, or if a donation covered that cost.  
The ACS was happy to get the help from the UCF community.
“Every dollar donated is a step towards eliminating cancer,” said Jenna Bonazinca, a community representative for the American Cancer Society, in the press release. “We are always thrilled when the UCF community chooses to donate to the ACS.”
“I’m very proud of the efforts made by the entire UCF community to fundraise for the American Cancer Society,” said Tyler Moose, vice-event chair for the UCF Relay for Life and member of Beta Theta Pi. “It’s great to see the second largest university in the nation come together for a unified cause.”
The event was part of an ongoing effort by the UCF Greek community and other campus organizations to help raise money for the ACS. 
At the end of March, UCF hosts “Greek Week,” a week-long fundraising effort for ACS with more than 40 Greek organizations competing. KnightNews.com reached out to UCF’s Greek Life Office offering to cover the event and help promote this positive contribution by the UCF community.
The UCF administrators we reached out to haven’t yet gotten back to us with their official answer, but student leaders involved with planning the event confirmed to KnightNews.com a meeting was already held where it was determined KnightNews.com student journalists will be welcome to attend all events and provide full video coverage. In light of that, look forward to full video coverage of Greek Week on KnightNews.com.
KnightNews.com works to cover as many UCF events as possible we find out about on our own, but sending us an email to news@knightnews.com and letting us know you’d like us to come will ensure the best chance of us sending a video crew to cover the event. 
If you have any photos or video from Beta’s Best Dance Crew event that you would like to see posted with this story, feel free to send it to us at news@knightnews.com.



The winners of the Shack-A-Thon competition are as follows:
RSO’s- I.D.E.A.S. placed first for overall winner of Habitat for Humanity’s Shack-A-Thon, as well as winning fan favorite. Golden Key International Honor Society won the RSO award for most money raised, and Outdoor Adventure won judges’ pick.
Greek- Chi Omega sorority won judges’ pick, fan favorite and overall winner, and Sigma Chi raised the most money.

See our original article about Shack-A-Thon on the next page.



