Wes Jones was elected Speaker of the UCF SGA Senate Thursday night, defeating Sen. Dodge by a vote of 25-21.

The SGA Senate Speaker spot opened up with when the new Senate was sworn in, after former Speaker Alan Hardman retired from SGA Senate — and his Speaker position — by deciding not to seek re-election to Senate at the expiration of his term. Hardman, who is currently running for Homecoming King, is expected to graduated before this new Speaker term is finished. 
Hardman leaves the position just four months after he replaced Drew Pope, who suddenly and unexpectedly resigned in the middle of his term. At the time, Pope refused to comment about his resignation to KnightNews.com. 
As for Jones, he continues a recent line of fraternity members holding the speaker spot. Jones is a member of Lambda Chi Alpha, Hardman is a member of Phi Delta Theta and Pope is a member of Beta Theta Pi.
Check back to KnightNews.com for more major UCF SGA news throughout the year, including to find out who won SGA Protempore later tonight. 



UCF Fraternities and Sororities lifted the ban on alcohol from all Greek events yesterday afternoon.
According to documents handed out to members of the Greek community, new policies will replace the moratorium, including a ban on all Interfraternity Council events with alcohol for the first six weeks of every semester.  
Another policy put in place by the Interfraternity council includes having third party security present whenever a fraternity boards a bus to attend any social event with alcohol.

(Sponsored Advertisement)

 
In joint resolutions agreed upon by the Greek councils a one time $5 charge per member will be charged “to facilitate educational programming” and a zero tolerance policy will be put in place for unregistered social events with alcohol.  
This comes after reports that Ann Hefferin’s death did not involve alcohol but instead a rare bacterial infection.
It’s still unclear if more changes will come involving alcohol on UCF’s campus. According to the minutes of a recent Greek Council meeting, Dr. Maribeth Ehasz, the Vice President of Student Development and Enrollment, expressed her concern for how people act at tailgates. “Memory Mall is also a great concern, with the overflow of people and the way our students and alumni act during tailgating.”
Ehasz also told the council, “I will be gathering a group of people together to work on the Alcohol Emergency Policy. To me it is not amnesty but it is caring for ourselves and for others, but I want you to know that it is something that we are working toward and we are not opposed to it.”
In the past, former SGA officials have said that medical amnesty and alcohol amnesty had been stopped by the administration and Dr. Ehasz before Ann Hefferin’s passing.
KnightNews.com will continue to follow the changes in Greek life.



