TBS announced today that they will not pick up Lopez Tonight for a third season and tomorrow night will be the last episode. 
“TBS has reached the difficult decision not to order a third season of Lopez Tonight,” the network said. “We are proud to have partnered with George Lopez, who is an immensely talented comedian and entertainer.
“TBS has valued its partnership with George and appreciates all of his hard work on behalf of the network, both on and off the air.”
Tonight’s episode will include Jessica Alba, David Koechner, and Ellie Goulding will perform.
Tomorrow’s scheduled guests will be Raven-Symone and comedian Auggie Smith. 



Shanna Marie McLaughlin, the University of Central Florida grad who made international headlines for her sexy shoot in the Knights locker room, was reportedly arrested Monday for trying to bring a gun through Orlando International Airport security. 
(Advertisement – Story Continues Below)

A website the posts public records of jail bookings shows McLaughlin was arrested for carrying a firearm in a place prohibited by law. The Orlando Sentinel is reporting that place was OIA.
The paper reports McLaughlin had a revolver in a duffle bag she was trying to bring as her carryon while boarding a flight to Los Angeles. 
McLaughlin, who has a concealed weapons permit, reportedly said the gun belonged to her boyfriend and that she didn’t know it was in the bag. 
Jail records showed she had already been released Tuesday. KnightNews.com is working to gather more information on this story, and will update it once that happens. 



On the day little Caylee Anthony would have turned six years old, her grandparents George and Cindy Anthony showed up at the location where her skeleton was found in Dec. 2008. 
The Anthonys joined a crowd that gathered to hear plans of a permanent memorial for Caylee Anthony get publicly unveiled. 
See video shot by the Orlando Sentinel below:
 
Casey Marie Anthony was not at the memorial site for her daughter’s birthday. She’s been in hiding since her release from jail, following her acquittal of the charges of murdering little Caylee. 



