In the first story in our investigative series published Tuesday, KnightNews.com broke how UCF is taking action to ban male students from cheering on new members of sororities in the moments immediately after they find out which sorority they join and run to their new houses.
UCF has admitted the rule is nothing new, but won’t answer our question about how long UCF knew the rule was on the books. In other words, UCF isn’t saying whether it intentionally defied the rule for so many years, if it somehow didn’t know about the rule before — or if UCF staff who advised sororities prior to Clark simply shared a different interpretation of the rule than whatever Clark believes. 
KnightNews.com has learned that there are often questions of interpretation over NPC rules and how to apply them, and the NPC has an established procedure to seek clarification. KnightNews.com is waiting to hear back from UCF regarding whether UCF even asked NPC to confirm the UCF tradition violates the NPC rule. 
KnightNews.com uncovered a recent version of the NPC governing documents that show it’s easy to see why a former UCF Greek adviser may have shared a different interpretation and allowed the tradition to continue. 
It’s clear that the NPC bans men from participating in Bid Day. But what’s unclear is at what point after the bids are given that “Bid Day” restrictions end. The NPC documents KnightNews.com found define Bid Day as follows: “Each College Panhellenic Council shall establish a Bid Day to conclude the formal membership recruitment period. A Bid Day is the scheduled time when invitations to membership are issued.”
Based on that language, it could be interpreted that immediately following that scheduled “Bid Day” time — when the new members get their bids and the decision is already made regarding what sorority a UCF student will join — the formal recruitment period has concluded, along with all the recruitment restrictions like keeping a Rho Gamma secret and preventing men from interacting with the sororities. 
The traditional run, where men watch from the sidewalk, always has come after that “scheduled time when invitations to members are issued” which defines Bid Day. It’s unclear  why the secret Rho Gammas’ affiliations could be revealed during the time of the traditional run — suggesting formal recruitment concluded — but UCF still enforce formal recruitment restrictions of not allowing men to interact with the women from the public sidewalk at the same time. 
Clark has so far declined KnightNews.com’s request to discuss the situation directly, and has referred questions to a university spokesperson, who is still working to gather more answers to our questions. 
As we continue to get new information and answers from UCF, look forward to future stories in our investigative series addressing what UCF police can and can’t do to men who walk down the public sidewalk, along with the answer UCF gives in response to a question we asked about whether UCF is engaging in “selective enforcement” and ignoring a totally separate part of the NPC rules regarding sorority rush it doesn’t like. 
If you have a tip about what spawned this situation, or any more information you think we should know, email us at news@knightnews.com. We won’t reveal your name if you share information, unless you are OK with that. 



A cloud of controversy has been cast over the University of Central Florida. The university has received a Letter of Inquiry from the NCAA regarding possible violations in its football and basketball programs. 
UCF President John C. Hitt has agreed to fully cooperate with the investigation stating that, “Compliance is the top priority for UCF athletics; playing by the rules is the only way to play.” President Hitt went on to say, “We will cooperate fully with the NCAA. If we have done something wrong, we will deal with it in a manner that is consistent with our responsibilities as a member of the NCAA and our own high standards of conduct.” 
The present intention of the investigation is to wrap everything up by September 30, 2011. The university will decline to make any further comment on the issue to ensure its integrity.  
The Letter of Inquiry comes not even a day after UCF starting quarterback Jeff Godfrey was named to the list of dozens of players that received illegal bribes from University of Miami booster Nevin Shapiro. Shapiro, who is now in prison for a 930-million dollar Ponzi scheme, claims to have given Godfrey Air Jordans and a two-hundred dollar steak dinner during his recruitment process.  
Godfrey has not been able to escape controversy the past few weeks, after just getting arrested on a suspended license in mid-July. Godfrey has been off limits to the press since August 5th. However, head coach George O’Leary did comment on the current situation with Central Florida Sports Network. 
“Someone came to me last night about it, but I haven’t read any article,” O’Leary said.  “I spoke to Jeff and I’m comfortable with the answers that he gave me. If I know anymore I’ll let (the media) know.” O’Leary reiterated his confidence in the young quarterback going on to say, “I asked Jeff what I did know and I was comfortable with the answers that I got. We’ll move on and I’m sure our compliance people will follow up with it.”
Knightnews.com will provide constant updates throughout the entire situation.  



As the controversy over banning a popular alcohol-free University of Central Florida sorority rush tradition grows, a UCF sorority is getting some national attention on a more positive note — its singing and dancing skills. 

CNN’s Anderson Cooper featured the UCF Kappa Kappa Gamma chapter on his segment dubbed “The Ridiculist.” It started off with Cooper showing clips of Caucasian University of Alabama sorority girls rapping about sorority rush Bid Day. The girls also remixed Rebecca Black’s Friday song.

Cooper said the Alabama girls put “hell in panhellenic association,” the umbrella organization governing sororities. 
Just as the segment was ending, Cooper acted like he got some late-breaking video and information from UCF and played the KKG’s singing their rendition of “Living in a Sorority World.” 
After comparing the Alabama clips to the UCF clip, Cooper declared that the Alabama sorority girls aren’t the baddest on the block after all. 



