See UCF Spring Rush 2012 Information here. 
UCF fraternities will be out recruiting new pledges this Spring just like every other year, but this time the location has changed to Memory Mall behind the UCF Student Union. 
All the fraternities will be out in tents Wednesday through Friday night, and any UCF student who isn’t Greek can just walk up to the event and check it out. There should be free food and music, as well as members of UCF sororities out to welcome potential new frat bros to rush. 
KnightNews.com will be out at the fraternity recruitment events getting video and seeing how rush goes. 
Rush tents will be open from 8 p.m. until 11 p.m. Wednesday and Thursday, and from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Friday. 
Check back for updates on how the fraternities are doing, and for exclusive video. 



Pegasus Landing residents Morgan Duncan and Christina Duncan were arrested for having an open house party after UCF Police responded to noise complaints at around 2:40 a.m. Sunday, according to jail records.
UCF police entered the apartment after Sgt. Furnas reported hearing gun shots, according to the arrest report. Upon entering the apartment, police found no guns, but said they did discover 17 underage drinkers.
According to the arrest report, Sgt. Furnas had Morgan Duncan “on the ground in the prone position” when another officer arrived and secured him at Furnas’ direction. The report does not state how the suspect ended up on the ground. 
Morgan Duncan was released after paying a $250 surety bond.
Christina Duncan was released under the Chief Judge’s administrative order.
Both suspects are reportedly students at Valencia Community College.



Alicia Silverstone may be best known for her role in the ’95 hit movie, “Clueless”, but she definitely has a clue when it comes to being an environmental activist.
Get a clue for yourself on February 3rd by attending the presentation “An Afternoon with Alicia Silverstone on the Environment”.
Her credentials? A vegan since 1998, Silverstone was voted, “Sexiest Female Vegetarian,” by PETA in 2004. In 2009 she released the book The Kind Diet and she currently updates her website http://www.thekindlife.com/ daily. Both the book and website focus on ways to switch to a vegan diet and protect the environment.
Interested in learning more about saving our planet? Already an animal rights/environmental activist like Alicia? Then you won’t wanna miss this event.
When: Thursday, February 3rd
Where: Student Union – Pegasus Ballroom
What Time: 3:00 pm
Cost: Free



