UCF gave a strong effort but lost to Alabama 5-3 in day one of the Tallahassee Regional in the NCAA Tournament. 
UCF head coach Terry Rooney said after the game “I thought our guys battled all the way through. Certainly any coach will tell you all you want when you get to that last inning is to get that tying or winning run to the plate and we did. That has kind of been the hallmark of our team the entire year, just battling all the way to the very end and I was very proud of our guy’s effort out there.”
UCF did not get a leadoff batter on base for the entire game but Ronnie Richardson was 2 for 5 at bat with one solo home run and one RBI. Darnell Sweeney was 2 for 3 and ran one in along with Erik Hempe. 
This game also ended Beau Taylor’s 15 game hitting streak. 
With this loss, UCF is now in the losing bracket and will face the loser of the Bethune Cookman vs Florida State match on Saturday. 
If UCF plays FSU on Saturday, the game will be televised on SUN Sports and a live video feed will be on NCAA.com. If they play Cookman the game will not be televised or online. 
Scoring Recap:
Alabama started off in the 2nd with a double from Josh Rosecrans then he scored from a ground out to 1st base by Miller.  Rosecrans also scored in the top of the 4th from a hit by Sanders.
In the bottom of the 4th, Travis Shreve of UCF slid  in to first base with  Ryan Breen on 2nd and Erik Hempe on 3rd setting up Sweeney at bat. With 3 balls and 1 strike Alabama pitcher Nathan Kilcrease walked Sweeney giving UCF their first run with Hempe walking in catching up to Bama 2-1.
Jared Reaves of the Tide scored a run after hitting a double with help from Austen Smith’s single in to left field for Alabama leaving UCF behind by 2 again in the 5th. 3-2 Alabama.
The Tide score again with Brandt Hendricks running in from 2nd base after Taylor Dugas hit a double down the left line in the 6th taking Alabama up 4-1.
UCF pitcher Johnny Sedlock came in to replace Brian Adkins in the 7th inning and started strong striking out Alabama’s Jared Reaves but Austen Smith hit a home run in to right center field. UCF trailed  5-1.
Finishing off the 7th inning, Ronnie Richardson hit a solo home run deep in to right field giving UCF their 56th home run of the season bringing UCF closer to the Tides lead 5-2.
Griffin of UCF hit his 17th double in to right field then made it to third with a ground out  by Luciano but Hempe popped one up making it an easy catch.
Sweeney scored in the bottom of the 9th after hitting a triple in to right field and Richardson hit a single but Alabama won 5-3.



You can view the NCAA Tournament game in Tallahassee right now online HERE
The game is on 740-AM in Orlando and the game tracker is HERE

Earlier in the season UCF defeated Alabama 12-4 in the South Alabama Classic. Overall, UCF leads Alabama 6-4.
Beau Taylor will hopefully continue his 15 game hit streak in to the NCAA Tournament. 
Check back for a recap of the game and NCAA Tournament info. 



Major changes swept over UCF’s Student Government Association Thursday night, with Alan Hardman replacing Drew Pope as speaker following his mysterious resignation and Amanda Newby barely getting the votes she needed to be confirmed as SGA Director of Communications.
Another major SGA Senate position has also opened up with Thursday night’s confirmation of former Senate Pro Tempore E. Joshua Miller as SGA comptroller. Among the candidates hoping to fill Miller’s spot as pro tempore include FAO Chairwoman Erica DeSanti, who ran against Hardman for speaker. Hardman won by a vote of 18-10. The pro tempore election takes place at the next Senate meeting.
Newby faced the most opposition out of anyone up for confirmation. Had one more person voted against confirming her, she would have failed to gather the two-thirds needed to assume her position on SGA President Matt McCann’s cabinet. She squeaked by with a vote of 18-9.
As for Pope, he has refused to comment to KnightNews.com regarding his sudden resignation from Senate. His surprise announcement came during the first meeting following the release of Spring grades and amid newly filed legislation aimed at closing a loophole which could possibly be exploited to allow someone with less than the required 2.5 GPA to remain in SGA over summer. Pope has now officially left the job which paid him more than $1,000 a month.
KnightNews.com will post an update if Pope decides to reconsider his decision to refuse to be interviewed by KnightNews.com, and answers the questions looming over his surprise resignation.
Reggie Paros also was confirmed as attorney general and various other cabinet and senate positions were confirmed as well.
KnightNews.com will continue our award winning SGA coveragre and follow the McCann administration’s appointments  in senate along with the major election of the Pro Tempore taking place next week.



