Knightnews.com stopped by the Orange County Sheriff’s Office to see how they have taken action towards keeping the Orlando area safe in the midst of the movie theater massacre in Colorado.
We talked to OCSO Public Information Officer Jeff Williamson, who told us that they have increased security at all of the movie theaters in the Orlando area.
The Waterford movie theater, the closest for UCF students, was included in the heightened security action plan. Watch the video below to see all of the action plans OSCO after the devastating massacre in Colorado.

Some movie theaters are also banning masks.



In the wake of the Dark Knight movie massacre in Aurora, Colorado, KnightNews.com is learning of ties the University of Central Florida has to the area. We checked with UCF and the most recent data shows about 50 UCF students are from Colorado.
We also were sent a letter to the editor from two members of the UCF community who just graduated — and moved to Aurora just two weeks before the massacre. Those recent grads share how the Denver area has a large UCF community and give their take on the toll this tragedy has taken there in their letter, below:
To whom it may concern,
My girlfriend and I just moved out to Aurora, CO, two weeks ago, after graduating from UCF’s Doctorate of Physical Therapy program. Both of us are undergraduate alums 08′ and Graduate alums ’12. Denver has a large UCF community in and around the suburbs of Denver. While I can not speak for all the UCF alumni out here, I am sure that they, just as we are deeply saddened about the tragedy. Even with the short time that we have spent out here we have grown very fond of Aurora and the people in it. There is a strong sense of community and camaraderie which is why this has really affected all the people of Colorado. From where we live right now we are about 3 miles away from the movie theater. While I do not know specifics about the shootings anymore than what has been reported I am seeing how the community is coping. I am seeing how the city, how the police and how the residents are handling the situation. Our community has been affected and lives have been changed out here. If you have any questions do not hesitate to ask. But for now I will ask that UCF adopt the Aurora Community into the Knights Family just as the Aurora Family adopted a couple of Knights into theirs.
Austin Dudas ’12
Ashley Garcia ’12
KnightNews.com also stopped by the Orange County Sheriff’s Office to get details on the steps local law enforcement is taking to keep theaters near UCF safe, like the one at Waterford Lakes, in the wake of this shooting. We found out more details on why OCSO is advising people who planned to wear costumes to the movies to change their plans:




For decades, UCF football fans have been finding ways to revolutionize the tailgating experience.
It can be argued that it all started with a simple grill and a few hot dogs outside on the grass outside of the old stadium . Realizing the genius that is tailgating, it took off, with mini-TV’s, and 4,000 dollar charcoal grills being regulars at every tailgate.
Less than five years ago, the tailgate moved to Memory Mall where the sweet aroma of brawts, cheap beer, and burgers mixed with the excitement of the forthcoming game have been customary at every home football game. We watched in awe as the Knights derailed all the competition on their way to beating the SMU Mustangs to win the Conference USA Championship in 2010.
In 2011, it was announced that UCF would be joining some of the elite programs in the nation by joining the Big East. With a new conference comes bigger and better competition, and this year the Knights will travel to Columbus to take on Urban Meyer and the Ohio State Buckeyes.
One UCF fan, Tim Galvin, took it upon himself to create a tailgate experience that trumps all other tailgate experiences, a flying tailgate from Central Florida all the way to Columbus, Ohio for the game.
On his page promoting the event Galvin says, “I’m creating a charter flight, a ‘Flying Tailgate Party’ from Orlando to Columbus that will leave the morning of the game to arrive in Columbus a couple hours before the game and get passengers shuttled to the game, provide a ticket, shuttle to the Hyatt Regency in Downtown Columbus, OH.”
The flying tailgate will offer beer, food, and amenities the entire flight. The trip also covers the cost of a hotel for staying the night. If you are interesting in going on the flying tailgate, read more about signing up by clicking Here



