UCF SGA will be offering students a free election day shuttle which will take students to and from their polling locations around Central Florida.
Titled the “Red, White, and Blue Lines shuttle program,” the buses will transport students to the polls on election day, November 6th. Shuttles will pick up students behind the UCF Student Union, near Classroom Building 1, on election day.

Students who are unsure of their polling location can click here to find out.



On Tuesday, students experienced a sound cannon outside the Student Union.
Nicole Elinoff, president of NOW, projected her voice through a megaphone saying, “Protect privacy, protect women, vote no on Amendment 6”.
Group members of NOW UCF, VOX and SLAP broke off into separate groups forming a circle around Elinoff while creating a wave of voices shouting in unison the same message.
“We’re advocating for students to vote no on Amendment 6 because it would be very harmful for women, families, and a lot students don’t know what’s going on in their ballots, because a lot of the amendments are worded so sneakily, and we want to educate as many people as we can,” Elinoff said. She is also part of the Feminist Majority Foundation that helped coordinate Vote No On Amendment 6 efforts.
Amendment 6 is on the ballot this year and claims to address so-called taxpayer funding for abortions, despite the 1976 Hyde Amendment which limits funding to cases of rape, incest or life endangerment.
It also claims to restore parental rights, however Florida law already requires a parent to be notified 48 hours before performing the procedure on a minor. Former Governor Jeb Bush signed the law known as the Parental Notification law, SB 1908, in May 2005.
“I got a flyer earlier, and had no idea what Amendment 6 was, except what I learned in government, and I will definitely vote no on it because it’s not okay for government to control what women can and cannot do, especially with their own bodies,” said Alexis Plater, psychology major, regarding the sound cannon and the amendment.
The amendment would essentially allow politicians to decide what can, and cannot be covered by someone’s health plan.



UPDATE SAE’s presentation to comittee below:

The University of Central Florida is expanding its fraternity system, and two out of the four finalists hoping to come to UCF were kicked off campus following hazing allegations.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, the fraternity that used to own the house currently leased by Theta Chi, and Pi Kappa Phi, which had a house in Off Campus Greek Park, both are hoping to make their return to UCF after having been gone since the 2006-2007 academic year.
They are competing against Kappa Alpha Order and Chi Phi, fraternities who have not been at UCF in recent history, but are hoping to expand. KnightNews.com has learned only two of the four finalists are expected to get invited to colonize at UCF, the first would start in Spring 2013 and the other would start Spring 2014.
The expansion effort comes during an apparent unprecedented decline in recruitment numbers. Fraternities have declined to promptly report numbers to UCF’s Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life, according to that office. Before this year’s downturn, pledge numbers used to be reported immediately after rush.
“Only about 1/3 of the fraternities have turned in their numbers,” an OFSL spokesperson told KnightNews.com last month, in response to KnightNews.com’s annual request for that information. The numbers were not expected until December, although there was a chance they could be produced earlier, according to OFSL.
The information coming from OFSL saying very few fraternities turned in their numbers seemed to conflict with information KnightNews.com saw posted on OFSL announcements, but the OFSL spokesperson hasn’t yet responded to an email sent 13 days ago from KnightNews.com pointing that out. When KnightNews.com gets the numbers or a more complete explanation from OFSL about how it’s been unable to track numbers as it did in the past, we’ll post the update.
The fraternities hoping to colonize at UCF need to give a presentation to a UCF committee. On Nov. 1 Pi Kapp and Chi Phi gave their presentation. Tonight, Nov. 4, SAE and KA will give their presentations in the Kappa Alpha Theta house at 6 p.m. The meeting is open to the public, according to an email sent out by OFSL.
KnightNews.com will let you know which fraternities are selected to come to UCF and take a more in depth look at SAE and Pi Kapp, and the impact their departure from UCF had on the Greek Community. Check back for updates on this developing story.



An open forum will be held on Tuesday from 11:30 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. at the Key West Ballroom, Room 218 of the Student Union.
Hosting the event will  be UCF President John C. Hitt, Provost and Executive Vice President Tony Waldrop, Vice Presidents Maribeth Ehasz.
Also in attendance will be Al Harms (Strategy, Marketing, Communications & Admissions); Dan Holsenbeck (University Relations), and Bill Merck (Administration & Finance).
Students are welcome to attend the event and voice questions or concerns they might have.



