The UCF Interfraternity Council will be hosting their first Frats at Bat Philanthropy event on December 1 at the UCF intramural softball fields to raise money for Knight-thon and the Children’s Miracle Network.
“I hope the outcome turns out to be a great event that we can establish as our annual philanthropy and bring IFC together,” IFC President Mike Irene said.
Frats at Bat will consist of 15 fraternities and three rounds. The first round will have 15 fraternities, the second round will have eight fraternities, and the final round will have four fraternities.
“It’s IFC’s first philanthropy ever. After talking to a lot of my brothers and other people in Greek life we thought a homerun derby would work great. We decided on Knight-thon and the Children’s Miracle Network because we are a part of UCF and we wanted to put as much effort to support Knight-thon,” IFC philanthropy chair Bradley Thompson said.
Good Vibes Clothing, Home of the Sole, Evolve Group, Party Tutor and Citro will all be sponsoring the event this upcoming Saturday. There will be music by DJ Chizzle, a member of Sigma Chi fraternity.
“It’s awesome to be djing an event for such a positive cause. All of the proceeds go to knight-thon and the Children’s Miracle Network. This is a time where every fraternity comes together as one for an exciting, yet beneficial event. It should be a lot of fun with great music, food, and friends,” DJ Chizzle said.
Fifteen fraternities will be participating in the philanthropy event. Alpha Epsilon Pi, Beta Theta Pi, Delta Sigma Phi, Delta Upsilon, Kappa Sigma, Lambda Chi Alpha, Lambda Theta Phi, Phi Delta Theta, Fiji, Sigma Nu, Sigma Pi, Sigma Chi, Theta Chi, Tau Kappa Epsilon and Zeta Beta Tau have all selected one brother to participate.
“I think that it’ll turn out great for being IFC’s first ever philanthropy and has the potential over the years to be one of the best philanthropies for UCF and Knight-thon the school has seen,” Thompson said.



With finals approaching, the use of Adderall/Vyvanse and other study oriented drugs is on the rise.
According to U.S. National Library of Medicine, Adderall is described as, “The combination of dextroamphetamine and amphetamine is used as part of a treatment program to control symptoms of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD someone with more difficulty focusing, controlling actions, and remaining still or quiet than other people who are the same.”
For college students, Adderall may sound like an easy fix to being able to cram for the big final easier. One UCF student we talked to, who for good reason wanted their name redacted, told us, “It’s easy, you find someone with a prescription, take the pill, and you are focused all day.”
When we asked if that student noticed any immediate side effects from taking the drug the student told us, “I never noticed anything too bad, I was a bit jittery, but never anything dangerous.”
Investigating the matter more, we talked to a UCF Pharmacist who was very helpful in explaining the side effects of taking the drug. “It kind of gives a euphoric type of high, so that’s why it’s important this medication is not abused…it can increase heart rate and blood pressure which could potentially cause cardiac arrest. The risk of that happening is a lot lower, but the risk of the increased heart rate is a lot higher.”
For UCF student’s having trouble focusing, we talked to UCF student Jonathan Webster, who was prescribed Adderall for over ten years before he stopped taking the drug this year. “I found I just didn’t need the drug to help me through my daily activities, which is what it is supposed to do. I have to focus a little more when I study now, but being drug free is better.”
Check the video below for the full story:




Over 850 million views later, “Gangnam Style” has become YouTube’s most watched video in history. It was only a matter of time before UCF students took it into their own hands to parody the video.

The video was created by The Asian Student Association to showcase at UCF’s 8th Annual Tour of Asia event, according to a description listed on the video page. The parody features various locations around the UCF campus along with English lyrics, though not necessarily always making sense. 
We must warn, however, the lyrics may not be completely safe for work.
Check out the video above for yourself and see what you think.




A video that was posted a year ago today is making rounds across the internet after a UCF student stripped to near-nakedness in response to a preacher’s words about the “sins of sexuality.”

The student, Austin Cooper, apparently disagreed with Micah Armstrong, a campus sidewalk preacher, enough to remove his clothing as a way of displaying his disdain and a method of taunting the speaker. 
“This is why there are so many lesbians on the campus,” Armstrong said to a crowd of laughing spectators.
The video is making its way around following a recent visit by Brother Jed to the UCF campus. Jed is a Evangelical speaker who tours college campuses around the nation teaching “Sex Ed with Brother Jed,” among other things, along with his wife Sister Cindy.
To see Jed on campus, click here.



