A few weeks ago, Knightnews.com broke a story about the UCF Math Assistance and Learning Lab (or MALL) and their new policy regarding longboard storage. In the article, it was clear that students are very disappointed in the new MALL rule, which requires students to leave their expensive longboards in the hallway unattended while using the lab. In fact, we have gotten reports that multiple longboards have been stolen since the new policy has been created. If you haven’t seen the article, you can read it here:
http://knightnews.com/2012/01/ucf-math-lab-bans-longboard-storage-students-upset/
Since then, Knightnews.com has gone to other areas on campus to see if the policy is gaining attention, and it is. Longboarding students campus wide seem to be aware of the new rule and aren’t too happy with it. It has been rumored that petitions will start spreading campus-wide. UCF student Matt Solletti finds the issue frustrating.
“I feel like this shouldn’t even be an issue, the longboards never distracted anyone, and all it’s doing is causing controversy,” Solletti said.
Also, other computer labs and facilities similar to the MALL have yet to see a problem with storing longboards inside their rooms. The UCF math lab, located in the same building as the MALL allows students to keep their boards against the wall or on the floor. The computer lab in classroom building one holds the same policy.
As for SGA, there are no updates on whether or not they will fund the construction of a locking board holder yet.
As of now the longboard dilemma is still unsolved, Knightnews.com keep you posted if any progress is made.



Rise Against’s Spring 2012 tour made a stop here, at the UCF Arena, January 21, bringing along with them A Day to Remember and the Menzingers.
Rise Against, a punk band formed in Chicago, began achieving mainstream success as early as 2004, and have released 3 albums that went gold in the United States, and platinum in Canada. The band is known for being extremely politically active, supporting animal rights, and for being both straightedge and vegan.
 The show opened with the Menzingers, a punk rock band based out of Philadelphia, before A Day to Remember took the stage, bringing with them props galore. Besides opening up with strobe lights and smoke plums for their hit, “The Down Fall of Us All,” they brought with them plenty of toilet paper to us as streamers, beach balls, T-shirt guns, and hundreds of balloons. The highlight of ADTR’s prop use, however, was the giant, clear plastic ball that lead singer Jeremy McKinnon climbed into. He then ran over the crowd, at one point even flipping within the ball. The band brought with them some serious messages about doing what you want to with your life, but also encouraged concert goers to have fun, at one point requesting audience members to ‘crowd surf on someone crowd surfing.’
After leaving the stage, vertical screens were revealed to set the stage for Rise Against. These screens aired powerful images throughout the performance, helping to convey the often heavy lyrics to some of their hit songs, such as “Survivor Guilt,” “Collapse (Post-Amerika),” and “Make It Stop (September’s Children).” 



Greek Week: the one week of the year where all of Greek Life gets together for a week of fun, scholarship, service, and leadership. This year, Greek Week will take place March 24th until April 1st. It is Disney Themed with the slogan as, “The Happiest Greek Week on Earth”.
The pairings are as follows:
Team 1: Alpha Delta Pi, Theta Chi, Zeta Phi Beta
Team 2: Alpha Epsilon Phi, Alpha Phi Alpha, Alpha Tau Omega, Lambda Sigma Upsilon
Team 3: Alpha Xi Delta, Sigma Lambda Gamma, Zeta Beta Tau
Team 4: Chi Omega, Delta Phi Lambda, Phi Delta Theta
Team 5: Beta Theta Pi, Delta Delta Delta, Pi Delta Phi, Sigma Gamma Rho, Sigma Nu
Team 6: Alpha Epsilon Pi, Delta Sigma Theta, Delta Zeta, Phi Gamma Delta
Team 7: Kappa Alpha Theta, Lambda Chi Alpha, Mu Sigma Upsilon
Team 8: Alpha Kappa Alpha, Kappa Delta, Sigma Pi, Tau Kappa Epsilon
Team 9: Delta Lambda Phi, Kappa Kappa Gamma, Lambda Theta Alpha, Sigma Chi
Team 10: Delta Epsilon Phi, Delta Upsilon, Lambda Theta Phi, Pi Beta Phi, Phi Beta Sigma
Team 11: Chi Upsilon Sigma, Delta Sigma Phi, Delta Tau Delta, Zeta Tau Alpha
 



