Mitt Romney has won the Florida GOP Primary, followed by Newt Gingrich in second, Santorum in third, and Paul finishing last.
Florida is the biggest electorate yet, with winner-take-all in delegates. Thus far in the race, Romney has more than three times the amount of delegates than any other candidate. Fortunately for Romney’s opponents, there are still 95 percent of the delegates to be given out.
Newt Gingrich is here tonight in Orlando at the Rosen hotel hosting a primary results party. Newt Spoke in front of an optimistic crowd all holding up signs saying “46 More States”.
Gingrich did not seemed phased by his second place finish, telling the crowd that it is a two-man race between him as the true Republican and Romney, who he called the Massachusetts moderate.
He ended his speech by reminding all of his supporters that this is the most important election of their lifetime.
Check out the video below for highlights from Newts speech here in Orlando.

 
Also check out some photos from the event!
 
 



University Centra Care Urgent Care is holding a Grand Opening event on Wednesday, February 1st at its new location on 11550 University Blvd.

In celebration, they are offering free healthcare screenings, free lunch, and tours of the new center from 11:00am-2:00pm.
The new health care center will be the closest off-site emergency health care center to campus. 
On top of treating non-life threatening illnesses, the center is also equipped with labs and x-rays.

View Larger Map
The center will accept all major credit cards, and operate Weekdays 9:00am to 9:00pm and Weekends 9:00am to 5:00pm.
Take note that the free screenings and lunch are on a first-come-first-serve basis, so make sure to get there quick!



UPDATE 4:00PM: The victim in this case has been identified as Frank Morse Perry, W/M,
DOB: 03/26/90.
Update:At about 9:00 am, the Orange County Sheriff’s Office received a 911 call of a man down at the Arbour Apartments. Deputies responded to the complex and located a black male deceased in a parked vehicle in the complex. The individual sustained an apparent gunshot wound.
KnightNews.com will update the story when we learn more information.
Original Story:A man’s dead body was found in a UCF-area apartment parking lot Tuesday, the Orange County Sheriff’s Office told WFTV.
The man’s body had at least one gunshot wound, and was found in a car at the Arbour Apartments complex parking lot, just south of the UCF campus, the station reports.
No other details, including the victim’s age or identity, were released.



A woman driving down Alafaya Trail around 1:30 a.m. smashed into an Orange County Sheriff’s patrol car and nearly hit deputies directing traffic near UCF, FHP troopers told ClickOrlando.com. 
The deputies had to jump out of the way when they heard screeching tires barreling toward them. 
“It was a very close call,” Trooper Montague Haight told  ClickOrlando.com. “The officers would have been hit if they would not have been there and heard at the last second the squealing of the tires, they would have been hit by this car.” 
No one was injured in the accident, but the woman was given a ticket for careless driving, the website reported. 
Deputies were directing traffic at the time because of a water main break at Alafaya and Corporate. 



