If you ever asked yourself where the idea of equal rights stemmed from, and its relation to democracy in India, Indian author and historical anthropologist, Anupama Rao, addresses these questions.
“All modern society’s face this kind of dilemma, or dichotomy, which means protecting people’s individual rights on the one hand and having commitment to social responsibility, to also enhancing the rights of particularly culturally, marginalized groups,” Anupama Rao said.
Indian author Anupama Rao addressed caste, violence and democracy in a speech to 125 people in the Pegasus Ballroom in the Student Union on Thursday, Sept 13.
India is the largest democracy that views cultural rights, individual rights, and group rights differently than what we see in the United States because of a caste system that is central to affirmative policies.
“The idea of equal citizenship was always constrained by the practice and experience of inequality, this is another dilemma that you have the idea of equal citizenship but is constantly confronting historical practices and experiences of inequality,” Rao said.
Her speech, “India and the Caste Question”, was sponsored by the UCF Global Perspectives Office.
Rao’s academic background is in anthropology and history, and she is an associate professor of South Asian history at Barnard College, Columbia University. She has served as president of the Society for the Advancement of the History of South Asia. Currently, Rao is working on a project titled Dalit Bombay, which focuses on the relationship between caste, political culture and everyday life in colonial and postcolonial Bombay.
Rao said she tells her students that India’s affirmative action regime, dating back to the 1880s, in which “princely states in southern India used the argument that proportionally representation to provide jobs and education to lower castes had been excluded by the British Bureaucracy”.
India tried different methods to manage the country’s complex and repeating forms of diversity by presenting the idea of equality through multifaceted multi-religious, multi-ethnic and deeply hierarchical social order. In other words, producing social revolution through legal means.
India has a large demographic of lower castes and dalits, or ex untouchables in which they have been challenging the control of schools, jobs, government and representation of media by the social elite and upper caste.
“In order to understand Indian democracy, you have to understand the caste. The caste has been central to the way that Indian democracy has worked, caste has been central to the way that people have tried to produce democracy in India,” Rao said.
Ghandi believed reform required the repent of Hindus against such caste systems, not through political solutions, stating that the practice of untouchability dehumanizes those who practice it, not the individual who endures it. .
“Effort to give the untouchables separate representation in 1932, failed because of the spectacular fast into death undertaken by Ghandi which became a global issue, and everyone, of course, wanted to make sure that Ghandi does not die,” Rao said.
This was opposite to B.R. Ambedkar, one of India’s most radical thinkers, and also an ex untouchable, or dalit, India’s first law minister and chairman of drafting committee of India’s consitution. Anti-caste radicals, the tradition that Ambadker came from, were inspired from new world struggles against racial servitudes.
“Anti-caste radicals draw typologies of race, and argue that the relation between upper castes and lower castes was like a racial conflict between black and white,” Rao said
The language of slavery was also used to describe sexual subjugation, and Ambadker compared life on African American plantations to the caste system. History of emancipation in the Americas gave multi-caste and anti-caste radicals a different approach to the Hindu upper caste cultural nationalism.
“These were global thinkers and global people who may have not traveled physically but they did indeed travel in their thought very widely,” Rao said.
The dalit approach was to take the practice of untouchability outside of religion and into social and political inequality. Unlike Ghandi, activists demanded access to public institutions, such as hotels, schools, water tanks and temples. Arguing that public property enabled these rights, regardless of caste system.
Dalits who participated in protests, would return home to find their huts burned or boycotts on their entire community for participating in acts of protests.
“The activism around public facilities, which is very much like the activism in the United States with access to public sources and government property, shouldn’t obscure the very sophisticated ways in which dalits addressed inequality within religion itself,” Rao said.
Dalits, between 1928 and 1935, began to enter temples claiming that temples were like any other public space they had access to, disregarding the inequality of religious practices. Questioning their own validity as Hindus, since they had been barred from worshipping in temples. Temple entry was an act to make individuals aware of the inequality.
However, colonial law maintained that Hindu temples were private property and were therefore allowed to practice caste segregation.
“Should remind many of us about the history of race, and racial exclusion in the United states, and the way that the legal conversations around important cases around U.S civil rights were perceived in the very same manner in which was happening in India,” Rao said.
Ambedker had written that political democracy cannot last unless there is social democracy.
In 1956, half a million people, along with Ambedker, arrived in Nagpur, clean and dressed in white to symbolize rebirth as they rejected Hinduism and converted to Buddhism.
Rao suggested, that like the United States, the history of inequality in India has produced a story of democracy.
The model of affirmative action in India is distinctive, because the policies are addressed to a majority who has suffered inequality, and the untouchables were also written into the constitution as persons requiring special rights.
According to Rao, “this produces a very different understanding of the relationship between individual rights and group rights, and produces a different model of how society thinks about the project of responding to inequality. This in a sense has been the history of the relationship between caste and democracy”



Coming off a a 16-31 loss to the #12 Ohio State Buckeyes(2-0), the Knights(1-1) are looking to shake off the early season loss, and win their first home game of the season against FIU(1-1) which will be played at Brighthouse Stadium at 4pm on Saturday.
Last season, the Knights were caught off guard by the FIU Panthers in Miami, where two costly fumbles put the dagger in the Knights promising season.
This season, however, the Knights have an entirely new look. The man who was once behind center, Jeff Godfrey, is now lining up in a wide receiver slot, as Blake Bortles has taken the reigns at quarterback. Bortles, who threw three costly interceptions that seemed to change the momentum in the Ohio State, will need to move forward as he gets to start for the first time at Brighthouse Networks Stadium.
The Knights have had lots hype surrounding their program this season, as they were picked as the favorites to win the C-USA East Division receiving 13 out of 15 votes for first place. This game is no exception, UCF fans are looking for a big win tomorrow.
Scouting Report UCF:
Bortles will need to regain his swagger against FIU if the Knights want to win this one. After throwing three interceptions and being noticeably shaken up about it after the Ohio State game, Bortles is in a great position to restore his confidence. A solid first quarter touchdown pass in front of a huge cheering crowd and against a defense that has given up over 600 pass yards in two games should have Bortles back into prime form.
UCF star running back Latavius Murray will be inactive for his second straight game. Coach George O’Leary told the Orlando Sentinel, ” “He’s out…He’s not in this game plan and is week-to-week.”
The loss of Murray is substantial, but from a glass half-full perspective, running back is the Knight’s deepest position. Miami transfer Storm Johnson has transitioned nicely putting up quality numbers in both the Akron and Ohio State game. Behind Johnson, veteran running back Brynn Harvey will provide stability to the rushing attack with freshman Cedric Thompson rounding out the rotation. Look for Johnson and Harvey to share carries, with Harvey used primarily as a short yardage back.
The Knights defense shouldn’t be anything to be worried about, but if they can stay level-headed and not allow the Panthers to capitalize on mistakes, they should have no problem containing the FIU offense.
Scouting Report FIU:
Miami Herald sources report that senior linebacker Alex Robinson could be out for the game. This could be big, a defensive leader for the Panthers out of the game could open up lots of opportunities for UCF to score.
Redshirt sophomore quarterback Jake Medlock will start for the Panthers as they hope for the spread offense to work against the UCF defense. Medlock has been quite impressive this season, as he has thrown for 557 yard and three touchdowns(0 INTS) in two games.
The FIU defense gave up 46 points against Duke and 38 points against Akron. The FIU defense will need to improve exponentially in order to keep in close with UCF.
Final thoughts:
-Some would consider the Ohio State game a “moral victory”, but moral victories are still loses. UCF needs to set the tone early in order to keep this season’s high expectations alive.
-If Bortles can shake off the interceptions from the Ohio State loss, look for him to have a career day against the sub-par FIU defense.
-The student ticket demand was near an all-time high for this game, look for the FIU offense struggle to hear play calls. The FIU stadium had a home attendance of roughly 15,000 versus Akron. A 50,000 person Brighthouse Stadium with aluminum bleachers will sure to cause trouble for the FIU offense.
Final score:
Despite the Ohio State loss, overall the Knights have looked poised for a great season in their two away games. A struggling FIU defense, the first home game of the season, and FIU missing a piece of their defense will allow UCF to dominate the game. The UCF Knights will win this one with ease. UCF Knights 42, FIU Panthers 14. 
 



UCF is on alert this afternoon following threats to threats at two university campuses in other parts of the country, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
The Sentinel reports that bomb threats at universities in Texas and in North Dakota prompted evacuations. At the University of Texas at Austin, one man even claimed to be a member of al-Qaeda when making the threats, according to the paper. 
UCF Spokesperson Chad Binette said UCF has not received any type of threat however, the University is monitoring the situation at the University of Texas at Austin and North Dakota State University.
We will continue to monitor these reports as well. Check back for further updates.



