KnightNews.com has learned UCF will be conducting a test of its UCF Alert emergency systems today. You may have already heard UCF sirens at noon. You can expect more testing today. Check out the information UCF posted on its information page today:
UCF’s preparations for potential emergency situations include regular tests of communication tools that provide critical information to students, staff and faculty members, family members and the public.
Several of those UCF Alert communication tools will be tested on Thursday, Feb. 16.
Outdoor sirens, which emit a tone followed by voice instructions, will be tested at noon.
A test emergency text message and e-mail will be sent at about 1 p.m. Messages should be received by all students and staff and faculty members who have updated cell phone information on file through the MyUCF Web site and who have not opted out of receiving emergency messages.
Updates can be made through the following steps after signing on to the MyUCF site.
Students: Click on Student Self Service, then Personal Information and then Phone Numbers.
Faculty and Staff: Click on Employee Self Service, then Personal Information and then Phone Numbers.
The university’s main Web site, www.ucf.edu, will be replaced beginning at 1 p.m. with a text-only version that will be the primary source of information during an emergency. Users are encouraged to bookmark other university Web pages that they may need in advance of the test, which will last no more than one hour.
UCF has provided on-campus resident assistants and many campus personnel who assist with emergency responses with HEARO emergency radios. Radios, which also are in key campus buildings such as the Student Union, will be tested at 2 p.m.
More than 30 UCF buildings are equipped with indoor notification systemsthat emit tones followed by voice instructions during emergencies. Those systems will be tested briefly between 3 and 3:30 p.m. The tests in each building will last no more than a couple of minutes.
WUCF-89.9 FM will conduct a test of its emergency broadcast capabilities at 4 p.m.
UCF’s Twitter and Facebook pages, which serve as additional methods of notification, will be updated with information about the tests.
Visit the UCF Alert Web site for more information on the communication system that helps to keep the campus safe and informed during emergencies



All-you-can-eat pancakes and bacon is back again at the Tri-Delt sorority house on Greek Row.
On Thursday, February 16th from 5p.m. to 9p.m. the Delta Delta Delta sorority here at UCF will be holding their annual house of pancakes fundraiser, with all proceeds going towards the St.Jude Children’s Research Hospital.
Delta Delta Delta is welcoming people of all ages, with tickets being sold for 7 dollars at the door.
Following their house of pancakes, the sorority is also teaming up with the Tau Kappa Epsilon fraternity on February 18th for the inaugural Hoops for Hope Fundraiser which will take place at the UCF Recreation and Wellness Center.
Knightnews.com will be at the Tri-Delt House of Pancakes to see how the philanthropy turned out.
 



As the controversy around Florida State University’s Student Government Association continues to capture attention across the state, we’re learning more details about the meeting where FSU’s incumbent Ignite party was found in violation. 
The entire FSU Election Commission ruling has been released. In the ruling, it talks about SGA insiders getting tax-free campaign material, while their competition was unable to do so. 
Meanwhile, all eyes are turning to the FSU Supreme Court, which is expected to receive appeals against the EC ruling. According to the Progress Coalition Facebook page, “our understanding is that the SC has to convene within 48 hours of an appeal.” 
Once KnightNews.com hears of an official appeal or Supreme Court meeting, we’ll let you know. 
We’ve also obtained pictures of the packed EC meeting. You can see a slideshow of the pictures by clicking next page.
Click to see slideshow of meeting



