In a do-or-die week for many fantasy teams trying to make the playoffs, we saw abysmal play from the league’s three so-called ’elite’ quarterbacks. Drew Brees, Tom Brady, and Aaron Rodgers combined for 7 interceptions and just 2 touchdowns this week. Meanwhile, rookies Russell Wilson and Andrew Luck both led their teams to impressive come-from-behind victories in the 4th quarter. Week 14 is the beginning of the playoffs for most teams, and if you need a replacement for an injured starter, these players might help you win your matchup.
Last Week’s Picks:
Colin Kaepernick, 49ers- 14 points
Although Kaepernick probably lost the game for the 49ers this week, Coach Harbaugh announced Monday that he will remain the starter. Even after a terrible game, he still finished with more points than Brady or Brees this week, because of his running abilities.
Knowshon Moreno, Broncos- 7 points
He carried the ball 20 times for only 69 yards against the Bucs, but he got the majority of touches at running back for the Broncos and is still worth starting. He should put up better numbers this week against a weak Raiders run defense, and is definitely still worth starting.
Beanie Wells, Cardinals- 2 points
It doesn’t get much worse than 15 carries for 22 yards. He’s still worth keeping on your roster, in case you lose a starting running back, but don’t bother starting him unless you need to.
Michael Bush, Bears- 3 points
Matt Forte was still able to start, despite injury, leaving Bush in a limited role. He’s worth stashing on your bench if you have room still.
Danario Alexander, Chargers- 10 points
DX led all Chargers receivers with 6 catches for 106 yards, like he has since being signed with the team. Keep an eye on Vincent Brown, who could steal targets if he returns this season. Keep him in your lineup for now.
Mohamad Sanu, Bengals- 0 points
He injured his foot in practice, and is out for the season.
Jets D/ST- 11 points
Cardinals D/ST- 18 points
This Week’s Pickups:
Quarterbacks:
Russell Wilson, Seahawks (17% owned)
The guy named after 2 budget-priced athletic wear brands is really silencing critics after a slow start to the season. He’s actually the only quarterback with at least 15 points in his last 5 starts. I still wouldn’t bench Brady, Brees, or Rodgers for him, but he has a couple great matchups coming up against the Cardinals, Bills, and Rams if you’re in need of a quarterback.
Tim Tebow, Jets (10% owned)
After the benching of Mark Sanchez last week, Rex Ryan refused to name a starting quarterback for the Jets for Week 14. This is something to keep an eye on because Tebow puts up a lot of fantasy points with his legs. My best guess is that McIlroy will probably get the start. This is a huge longshot, so only pick him up if you really have an extra spot.
Running Backs:
Montell Owens, Jaguars (0% owned)
Owens carried the load for Jacksonville after starting running back Rashad Jennings, who had 8 carries for 20 yards, left the game with a concussion. Owens finished with a slightly better stat line- 7 carries for 29 yards. He’s in line to get the start at home this week vs. the Jets if Jennings can’t pass his concussion tests, and if Maurice Jones-Drew is unable to play yet again. Montell is owned in less leagues than Terrell Owens (0.2%), who was cut by the Seahawks preseason.
Justin Forsett, Texans (1% owned)
Forsett got the same number of touches as Foster (14) against the Titans Sunday, and many of them were in the first half. Could the 11-1 Texans be resting their superstar for the playoffs? This is definitely something to keep an eye on.
Wide Receiver:
Chris Givens, Rams (3% owned)
I actually picked him up Sunday morning, put him in my lineup, and then dropped him for some Vikings guy that only scored one point. Always follow your gut instinct!
Golden Tate, Seahawks (10% owned)
The Notre Dame alumnus has 4 touchdowns in his last 4 games, and at least fantasy 15 points in 3 of those games. With Russell Wilson getting better every week at quarterback, the Seahawks receivers are definitely increasing in value.
Tight End:
Brandon Myers, Raiders (22% owned)
Any tight end with 14 catches for 130 yards and a touchdown needs to be owned and started in every league. Especially because he has 5 touchdowns in his last 5 games. And take a look at his remaining schedule: Broncos, Chiefs, Panthers, Chargers. Carson Palmer will be throwing a lot, and he seems to like Myers as his favorite target.
Dallas Clark, Bucs (5% owned)
He’s scored a touchdown in 3 of his last 4 games, and the game he didn’t score he had 68 yards receiving. If you’re in a squeeze for a tight end, he’s not a bad pickup.
Defense:
Chargers (29% owned), vs. Steelers
If Big Ben is still out, you have to like the Chargers D here. Last time they played against a backup quarterback, it was the Chiefs on a Thursday night, and they scored 26.
Dolphins (16% owned) vs. 49ers
The Dolphins held Tom Brady to just one touchdown last week. This is Thomas Brady we’re talking about here, not Mark Sanchez. They should do well against rookie Colin Kaepernick this week.
Other Notes:
LeSean McCoy is in stage 3 out of 4 in his recovery from a Week 11 concussion. Bryce Brown remains a top 10 running back play in McCoy’s absence, so owners of both players should keep an eye on the news.
Lions WR Ryan Broyles is out for the season with a torn ACL. This could mean an increased role for newly acquired WR Mike Thomas, or perhaps an unbenching of Titus Young. Lions WR Calvin Johnson is also on pace to break Jerry Rice’s record for receiving yards in a season, and has 140+ yards receiving in his last 4 games. I guess there’s no Madden curse after all.
Andy Reid announced Monday that the Eagles will stick with QB Nick Foles for the remainder of the season, so it’s safe to drop Michael Vick.



The Wave is 2008 German film directed by Dennis Gansel and starring Jürgen Vogel, Frederick Lau, Jennifer Ulrich and Max Riemelt in the leads. It is based on Ron Jones‘ social experiment The Third Wave.
The Wave is an eye opening movie that teaches the world a great lesson. The movie takes place in modern day Germany and is based off a true story. A teacher (Reiner) at a high school originally wants to teach an anarchy class during project week. He is influential and popular among the students and an anarchist himself. Instead of anarchy he ends up teaching the autocracy class which is slightly less popular because all the German students are fed up with hearing about dictatorships because of what Hitler did and claim that it could never happen in Germany again.
Due to the students claim, Reiner decides to run an experiment on the class, turning the class room into a mini dictatorship with the main message being unity is power. The first thing Reiner implements is discipline; he tells students they have to sit with perfect posture and stand up to speak. Next, he changed the seating arrangement so that all the people with bad grades sat next to the people with good grades and told them to help each other. He also has students march in unity in order to bother the anarchy class and make their class seem cooler.
After adding these benefits to the class room, the class grew more popular and more students wanted to join. Now that students liked the class they could be influenced more. The teacher then implements uniforms, a logo, and even a hand gesture to symbolize a wave motion. As the unity of the class grows it starts effecting the student’s and teacher’s outside lives by ruining relationships and starting fights. Some people in the class really start taking to the class while others that didn’t want to wear the uniform or weren’t in the class are being ostracized.
Finally, things start getting really out of hand when Reiner calls a meeting at the auditorium claiming that the Wave will roll over Germany and take over the world. During his speech Reiner starts to understand that things are going to far and calls off the Wave and thats when tragedy strikes and the students realize they became the monsters they said they never would.
To read about the experiment click here.



UCF President John C. Hitt and SGA President Cortez Whatley, along with presidents from other Florida universities, will meet for a conference in Tallahassee on Wednesday to propose a plan for Florida lawmakers about funding higher education in the upcoming session
During last week’s SGA Senate meeting, Whatley announced that the State University System would not be increasing tuition. 
Presidents from various colleges around Florida planning to attend the event include: Eric Barron (FSU), Judy Bense (UWF), John Delaney (UNF), Judy Genshaft (USF), John Hitt (UCF),  Bernie Machen (UF),  Donal O’Shea (New College), Larry Robinson (FAMU) and student leaders from across the State University System
UCF’s tuition was raised the maximum 15% this past year after Whatley voted for the hike. He claimed that the tuition increase was necessary to retain certain majors and classes after a $50 million budget cut to the school. Questions arose surrounding UCF’s large financial reserves  as well as recent raises for the UCF President.
It appears now that the Florida University system is teaming up to support funding for higher education and stop the massive budget cuts the state is relaying onto the universities. Exactly how they propose to do this, however, remains uncertain at this time.
The conference is scheduled for Wednesday at 10 a.m. Check back for updates following the event.



Stereo IQ is a crowd-sourced lyrics website set to be released soon, and is poised to be the standard for lyrics in pop and rock music.
Alex Koenig, one of its two founders, is a senior studying journalism at the University of Central Florida, with a minor in creative writing. Stereo IQ’s Facebook page boasts more than 3,700 likes, and although the site is not ready yet, it’s already building a following. Stereo IQ’s Twitter page has over 2,000 followers, and its profile describes it as “rapgenius.com – except we explain the lyrics of rock ‘n’ roll and pop music.”
Rap Genius was started in October of 2009 by three Yale graduates, with the purpose of critiquing rap as poetry and explaining its lyrics. Instead of their team doing the lyric explanations however, they created a formula similar to that of Wikipedia’s, whereas any user with an account could explain a line.
This crowd sourced model proved to be an innovation in the right direction for a lyrics website, and Rap Genius has earned over 10 million unique visitors per month.
For every explanation that gets good ratings from peers and editors, users get points added to their “Rap IQ.” Rap Genius is already considered the authority by avid hip hop listeners. Cesar Martinez, a junior studying business at Florida International University, is a hip hop aficionado who regularly checks out the lyrics of his favorite artists, including Kendrick Lamar and Curren$y.
“Rap songs are difficult to understand sometimes, and this Wikipedia model has really proven itself, I’m looking forward to Stereo IQ covering every genre,” Martinez said.
Alex Koenig, along with Tomi Fischer, began to build up the rock and pop database on Rap Genius in April of 2012, and have a system in place so that they will be able to transfer the lyrics to their new website when it is ready.
Andreessen Horowitz, a venture capital firm based in California, announced it will invest $15 million in Rap Genius, a landmark investment in the future of crowd sourced lyrics. A portion of the investment will be granted to Stereo IQ.
“They wanted to turn Rap Genius into the ‘Internet Talmud,’ and to do that they obviously want to do more than just hip hop, so some of that money is going toward Stereo IQ,” Koenig said.
Rap Genius has 56 moderators, about 500 editors, and has had over 250,000 people submit explanations. Stereo IQ currently has only 60 consistent editors.
Nonetheless they produce a large volume of content consistently.
“We try to bring something different to the music game by offering different features centered on lyrics as opposed to just music, so we’re trying to distinguish ourselves in that sense,” Koenig said.
Stereo IQ’s content is not limited to lyric explanations however, which captured the attention of the “internet newspaper” the Huffington Post. The Huffington Post now hosts a blog for Stereo IQ, where they post guides to albums, editorial pieces, top lyrics of the week, interviews, amongst other things. Stereo IQ’s reach through the Huffington
Post, Twitter, Facebook, and Rap Genius is wide, all in anticipation of the site’s launch. Another site like Stereo IQ will be released soon as well, but dedicated to poetry, calling itself Poetry Brain. Users on Rap Genius have already expressed support for Stereo IQ and Poetry Brain, and have begun to contribute even before the sites are released.
Rap Genius has a signature venn diagram, with its logo sitting in the middle of three circles labeled rap lyrics, Wikipedia, and Urban Dictionary. Urban Dictionary is a massively popular website dedicated to defining terms unique to the modern era, and has become a reliable resource for street slang.
Stereo IQ’s venn diagram has a silver Q sitting in the middle three circles labeled sex, drugs, and rock ‘n roll.



A speaker hosted at UCF continues to cause student uproar over the comments he made about the Jewish state of Israel and its people.
On Nov. 17, the Ahlul-Bayt Islamic Society invited Sheikh Jaffer Ladak to UCF to speak on Islam and Anthropology, however, he was caught on camera saying, what appears to be, anti-semitic comments made about Jewish people–relating them to Neanderthals and people from Mars. 
“The Ahlul Bayt Society is committed to freedom of thought, speech and robust discussion,” the Ahlul Bayt organization told KnightNews.com. “The views of the speaker are not necessarily reflective of our views, and we find the comments in question to be in poor taste, yet we enshrine the constitutionally protected right to freedom of expression.”
The group also told us ” We believe his [Sheikh Jaffar Ladak] comments were taken out of context by an individual who has a history of misconstruing the views of Muslims, on and off campus.”
Students have asked UCF to get involved and take appropriate actions towards the group. Many just wish to get more information from the group and UCF as to why this speaker was allowed to speak at UCF and why no student or faculty member stood up to the anti-semetic remarks.
Grant Heston, UCF’s Associate Vice President of Communications & Public Affairs gave us UCF’s view of the situation as it stands.
“It is important to know that a student group’s invitation to a speaker does not mean the university endorses the speaker’s background or comments,” Heston said. “Rather, it means the university supports students’ rights to free speech and an open exchange of ideas.”
The speaker was not invited by UCF nor paid for by SGA. As a registered student organization the SGA President has the ability to dissolve any organization on campus with his signature, however, has not decided to do so, fearing bringing SGA and UCF into a controversy with free speech rights and a possible lawsuit, according to SGA sources familiar with the situation.
The Ahlul Bayt Society has told us they seek the full audio and visual recording from the person who uploaded the video, which appears to be a member of The United West organization. KnightNews.com asked for the full video previously, but was denied the request. 




