It was a great night for dancing and raising money for the American Cancer Association. Over $5000 was donated to the American Cancer Association thanks to Beta Theta Pi and all the fraternities and sororities who participated.
Like us to get UCF news like this on your facebook feed!
RESULTS:
1st Place Overall: Chi Omega
Top 3
1st Place: Zeta Tau Alpha
2nd Place: Pi Beta Phi
3rd Place: Delta Zeta
SIGN UP TO WIN THE NEW IPAD – ONE OF OUR LUCKY READERS WILL!
Non-Greek Groups
1st Place: Rukus
2nd Place: Dweebs
3rd Place:The Crew
Check out the videos below of each dance group.
Five Guys

SIGN UP TO WIN THE NEW IPAD – ONE OF OUR LUCKY READERS WILL!
Chi Omega

Alpha Epsilon Phi

Click next to see more videos!



Beta’s Best Dance Crew, hosted by the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity, is tonight at the UCF Venue. The event raises money for the American Cancer Association.
We have LIVE video coverage of the event starting at 8 p.m. 
Check back soon for high quality replays of every act!




Wednesday afternoon the Interfraternity Council delegates met to discuss possibly ending a tent rush at Memory Mall, which UCF fraternities have had since last spring.
The fraternity delegates and IFC Executive board did not come to a consensus on the matter, but two different ideas arose, that will be voted on next Wednesday, March 28th.
Matt Zimmerman, the VP of Recruitment for IFC and brother of Delta Upsilon told Knightnews.com, “We are trying to have all of the fraternities move from having two main periods during the year to get their new members and recruit 365 days a year.” He went on to say, “It is something that has been talked about for a while, but always pushed aside. I believe it would be best for all 18 fraternities if we didn’t set up a formal recruitment for them like we have in the past.”
The matter was debated by Delta Tau Delta delegate Chris Boley who said, “It seems like you guys don’t think we’re recruiting 365 days a year, but we are. We are not using tent rush as a crutch, most freshman don’t have cars, so it is for their benefit not ours.”
Without a tent rush, fraternities would have individual events all week instead of having any type of unified tent rush where all the fraternities are recruiting next to each other.
Phi Delta Theta president Tal Wollschlaeger voiced his opinion by bringing up an idea of moving tent rush back to Lake Claire, and having the four on campus fraternity houses rush out of their houses. He said, ” If you want to get rid of tent rush then bring us Greek Park 2″, he added, “UCF is not FSU, UF, or Alabama. When there is only four Greek Fraternity houses on campus, in order to have a successful rush, tent rush needs to stay until there is a real alternative.”
Knightnews.com will be there at the next meeting to update you with the outcome.
 



The 3rd Annual Undie Classic will take place this Friday, March 23 at 6 P.M starting at Lake Claire.
The event, which involves running around campus in your underwear, raises money for Goodwill of Central Florida. The event has donated over 3,500 lbs of clothing in previous years and there are hopes this year to break that record.
The run will be about one mile long and take participants all around campus including through Greek Park, the Student Union and the Reflection Pond.
Stations will be set up around the campus to keep runners engaged and having fun.
Sigma Nu, who is hosting the event, will take clothing donations outside of the Student Union up until the event.
For more information about the event, visit 
http://theundieclassic.com/
Check out a previous Undie Classic below:




UMF Films, in association with Final Kid, will premiere “CAN U FEEL IT – The UMF Experience,” a documentary depicting the 2011 Ultra Music Festival, in anticipation for the 14th Annual Ultra Music Festival, taking place this weekend in Miami.
Shot in full HD and narrated by those responsible for the evolution of UMF and this global phenomenon, “CAN U FEEL IT’ will take you inside the festival, including interviews from its most successful pioneers — Tiesto, David Guetta, Carl Cox, Afrojack, Fedde Le Grand and Boys Noize—as well as exclusive red carpet footage from its premiere and surprise DJ sets.
Screening for one night only, Thursday, March 22, “CAN U FEEL IT” can be seen in more than 500 theaters across the U.S. and various theaters in the Orlando




Recently, an FAU student was caught on camera attacking students and faculty in class after a simple lecture on evolution turned ugly.
FAU Outburst Youtube Image
The student is heard threatening the life of the professor and the rest of the class.  According to FAU’s paper, University Press, an FAU technician finally told the female student to get out. The student, which the FAU paper identified as Jonatha Carr, proceeded to attack the faculty member and other students. 
For the full story, check out the FAU paper’s article.
Watch the video of the student below:
WARNING: THIS VIDEO CONTAINS FOUL LANGUAGE, RACIAL SLURS AND VIOLENCE. PLEASE WATCH AT YOUR OWN DISCRETION.

Check out a second view here from another student phone:

Watch here what happened after class:




