READ FULL STORY ON JOE HORNSTEIN. 
We obtained this information from the Associate Vice President of UCF.
Joe Hornstein has been released from his duties as the Associate Athletics Director for Public Relations and Communications. We thank Joe for his dedicated service and many contributions to our program and wish him well in all future endeavors.
Until a replacement is hired and in place, Chad Binette (Associate Director, UCF News and Information) will serve as the Acting Athletics PR and Communications
Director — effective immediately and until further notice.
Chad has the university’s complete confidence in his new assignment.
Check back as we gather more details on this breaking news.



The FSU SGA elections scandal is headed to the university’s Supreme Court tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the FSU College of Law New Advocacy Center Main Courtroom.
[ Copy this | Start New | Full Size ]
The Progress Coalition has accused Ignite of failing to file proper campaign finance paperwork. Last week, the FSU Elections Commission agreed, finding Ignite in violation and disqualifying the ticket. Ignite is appealing that decision to the Supreme Court. 
However, the more controversial allegation made against Ignite is that the party used state resources in an attempt to secure campaign material tax-free. The Elections Commission didn’t uphold that accusation, so Progress Coalition is appealing that to the Supreme Court, hoping to get a conviction there too. 
KnightNews.com has reached out to the Ignite Party for comment over Facebook and email, but has not heard back. The FSU newspaper also had reported Ignite wasn’t available for comment in its coverage. An FSU alumnus did contact KnightNews.com, however, to defend Ignite. 
“Please do remember, however, that FSU Senators are not paid (though the Supervisor of Elections and Student Body President are) and that these students with Ignite are mostly volunteering their time and want to simply serve and learn,” the FSU SGA alumnus said. “I’d bet none of them will forget to file a financial disclosure document again. It may be difficult to see sometimes, but not everyone has an ulterior motive. Sometimes people really do just accidentally mess up paperwork.” 
The Progress Coalition, however, says the behavior is nothing new and has been happening since last year. A party official gave KnightNews.com a copy of receipts showing $0.00 in taxes for what he says is Ignite campaign material in 2011 and 2012.











“This is awful, and disgusts me as a student,” that official told KnightNews.com, regarding the evidence. 
KnightNews.com will be monitoring the meeting tonight and will update you with the outcome. 
On the next page you can find the accusations being made by the Progress Coalition in its press release:

“This is awful, and disgusts me as a student,” that official told KnightNews.com, regarding the evidence. 
KnightNews.com will be monitoring the meeting tonight and will update you with the outcome. 
On the next page you can find the accusations being made by the Progress Coalition in its press release:



The University of Central Florida is looking into a new campus location in China, according to Central Florida News 13.
Faculty members from UCF, led by Dr. Abe Pizam, dean of UCF’s Rosen College of Hospitality Management, are meeting in China this week to discuss details about opening a new campus on Hainan Island, China’s southernmost territory and only tropical island.
The campus would be set to host about 5,000 students with study topics focusing on the tourism industry and hospitality management.
The group is scheduled to return from China March 1st. Check back for further details regarding this proposed expansion!
 
 



