An attempt to showcase a gift from UCF received by Chicago Bear Brandon Marshall turned out to be a bit more graphic than was intended.
On Wednesday, UCF Alum and star football player Brandon Marshall received a gift from the UCF Athletics Department which included a shirt and pair of pants with the UCF logo on them. Marshall decided to tweet a photo to his followers to share his excitement in receiveing the gift.

“What a nice treat this morning waiting for me at my locker. What can it be?” Marshall posted on his twitter, @BMarshall.
Unsuspecting to both Marshall and the photographer, the background included the naked backside of a teammate who was getting changed in the background.
Click here to view the photo. (WARNING: VIEWER DISCRETION ADVISED)
After discovering the mistake, Marshall quickly took down the photo and issued an apology.
“Sorry about my guy in the back getting dressed in that photo.” Marshall tweeted.



The decision as to whether to raise UCF President John C. Hitt’s salary will be voted on today, Thursday Nov. 15, at the University of Central Florida Board of Trustees meeting. 
Expected to be in attendance will be Student Government President, Cortez Whatley, who serves as a member on the board. As such, Whatley will have a vote in determining whether Hitt should receive a base salary raise, which is expected to be around $26,000.
Whatley has taken flak over the past few months after he voted to raise student tuition the maximum amount possible earlier in the year.
Students argue that Hitt should not get a raise, especially in the wake of tuition hikes and budget cuts at UCF. One student expressed his opinion at a recent open forum, stating that Whatley, as someone who voted for tuition hikes, should vote “no” to the proposed salary raise.
“If he is going to sit there and vote to increase President Hitt’s salary that would be a slap in the face to the entire student body,” said Curtis Hierro, a graduate student at UCF.
But others, including UCF Vice President Bill Merck, say that Hitt deserves the salary increase because of his great efforts at UCF.
“You’ve got one of the top presidents in the country here at UCF, Dr. Hitt, I’ve not seen anybody that’s done a better job for their university than he has,” said Merck. 
The Orlando Sentinel reports that Hitt’s compensation for the 2011 fiscal year was $741,500, making him the 9th highest paid public college president in the country. The Board of Trustees will report on the assessment of the president’s performance and review his compensation at the meeting. They will then vote on whether to raise his salary.
KnightNews.com plans to send a crew to the meeting to cover the decision along with other topics being covered by the board.
Check back later for more.




Editorial:
When I took over as the News Editor for KnightNews.com I was excited at the possibilities I would have to better my campus. I also knew that there would be stories that would be tough to cover.
On Nov. 9, it happened. I received a report that an IFC fraternity was placed on “emergency suspension”. My stomach turned at the thought of what could have happened that prompted UCF to take such drastic action. In fact, one of the last times a UCF fraternity was placed under emergency suspension was when Sigma Alpha Epsilon was caught hazing their pledges red-handed by UCF Police. Following that, SAE was kicked off campus for four years.
Emergency suspensions are justified in a situation like SAE vs. in a situation like now, where they were caught red-handed, but it is unacceptable to take such extreme action based on just hearsay.
Alpha Tau Omega was placed on emergency suspension due to an anonymous e-mail sent to anti-hazing speaker David Stollman, claiming that “brothers were beating them while they had to recite their fraternity’s creed”. I was even more concerned when after this fraternity was placed under emergency suspension, there was no police action. Then it dawned on me, it was an anonymous e-mail, meaning anyone could have sent it, so the police didn’t have enough evidence or reasoning to investigate as they did in the SAE hazing scandal.
So why did UCF feel the need to place ATO on an “emergency suspension” without any concrete evidence or due process?
We don’t know the answer to that, but we do know that it was the longest emergency suspension they could enact on the organization. Ten business days before they have their first hearing on Nov.20. Ten business days for rumors to swirl, ten business days for allegations to be blown out of proportion, ultimately making the organization as a whole look bad.
Due to such a long suspension, Alpha Tau Omega may not be able to hold Rock the Wreath, one of the highest grossing and largest philanthropies at UCF. They have brought the likes of Shwayze, Big Sean, and Gym Class Heroes to our campus. In 2011, they raised over 11,000 dollars for the Children’s Miracle Network.
Instead of respecting the integrity of the organization, UCF is putting full force on ATO based off an anonymous tip.
We’ve seen this game all too many times within the past five years and quite frankly, I’m sick of it. Delta Upsilon had a phony “roofie” scandal that was blown out of proportion to the point that at the time, DU’s nationals gutted the chapter at the allegations.
Beta Theta Pi was accused of rape, one of the more serious crimes anyone can be convicted of. UCF again placed harsh punishment against them before any concrete evidence or due process, very similar to the ATO allegations we are dealing with now. Beta took legal action against UCF. The result? UCF backed down and settled the lawsuit by reducing Beta’s punishment before a real judge–one that is bound by the constitution–had a chance to throw out the conviction from UCF’s “Kangaroo Court”.
See a trend?
These heinous accusations are being made against these fraternities almost on a yearly basis, and accusations is all they are. It is not easy to recover from such serious matters even if they aren’t true, and UCF needs to respect the organization before such drastic measures are taken.
KnightNews.com takes an allegation such as hazing seriously, but we have to ask ourselves, when is enough, enough?
At what point is UCF trampling the rights of the accused, before they have a chance to defend themselves? Anyone remember innocent until proven guilty?
You may have no interest in this story because it is not your organization. You may have no interest because you are not Greek at all. But what we all are is UCF students, and at some point this witch hunt needs to stop, because your organization may be next. Whether you are involved in Greek Life, not involved, or dislike Greek Life, we all need to respect this organization to let it have it’s due process before it is blown out of proportion more than it already is.
ATO PRESIDENT DENIES HAZING ALLEGATIONS



In one week’s time, Alpha Tau Omega President Patrick McConachie went from planning to host one of UCF’s most successful philanthropies, to fending off TV news reporters and fighting an emergency suspension imposed by UCF — without first even holding a hearing.
On Tuesday, McConachie stood before his peers and emphatically denied the hazing allegations against his fraternity.
“They are just allegations and I will tell you they are false. We are moving forward with the student conduct process. We will act in accordance with any university request,” he said during a Greek “all presidents” meeting, the first since the hazing scandal rocked campus.
Since then, KnightNews.com has learned more details about the timeline surrounding UCF’s emergency action, and it raises more questions than answers about what exactly prompted that extreme step.
Although an official complaint, which has since been made public, was filed with UCF’s Office of Student Conduct on Nov. 8, we now know that an initial complaint was made by anti-hazing speaker David Stollman back on Nov. 5.
Exactly what was discussed during that initial Nov. 5 complaint has not been made public, but whatever was relayed prompted UCF to take immediate action by issuing ATO an emergency suspension letter on Nov. 6, the very next day.
The emergency suspension without a hearing is anything but routine and can only be done in “unusual cases” which dictate a decision for the health and safety of any part of the UCF community or its students, according to UCF’s Golden Rule.
COULD UCF KNOW MORE THAN WHAT PUBLIC RECORDS SHOW?
Because the information UCF received in the initial Nov. 5 complaint hasn’t been made public, it’s unclear if more information was given to UCF than was included in the official Nov. 8 complaint, which becomes public record and is given to the accused organization to use in its defense. 
Because it’s possible that Stollman could have called UCF and shared more details about the identity of the accuser to convince UCF of its credibility, without risking that discussion becoming a public record in the final report, KnightNews.com asked UCF if it knew the identity of the accuser.
UCF did not directly answer our question about whether it knows the accuser’s identity with a “yes or “no” but did point us to the public records which shield details surrounding the accuser’s identity.
“The person making the allegations chose to do so anonymously,” UCF spokesperson Chad Binette told KnightNews.com.
KnightNews.com also asked UCF if it at least knew whether the accuser was a current or former pledge. Again, UCF did not directly answer that question with a “yes” or “no” but instead again pointed to the public records submitted Nov. 8 — after UCF decided it already had the information it needed to issue the emergency suspension.
“You have the same document that we received, and it doesn’t specify whether or not the person making the allegations is a pledge,” said Binette.
EVIDENCE REVEALS SOME CLUES ABOUT THE ACCUSER
But even though the document doesn’t specify whether the accuser is a current or former ATO pledge, KnightNews.com found clues inside the official Nov. 8 report that suggest the possibility that the accuser is not a pledge.
The email included in the official complaint, which was copied and pasted from the accuser’s email sent to Stollman, lists the accuser as someone who “received information about the actions of ATO,” as if the accuser learned it from another source.
The email from the accuser also uses the third person reference when describing the pledges, saying “they were told to consume together before they were revealed their big brother” rather than saying “we were told to consume together” in the first person.
When describing “different rooms of the house” that “each pledge had to go through” during the alleged hazing ritual, the accuser says “the only room I have gained knowledge of was where the pledge was blind folded…”
Had the accuser been a pledge being victimized during the alleged hazing, it stands to reason that the accuser would have been led into the other rooms with the rest of the pledges, and had knowledge of more than just one room.
ATO has a lot at stake as it fights these charges: a nearly 41 year history at UCF (one of the oldest chapters on campus), its good reputation and its multi-million dollar on campus house. Several of the last fraternities UCF convicted of hazing have seen the university take over their houses, sometimes by force through a lawsuit.
UCF, however, says it’s too early to focus on the future of the house owned by ATO.
“It’s premature at this point to speculate on the future status of the house since the investigation is only in the beginning stages,” said Binette.
THE NEXT STEP FOR ATO
A hearing on Nov. 20 will determine whether the emergency suspension will remain in effect until a formal hearing is conducted, which will determine whether the fraternity is guilty of violating UCF’s hazing rules.
Another UCF Golden Rule gives the university the ability to dismiss a case if it is found to not have sufficient facts or evidence to substantiate the claim of misconduct, or the misconduct is not a violation of the organizational rules of conduct.
However, even though ATO is presumed not in violation until the preponderance of evidence proves otherwise, UCF admits that its standards of handling evidence will not be what students are accustomed to seeing in actual courts of law within the United States.
“At a student conduct organizational hearing, the technical rules of evidence applicable to civil and criminal cases shall not apply. The burden of proof in a student conduct hearing is not on the student organization charged with a violation of the Organizational Rules of Conduct,” according to UCF’s Golden Rule.
We asked UCFPD if they plan on investigating the allegations. UCF spokesperson Chad Binette responded to our email.
“At this time, UCF police have not opened an investigation. There has not been a complaint filed with UCFPD, and based on the information the university has received to date, there is not sufficient information to open a case,” Binette said. 
Meanwhile, while preparing to fight for his fraternity’s future, McConachie is searching for another fraternity or sorority to take on ATO’s Rock The Wreath philanthropy, featuring the Ying Yang Twins on Nov. 28.
It’s not clear yet who may step up to put on that event, but during the meeting McConachie also thanked members of the Greek Community for their support, indicating help is possible.
To read more about the fraternity’s suspension and hazing allegations, click here.
READ KNIGHTNEWS.COM’S EDITORIAL ON ATO’S SUSPENSION



