UCF Student; Sorority girl; So You Think You Can Dance cast member? That’s the dream for 19-year-old UCF student, Tiffany Maher. Having already earned college credit while still in high school, Tiffany currently ranks as a junior at UCF, where she is involved with the Zeta Tau Alpha Sorority and majoring in Interdisciplinary studies, with an emphasis on Public Affairs. “[My major] is great because I have the opportunity to be able to take jobs dancing if they should come up,” Tiffany explained.
Flexibility is key for this hard-working dancing queen who, thanks to her adjustable schedule, has been fortunate enough to work on movies, such as Rock of Ages & Step Up 4. Her latest venture, though, is auditioning for Fox’s hit reality show, So You Think You Can Dance.
“I have watched the show since the first season and I have been a huge fan. I could not wait for my opportunity to be able to audition when I was old enough,” she raved when asked what inspired her to audition. “The thought of possibly having the chance to grow as dancer, work with the prestigious choreographers, and inspire others the way I was inspired would be a dream come true.”
Tiffany’s dream had been a long time coming. At just the early age of 3, Tiffany began her dancing career and has since been unstoppable. She specializes in the Jazz style of dance, which deservedly is the genre she feels she would be most confident performing throughout the competition. “I feel that Jazz and Lyrical will be the easiest styles. Ballroom might be the most challenging, but a lot of fun,” she assured. “I am always up for a challenge.”
Her courageous attitude has served her well throughout the audition process, so far. She explained that she received critiques from the judges at her initial audition in Atlanta that she took to heart and vowed to work on if she were to move forward to Vegas. A promise surely to be kept, as she has already advanced to the Las Vegas auditions and has just found out she has made the top 20.
What the future holds for this talented teen has yet to be determined, but Tiffany has a solid idea what she wants. “My long-term goals are to graduate from college and pursue a career in dance in Los Angeles. I would like to use dance to help others in some way; possibly put on shows to raise money for non profit organizations.”
To follow Tiffany’s journey, tune in to So You Think You Can Dance, every Wednesday at 8/7c on Fox.



You may have noticed a flurry of activity on Twitter and Facebook from people searching for a missing UCF student and Phi Beta Sigma fraternity member Brandon Michael Whatley.
According to Whatley’s Facebook page, he has been found. His father posted about 30 minutes ago saying his social life is on suspension until further notice, so “it may be a while before you see him on here,” referring to Facebook, Twitter and other social media.
Jonathan Parker also posted on Whatley’s Facebook page: “For anyone that was concerned, We have gotten a hold of Brandon. Thanks for the help and love that came his way!”
However, people continued tweeting about an emergency and search for a missing Whatley after those message were posted.
Here’s one of the most recent posts on Twitter: “M.McKay ‏@OneThrough13 RT @_SiRoc: EMERGENCY! MISSING UCF STUDENT #Brandon Michael Whatley * please help us by posting (cont) http://tl.gd/i117n2”
It’s not clear why Whatley went missing. His father did not say. KnightNews.com will update this story if we learn more.



KnightNews.com has confirmed with the White House that President Barack Obama and Florida Gov. Rick Scott discussed Tropical Storm Debby on the phone this morning.
The White House sent KnightNews.com the following statement regarding the call:
“This morning President Obama called Florida Governor Rick Scott to ensure the state had no unmet needs as the Governor and his team continue to respond to extreme weather and flooding as a result of Tropical Storm Debby.
“The President expressed his condolences for the loss of life as well as the extensive damage to homes in Florida as a result of the storm, and reiterated that his Administration – through FEMA – would remain in close contact with the state as they continued to respond to this event and stood ready to provide additional assistance if necessary.
“At the request of the State, a FEMA liaison officer is onsite at the Florida state emergency operations center to support state response efforts as needed. The President asked Governor Scott to continue to identify any additional support his administration could provide, and told the Governor that his thoughts and prayers are with the citizens of Florida and the emergency response officials at this difficult time.”

KnightNews.com is continuing to track Tropical Storm Debby and will let you know if we hear it impact any UCF activities.



