Greek sources have reported that the ATO philanthropy, and one of UCF’s largest and most successful, has been cancelled due to the current suspension the fraternity has been placed on by UCF.
ATO is currently being investigated by UCF in response to hazing allegations from an anonymous person. A hearing held on Tuesday by UCF upheld the fraternity’s suspension until a formal hearing can be held.

Rock the Wreath is Alpha Tau Omega’s annual philanthropy and arguably one of UCF’s largest and most successful in terms of donations raised. The event was to raise money for Children’s Miracle Network and Knight-thon. 
Past headliners at the event include Hawthorne Heights, Mayday Parade, Between the Trees, Gym Class Heroes, We the Kings and Big Sean. This year’s event, scheduled on Nov. 28,  was to headline the Ying Yang Twins.
The Facebook page for this year’s Rock the Wreath event was also taken down this afternoon.
Local 6 reported last night that the ATO fraternity brought a lawyer onto its team in its fight against UCF.




Brother Jed is scheduled to come to UCF on Nov.27 and 28th as a part of his Campus Ministry USA tour.
George E. Smock, known as Brother Jed, is an evangelical preacher who travels to campuses across the nation to what he calls on his website, “declare the Gospel of Jesus Christ to the college and university students of America and the world.”
Smock, 69, is known for speaking out against homosexuality and his extremely confrontational songs such as “The Gay Song”. It has been reported before from other college news sources that he has been known to shout “you’re all going to hell” to college students that don’t agree with his views.
Brother Jed will most likely be speaking in UCF’s Free Speech Zone, outside of the Student Union by the Breezeway.
Knightnews.com will be there to interview Brother Jed. For now, you can see him singing “The Gay Song” in the video below:
 




Help Boys Town by donating to a silent auction from now until Dec.1.
You don’t have to travel far to make an impact in your community.  Chelsea Gardner, junior in Creative Writing, and volunteer at Boys Town, has teamed up with her workplace GENICON to host a silent auction in which all money raised will be donated to Boys Town.
“I would really appreciate donations, we’re such a good school, so many things hanging around people’s dorms that they don’t need, its such a little gesture for these kids that appreciate so much,” Gardner said.  Chelsea has an internship with Literary Arts Partnership and teaches Creative Writing at Boys Town once a week.
GENICON has agreed to match up to $500 raised from the silent auction to donate to Boys Town, an organization that offers help, hope and healing to abused, abandoned, neglected or handicapped children.
Anyone is welcome to place a bid on any items they see.  So far clothes, household items, school supplies, desks and bikes have all been donated.  
Donations can be dropped off from 9am to 5pm until Dec. 1 at the GENICON location 6869 Stapoint Circle Suite 114, Winter Park 32792
For questions or concerns contact GENICON at 407.657.4851
GENICON is a Central Florida based company that is recognized as an emerging leader in design, production and distribution of patented surgical instrumentation focused exclusively on laparoscopic surgery. 



