The Station let Knightnews.com inside for an exclusive tour of the new UCF bar.
The Station is set to be equipped with a $2,000 party machine, granite countertops, an empire state building, stop light structure, LED lights around the bar, and a stage with haze machines. Although, the bar is still under construction you can see the progress that has been made.
Interesting notes that are not in the video are that The Station will be offering free cover to patrons over the age of 23, there will also be two lines, one for over 21, and a separate line for underage guests.
There will be a full kitchen serving restaurant quality food with a delivery service that runs until 2am.
Stylez also let us in on something that The Station will offer that no other bar in the UCF area offers. Watch the video below to see the inside and an interview with Stylez.




“The Game” tells the story of Nicholas Van Orton, who receives a unique birthday present from his brother Conrad: a live action game that he doesn’t know the rules to. Haunted by the suicide of his father, the game he plays takes him through a journey where he discovers themes of life and learns a lot about himself. Starring Michael Douglas, Sean Penn, and directed by David Fincher (Fight Club, Se7en, The Social Network), this is a very clever movie and one that is definitely worth your time. 
When I first heard of this movie, the story is the first thing that caught my eye. It seemed very interesting and also very original. Michael Douglas receives a birthday present. This present is to participate in a game, one that is part of your real life, one you don’t know the rules to, and one you know nothing about. Michael Douglas’s life is revolving around this game, and he doesn’t know when he is playing and when he isn’t. It is quite a thought, and makes the viewers think about what actions they would take if their life seemed to be manipulated. Some consider it semi-horror, but I do not, but it is definitely a thriller. You are never sure if the characters life is in danger or if it part of this game he is in. It makes for some great drama.
Michael Douglas’s character is a very wealthy financier. His character may be hard to relate to for some, but as you take the journey with him through this game, it makes you think about your own actions would be. We really get some great character development and watch as he changes through the movie. Not many movies can achieve a character who undergoes constant development throughout the film, but the storyline of “The Game” has a central focus on character development. 
We follow him every step of the way and I can’t imagine anyone else playing Nicholas. The film isn’t particularly stylized, but if you are familiar with director David Fincher’s other work, you will see the same types of shading, camera control, etc. It is a very dark movie, a lot of it taking place at night. I know of people who don’t like dark movies, complaining that they are hard to watch. “The Game” isn’t hard to watch at all, and I feel that how dark it is plays in its favor. It emphasizes the sense of uncertainty and the uneasiness of not being safe.
It is hard to find movies these days that have great twists, a great character, make you think, and at the end of it all have a message that many can embrace. It is hard to do an in depth review of a movie like this, just because there are so many twists and turns, I don’t want to spoil anything for viewers. It’s a great movie that many haven’t heard of, and after you watch it, one that you will recommend to many. “The Game” is part of my personal DVD collection, and is on instant watch on Netflix. This movie is a must watch.



