KnightNews.com is learning more information about Frank Morse Perry, the young man shot and killed just south of the University of Central Florida main campus.
Frank Perry, Victim
Perry, 21, was from Palm Beach county and played high school football for Palm Beach Gardens High School. We’re learning from reports out of Palm Beach media that Perry played college football at the University of New Haven before transferring to Valencia College.
His football coaches told Palm Beach media he was a “respectful” player — and the whole situation was hard to believe. 
“I don’t know if he got himself mixed up in something out there, or if he was in the wrong place at the wrong time, Alfred Shipman told CBS 12. “I don’t understand why this happened to a kid of this caliber.”

The Orange County Sheriff’s Office has not said what the motive was for this crime. We don’t know if it was drug-related, or if Perry was a random victim. KnightNews.com checked with both the Orange and Seminole County jails to see if he had ever been arrested for drugs or anything like that in the UCF area before. He wasn’t. However, he was arrested in Orange County for driving with a suspended license in November 2010.
Joshua Cox, Suspect
The Orange County Sheriff’s Office announced yesterday that Joshua Cox was arrested and charged with murdering Perry. 
KnightNews.com will continue to try and find more information about what led to this fatal shooting near UCF — the second in recent memory. 
Meanwhile, those who knew Perry continue to mourn.
“You know its very troubling, just the way this whole generation is going. It just didn’t seem like Frank would end up in that type of situation. He was always a good kid, he was always popular with the ladies, all the guys on the team loved him,” Shipman told CBS 12. 



Johnny Keyser, the American Idol contestant who boasted he was a UCF student during last night’s show in St. Louis, is making headlines today. 
Keyser’s interaction with Idol judge Jennifer Lopez was one of the top stories on Yahoo News all morning long Friday. 
Keyser, who is from Pompano Beach and works as a server at Carrabba’s Italian restaurant, has been enjoying support from the UCF community. He’s performed on YouTube before, as you can see in the Gavin DeGraw cover he posted, below, but Idol looks to be his biggest break yet.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=udOK0yCDQUs
When KnightNews.com posted news of a UCF student on Idol last night, more than 100 students liked it on Facebook. 
KnightNews.com will continue updating Knights on Keyser’s progress. We’re also working to find people who knew him at UCF. If you had class with him, were his roommate, or neighbor — or can help us find people like that — email us at news@knightnews.com.  



