The outcome of the Alpha Tau Omega hazing allegations became official on Friday–the fraternity will be placed on organizational disciplinary probation from the University effective for Spring 2013, Summer 2013, and Fall 2013.
The organizational disciplinary probation means that Alpha Tau Omega will be restricted from participating in IFC Spring Recruitment for 2013.
READ ATO’S FULL SANCTION LETTER HERE
The fraternity had a panel hearing on December 11, 2012 that found the organization “in violation” of of the University hazing policy (10a) Any action or situation which recklessly or intentionally endangers the mental or physical health and or safety of a student for the purpose of initiation or admission into, or association with, any organization. (10c) Any activity that could subject the individual to mental or physical stress such as sleep deprivation, forced exclusion from social contact, forced contact which could result in embarrassment, or any other activity that could adversely affect the mental or physical health or dignity of the individual. (10e) Any activity, as described above, upon which the initiation or admission into or association with a student organization may be directly or indirectly conditioned, shall be presumed to be a “forced” activity, the willingness of an individual to participate in such an activity notwithstanding.
The fraternity was found not guilty on (10b)Brutality of a physical nature such as whipping, beating, branding, forced calisthenics, exposure to the elements; forced consumption of any food, liquor, liquid, drug, or other substances; or other forced elements; or other forced activity which could adversely affect the mental or physical health or safety of the individual. (10e) Forcing or requiring the violation of University policies, federal, state, or local law.
In order for Alpha Tau Omega to participate in IFC Fall Recruitment in 2013, they will need to host a day long Leadership Summit through collaboration with FSL and approval by The Office of Students Rights and Responsibilities by May 15, 2013.
Other punishments include a hazing presentation to IFC done no later than April 30, 2013, and working with ATO nationals to revise the new member education program to conform to UCF standards.




A mass shooting at an elementary school in Newtown, Connecticut has left at 26 people dead, 20 of them children, according to Connecticut state police.
A heavily armed man invaded the elementary school Friday morning, killing his mother and 26 others, mostly children, according to ABC News. The gunman, who has now been identified as Adam Lanza, 24, of New Jersey, was found dead inside of the school, ABC reports. The shooting occurred inside two rooms within a section of the school, one believed to be a kindergarten classroom.
A second scene has developed in Newtown, CT where a dead body was found and believed to be of some relation to this situation. There is no more detail available on that situation at this time.

“The shooting began about 9:35 a.m., a parent told CNN. “There was a “pop pop pop” in the hall outside the room. Three people went out of the room into the hall where the sounds had come from.” “Only one person came back,” she told CNN.
She said she never saw the shooter but she later was escorted outside the room past two bodies lying in blood, CNN reports.
Barack Obama has just recently been notified of the situation and a White House spokesperson said the president had “enormous sympathy for families that are affected”
House Speaker John Boehner said via Twitter that flags at the U.S. Capitol will be lowered in tribute to families and victims.
Check back for updates on this breaking news.



