Belize police currently want to question anti-virus pro, John McAfee, in connection to the murder of Greg Faull, 52, who was found murdered in Belize this weekend from an apparent gunshot wound, according to the CNN.
Faull was the founder and owner to the UCF Smokehouse, Tailgaters which was located near BrightHouse stadium.
“We are shocked and saddened by the murder of Gregory Faull, a loving  father, son and brother who will be remembered as an independent, hard working man full of initiative and a love of adventure,” a family statement said. 
“After years of work, persuasion and negotiations with the administration of UCF, Greg completed Tailgaters Smokehouse & Spirits.  It was the first on-campus restaurant to maintain a  liquor license and continues to be a great success four years later…”
It appears that Faull’s ex-wife, Vickie, will continue to operate the smokehouse, according to a FaceBook posting.
“…Vickie, our owner and operator of the restaurant as she continues to run the establishment. She is a fantastic woman, a hard worker, and provider for our staff and guests.”
John McAfee, the founder of the anti-virus company McAfee, is currently wanted for questioning regarding the matter, according to CNN.
A housekeeper found Faull dead at his home with a gunshot wound to the head, according to the CNN. MSN News reports that McAfee and Faull were neighbors on an island town on the Caribbean and McAfee is being listed as a “person of interest” in the case. No official charges have been filed.
A Belize Police website reports no signs of forced entry and notes a laptop and phone missing from Faull’s home. The site also says police have not established a motive so far but are following several leads.
Faull was a general contractor from Florida and was a longtime home owner on the island. He had recently retired as a builder from Florida to live full-time on the island, according to MSN.
Continue to check back on this breaking news.
To view the family’s full statement, click here.



Electric dance music has been in and out of the spot light since disco in the 70’s, now its cultivating beats have allowed it to become not only a stadium-level moneymaker but also a passion for those who listen.
 
Attending the 2nd Annual Electric Daisy Carnival was my first peak into the intriguing life of EDM Festivals. The atmosphere in itself was like nothing I’d seen before.  
Most attendees went all out for the occasion, accessorizing with things such as flowers, neon clothing, tutus, wings, masks and many other costume like attire. Decorations throughout the festival gave the weekend an out of reality feeling, with illuminated light fixtures from the trees as well as lights surrounding almost every other part of the venue. Not to mention the carnival rides placed at the different stage locations added to the exhilarating experience. 

“The experience was absolutely amazing and a birthday present in itself! You get so much energy from the crowd and performers and a rush from the rides. It’s the perfect combination of thrill and entertainment!” says Rachael Reynolds whose birthday landed on the first day of EDC.
Having 3 separate stages allowed for many more DJ’s to play this year then the last time EDC came through Orlando. Having performers such as Tiesto, Armin Van Buuren and Afrojack with closing sets was absolutely the perfect way to cap off each day, with the entire crown going crazy for more.
The whole atmosphere of EDC, the lights, the rides, the amazing people, and the performers all added to the euphoric experience. Talk of EDC Orlando 2013 are already underway! 



