Knightnews.com was at the inaugural meeting of the 45th Senate as they elected a new Speaker of the Student Government Senate. Anthony King was elected as the new Speaker of the Senate in a 31-18-0 vote as he defeated Senator Jackie Graham.
King previously served as Deputy Pro-Tempore of the Senate before he ran for SGA Student Body President in Spring of 2012 where he lost to current SGA student body President Cortez Whatley.
During the election process, Senators were allowed to ask questions, one student Senator asked how King would do things different than the previous speaker, Wes Jones, who was in attendance of the meeting as a spectator.
King responded saying, “I’d like to make a shout out to Wes in the back right now. He had some good times and bad times, we worked hand in hand a lot.” King went on to say,  “What happened with the 44th was that we went through a lot, with GSA, etc. That kind of set off the 44th to go in a certain direction. There was some personal issues and bias involved, especially with the GSA. I think overall Wes did the best he could do, probably none of us wanted to be in that position.”
Keep checking back to Knightnews.com for all things Student Government related.



It seems like a lot of us are grasping for the next big health kick, whether it’s embracing a new exercise routine, or opting for organic produce.
You can now add kombucha to the list, a naturally carbonated tea that is a smarter and healthier option to carbonated sugar water.
Kombucha has been around for thousands of years, dating back to 221 B.C during the Chinese empire of the Tsin-Dynasty, and they called it “the remedy for immortality” or “the divine tische”. It was later brought to Japan by Dr. Kombu to treat the Japanese emperor, Inkyo, for digestive problems, and it later spread to Russia, India and Europe. Don’t worry, you don’t have to travel far to achieve immortality; Central Florida based Farm Boy Produce brews and sells it locally.
Essentially, kombucha is fermented green or black tea comprised of a sea of health giving organic acids, vitamins, minerals, enzymes and nutrients. It also contains healthy bacteria in the form of Lactobacillus Acidophilus, as well as a dozen other probiotic strains. Kombucha carbonates naturally once bottled because it continues to ferment and release carbon dioxide that becomes trapped.
“One of the byproducts is cellulose, as the stuff ferments, you have this production of the cellulose which ultimately accumulates on the surface layer and actually forms like a gasket on the surface, which is almost completely impervious, even with a really sharp knife its tough to slice through it, and its just the cellulose network that people refer to as the kombucha, mushroom,” said Mark Bevilaqua, founder of Farm Boy Produce, and producer of kombucha.
Some of the benefits to drinking kombucha are that it improves digestion, boosts energy, improves circulation, prevents acid reflux, improves sleep, and it boosts the immune system.
According to Food Research International, Russia conducted a series of studies in the 1900s and mid 1900s .One study was based on a remote area of Russia that was poverty-stricken, therefore had shortages of food, but the people were big consumers of kombucha. Scientists found that the people consuming kombucha in this area had no instances of cancer, and had healthy immune systems. During World War I, Russia’s secret home remedy was referred to as the “Wonderdrink” because it helped treat headaches, gastric illnesses, and regulated intestinal activity.
“Ultimately the results of these studies were released and then they were tested and actually proven, in Netherlands, Germany, Poland, the news or the knowledge that kombucha, that fermented tea ultimately cures, prevents, cells from mutating, increases immune system function, all this stuff that has been proven by multiple scientific groups for almost half a century, basically the knowledge has been there,” said Bevilaqua.
However, not all kombucha is made the same. The benefit of buying locally brewed kombucha is that it is not pasteurized. Mainstream kombucha available on store shelves are all pasteurized, therefore killing off all the beneficial bacteria. According to Bevilaqua, it’s like drinking soda with b vitamins.
Farm Boy Produce uses reverse osmosis system, filtered water with the lowest dissolved solids, organic tea and sugar bought directly from producer or distributor. Their kombucha is available on draft or bottled in the following flavors: ginger soda, honey ginger, honey mate, yerba mate, spiralina, grape and apple cinnamon. You can find it on draft at Drunken Monkey or Redlight Redlight Beer Parlour. Bottled kombucha is available at Audubon Park Farmer’s Market, Hoover’s Market and Homegrown Co-op.



The current process of removing a tattoo is painful and time-consuming, typically requiring 10 sessions or more of laser treatment.
Size, color, and location matter when it comes to wishing to remove a tattoo quickly and, most importantly, successfully. About 22 percent of U.S. college students have at least one tattoo. With the traditional laser treatment, it could take years to entirely remove tattoos, according to recent research from Italy and the U.S.
Specifically, yellow and blue pigments are immensely difficult to remove, and smoking actually makes complete removal almost impossible. The latter is due to it affecting certain cells of which ink in the body is dependent upon for removal.
However, a new laser device is being tested by U.S. Researchers, and offers shorter pulses lasting about a picosecond rather than a nanosecond, the traditional amount of time—meaning it can cut down the amount of sessions required to remove a tattoo. Students involved in a Massachusetts research study using the laser were immensely satisfied by the results. The researchers are anxiously awaiting the Food and Drug Administration to approve the new device.
Alyssa Syme, a Junior majoring in literature and binary education at the University of Central Florida, said she doesn’t care about the frequent, continuous treatments removing a tattoo would require. She is in the process of removing one, and it is fading but she said she may have to have four more sessions of laser treatment.
“It’s painful but [each session] just takes 10 minutes,” Syme said. “Where skin peels, it’s harder to remove.”
Rossi Kostova, a Junior majoring in forensic science at UCF, doesn’t intend to remove her tattoos and feels that no one should. Her view is that, in one point in time, one liked the tattoo enough to get it and should therefore keep it.
“I think if you want it, you won’t regret it, and I don’t think you should remove it,” Kostova said. “If you were to hate a tattoo, get a cover up—it’s not as ugly as scars. Removing tattoos is expensive.”
Tod Foster, a Junior majoring in political science, doesn’t intend on getting his tattoos removed either, so the long, painful process it takes to do so doesn’t change his opinion in the slightest way.
“I wouldn’t get a tattoo if I didn’t want one,” Foster said.



