Knightnews.com went around campus to interview students on what they thought about the newly passed tuition hikes.

The hikes, which will raise tuition by $19.24 per credit hour will be effective immediately in the Fall 2012 semester. After several failed votes and compromises, the hike finally passed at the full 15 percent. UCF Student Government President Cortez Whatley voted in favor of the full tuition hike when it was presented both times, voted in favor of the 12 percent compromise(which did not pass), and voted against the lowest compromise offered at 9 percent.
In his speech Whatley claimed taking a position like this was one of the hardest decisions he’d have to make. He validated his position by saying he doesn’t want to see the institutions fail and that institutions cannot operate on a shoestring budget.
However, this past February, Florida Senate President-designate Don Gaetz, R-Niceville, specifically stated that the University cuts would not allow for programs to be cut, but simply asked to draw money out of the university reserves. He went on to say it is money that belongs to the public and there would be absolutely no requirement in this budget for cuts for any operating cuts.

The 2012-2013 UCF workplan showed that tuition is set to double by the 2015-2016 school year from what it was in 2009-2010. If passed this would cost students almost 9,000 dollars a year in tuition and total fees.
Check out the video below to see the uncut, raw video of Senator Evelyn Lynn at the same conference as Gaetz grilling SGA leaders about who they are really representing.




KnightNews.com is following breaking news out of the Supreme Court, which has handed down its 5-4 ruling on President Barack Obama’s controversial healthcare law, known as Obamacare.
Here are the highlights of the key rulings:
Individual mandate requring all americans to have health insurance was upheld. 
Insurance companies must still cover pre-existing conditions. 
End of lifetime limits on coverage upheld.
Children can still stay on parents’ insurance until age 26. 
However, expansion of medicaid to cover more of the poor has been struck down as unconstitutional, according to CBS news. 
However, Chief Justice John Roberts, who was appointed by President George W. Bush, surprised observers by voting to uphold the law.CNN got it wrong at first
The decision came amid confusion this morning, with CNN initially incorrectly reporting the individual mandate was struck down. 
According to The Huffington Post, “CNN’s congressional correspondent Kate Boulduan read out part of the Court’s ruling, which said that the individual mandate could not be upheld using the Commerce Clause. Disastrously, though, it failed to pick up the other part of the ruling, which said that it could be upheld as a tax.”
Bouldan came back on air later to correct the report on what she called a “very confusing large opinion.” 
Now the question is what the impact this ruling will have on the 2012 presidential election. Republican Sen. Marco Rubio, from Florida, is already tweeting about it. 
Rubio tweeted: “#SCOTUS upholds #Obamacare because it is a #taxincrease. I thought @barackobama said it wasnt a #tax?”
“Now that we know #Obamacare is indeed a #jobkilling #Tax we should move to #RepealObamacare as soon as possible,” he added.
Rubio later released this video statement:
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OVaZALpuecc
KnightNews.com is waiting for Obama to give a speech on this major ruling, which may come as early as 12:15 p.m. and will work to carry it live here, below, as it happens:

KnightNews.com is working to gather more information and will update this story as we get it.



