Riding a five game winning streak, the UCF Knights (7-2, C-USA 5-0) shredded the SMU Mustangs (4-5, C-USA 3-2) 42-17 at Bright House Networks Stadium in Orlando in front of a rowdy UCF Homecoming crowd.
Latavius Murray averaged 6.7 yards for 155 yards rushing with two rushing touchdowns and one receiving touchdown.
“It gives us a lot of confidence…” Latavius said of the victory. “It starts upfront, running the ball, again the offense line created the line of scrimmage and they were getting a lot of movement. I just have to make sure I get the yards that are there, and on the big runs I need to do my job and get the extra yards I need to get,” Murray modestly said of his performance.
Blake Bortles played a cerebral game, completing 10-of-15 passes for 110 yards and two touchdowns.
The Knights kicked off to start the game and senior defensive end Troy Davis set the tone recording two sacks in the opening drive, his fifth and sixth of  the season, stifling the Mustangs drive.
Davis recorded five tackles, two sacks and one forced fumble.
On the Knights opening drive, Blake Bortles delivered a 21-yard, third down touchdown pass to Rannell Hall for a team leading fourth touchdown reception.
The Mustangs answered with a 17-yard pass from Garrett Gilbert to Darius Johnson to set up a 32 yard field goal, bringing the score to 7-3
To open up the second quarter, UCF punted to the SMU 28-yard line and Quincy McDuffie recovered a fumbled fair catch to give the ball back to the Knights in scoring position.
Latavius Murray capitalized on the turnover for the Knights with a 23-yard touchdown run, galloping through the Mustang defenders.
The Mustangs continued to keep it close when Garrett Gilbert scrambled for a four-yard touchdown run to bring the ‘Stangs within range at a score of 14-10.
Latavius Murray helped the Knights move back into scoring territory with a 29-yard carry and then crossed the T’s and dotted the I’s on the drive with a 20-yard touchdown run to put the Knights ahead 21-10 going into halftime.
Rannell Hall opened the second half with a 39-yard kickoff return to the UCF 45 to set up a 5-play 55-yard touchdown drive, capped off by a Blake Bortles 10-yard touchdown run.  The score gave the Knights a 28-10 lead that would only grow.
On the next possesion, the Knights displayed their dual quarterback threat with a screen pass to Jeff Godfrey who then tossed a 28-yard touchdown pass to Latavius Murray to open up the flood gates on the Mustangs.
With the Knights leading 35-10, they added insult to injury by driving back down to field on the shoulders of Storm Johnson to set up an 18-yard touchdown pass to Breshad Perriman. The diving, fingertip catch, was his first career touchdown reception and it put the Knights up 42-10.
“It had been a long time coming, I’m glad it came to me…”, Perriman said of his reception, “I knew it was going to be a little far but he put it on a good landmark and he knew I was going to go get it, so I’m glad he did that.”
The Knights played an all around solid game against a formidable SMU team.
“I thought we did will. We’ve still got to work on tackling. As I said to the team, it was a good team win. But We’ll be practicing on Monday. That is how it works.” Coach George O’Leary said of the game.



The Homeciming King and Queen for 2012 have just been announced.
2012 HC King: Michael Irene
2012 HC QUEEN: Ashley Jaramillo

Ashley Jaramillo is as senior majoring in Interpersonal and Organizational Communications with minors in Marketing and Leadership Studies. She moved to Central Florida from Miami and has truly loved being a UCF Knight. Her passion for enhancing the student experience through programming that offers campus and community involvement has fueled her desire to pursue a graduate degree in Higher Education and Student Affairs. As the current SGA Director of Campus Life, she has drawn from her experiences as a previous Orientation Team Leader, LEAD Scholar, Pegasus Palooza Event Coordinator, and Volunteer UCF’s Alternative Break Program Student Director. Ashley is also a proud sister of Pi Beta Phi and values the strong friendships that have supported and believed in her throughout her college career.

Michael Irene is a senior majoring in Business Administration with a minor in Entrepreneurship. His early collegiate involvement in Alpha Kappa Psi Professional Business Fraternity, the Multicultural Student Center and Phi Delta Theta Fraternity has built him a solid foundation for his position now as President of the Interfraternity Council.



Students took advantage of early voting by catching a ride to the polls outside the Student Union offered by different student organizations.
On Thursday, from 10 am to 3 pm, Dream Defenders and SLAP helped provide transportation for students to get out and vote early at the Alafaya Branch Library off of Highway 50.
“I’ve got an hour and 45 minutes in between classes, so it’s easier to do now,” said Laura Chilcutt, immigration lawyer and non-degree seeking graduate student.
Transportation was provided with the help of Service Employees International Union, a collaboration of Florida New Majority.
“We’re doing this because democracy is important to us and being able to provide rides to students and others from the community is part of our role as a union to give back to the community,” said Monica Russo, Florida Region Executive Vice President for Service Employees International Union.
Another organization spotted outside the Student Union offering transportation was the College Democrats at UCF. The organization has been providing students with transportation since the start of early voting on October 27, on the hour, every hour.
Their program “Yes We Van” started in 2008.
“Elections are won and loss by voter turn out, because Rick Scott and John McCain actually got the same amount of votes, the difference is, more people turned out for Rick Scott,” said Jordan Allen, director of political affairs for College Democrats of UCF.
Joe Sanders, democrat candidate, running for Florida House District 49 was outside the polling location talking to voters. He is a UCF political science graduate, who wants to take his days of on campus activism statewide.
“I really want to work on education issues, the Republican legislature cut 56 million this last year from UCF, which means that student’s tuition rates went up, bright futures scholarship has gotten harder to get, so we have to make sure everyone who works hard in this state gets a chance at their future, and that means education, so I want to work on that,” Sanders said. He continues, “I think at the end of the day we just have to prioritize college, and at that same level we have to give colleges like UCF the resources we need to keep tuition low”.
First time voter, Fadrian Gilbert, a bio medical student, took advantage of early voting and the ride to the polls, and said education was on of her main concerns.
“I need my pell grants to pay for school, I’m a struggling college student like everybody else, Romney is trying to take that away,” Gilbert said.



Thousands of students crowded the reflection pond Friday afternoon as part of Homecoming Spirit Splash.
Check out our video from the event!




