The official announcement from the SGA Election Commision has confirmed KnightNews.com’s initial report breaking that this year’s SGA presidential tickets are Anthony King (President) with Eric Katz (Vice President) and Cortez Whatley (president) with Rachel Brill (Vice President).
Both camps have release their webites today which can be viewed here:
King/Katz has decided to launch its platform immediately on their site, while the other side’s site says they’ll launch their platform on Tues. March 13th at a rally.
Interviews will be released soon as KnightNews.com continues to follow the elections from beginning to end. Check back for updates and news regarding the SGA Presidential Candidates.




On the same day the University of Central Florida planned a celebration to honor its president’s 20th year on the job, outraged students planned a protest over the massive debt they’re racking up thanks to soaring tuition rates.
Although it appears the joint scheduling was a coincidence, supporters of UCF President John C. Hitt were walking up to his 20th anniversary party inside the Student Union while student protesters demonstrated outside that same building hosting Hitt’s afternoon reception.
Inside the Student Union, those attending Hitt’s reception had the opportunity to enjoy refreshments and be able to “create handwritten notes for the president and record a short congratulatory video,” according to the event’s website.
Outside the Student Union, students fed up with tuition hikes and debt had the chance to write their debt on the “Wall of Student Debt” and “share personal stories about their difficulties with student debt,” according to a press release sent by the Student Labor Action Project. The group also will invite people to discuss the looming tuition hikes UCF, the Board of Governors and the Florida Legislature have planned, the release states.
Doors opened for Hitt’s anniversary party event inside the Union at 1:30 p.m. while the protests were scheduled from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Both events were open to the public and students.
KnightNews.com sent a crew to the Union and found the two sides coexisted peacefully.
As for tuition costs, UCF told KnightNews.com that tuition rates have been increasing to “partially offset more than $100 million in state budget cuts that we have sustained since 2007.” Still, UCF has been ranked as one of the nation’s best-value universities and most affordable. Florida universities, on average, rank 45th in the country for the cost of tuition and fees — one of the cheapest.
KnightNews.com checked and found out Florida also ranks 45th in the country for unemployment rates — one of the worst in the country. Florida also ranks 39th for the lowest median annual income, according to a recent average.
Still, lawmakers and many university leaders across the state are pushing to hike Florida’s tuition to the national average of $8,244. Right now Florida’s average tuition costs $5,626. 
Gov. Rick Scott, however, has said he doesn’t want any more tuition hikes for Florida right now.
 



The Goo Goo Dolls headline Universal Orlando’s Mardi Gras concert series this Saturday, March 3, 2012. 
The band will hit the stage at 8:30 p.m. Known for its hit singles such as “Name,” “Slide” and “Black Balloon,” the Goo Goo Dolls have sold more than 10 million albums since 1986.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=im8e_njsWEA
“Slide,” according to Wikipedia, “was released in September 1998 as the first commercial single release[1] from their sixth studio album, Dizzy Up the Girl. The song reached number one on both the Billboard Adult Top 40 chart and the Modern Rock Tracks chart, and number eight on the Hot 100 chart in late 1998 and early 1999.”
For information on how to get tickets to Goo Goo Dolls at Universal, or to see other Universal Orlando Mardi Gras concerts, click the banner below:



