In June, Knightnews.com did a feature story on Tiffany Maher, a UCF Student who was featured on Fox’s hit reality TV show, So You Think You Can Dance.
Since then, Maher has taken her journey all the way to becoming one of the final four contestants. Along the way, she is one of the only contestants to have not been in the final two for elimination.
Maher, 19, has been an active member of the UCF Greek system, as she is a member of the Zeta Tau Alpha sorority. She has a major in Interdisciplinary studies, with an emphasis on Public Affairs.
In our interview with her in June she expressed how excited she was to just make the top 20, “I have watched the show since the first season and I have been a huge fan. I could not wait for my opportunity to be able to audition when I was old enough,” Maher said.
How to vote for Tiffany: 
-Text Tiffany to 83676 as many times as you can from 10pm to Midnight. (Unlimited and free).
-Call the toll free number that is given during the show. (Unlimited and free).
-Voting via Facebook up to 50 times.
Check out a video of her from the Top 20:




With over 73,000 students involved nationwide, and more than 500 UCF students in attendance at their first meeting of Fall 2012, Cru’s impact is already immense, and will potentially become greater at their upcoming Fall 2012 conference.
Specific to UCF, Cru is hosting a Fall Conference named “Revolution,” emphasizing “evol” in the name, which backwards spells “love”. It should be an enjoyable weekend getaway, from September 21-23, during which UCF college students will join other students from USF and UNF at the “Word of Life Bible camp” in Hudson, FL. All students are welcome regardless of background or beliefs, and are encouraged to register for this fun experience as an opportunity to connect with other peers.
For more information, please see Cru’s “Revolution” Facebook event page here.
At the UCF campus, Cru meetings are held weekly on Thursdays at 8:30pm in the Ferrel Commons Auditorium. Known as “One80,” the meetings include fellowship and performances by a band featuring Contemporary Christian worship songs, followed by a message from the Bible.
One of the largest evangelistic organizations around, and present in roughly 191 countries worldwide, Cru is a non-profit, interdenominational and international ministry dedicated to training people in spreading the love of God. Formerly known by many as Campus Crusade for Christ, the group recently changed their name to Cru.
“‘Crusade’ carried a negative connotation,” said Steve Sellers, vice president of the U.S. Cru. The new name went into effect earlier this year, in hopes that it would seem more inviting, whereas having “Christ” in the name may make people feel as though they are being forced to believe something.
“We want to see students everywhere embrace the purpose, love and forgiveness that God offers them in a relationship with Jesus Christ,” Cru said on their website, Cru.org. Among the organization’s many ministries are Athletes in Action, the “Jesus” film project, and their magazine “Worldwide Challenge”.
Athletes in Action allows for sports to assist people in growing in their faith, through various means of working with many professional athletes and coaches. Furthermore, Cru made “Jesus” (a movie from 1979) the “world’s most translated film,” translating it in over 1,000 languages, and showing it in every country of the world. Finally, their magazine “Worldwide Challenge” portrays how the group reaches out to countless people around the world, and won second place for the “Best Overall Magazine” from the Florida Magazine Association last year, according to their website.
Bill and Vonette Bright probably never imagined how extensive Cru would become when they first created the organization at UCLA in 1951. Seeing the success of this international club, Cru surely has enough passion required to stay closely aligned with their values of “Faith, Growth and Fruitfulness,” and continues to be a moving inspiration to numerous groups of people around the globe today.



It’s a sad day for many people, remembering and mourning the loss of over 3,000 victims—yet it also provides for much-needed time to connect and sympathize with those around us, regardless of background.
Whether Democrat or Republican, nothing else seems to matter when it comes to sympathizing with others over the loss of fellow Americans at the World Trade Center in New York City and Shanksville, Pennsylvania.
“On this most somber day, those who would attack us should know that we are united, one nation under God, in our determination to stop them and to stand tall for peace and freedom at home and across the world,” Mitt Romney said in a written statement.
President Obama and his wife set a white floral wreath above a concrete engravement that reads, “Sept. 11, 2001 — 937am” at the Pentagon.
Many UCF students have honored this important day by wearing red bandanas and taking time to remember those who perished 11 years ago. The College Democrats and College Republicans planted 3,000 flags in front of the Math and Physics Building in honor of the men and women who died. 
Similarly, some Valencia College students and others nearby commemorated the lives lost by planting around 3,000 flags in front of the Valencia Osceola campus. It is an amazing sight, with mostly American flags but also some flags from foreign countries included in remembrance of those killed who were from other places around the world.
Now that we’ve reached the 11th anniversary, many people are able to rest easier than once before. Of course, the worst terrorist attack in the U.S. is never to be forgotten, but the achievement of being able to cope with something that we cannot change is definitely a great success.
This day is also very heartwarming in the sense that people everywhere around the country gather together to put forward every feeling of love and remembrance towards those lost, whether they personally remember the event or lost one of their own family/friends or not.
The U.S. government said they would even cover around 50 types of cancer now, in health care plans, for those affected by the dangerous debris and overall atmosphere on 9/11/01.
When some Americans witnessed the American Airlines planes charging into the Twin Towers, looks of terror and shock could be seen everywhere. Today, one may still find looks of confusion and sadness, but the courage to stand strong has also kicked in almost a decade later, providing hope and community. We will never forget.



Below is live video of the September 11 memorial taking place in New York City. 
UCF students also had their own memorial today, planting flags on campus.




