Kemal Ishmael, the senior free safety, has won the C-USA defensive player of the year award. Joining Ishmael, is kick returner Quincy McDuffie who won C-USA special teams player of the year award.
This was the third time the Knights have had a player win C-USA defensive player of the year award, making it the most of any school in the conference. They also tied for most C-USA special teams player of the year awards in the conference as McDuffie received the honor.
Ishmael, one of the three team captains for UCF is ranked number three all-time in UCF tackles, currently racking up 360 tackles in his career. Kemal Ishmael has been a workhorse for Knights, starting every game since his freshman season in 2009.
Head Coach George O’Leary told the Orlando Sentinel, “I think when you look at guys, you talk about winners, everybody wants to win, but there’s not very many that work to win. Kemal’s out there, he works to win every day in practice.”
Quincy McDuffie, out of nearby Edgewater highschool, has not been shy to momentum changing kickoff returns this season, including the 99-yard return against East Carolina, which got the Knights back in the game after getting down 0-14 early. Eventually, the Knights prevailed and the win helped them secure a spot in the C-USA championship game.
McDuffie is the UCF all-time leader in kickoff return yards at 2,501 yards totaled with six touchdowns.
On Tuesday, six UCF Knights were named first-team all-conference and 14 players received conference honors as the Knights added to their collection.



John McAfee, the internet anti-virus founder, has been has been arrested by police in Guatemala for illegally entering the country, according to Reuters.
“FLASH: SOFTWARE GURU JOHN MCAFEE HAS BEEN ARRESTED BY POLICE -INTERIOR MINISTER,” @Reuters posted. 
The anti-virus guru has been on the run since early November after being declared a person of interest in the killing of a neighbor in Belize. McAfee was taken into custody at a hotel in an upscale Guatemala City neighborhood with the help of Interpol agents, according to the Associated Press. Earlier Wednesday afternoon, McAfee had requested asylum in Guatemala for what he called a fear for his safety due to information he had on corruption.
The shooting death of Gregory Viant Faull, a local UCF restaurant owner, sparked a search for McAfee who lived next to Faull on an island in Belize. While there is no active arrest warrant issued in Belize for McAfee, he is wanted for questioning in relation to Faull’s death. 
McAfee was alleged to have constant clashes with other neighbors on the island in Belize due to his bizarre behaviors at his home that may have involved him harboring drugs, illegal weapons, and loud barking dogs.
More information on McAfee here.



The Chi Omega sorority at Penn State is in serious trouble after posting a photo of themselves at a Mexican-themed party, according to Onward State. The photo is being circulated around the internet and being called racist and stereotypical.
A picture was posted on Tumblr and Facebook in what was called  a “Mexican fiesta” themed party that happened around Halloween. The connection between Chi Omega and the picture was evident through tags and other posts regarding the party. 

Girls were dressed up in ponchos and sombreros while wearing fake mustaches. Signs were held that read “Will mow lawn for weed and beer” and “I don’t cut grass, I smoke it.”
The sorority’s president Jessica Riccardi, told the the Daily Collegian that the sorority is under investigation. She also issued this apology:
“Our chapter of Chi Omega sincerely apologizes for portraying inappropriate and untrue stereotypes. The picture in question does not support any of Chi Omega’s values or reflect what the organization aspires to be.”
Cesar Sanchez Lopez, Vice President of the Mexican American Student Association, issued a statement regarding the situation, according to WebProNews.
“The Mexican American Student Association is disappointed in the attire chosen by this sorority. It in no way represents our culture. Not only have they chosen to stereotype our culture with serapes and sombreros, but the insinuation about drug usage makes this image more offensive. Our country is plagued by a drug war that has led to the death of an estimated 50,000 people, which is nothing to be joked about.”
The school is currently investigating the matter and will decide if punishment or further action needs to be taken.



The group members opened their goody bags and found Trojan condoms and chocolate.
“We try to make feminism fun,” Nicole Elinoff said, President of the National Organization for Women at UCF.
UCF NOW’s purpose is to end oppression and to educate the student body about social justice issues and women’s rights. Elinoff has been a NOW member for two years and the organization’s president since June.
“I have been a feminist my whole life,” Elinoff said.
The National Organization for Women originated in 1966 during the civil rights movement. There are over twenty five chapters in Florida alone including UCF’s own NOW chapter. UCF’s NOW chapter began in 2005 and is going strong. 
NOW members held a music and raffle event at Natura’s Coffee and Tea on Oct. 10. The members were able to reflect over the past semester including their own experiences from the club.
Do not assume this organization has only women members. Elinoff says the organization is “for women, not of women.” One of the male members is freshman Vernell Leavings. Leavings said the NOW group has helped him love his body and sexual orientation.
“People have this stereotype that young gay guys are fit and looking for strong guys,” Leavings said.
His mother is not accepting of his homosexual lifestyle and his straight friends do not understand his struggles. However, NOW has allowed Leavings to accept himself inside and out. Homosexual men are not the only ones who are pressured to be in shape, but straight men as well.
“Males are victims of the male-dominated system,” Leavings said.
Leavings said he saw a shirt with the words “Man Up!” printed on the front. He said this could be considered offensive. The message on the shirt instills the stereotype in which men must be tough and show no pain.
Last month, the organization focused on body image. On Oct. 17, official Love Your Body Day, the organization held a photo campaign on campus promoting students to love their physical image.
“Everything isn’t just black and white. There are gray shades between,” NOW member Erika Hanley said.
Hanley also struggled with her body image. She said she attended the slut walk at Memory Mall on Oct. 7. A slut walk is a gathering of people to spread awareness of sexual assault and rape. Many of those who attend have their own experience and openly share it with posters, poems and speeches.
“It was a very eye opening experience,” Hanley said. “I didn’t know what the turnout would be.”
Hanley had always been insecure and unsure of herself. The NOW group and the slut walk has reminded her how important it is to love oneself.
“I gain satisfaction by educating people,” Elinoff said.
The NOW group informs their members of sexual education, gender identity and Planned Parenthood. During the election, NOW was also speaking out on Amendment Six and the effect it would have on women’s health.
At the Natura’s raffle event, the raffle ticket numbers were pulled one by one. Someone cheered when he or she won the small bottle of lube from the prize list.



When the sun sets in South Africa, residents of the Pomolong Township will be one day closer to receiving a source of electricity for their community center provided by the University of Central Florida. But tonight the township remains dark.
The Pomolong Township located near Harrismith is home to about 80,000 people. The efforts of about 20 electrical and mechanical engineering students, enrolled in senior design courses, will result in a renewable energy source to power the community center.
“It’s a hardscrabble township, no paved roads, no street lights, and what they call the community center basically is a tin shack, again, without any power and it really doesn’t serve the purpose of being a community center,” Burnett Honors College Dean Alvin Wang said.
The students have partnered with the Honors College at UCF and the Swinburne Sustainability Center and Conservancy (SSCC) in South Africa to carry out the task.
The students are divided into five teams; two mechanical engineering teams assigned to capture solar and wind energy, and three electrical engineering teams designing a storage battery system, electronic controls and a back-up system. Throughout the fall semester these teams have designed and budgeted for a working prototype to be tested and installed in the spring semester.
“I’m very impressed with the ingenuity and the enthusiasm of the students and their willingness to work together,” Wang said. “I’m very optimistic that we will have a good prototype and one that will be beneficial to the community center in Pomolong.”
Senior engineering majors chose the project for their capstone requirement but the idea originated with Honors College student Zina Versfeld’s mother. Annamarie Versfeld helped found the SSCC and the center is on the Versfeld’s family property -a 600-acre ranch that contains a historic Boers stone home from the Anglo-Boer Wars.
The property is where Wang and Associate Dean Martin Dupuis stayed when they traveled to South Africa in March. They will both return in May of 2013 with about 15 members of the team as well as Zina Versfeld, who contributes to the project by educating the engineering students on life in the country.
Zina Versfeld, a biomedical science major, moved to the United States from South Africa when she was 12. Some of her family still lives in Harrismith.
“My mom was born there and grew up there,” Zina Versfeld said. “It’s an Afrikaans town so it’s kind of a richer area.” Harrismith contrasts greatly with the Pomolong Township nearby.
“The landscape, from the mountains to the sea, is just very beautiful. But you can contrast that against the abject poverty of the black South Africans,” Wang said. “Just based on race alone there was a tremendous gap, and Pomolong as in all townships, they’re all black. There are no whites that live in townships because of their Apartheid policies.”
Resulting from the Apartheid segregation policies, Wang said that blacks were uprooted and forced to live in areas with harsh conditions where whites did not want to live.
Zina Versfeld said that she would dig up clay in the riverbeds to make clay pots, but in Pomolong the clay soil leaves the ground infertile and the residents without a way to plant. Trees do not grow in the soil and because there is no wood to build with, homes are made from scrap metal.
By next spring, however, the township will receive an upgrade and the electric-powered community center will be available for all residents to use.
In the Honors College conference room, members of the mechanical and electrical engineering teams discuss their plans for the prototype that will be built and tested prior to its installation overseas. Manuel Edward Keesee, a senior electrical engineering major, explains the technical aspects of the project. Keesee said they must grab energy and control it and make sure the batteries are charged at the right voltage.
In order to afford necessary materials like solar panels and batteries, the students will receive funding from sponsors like Progress Energy and others.
“Some of us are looking for external funding,” mechanical engineering major David Duncan said.
Despite the challenges they will face, Keesee said he values the opportunity to help with the resources in South Africa, and mechanical engineering major Michael Jones agrees.
“This was really the only one that had a tangible benefit for people,” Jones said, explaining why he chose the project for his capstone requirement.
Though their work is months away from completion, the end goal will benefit South Africans and UCF students; enlightening engineering students with real-world experience in their field while bringing light to an impoverished place.
Story contributions by Joseph Bleeker



Give the schools $118 million and tuition won’t be raised. That is the offer laid out by Florida’s university presidents.
University presidents and student leaders from Florida met Wednesday morning to propose what they called Aim Higher Florida, a plan that requests $118 million in new funding from Florida to be split among 11 universities and in turn, tuition would not be raised at all, at any school.

Among those who spoke at the conference were UCF SGA President Cortez Whatley, University of Florida President Bernie Machen, University of West Florida President Judy Bense and University of North Florida President John A. Delaney. Each requested the state support an investment into higher education as well as making university funding a priority. President Hitt of UCF did not speak at the press conference. 
“Our universities are heavily invested in our communities and our state,” University of Florida President Bernie Machen said. “We are leading job creators and innovators, and we are the key to our state meeting industry demands for highly qualified employees. An investment in Florida’s public universities is an investment our state’s economic future.”
The $118 million number is equal to the amount of money the universities would receive if they increased tuition by the maximum 15 percent allowable by state law. 
Florida Governor Rick Scott applauded university leaders in their commitment to holding the line on tuition and making college more affordable for Florida families.
“We know Florida families want the best value possible from our higher education system, which means we have to make advanced degrees more affordable and more connected to students’ ability to get a great job when they graduate,” Scott said. “We are pleased to share this important goal with many of Florida’s finest higher education leaders who are committed to holding the line on tuition. We look forward to working closely with them as we put together a proposed budget and other policies for the upcoming legislative session.”
Although Cortez Whatley voted to raise tuition the maximum amount this past school year, he is now echoing the student voice in requesting that tuition hikes be halted.
“For the sake of Florida’s students, businesses and the communities that we live in, we need to keep a college education affordable and accessible to all,” Whatley said.


Video courtesy The Florida Channel
To view Gov. Rick Scott’s full press release, click next page.



