The twitter account that first reported former Penn State coach Joe Paterno died just posted an update linking to a letter of resignation from its managing editor, Devon Edwards.
Devon Edwards
Once the normally reputable national CBS Sports outlet picked up the student news source’s story, the now-retracted report of Paterno’s death went national. 
The following is a letter posted on the website of Onward State, by its Managing Editor: 
Earlier this evening, Onward State reported that Joe Paterno had passed away. However, the mountain of evidence stacked opposite that report is too much to ignore. At this time, I would like to issue a retraction of our earlier tweets.
I never, in a million years, would have thought that Onward State would be cited by the national media, and today, I sincerely wish it never had been. To all those who read and passed along our reports, I sincerely apologize for misleading you. To the Penn State community and to the Paterno family most of all, I could not be more sorry for the emotional anguish I am sure we caused. There are no excuses for what we did. We all make mistakes, but it’s impossible to brush off one of this magnitude. Right now, we deserve all of the criticism headed our way.
I can only hope and pray that the outstanding work our writers and photographers do on a day-to-day basis is not overshadowed by the events of tonight. I understand that our reputation is in serious question, but I hope you will continue to stand by us as we do everything in our power to make amends.
To begin that process, I will be stepping down from my post as Managing Editor, effective immediately. I take full responsibility for the events that transpired tonight, and for the black mark upon the organization that I have caused.
I ask not for your forgiveness, but for your understanding. I am so very, very, sorry, and we at Onward State continue to pray for Coach Paterno.
Sincerely,
Devon Edwards



Former Penn State football coach Joe Paterno, 85, known by the college football world as “JoePa”, was reported to have died by a Penn State news publication Saturday, according to CBS. That report has since been retracted. 
Following the news, the Twitter page of Onward State, an online news organization serving the Penn State and State College community, stated: “A Paterno family spokesman has denied our initial report, which was corroborated by multiple sources. We’re working on finding out more.”
CBS then updated its story, saying, “a Paterno family spokesperson Dan McGinn told a New York Times reporter that the report is ‘absolutely not true.'”
Once KnightNews.com saw CBS reporting the initial death report, KnightNews.com also published the report of Paterno’s death, based on the CBS report. KnightNews.com never reported that we independently confirmed Paterno’s death. We provided the link to the CBS report, along with updates of the denials of the death report as they broke. 
According to @ScottPaterno, a Twitter page reported to be run by Paterno’s son, Scott Paterno, the “CBS report is wrong – Dad is alive but in serious condition. We continue to ask for your prayers and privacy during this time.”
Onward State, the publication which initially reported to “break” that they confirmed Paterno was dead, which was then picked up by CBS, issued a tweet apologizing. “We were confident when we ran with it, and are still trying to figure out where our process failed. We apologize sincerely for error,” the Onward State tweet said. 
The managing editor of Onward State later resigned in the fallout of CBS Sports going with their report. 
Paterno has been receiving chemotherapy for lung cancer.
Paterno’s recent weeks followed controversy in the Jerry Sandusky child sex abuse scandal. However, many fans have stood by him.
According to the Huffington Post, Paterno notched 409 wins during the 46 seasons coaching Penn State — the record for a Division I football coach — and led his teams to earn national championships in 1982 and 1986.



Knight News got a chance to speak with Alexander DeLeon of The Cab on the night of their show in Orlando.  Here is what he had to say:
KN: First off, how’s the tour going?
ADL: The Tour’s been amazing, man!  I mean touring is fun as it is, but when you get to tour with your best friends it’s even more fun.  And not only are The Summer Set some of our best friends, but we’re big fans of their new album and their music, and there’s a lot of other good bands on the tour.  He Is We is amazing, Days Difference, Paradise Fears, I mean there’s so many awesome people that it’s just been a blast.
KN: I saw on twitter you went to Disney World.  How was that?
ADL: I went today!  It was a blast!  I try to go every time I come to Orlando, even if I have to lose sleep I try to sneak in and go on a few rides.  It makes me feel normal, cause when you get on tour you get in a routine and it’s like you do the same thing every day.  It’s like same thing, different city.  You know what I mean?  So I just like to kind of feel like a kid, or just feel like… I don’t know.  I just like to have fun!
KN: Both of your albums have been incredibly diverse as far as the type of songs that are on them.  How important do you feel such diversity is for a band?
ADL: I think diversity is super important!  You know when you listen to bands that have an album of 13 of the exact same songs it’s just boring.  It takes away the fun as a listener.  You don’t want to know what to expect in the next song.  If every song sounds the same, how are you calling them an artist?  They’re an artist that draws the same painting over and over again.  And as an artist or musician you want to make it fun, you want to experiment with different sounds, (John Gomez, Guitarist/Vocalist in The Summer Set, says, “You want to get laid.”) and you want to get laid.  And you don’t get laid if you write the same song over and over again. 
KN: There were a ton of co-writes that took place for Symphony Soldier – with only a handful actually making the album – can you talk about how some of those co-writes came together, which were your favorite, and why you picked the ones you did?
ADL: Yeah, I mean Maroon 5 has been one of the biggest influences to The Cab for probably 8 years, ever since the band started.  So that was always just on our dream “to do” list, and we got to do that, which was a dream come true.  Then Bruno Mars was another favorite, and it’s like a no-brainer.  When you write songs with Bruno Mars, you don’t write bad songs, you know what I mean?  Bruno Mars does not write a bad song, so that was obviously making the album.  The song we did with Adam in Maroon 5 turned out amazing.  Then “Bad”, our first single, we did with Martin from Boys Like Girls.  And I think the reason they all turned out so good is because we’re all friends.  We became friends with Bruno, we have been friends with Martin forever, so it’s so easy to get in a room and to write with your friends.  There’s no pressure, there’s no over-thinking it, you’re hanging out and you’re just making music, just doing what you love to do.
KN: Are there any you wish would have made the album, but didn’t?
ADL: Yeah, there’s a few songs in general.  There’s a song called “I’m Gonna Break You” that I wish would have made the album, there’s a song called “Crown” that will be released at some point, a song called “Cool Me Down” that I loved.  We wrote like 200 songs for the album, so there is probably 40 songs that I wish could be released that are just sitting on a shelf somewhere.  They might make it out eventually, or they may just die.  We’ll see!
KN: There were rumors a while back that you were working on a possible collaboration with Justin Timberlake.  How did that come about and is there any update on that idea?
ADL: We run into Justin all the time, and every time we run into him we always talk about it.  But we’re just constantly touring, we tour 9 or 10 months out of the year, and Justin is Justin.  He’s always filming movies or working on music.  The dude is like the most successful guy in the industry, so it’s like he’s busy and we’re busy so it’s just trying to find the right time and the right politics.  It will come together I’m sure some day.  It’s my number one dream, so if that happens then I can die happy.  But we’re huge N Sync fans.  For example, tonight at the show Chris from N Sync is coming out and that on its own, the fact that he is coming to support our band because he is a fan of our band and that I grew up listening to them, it’s just the fact that things come full circle like that is insane.
KN: What was it like working with someone like John Feldmann?
ADL: Feldmann is insane (laughs).  He drinks about twenty cups of coffee a day, doesn’t drink soda, he is a strict vegan, but you would think that the dude is on caffeine and drugs and all the above but he’s not, he’s just naturally insane.  But I think some of the best producers are just naturally insane, like you have to be a little but out of your mind to come up with some of the sounds and some of the ideas that he comes up with.  He’s great because he’s a friend, he knows how to bring out the best in you, and he’ll come to the studio one day and come up with these crazy sounds.  He’ll be like, ‘dude, I just recorded my daughter laughing and I just tweaked it into a sound’, or like ‘dude, my dog was running across the hardwood floor and I recorded his paws scraping and I made it into a percussive loop’ and we’re like ‘Jesus Christ, you’re insane!’ (Laughing) Who thinks to record their dog running across a hardwood floor?  Only Feldmann, and you listen to his albums that he did with The Used and the production is just so unique.  He’s very rock, but he also has pop sensibility, which is what The Cab is.  It’s pop, but it also has that rock, edgy side to it, so Feldmann definitely brought it out and he was a huge part of the record.
KN: Today the music industry lost a huge icon in Etta James.  How do you feel about that?  And being a singer, did Etta James have an influence on your music?
ADL: Of Course!  I mean obviously it’s tragic.  It’s just one of those things in life that happens to everyone, and it’s so sad.  A lot of people our age, or even younger, don’t know who she is.  Some might now because she’s on that new Flo-Rida song “I Got A Good Feeling”.  The thing about Etta James is that not only was she such a good talent and such a good soul, but artists like Adele and Beyoncé, some of the biggest artists in the world right now, Etta James is one of their biggest influences.  So if kids don’t know necessarily Etta James or who she is, they know who she’s created.  It’s like they’re listening to Beyoncé and Adele and it’s like vocally, Beyoncé and Adele wouldn’t be who they were without Etta James.  She just had such a big impact on music and on soul and R&B and all of that in general that it’s a sad day in music.
KN: Well, thank you for your time and I can’t wait for the show tonight!
ADL: No problem, man.  Thanks for coming out!  



As the Everything’s Fine Symphony Soldier tour made its way through Orlando on it’s 9th stop of the tour, I could feel the energy building in The Beacham venue.  The Orlando stop was originally scheduled to be at The Social, but sold out that venue and was moved to The Beacham.  The five-band tour includes headliners The Cab and The Summer Set, as well as He Is We, Days Difference, and Paradise Fears.
Paradise Fears at The Beacham in Orlando, Florida on January 20, 2012 (Ian Roth/KnightNews.com)
Days Difference at The Beacham in Orlando, Florida on January 20, 2012 (Ian Roth/KnightNews.com)
The opening acts (Paradise Fears, Days Difference, and He Is We) immediately felt the love of the crowd.  The energy and applause grew louder with every song from every band.  Out of the three bands that kicked off the show, He Is We stuck out the most to me.  He Is We, an indie pop band signed to Universal Motown Records, had a large crowd show for their performance and seemingly every person in the venue knew the words to their songs.   The high-energy guitarists and smooth vocals of Rachel Taylor really made this band stick out.  Towards the end of their set, Brian Dales, the lead singer of The Summer Set, joined the band to perform a song along side Taylor.
Rachel Taylor of He Is We at The Beacham in Orlando, Florida on January 20, 2012 (Ian Roth/KnightNews.com)
The opening acts were through and it was on to the headliners.  The Summer Set came to the stage with a very fast-paced set, filled with great music.  The band played the majority of the songs off their new album Everything’s Fine.  Following The Summer Set was The Cab, and the building was packed.  When lead singer Alexander DeLeon walked onto the stage, fans erupted with excitement.  The Cab opened up with “Angel With A Shotgun” which is the first song on their newest album Symphony Soldier, released in August of last year.  Mid way through their performance, the band left the stage, except for DeLeon and keyboard/guitarist/vocalist Alex Marshall, and the duo played a short acoustic set including their popular song off their first album Whisper War, titled “Vegas Skies”.  When all was said and done, the band made sure they stuck around after their performance to say hi to all of their fans and show their appreciation for the support.
Brian Dales of The Summer Set and Alexander DeLeon of The Cab at The Beacham in Orlando, Florida on January 20, 2012 (Ian Roth/KnightNews.com)
Overall, every band had a fantastic performance, and I thoroughly enjoyed covering this event.  Everybody be sure to check out all of these great bands, and tell your friends about the Everything’s Fine Symphony Soldier Tour.
The Cab at The Beacham in Orlando, Florida on January 20, 2012 (Ian Roth/KnightNews.com)
Alexander DeLeon of The Cab at The Beacham in Orlando, Florida on January 20, 2012 (Ian Roth/KnightNews.com)
Joey Thunder of The Cab at The Beacham in Orlando, Florida on January 20, 2012 (Ian Roth/KnightNews.com)
Brian Dales and John Gomez of The Summer Set at The Beacham in Orlando, Florida on January 20, 2012 (Ian Roth/KnightNews.com)



