KnightNews.com is following a national tragedy developing out of Colorado, where a mass shooting during the premiere of Dark Knight reportedly claimed 12 lives and injured 58.
The gunman was wearing a mask and caused chaos during the midnight showing of the new Batman movie when he reportedly through a gas canister into the theater before opening fire on those in attendance for the premiere.
The suspected shooter surrendered outside the theater and did not take his own life, unlike other suspects in mass shootings.
KnightNews.com is monitoring the live continuous coverage out of KUSA in Colorado, below:

Children were among the injured in the Aurora, CO movie theater.
ABC News is reporting the shooting suspect is James Holmes, 24, who was apprehended by police in the parking lot of the Century 16 Movie Theaters.
Knightnews.com went around UCF campus to ask some students how they felt about the tragic shooting and if they would be at all apprehensive about going to movie theaters from now on:

President Barack Obama has cancelled his plan trip to Rollins College outside of Orlando following this shooting.
KnightNews.com planned to bring coverage of Obama’s flight to OIA and speech in Winter Park, and received this update from the press pool reporter traveling with the president:
AF1 landed in Ft. Myers at 10:04 a.m. Press Secretary Jay Carney and campaign spox Jen Psaki briefed in flight.
Carney said Obama, briefed by Homeland Sec. adviser John Brennan at 5:26 a.m., got another briefing en route to airport from FBI dir. Mueller, COS Jack Lew and Brennan. He said at aprox 12:30 a.m. mountain time the suspect entered the theater and opened fire on people during premier of The Dark Knight Rises. the incident happened three blocks from local police headquarters and law enforcement response “was immediate.” Obama ordered his adminsiration to do “everything it can to support the people of Aurora in this extraordinarily difficult time.”
Obama spoke with the mayor of Aurora. VP Biden and First Lady Michelle Obama have canceled their events today, Psaki said.
Carney said Obama first wanted to be sure the incident was over and “no more people were in danger,” then he reacted as a parent, Carney said. Carney briefly appeared to choke up at this point.
Carney: “We do not believe at this point there was an apparent nexis to terrorism.”
Carney added that the President called and spoke with Colorado Governor Hickenlooper during motorcade from airport.
Psaki added: We have asked affiliates to pull down our contrast advertising for the time being. It takes time for stations to be able to do this, but we are making every effort.
Contrast ads are more commonly known as political attack ads, used by both sides in this presidential race.
The White House itself also released the following statement to KnightNews.com this morning:
“Michelle and I are shocked and saddened by the horrific and tragic shooting in Colorado. Federal and local law enforcement are still responding, and my Administration will do everything that we can to support the people of Aurora in this extraordinarily difficult time. We are committed to bringing whoever was responsible to justice, ensuring the safety of our people, and caring for those who have been wounded. As we do when confronted by moments of darkness and challenge, we must now come together as one American family. All of us must have the people of Aurora in our thoughts and prayers as they confront the loss of family, friends, and neighbors, and we must stand together with them in the challenging hours and days to come.”
KnightNews.com will continue following this major national story and bring updates as we get them.



UCF researcher, Kevin Stevenson, was not prepared to discover something of this magnitude.
“The discovery was completely by accident,” Stevenson said in a telephone interview with ABC News, “there were these spurious signals we could not explain.” This led to the discovery of UCF-1.01,  a new planet 33 light-years away in the Leo the Lion constellation.
Since 1995, over 700 planets have been discovered, although UCF-1.01 is unique because it is only two-thirds the size of Earth. A discovery this small, and that far away can open up a plethora of new discoveries, being that most planets discovered have been closer to the size of Jupiter.
Stevenson and his partners found the planet using a NASA ultra strong telescope called the Spitzer space telescope. They spent an entire year observing the planet before they could confirm that it was indeed a distant planet.
Stevenson said in an interview with the Daily News, “Initially we thought it was GJ 436b occurring at the wrong time. Once we realized that this wasn’t the case, we started speculating as to what that could be.” He went on and realized, “This has to be a planet there’s just no other explanation for it.
According to their studies, they’ve concluded that UCF-1.01 would not be a habitable zone.
Knightnews.com will update you with any more breaking news from this story.
 



