“What are you doing for spring break?” Is a question we’ve all been hearing for the past few weeks here at UCF. Spring break 2012 should be a wild one as students plan to take their festivities to well known party cities in Florida and off the coast. Here’s a rundown of some of the most popular places to go this year.
Panama City Beach

This is the most popular destination for college students in Florida. It attracts tons of students from UCF, UF and FSU each year, and for good reasons. For one, the beaches are truly beautiful. On top of that, Panama City goers rage to no end. They enjoy concerts, massive beachside parties, and hitting up the many local bars and clubs at night. Last year, celebrities from the cast of Jersey Shore and The Real World and music artists like LMFAO and Roscoe Dash even showed up to party here.
Cruises to the Caribbean and Mexico

Another very popular option students are taking this year: cruises. With group rates and vacation packages available, it’s not too hard to find a cruise that fits a student’s price range. It’s obvious what goes on during these three to six day excursions: drinking, partying, good eats, and relaxation.
Cancun

Cancun is still a top choice for college students during spring break. If you want to spend your time partying it up on some of the most stunning beaches in the world, this is the place to go. Much like Panama City, there will be all out ragers by the beach and the pool that feature guest DJ’s and contests. At night, students will enjoy Cancun’s world renowned club scene. It gets crazy, and the clubs often stay open until the sun comes up. Oh, and the big kicker here? the drinking age is 18!
Miami and South Florida

Since a lot of Floridian college students hail from South Florida, many have decided to head home this spring break. But that doesn’t mean they won’t have any fun. The party scene in Miami tends to get pretty exciting during this time of year. Not only will partying on the beach be awesome (drinking is allowed) but the famous South Beach nightlife will be in full swing. DJ’s from all over the world will be heading to Miami this year to perform. The only place in south FL you’ll want to avoid is Fort Lauderdale. According to this article and some unhappy spring breakers over the past few years, Fort Lauderdale isn’t the college spring break destination it used to be.



