Click Here to view a full game recap from the Knights win agaisnt East Carolina.
Pictures can be viewed here.



Thursday featured the UCF Knights conference opener in what is most likely the final meeting against rival ECU with the Knights move to the Big East next season.
The Knights were coming off a 21-16 loss in their first ever meeting with the Missouri Tigers last weekend and look to get a win during this short week against a conference foe.
Quincy McDuffie answered back with a 99-yard kickoff return for a touchdown to draw the Knights within seven. Both teams combined to score 14 points in a span of 25 seconds and the quarter ended with the Knights knocking on the door to tie the game up.
“It was a good win, a good first conference win. I think all three areas: offense, defense and special teams had something to do with the win. It was special teams that gave us the spark with the 99-yard touchdown return and the next punt return by Worton,” said coach George O’Leary.
The kickoff return could not have come at a better time with a Pirates team seizing control of all momentum things looked like they could get out of hand fast. McDuffie’s return was a break that Coach O’Leary said came at the right time to uplift the sidelines.
After the touchdown it seemed like Brighthouse and the Knights came alive. Storm Johnson was able to punch in his third touchdown of the season to tie the game up at 14. The Knights would follow it up with a strong defensive stand resulting in an interception which set up a field goal to give UCF their first lead of the game.
Towards the end of the half, the Knights would tack on another field goal to take a 20-14 lead. Despite the shaky start, the Knights ended on a 20-3 run dating back to the 6:09 mark in the first quarter taking a 20-17 lead into the locker room.
Starting out the second half, the Knights continued their inability to finish as they punched in another field goal to make it 23-17. ECU would respond with a field goal of their own to remain within three.
The Knights would quickly strike back with a 64-yard touchdown pass to Quincy McDuffie finally creating a cushion between the rivals. There would be no letup as UCF would add on another touchdown to go up 37-20 and sink the proverbially dagger into the Pirates.
Despite a poor showing to convert in the red zone, the Knights looked sharp in the second half and were able to create distance between them and their conference rivals.
UCF would eventually double up the Pirates 40-20 to move to 3-2(1-0) and the inside track to a East Division crown.
The Pirates ended their conference rivalry going 9-3 all-time against the Knights as they have played annually after UCF’s move to C-USA in 2005. ECU came into the game 3-2(2-0) after defeating UTEP the week before and now move into third place
The Knights take the field again next Saturday against a win-less Southern Mississippi Golden Eagles team to conclude their four game home stand in which they look to go 3-1 on and come out with a division lead.
Anthony Scalco



View photos from Thursday night’s game against East Carolina. The final score was 40-20, UCF. See the full UCF vs. ECU recap here. 



If one enjoys epic laser lights, a legit city theme, party atmosphere and drums/bass intense enough to vibrate the entire body, then Pretty Lights is the place to be.
Derek Vincent Smith, founder of Pretty Lights, takes previously existing songs or makes his own mix by adding drums, deep bass, and occasional rapping intertwined. Using a variety of software programs and Macbook Pros to do so, he creates music with a hip-hop/synthesizer vibe—in short, electronic music. Maybe if the music wasn’t so loud and the beer/smoking smells weren’t so malodorous, one could better listen to the quality of the music at his live performance Wednesday night.
However, the whole theme of the concert was partying, so many didn’t care as much about the tone or quality of the music as they did a good beat to grind to.
The two openers to Pretty Lights were SuperVision and 12th Planet, the former of which seemed inexperienced as compared to the latter. The crowd got significantly wilder with screaming and hands waving to the variety of remixes by 12th Planet.
Very danceable music, SuperVision started off the night with some fun clip-its of “Back to the Future” quotes mixed into his sample beats. Other common sounds in his mixes included jazz piano, light savers, piccolo sounds, and high-pitched chipmunk-sounding voices. The foundation of basically the entirety of every performance at Pretty Lights Wednesday was drums.
12th Planet began with more powerful orchestra sounds, accompanied by haunting echoes similar to the Harry Potter theme. He also got a lot more of the crowd involved, having them scream the words “burst” and “swag” at random moments. People were singing, and getting more hyped than ever.
The moment everyone was waiting for finally arrived after a five-minute countdown, and Pretty Lights showed up with green flashes all around him along with his “Phantom of the Opera” remix. Remarkable red and light laser beams filled the arena, along with a recreation of a city on stage (with LED lights), and slideshows of the city of Chicago above the DJ.
By Pretty Lights’ official arrival at 10pm, the entire floor was filled with young college partiers, jamming out to the ghetto rap music the DJ had to offer.
The freestyle music was intense, to say the least, and Smith is not the first of his kind—however, his remixes are catchy and he has fans, which is enough, regardless of uniqueness or creativity. Some may prefer listening to the recorded versions if they want to keep their hearing and avoid deafness, or simply do not prefer the chaotic drunk-party atmosphere.
Click here to view photos of the event.
 



