As KnightNews.com works to find out how much the state plans on cutting the budget at UCF, it’s already been made clear that UCF won’t suffer nearly as big of a cut as the 60 percent slashing planned for USF. 
After KnightNews.com published news of USF’s proposed cut, some UCF students even defended their rival to the west on the KnightNews.com Facebook page. 
Regardless of whether we like USF, they are still fellow students, and in the end, they will be the ones that pay,” UCF student
Matthew Chesney posted‎. “This is not a good thing.”
The College Democrats at USF told KnightNews.com that they are joining the “outraged” students in condeming the budget proposed by Sen. J.D. Alexander, who is already in a bitter dispute with USF over whether its Polytechnic campus in Lakeland should become independent. 
Check back to KnightNews.com as we turn our focus onto the battle for the state’s limited budget, and monitor how higher education across the state and at UCF will fare.

See the press release we got from the USF College Democrats below:
College Democrats Join Outraged Students in Condemning Alexander Budget
USF Students Under Attack By Tallahassee
In a move which has inspired outrage and astonishment across the University of South
Florida’s student body, the Florida Legislature has announced a budget which could cut as much
as $104 million from USF’s Tampa campus alone, amounting to a 60% budget reduction, in a
move related to recent controversies over a possible USF-USF Polytechnic split. Senate leaders
are allowing their own petty squabbles about the USF Polytechnic campus to harm the school, to
harm the students, and to harm the very ideals of higher education and self-advancement that our
state depends on for its future.
The students of USF were scarcely able to heave a sigh of collective release after hearing
the governor’s opposition to proposed tuition hikes before being hit with the news of a $100
million dollar funding cut- a cut that will certainly necessitate draconian tuition increases. This is
yet another in a series of attacks on higher education led by the state legislature. From
privatization efforts to unsustainable tuition increases, there has been little effort to help those
who will soon be taking responsibility for this state’s future. With last week’s allocation of all
$55 million in school construction and maintenance funding to private contractors, it is clear that
lobbyists and bureaucrats have taken control of what should be the state’s most closely guarded
issue.
All through this year’s legislative session students have traveled to Tallahassee to make
their pleas heard, and to fight for these vital institutions. The College Democrats at USF have
joined these efforts, and will continue to fight against attempts to destroy this state’s education
system. We intend to do all we can to work and support further efforts by students, faculty,
and the USF administration to combat these budget cuts. All persons, regardless of political
affiliation, are strongly encouraged to contact us for further information on how they can help
make a difference.
The College Democrats at USF meet every Thursday in MSC 2706 at 7:30pm.
Additional information about the club, and contact information can be found at : http://
collegedems.democratsusf.org/ .



Over the weekend, the Chi Omega sorority chapter at UCF helped raise money for the Make-A-Wish Foundation. 
The fourth annual 5k race, named Race Love Wish, was part of the sorority’s spring philanthropy. 
“Every year we raise around $10,000,” Alejandra Delgado told KnightNews.com, adding that the sorority hoped to raise even more this year.

Based on the photos Chi O shared on social media sites, it looks like they had a good chance to hit their goal. 
Chi O recruited sponsors to help with the event, including Huey Magoos, Planet Smoothie, Jeremiah’s, UCF campus representative for Pink! and Southern Tide. 



The University of Central Florida’s rival to the west, the University of South Florida, is in somewhat of a panic mode right now. 
USF’s budget would be slashed by nearly 60 percent, under a plan proposed by Senator J.D. Alexander. 
The State University System as a whole is suffering a big cut, but USF officials told the Tampa Bay Times the budget seems “to single out USF, which is being asked to absorb about 20 percent of the cuts to the entire university system.”
USF says its cuts are worse than other state schools. 
While USF is facing a nearly 60 percent cut,  the University of Florida is only facing a 26 percent slashing, while FSU is only facing a 22 percent cut, USF told the Times. 
KnightNews.com is working to find out how much UCF’s budget may be slashed, and whether UCF will stand to benefit from USF taking on more of the burden. 
Watch the video from NBC NewsChannel 8 in Tampa for more details:

USF President Judy Genshaft, who previously drew fury from UCF Knights for trying to block UCF’s entrance into the Big East, before ultimately helping UCF enter, held an emergency meeting over the issue yesterday. USF supporters suggest USF is being targeted because it is resisting Sen. Alexander’s push to grant USF’s Polk County Polytechnic campus independence as its own university. 
KnightNews.com will monitor the situation and post updates on how this higher education funding battle could impact UCF.



