Outraged students took to the microphone at UCF’s open forum on Tuesday to display the growing gap between the student body and the officials in charge of the school.

In the wake of a 15% tuition hike earlier this year, students argue against the necessity of a salary increase for UCF President John C. Hitt. Reports put President Hitt at 9th among highest paid university presidents in the nation. A vote to increase his salary would likely give his base pay an extra $26,000 annually. Hitt also reportedly enjoys other incentives included in his total compensation package.
President Hitt did not answer questions regarding UCF’s plans to give him a raise at the open forum, but Vice President Bill Merck stated that President Hitt deserves the salary increase because of his great efforts at UCF.
“You’ve got one of the top presidents in the country here at UCF, Dr. Hitt, I’ve not seen anybody that’s done a better job for their university than he has,” said Merck.
Merck also discussed the need for a tuition hike amid budget cuts, essentially concluding that in order to sustain quality education among state budget reductions, tuition needs to be increased.
“You come here for a quality experience, we want to make sure you get it; we cant do it without raising tuition if the state continues to decrease the funding,” Merck said.
SGA President Cortez Whatley serves on the UCF Board of Trustees and will be one of the voting members on President Hitt’s salary increase at the upcoming meeting.
Curtis Hierro, a graduate student at UCF, went to the forum to discuss his disdain for what he considers the lack of true representation of the student body by school leaders. He also believes Whatley should vote against the salary increase, especially after having voted to raise student tuition only the maximum 15% possible.
“If he is going to sit there and vote to increase President Hitt’s salary that would be a slap in the face to the entire student body,” he says.
Florida Governor Rick Scott is scheduled to meet Wednesday, November 7, in Sarasota with the Florida Board of Governors who oversee Florida universities to discuss his stance against tuition hikes.
We will have more on this meeting later this week. Continue to check back for updates.



Modern day slavery is a hard issue to talk about, and seems like the sort of thing you want to turn away from, says Corban Addison, author, lawyer and human rights activist.
There are 22 to 32 million sex and labor slaves in the developing world, and developed world, including the United States.
Understanding human trafficking as the fastest growing industry due to challenge of demand and challenge of priority can hopefully cause a cultural revolution, said Addison, in an open forum on Thursday in the Cape Florida Ballroom at the Student Union.
“The whole story is supply, distribution and demand, someone is willing to pay for this product, in this case, humans,” Addison said.
The open forum was sponsored by the UCF Global Perspectives Office and is part of the 2012-2013 theme “The Changing Face of Freedom in Today’s Turbulent Times”.
Addison is the author of the novel titled A Walk Across the Sun a cultural story based in India with a fictional account of the horrors of modern day slavery.
“My awakening came in a number of stages,” Addison said. After watching the 2007 film Trade with Kevin Cleine about young teens bound in the ugly world of sex trafficking, Addison realized, “these kids are not fundamentally different from my own.”
Addison visited India, Europe and Washington D.C to witness and research the global trade. In Mumbai he went undercover to brothels to hear the victims stories.
“Slavery has a human face, they’re not just statistics and stories,” Addison said. He continues by saying that average age of entry in sex trafficking is 13 to 15, including the United States.
“Reality is, billions of dollars are coming from the buyers,” Addison said, addressing the challenge of demand by “ordinary American men, people who look like me”.
Addison says it is not just the criminals fueling the industry, but all people stating, “we are the solution”.
He also said that challenging priority is just as important to ending human trafficking.
“We spend more money, annually on outfitting our military marching band, more money is spent in one month on the war against drugs, than we have ever spent on rescuing our children or other people in our own shores and around the world,” Addison said.
Addison hopes to educate others, and for others to pass on their knowledge with the effort to eventually rid the world of human trafficking.
“I want to see more awareness, because like he said, it’s a big underground community that is in this fight that is behind this veil curtain, so to speak, so you don’t really know about it, and I didn’t really know about it until I was 20 years old,” said Geoffery McDole, criminal justice student and an intern with International Justice Mission and component for fighting human trafficking since reading the manuscript for A Walk Across the Sun.
International Justice Mission was one of Addison’s bases for his novel.
“One of my big issues is comprehensive immigration reform, and I think this ties into that because a good portion of the human trafficking are immigrants, often times undocumented, this is an important issue for me, and I hope to be part of the solution,” said Melissa McGuire-Maniau, immigration reform activist, undergraduate in international affairs at Rollins College.



