The long anticipated opening of The Station will be on October 16th, which is a soft opening to the general public, according to sources within the Evolve group. Sources also say the full grand opening will be a Halloween themed party on October 31. These dates have not been confirmed by The Station owners, however.
According to Mikey Stylez, the owner, the interior of The Station is looking like “a million bucks” with a $2,000 party machine, granite countertops, an empire state building and stop light structure, LED lights around the bar, and a stage with haze machines.
The Station will be serving mojitos, martinis, tropical drinks, and freshly blended frozen drinks, setting it apart from the competing UCF bars. An initial concern of these drinks specials is whether or not the newly hired bartenders would be experienced enough to successfully serve these drinks.
Stylez told us, “Bartenders are going to be professionally trained by a representative from Barcardi. The entire business is extremely professional from the bottom up and it is being planned to turn into a franchise,” Stylez said.
Bacardi, Grey Goose, Heineken and Red Bull are heavily involved as sponsors for The Station.
Another beneficial aspect of The Station is that Stylez will be able to incorporate his entertainment company, Evolve Group, to the success of the business. Evolve Group’s mission is to “evolve the entertainment industry in the state of Florida” and the team plans to execute this same mission at The Station.
“We are excited about being able to utilize our venue for The Station as a means of bringing in national talent, which no other bar in the city can do,” manager Matt Denuzzo said.
Knightnews.com will have a video tour of The Station on Friday, September 14th.



“The University of Central Florida remained one of the nation’s top 5 “up-and-comer” schools while advancing in the overall U.S. News & World Report best colleges rankings released today”, a UCF report said.
All of UCF’s advancements in academics, building, student life and campus activities has allowed the school to be listed as number five on the nation’s list of most “up and coming schools.” UCF is the only school in Florida to be on this list.
UCF also ranked within the top 100 for top public schools in the nation.
“UCF’s continued advancement in the rankings during a period of severe state budget cuts is a testament to our hard-working staff and faculty members,” said UCF spokesman Grant J. Heston. “Their dedication enables us to provide our students with a high-quality education and opportunities that prepare them for a lifetime of success.”
UCF continues to grow in terms of student size, campus size and tradition value. In terms of academics, the school has been rated as having some of the best programs in the nation with colleges such as Education and Optics and Photonics.
With the new recognition however, it becomes increasingly difficult to get into the school. In the past ten years alone, SAT scores of incoming freshmen has increased 77 points to an average of 1244.
At just over 60,000 students, UCF will continue to break records and remain a top school to attend in the United States.



Universal Orlando’s most popular Halloween event is back, and this year Halloween Horror Nights includes a theme based on the popular AMC show The Walking Dead.

The HHN event runs on select nights from September 21 – October 31, where the Universal Studios Florida theme park “transforms to become the nation’s premiere Halloween event.”
Other attractions Universal is promoting for the Halloween Horror Nights event include a spot where you can “face your demons in the demented nightmare of Alice Cooper, get nuked in a magic trick by Penn & Teller gone horrifically wrong, and enter the next dimension of terror in Silent Hill.”
There’s also live shows and new scare zones. Click the banner below the video to check out ticket prices and deals.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mcfEJRh4RAQ
Check out Halloween Horror Nights ticket prices and Universal deals by clicking below:



KnightNews.com is monitoring the live video feed of the Board of Governors meeting, provided by the State of Florida. Check the video out over the next two days below, and read the agenda here. 
UCF SGA President Cortez Whatley is scheduled to attend this meeting. It’s the BOG’s first major meeting since the body’s controversial approval of maximum tuition hikes for several universities — including UCF — despite strong opposition from Fla. Gov. Rick Scott, and many parents and students.
 
Whatley argued for the hikes, saying they were needed in the wake of budget cuts to the university. State lawmakers, however, had argued that UCF’s reserves could have been used instead of the budget cuts.
Click on the next page below to read the portion of the minutes showing how UCF’s maximum tuition hike went down, including who supported and opposed it each time. 



