Knightnews.com had the opportunity to interview one of the most popular Youtube celebrities, Jimmy Tatro. Famous for many videos like his ‘Frat Life’ video and his Total Frat Move videos like ‘S*** Frat Guys Say’.
Tatro attends the University of Arizona and has reached over a million views on many of his videos. Knightnews.com asked him about college, his videos, and even the possibility of him someday taking over for UCF’s alumni Daniel Tosh.
Jake Rakoci: The original Frat Life video was your first big hit, when did you realize that you might be on to something big?
Jimmy Tatro: Well my freshman year when I started composing all of the quotes for the video I had a feeling it would get pretty big just based off of how funny I knew that video would be, so I thought it would be a great opportunity to get my youtube channel started.
Jake Rakoci: Have you been making videos your entire life? Or was it more of a spontaneous thing when you got to college?
Jimmy Tatro: I’ve pretty much been making videos my entire life. They probably started when I was around 9 or 10 and I used to make skate videos with my friends back when I was convinced that if I didn’t make it to the NBA I would be forced to become a professional skateboarder. After those, me and my buddies used to just make dumb videos of little sketches and stuff like that, but I didn’t actually learn to start making quality videos until high school. I took a TV Production class and taught myself how to use Final Cut Pro and I haven’t stopped making videos since. I used to be on the school tv show at my high school and all I wanted to do was make funny videos and funny news stories. My TV Production teacher however, was under the impression that the school wanted to see a serious news show so she hated me because all I did was make funny videos. It was extremely frustrating to have the videos but not have an outlet to show everyone my funny videos. That’s why I like youtube so much, I can do whatever the hell I want.
Jake Rakoci: Many of your videos have over 500k views, which one is your personal favorite? 
Jimmy Tatro: I’d have to say my personal favorite is either “Lemme Holla” or “How to Start a Bro Fight”. Lemme Holla was done back when I was still filming on a Flip camera so the quality of the video isn’t as good but I think it’s the funniest. How to Start a Bro Fight is just so accurate, and anyone who has been to a douche infested high school or college party knows exactly what I’m talking about haha.
Jake Rakoci: Talking about quotes from your videos, which is the one you hear the most?
Jimmy Tatro: “Make a video about it!” That one got old after like the first week
Jake Rakoci: You’re obviously involved in Greek Life at your school, why did you choose to rush Pike?
Jimmy Tatro: I’m actually not in Pike haha, I’m in Pi Kappa Phi. I rushed mainly because all my friends who had already been attending UofA told me that was the only way to go so I thought I’d check it out. Also a bunch of my good friends told me they were rushing so I thought it might be more than what I thought it was. Before I joined a fraternity, I could not have been more opposed to it, I thought it would just be paying to hang out with a bunch of cocky meatheads, but once I checked it out and met the guys who are now some of my best friends, I realized there’s a lot more to it than that, and it’s probably one of the most fun experiences I’ve had. Every fraternity has their cocky meatheads though, they’re quite entertaining people.
Jake Rakoci: Do you think you have to be Greek to have a good time in college?
Jimmy Tatro: Well, I’ve been in greek life pretty much since I’ve been in college so I don’t really know any other way to go but you can definitely have a good time in college no matter what you’re involved in, you just gotta be involved in something. But I will say greek life is definitely a one of a kind opportunity that gives you experiences that you really can’t get anywhere else and that’s what I appreciate about it.
Jake Rakoci: Rumor has it that you may take over for Tosh.o, is any of this true?
Jimmy Tatro: Not that I’ve heard of but i’d definitely be down.
Jake Rakoci: Finally, I have to ask this question. What is your chill-to-pull ratio?
Jimmy Tatro: Only McCoy knows.



In case you missed it, check out specs and highlights from the 2012 NBA Allstar Weekend here in Orlando!
NBA ALLSTAR DUNK CONTEST
Winner: Jeremy Evans

NBA ALLSTAR GAME
Final Score: EAST 149 – WEST 152
MVP: Kevin Durant 36 points and 7 rebounds
Game Highlights

Halftime Show:




A new restaurant may soon replace El Corral, the iconic chicken place that drew students to its humble store right across from UCF.

KnightNews.com shot a picture over the weekend of a new sign posted on El Corral’s door. The sign says “Sage Leaves Mediterranean Cuisine.”
KnightNews.com checked with the Florida state licensing office, which confirms Sage Leaves has its “application in progress” at the address of  3900 N. Alafaya Trail in Orlando. 
KnightNews.com will work to get more information on what students can expect from this apparent El Corral replacement, and then ask students how it measures up. 



A South Florida college student is suing Palm Beach State College for his money back, after the student says a class he paid for didn’t live up to expectations. 
According to the Palm Beach Post, Michael Price wants a $532 refund for a 2009 computer certification course because the instructor’s syllabus promised 100 hours of classroom instruction, but he was only given about half that amount. 
“The school promised 100 hours (of classroom instruction) and they failed to provide that,” Henry Kaye, Price’s attorney, told the Post, adding he believes the case will go to trial soon because PBSC refused to settle out of court for $400.
Price also accused his teacher of often being late to class and teaching on an outdated Windows 98 computer program. 
PBSC refused to give Price his money back, because that’s not allowed when students complete a course, the Post reported. 
Kaye told the Post PBSC is taking such a tough stance because it insists students don’t have the right to sue for educational malpractice. 
PBSC refused to comment to the Post, and referred questions to its Miami-based attorney, which couldn’t answer the paper’s questions either, citing the attorney was out of town. It’s not clear why the firm didn’t call the attorney on his cell phone or get him in touch with the reporter over email. 
Price told the Post he estimated he’s spent $2,500 on legal fees so far associated with the case. It’s not clear how much PBSC has paid. 



The Daytona 500 has been postponed for the first time in history, thanks to rain, according to multiple reports. The new start time will be 7 p.m. Monday. Originally it was rescheduled for noon, but that start time was pushed back to 7 p.m. on Monday morning. 
“Due to the inclement weather and the weather in the forecast for this evening, the 54th annual Daytona 500 has been postponed…” NASCAR spokesman Kerry Tharp told the Daytona Beach News Journal. 
KnightNews.com is continuing to follow the weather and the race, so check back to see if there are any further changes to the Monday time.





