CNN will be live at UCF tonight following the presidential debate to interview student voters and get reactions of students having watched the debate.
A group of student voters selected by CNN will watch the debate at Ferrell Commons from 9-10:30pm. Following the debate, CNN anchor Soledad O’Brien will be on campus talking with these voters about their perspectives of the performances by Barack Obama and Mitt Romney.
This is the final presidential debate between Barack Obama and Mitt Romney. Tonight’s topic for the debate will be foreign policy.
For more information on the debate, click here.



The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is currently investigating a report that five deaths are linked to the popular Monster Energy drink, according to the Associated Press.
AP says the FDA is investigating reports that date back to 2004 that say the drink had “adverse affects” on people which may have related to their death. At this time, the lawsuit and all accusations are merely allegations, but the FDA will continue to look into the matter.
The report emerged following a request by the mother of a 14-year-old Maryland girl who died in December from heart problems after drinking Monster Energy on two consecutive days, said the  She claimed that the drink company failed to warn consumers about the adverse effects the highly caffeinated drink can have on people.
The Maryland girl, Anais Fournier, drank  two Monster Energy beverages that contained a combined 480 milligrams of caffeine, equivalent to 14 12-oz. cans of Coca-Cola, according to the lawsuit filed by Wendy Crossland and Richard Fournier in California Superior Court on Oct. 17.
Monster fell 14 percent to $45.73 at the close of New York trading.



Students enjoying “Music Monday” in the Student Union heard more than the familiar sounds of the Union’s piano, thanks to the Student Opera Club.
About 15 members of the club surprised unsuspecting students with a flash mob, performing their rendition of “Libiamo ne’ lieti calici”, from the opera “La Traviata.”
“The Student Opera Club has always kind of existed but no one has ever done anything with it,” President of the Student Opera Club Daniel Johanson said. Johanson helped organize the flash mob because he wanted to make the school aware that the Student Opera Club exists while showing that opera is not highbrow or elitist.
“I’ve been doing opera for a while and a common stereotype is a certain kind of person is in to it,” Johanson said. “I want to make opera more accessible.”
The performance was about four minutes long and featured 8 solos, all singing the famous Italian melody. The Student Opera Club has been planning the event throughout the semester at their meetings, which occur twice a week. The organization has about 32 members, and to adapt to music majors’ busy schedules they meet on Mondays at 2 p.m. and Thursdays at 3 p.m. in room M16 of the music building.
“A lot of music majors are very busy so it’s hard to get everyone’s schedule together,” Johanson said. Johanson is taking just nine credit hours this semester, however he is constantly busy between taking classes, leading the Opera club, and singing in both the Florida Opera Theater and at local churches. Vice President India Holoman, a music performance major, also adheres to a busy schedule, but she says her dedication to music is a labor of love.
“I love this major. I don’t think I’ve ever been this happy in school,” she said. Holoman said that operas have exciting plotlines that students may find entertaining. “When I tell people I sing classical music they say, ‘what?’” Holoman said. “I don’t think people realize opera can be very, very funny.” 
It is also intense. Holoman referenced the opera “Don Giovanni”, which begins with the title character raping a woman and killing her father, all in the first scene. These plotlines may be hard to pick up on when performed in Italian, and Opera students take Italian and diction courses to learn to properly sing the language.
For Tamra Pristou-Globokar, the self-described “super-senior” prefers to keep her interest in music as a hobby. Pristou-Globokar is a digital media major who joined the club this semester.
“It’s the flash mob that got me into the club,” she said. Pristou-Globokar played the trumpet for the UCF Marching Knights for four years, but after leaving the band she joined the opera club to indulge her interest in music. Nickolaus Hofmann, a music education major, also fulfills his interest in opera music, which he considers beautiful singing. Hofmann recommends that students use music applications like Spotify to listen to classical music.
“They get scared by it,” Hofmann said. “If people are more brave they can give it a chance.”




There are 212 definitions of terrorism, but most can agree that terrorism is the use of violence to create fear for political purposes, says Dr. Jonathon Matusitz, Associate Professor at the Nicholson School of Communication and author of “Terrorism and Communication: A Critical Introduction”.
It is important to understand the role of traditional media, new media, symbolism and the messages behind terrorism, Matusitz said Thursday in a presentation to a room of 60 people in the Teaching Academy.
“Terrorism, is an indescribable enemy, it’s a war without frontlines, and its based on asymmetrical warfare, you don’t know your enemy. It’s a weaker group against bigger group- the government,” Matusitz said.
Matusitz uses his text Terrorism and Communication: A Critical Introduction to teach a terrorism and communication course at the University of Central Florida, which is one of the few classes offered across the nation. He is originally from Belgium, and moved to the United States in 2000, and earned his Ph.D. at the University of Oklahoma in 2006. He has 95 academic publications, has done over 100 conference presentations, and taught at a NATO-affiliated military base in Belgium in 2010.
Terrorism, he said, “is all about communication, you’re just making a statement, right? This is who we are.”
The practice of terrorism is 3000 years old; originally it was called regicide, referring to the assassination of kings. However, the very first terrorist groups based on the Quran were called assassins, derived from the Arabic word Hashishin or users of hashish.
Old terrorism, he said, was very discriminate, they believed no innocent civilian should die, like the IRA, Irish Republican Army. But new terrorism is indiscriminate, and Al Qaeda is the epitome of new terrorism.
Matusitz defined four waves of terrorism: first wave took place before the 1920s consisting of dynamite assassinations; the second wave was from the 1920s to the 1960s, the third wave is from the 1960s to 2000 when hijacking began to occur, and the fourth wave propelled by Al Qaeda.
“The $64 question: what causes terrorism,” Matusitz asked.
Religion, he said, is the number one cause, “the leader of the 9/11 hijackers was Egyptian, and he had the Quran in his suitcase that they found in the debris. Suicide bombers read versus from the Quran before going on a killing spree.”
Other causes he listed are: oppression and humiliation, historical grievances, violation of international law, relative deprivation, hatred of global empowerment—“in Pakistan KFC gets blown up everywhere” — financial gain, racism, supporting sympathizers, narcissm, sensation seeking, failure of conventional channels of communication, communication and publicity.
Terrorism, he said, as a communication process is achieved through social noise, signature method and as a conduit metaphor.
“Every terrorist group has its own way of communication, their operation, so that you can recognize it, and they like it,” Matusitz said.
An example of the signature method was the beheading of the Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl by Al Qaeda, he said, it is based on the Quran chapter 47 verse four.
A conduit metaphor is the use of media as “a channel to air grievances”.
Matusitz said, the Tehran Embassy hostage crisis in 1979 gave birth to CNN with Night Life, because they talked about it 50 percent of the time, it was free publicity for Shiite Muslims.
On September 11, 2001, three billion people were watching, he said, “ it was the most watched incident in world history, more than the world soccer cup, and the Olympic games combined.”
Matusitz addressed new media, and how terrorist groups “exploit Internet and social networking sites to publicize their goals and objectives.”
He showed visuals from Al Qaeda online magazines catered to men who speak English to inspire how to make a bomb.
“It’s almost like the 12 steps of weight loss of south beach, but you have the 12 steps of how to make a bomb in your kitchen, apparently its very easy,” Matusitz said.
Another visual was catered toward women, “how to marry a suicide bomber”.
Matusitz also described the concept of understanding symbolism.
“Unless you know your enemy, you won’t get it, principle of warfare ‘know thy enemy’,” Matusitz said.
He counted the 911 days from March 11, 2004, an attack by Al Qaeda from Morocco in Madrid, Spain, and September 11, 2001.



UPDATE The project now has all the team members necessary.
UCF students take great pride in their community service work, whether it is providing food for the homeless, giving gifts to underprivileged families during the holidays or even playing a game of bingo with the local shelter.
So it comes to no surprise that one UCF student has plans to open the transparency of charitable donations and provide students with an easier access to donate.
Erica Tuttle, a UCF student, has been collaborating on a project she envisioned being brought to UCF’s student union. Named the “Donation Station,” the idea is simple: an interactive kiosk where students and faculty can donate to established charities around the world. 
The donation station will provide an easy to use system where people can make a  $5+ donation (which will be tax deductible) to a charity of their choice. After donating, a photo of an individual that has been helped by the selected charity will be printed out. The photos will be taken by social workers affiliated with each cause  and will portray the beneficiaries smiling or making goofy faces. After receiving their print out donators will be able to take an optional photo and write an encouraging message back to the individuals being helped. 
The project is hoping to reach out to students looking to help in order to make it happen. 
“The machine has yet to be built and is still in its infancy so any students willing to join the team will have a major impact in its creation,” Tuttle says. The project is on hold until $2900 can be raised, which pays for the cost of the machine and shipping to Florida. 
Please contact Erica Tuttle at Ericatuttle428@gmail.com if you have any suggestions or would like to get involved.



