We have received reports that Knight Library will have their grand opening night on November 28th at their new location on University boulevard next to Buffalo Wild Wings.
Knight Library will continue with their popular Riot Wednesdays, as the grand opening will fall on a Riot Wednesday. The first 500 customers at the door will receive a Knight Library T-shirt, commemorating the first night open at the new location.
Knightnews.com has also found out that Knight Library will be open to the public November 21st thru 27th, although the grand opening kickoff will remain set for the 28th.
Most recently, Knight Library and Knightnews.com teamed up for a Spring Break photo contest and Knightnews.com was allowed to film inside the St.Patty’s Day Block party. We are unsure if Knight Library will be hosting another block party in 2013 at the new location.
Check back to Knightnews.com for any more information regarding this story.



The War on I-4 is  going to be a annual contest, as the Big East officially announced the division structure for the new-look conference on Tuesday.
UCF and USF are both in the East division along with Cincinnati, Connecticut, Louisville and Rutgers. The West division will consist of Boise State, Houston, Memphis, San Diego State, SMU, and Temple.
These divisions are not set in stone for the long term, however. An ESPN report speculated that once Navy joins the Big East in 2015, the divisions will change again promoting cross-geographic play. The report has UCF and USF joining different divisions, but the annual contest between the two would remain.
In 2013, UCF will play eight conference games and four non-conference games. Five of those games will be against conference rivals, including the USF Bulls and Rutgers Scarlet Knights. For non-conference games the Knights will face Akron, FIU, Bethune-Cookman, and South Carolina, respectively.
The Knights have their next game against the Tulsa Golden Hurricanes at noon on Saturday, November 17th. This is a key matchup for the Knights being that UCF and Tulsa have the two best records in Conference USA.



A recent video posted on YouTube has been drawing a myriad of “overzealous” comments and responses due to the content of the video and similarities to Rebecca Black’s “Friday.”

With comments posted on YouTube such as “Must﻿ be the same people responsible for Rebecca Black…” and “New rebecca black…. i agree,” the video is drawing massive amounts of negative feedback after only being released for less than a week.
The singer, Nicole Westbrook, has become a viral hit with her new video gaining about 5 million viewers since its release on November 7.
“I had no idea how big this would get,” Westbrook told ABCNews.com. “It’s so overwhelming but at the same time it’s so great. I’ve never experienced this before. I haven’t listened to any of the comments, so I don’t know how exactly people are taking this, but it’s so big right now so it’s great.”
A new twitter page for Nicole posted this message: 
“Thanks for following me guys!! I will try and follow back :-). Thank you for the support and let’s count down the days to THANKSGIVING!! :-)”
So you decide…better or worse than “Friday?”




The “pearls” in boba (or bubble) tea have been linked to cancer shown by results of a German study.
“In all the samples we discovered the presence of PCB-like substances, which strongly increase the risk of cancer,” said Manfred Möller, a leading researcher involved in the boba tea study by the University Hospital Aachen in Germany, as told to the Rheinische Post, a German publication.
PCBs, or polychlorinated biphenyls, are man-made organic chemicals also found in floor finishes and motor oil. Strong evidence suggests that they cause cancer in animals and are a probable carcinogen in humans. Various studies show links to malignant melanomas and liver cancers.
In the study done by the University Hospital Aachen, also known as UKA after its German name, researchers gathered samples from a national chain store in Germany that says they get their boba pearls from a source in Taiwan. These “pearls” are small balls of tapioca that rest at the bottom of the tea mixed with milk or fruit juice. All of the tested samples contained the toxic chemical.
Chewy Boba Company, a local store near the University of Central Florida that sells the drink, opened in January this year. The manager, Quang Vu, opened the store after owning Lollicup, another store where boba is sold.
“Everything we have has been tested. We have proof that our supplies do not contain that toxin,” he said. “We are a supplier for our area, we have a huge warehouse. And we get ours from the largest supplier in the world.”
Elisa Tactuk, a UCF student, was shocked when she heard about the toxins in the tapioca balls but feels more secure drinking Chewy Boba’s tea after knowing it has been tested and proved negative for any trace of PCBs.
“I had no idea there was a study done on the drink and that those results showed something as extreme as a chemical causing cancer,” she said. “I had no idea at all!”
Boba tea has also been known to be very fattening and unhealthy, but that obviously has not stopped students of UCF from drinking it. Will this recent information about cancer risks change their habits, or will they ignore that too?
Megan Sullivan, a sophomore, drinks the tea a couple of times a week. She says the appeal of it is that is so different from other drinks and after being informed about the study done, it wouldn’t change her opinion.
“Nowadays, it seems like everything contains something that could cause us to develop cancer,” she said.
This study is good for the health of the people who drink this tea but it could hurt the business of the boba companies in the future. The results found in the study can turn customers off to the drink and scare away those who haven’t even tried it. For Victoria Zollo, a UCF student, that’s exactly what it did.
“I’ve never tried it. I might have eventually but not now. After hearing about how it can be linked to causing cancer, I probably won’t drink it,” she said.
According to the manager, Vu, at Chewy Boba, business has not been affected. Customers still consist of about 65% students and a lot of loyal families of the owners and workers.



