Just in time for the Summer B term, where UCF freshmen flood the gym to get in shape, Jimmy Tatro has released a new video mocking the bizarre habits you see in college gyms.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YByfi1ENOiI
From how to spot guys using steroids to discussing why girls using the gym wear so much makeup, Tatro touches on it all. 
As KnightNews.com previously reported when we conducted an exclusive interview with Tatro, he is famous for many videos like his ‘Frat Life’ video and his Total Frat Move videos like ‘S*** Frat Guys Say’. Tatro attends the University of Arizona and has reached over a million views on many of his videos. 



27-year old Ryan Lochte has defeated legendary Olympic champion Michael Phelps in the 400 Individual Medley for the first male qualifying event of the Olympics.
Ryan Lochte has spent most of his life training in Florida, most recently at the University of Florida where he attended school, and swam for their team.The qualifying rounds, which are held in Omaha are sure to have more marquee match-ups between Phelps and Lochte.
Even though Lochte has been under the radar the past four years due to thinsurmountable shadow of Michael Phelps, he has quietly racked up three Olympic gold medals of his own and currently holds two world records.
Ryan Lochte’s defeat of Phelps in the 400 Individual Medley does not mean that Phelps will not have a chance at redemption. Phelps still qualified for the Olympics in this event and swam at an impressive time of 4:07.89 compared to Lochte’s 4:07.06.
Florida will be well represented in London this year with American sprinter Tyson Gay, who trains at the National Training Center in Clermont, FL qualified in the Men’s 100m sprint.



KnightNews.com is following breaking news in the tropics, where Tropical Storm Debby has formed.
Before it became a tropical storm, early models showed this system possibly coming toward UCF. Then, the track had it going away from Florida, toward Texas. But as of Monday morning’s update, the track shifted again toward Florida, taking it north of UCF, near Gainesville and UF. UCF, however, now remains in the cone of uncertainty of this storm, which had been hammering the UCF and USF areas with rain Sunday. 

This storm’s track is uncertain. Keep checking back to KnightNews.com for the latest track and updates from the National Hurricane Center. We’ll also stay in close contact with UCF officials to see if it impacts any class schedules. 
KnightNews.com will continue monitoring the tropics and let you know when we hear UCF may be in a storm’s path. Check back for updates this season. Below is our special hurricane report from last year, so you can see how UCF prepares when storms approach.




