By: Kendall Stump
Sophia Ellis, a student at the University of Central Florida, said registering to vote was a quick and easy process.
“They handed me what was basically a piece of paper, I filled in a couple of blanks, and handed it right back in,” she said. “It was all very simple.”
Oct. 9 is a fast approaching deadline for those who have not yet registered to vote for the November presidential election but at UCF, registered student organizations are making it very easy for students on the run.
Monday through Friday, there are tables set up outside of the student union on campus representing the College Republicans and College Democrats. Students can register when there is someone eligible to register voters. For the most part, any table that a student chooses to register at is non-partisan and will not influence his or her decision about party loyalty.
Jennifer Theodore, a UCF student representative from the College Republicans organization, admits that a lot of students don’t even want to get involved because they think registering to vote can be such a hassle, but it really isn’t. Even when there is not an eligible person to register students at the table, the representatives can direct you exactly to the websites where you can register on your own.
The secretary of the College Democrats organization, Katherine Whitton, says that they have registered a fair number of students and will keep registering up until the deadline.
“Our goal is to register at least 20 percent of the student body of UCF,” she said.
When it comes to being an educated voter, these tables can also help students out. The organizations inform students about their respective parties and the party’s platforms. If a student needs information beyond what the representatives can give, they are directed to precise websites, or encouraged to visit the supervisor of elections for a complete list of candidates and information.
To Kathryn Tromba, a registered voter and student at UCF, it is important that students register so that they have a vote to cast on the day of election. She is not part of the group that believes her vote does not count.
“Our generation is the up and coming, and therefore our votes are the ones that count the most,” she said. “Unfortunately, there is only a small group that knows a lot about the election and a large group that does not.”
It is the goal of these student organizations as well as community groups like the League of Women Voters Orange County to educate anyone who wants to know more about the politics of the election and register them so that their opinions count. President Ann Hellmuth and her team are a non-partisan resource for citizens looking to register to vote and are supportive of the tables that sit outside of the student union.
“I think students who walk all the way across campus to sit down at a table where they can learn information about the parties appreciate their right to vote,” she said. “I think it’s silly not to vote!”



A psychotherapist with 34 years of private practice experience is weighing in about the decision by UCF to take a man who ran on the football field during the Mizzou game to jail — instead of bringing him to a mental health facility for treatment.
That’s according to a report UCF RTV student Kayla O’Brien submitted for a class project, and published on her Facebook page. 
KnightNews.com told you earlier this month how UCF Police arrested Richard Valdes, 27, and charged him with trespass and disrupting the activity of an educational institution.
Records show he was booked into jail at 1:43 p.m. and released on bond the same day, at 10:18 p.m. — and it’s not clear where he is or what he’s up to now. 
But he may have been off the streets longer if UCFPD instead was able to bring Valdes, who has a history of reportedly bizarre behavior on campus, to Lakeside Behavioral Health Center under Florida’s Baker Act, which lets law enforcement officers involuntarily admit someone for up to 72 hours “when there is reason to believe that he or she is mentally ill…”
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zrk63iE6sbI
Linnda Durré, Ph.D., made it clear how she felt. “It’s important to know that someone like this needs to be taken to Lakeside, instead of taken to jail,” she told O’Brien, who pointed out Durré is not treating Valdes but was sharing her expert opinion.
O’Brien reported that she learned from a friend of Valdes that he lives in a van near campus. Different students told both KnightNews.com and O’Brien that Valdes exhibited bizarre behavior in the past, including claiming to people at the Student Union that he was the “messiah” sent by God to be a messenger, and that the world was coming to an end. 
O’Brien also obtained video of Valdes crossing police tape during a recent emergency evacuation, then sitting in the street. 
UCF released a statement to O’Brien saying the stadium is very safe and that Valdes didn’t pose a threat to anyone. 
Valdes could be arrested for trespassing if he shows up on campus again.



UPDATE: A full list has been released. View the members on Homecoming Royalty Court below.
KnightNews.com has learned that notifications were sent out today to students who are on this year’s homecoming court. While no official announcement has been released regarding who is on the UCF Homecoming Court for 2012, we have uncovered several members who posted it on social media sites.
Here is what tips and reports show so far:
Arielle Bardzell- Alpha Xi Delta
Dalya Bordman- Alpha Epislon Phi
Mikyba Cooper- BFDC
LaShaunda Hayes- SGA
Ashley Jaramillo- Pi Beta Phi
Christian Damon-Campus Activities Board
Michael Davis-Sigma Pi
Eddie Garcia- Beta Theta Pi
Michael Irene- Interfraternity Council
Vinny Rossy- Society for Marketing Pro. Services
We are working to uncover the rest of the homecoming court members for this year. Anyone with more information should email news@knightnews.com or text 407-5-tip-ucf
We will continue to update this story.



