A strange incident in Hawthorne Glen early Monday morning left four people in Hawthorne Glen hospitalized, WESH2 reported.
It all started with a man wearing nothing but boxer briefs, who was apparently screaming and flailing his arms around, looking for someone named Philip. The man, his male friend, and two female friends were rushed to the hospital shortly after the incident, where they told police officers that they had been using drugs, the station reported. 
A.J. Rompza, who is a resident of the Hawthorne Glen townhome community witnessed the strange occurrence, telling WESH2 news, “I saw a guy dressed in just boxers, right in the street going crazy, arms going everywhere”.
This incident leaves residents of the community wondering what kind of drug this man reportedly claimed he was on that prompted the strange incident.
Rompza said that it seemed like something more serious than alcohol or marijuana.
“It took four or five cops to get him down, to actually get him down on the ground because he was resisting. Well he wasn’t resisting, but he didn’t want to get down. It looked like he was going to run,” Rompza told WESH2.
As of now the Seminole County Sheriff’s Office has not released much information about the incident and did not state what type of drug that the four people involved reportedly admitted to using. 



If you are a ska fan and didn’t go to the House of Blues last Wednesday you missed out!
The Suburban Legends played a disco infused dance your pants off set with hits like I Want More and Up All Night. The funky guitar riffs and ska jams made it hard to keep still while in the crowd.
Big D and The Kids Table took the stage with authority. Big D is a Boston based band that plays an in your face punk tone with a ska influence. They had the crowd pumped and I could hear fans singing every lyric for all of the songs! You might remember them from the 2011 GreenWaves concert at UCF arena.
When the lights went off the crowd started cheering and screaming while Reel Big Fish walked on to the stage. The skawesome band started out with long time hits F-U and Good Thing with fans crowd surfing towards the stage left and right.
Reel Big Fish is also known for doing ska covers and they did not disappoint! Songs like Enter Sandman by Metallica and Brown Eyed Girl are classics. They even did a short version of the new viral song Call Me Maybe.
Reel Big Fish performing at the House of Blues in Orlando, Florida on July 5, 2012. (Kurt Rivers/Knightnews.com)
Overall the night was action packed with more dancing ska music then your booty could handle. It was a great time and next time Reel Big Fish comes to town you better go!



