The UCF MathLab has implemented a Twitter service to let students know about MALL capacity.
During the day, the line for the MathLab can extend outside the door to about 50 people waiting to get in. With the new MathLab Twitter, students can check the Twitter account before they head to the MALL to see if there is a long line.
An example of the types of tweets the @UCF_MALL sends out, “It’s raining outside. The best time to come to the MALL is now. There are still over 100 seats available. Fri is also a good day to come in.” That tweet was sent out at 2:29P.M. on October 25th.
If you see any good improvements around campus like this one, let us know at news@knightnews.com!



Have you ever had to make a choice? A choice so big it could decide your whole future? Have you ever doubted yourself, constantly asking “Was it the right thing?” Brian Woods’ Demo is about change, something college students know a lot about.
Everyone in college, whether they are just starting freshmen, or are seniors about the take the leap into the world, knows how terrifying change is, and most importantly, how alone you can feel during it. Woods’ Demo manages to capture that fear and uncertainty in a way that is almost too real.
Demo is a collection of stories, ranging from crappy jobs, “Midnight to Six” to bad influences, “Stand Strong.” But each story has one thing in common: young men and women, like you and me, coming to different intersections of their lives.
In some of the stories, such as “NYC” or “Emmy” some of the characters have certain abilities, like telekinesis, or the power to force people to do whatever you want them to. Yet, Woods staves off the cliché of “saving the world” for a more realistic setting. I don’t know about you, but if I had the power to control people, the last thing I’d do is save the world. Instead the young people in these comics use their abilities for other reasons; get revenge on an old unfriendly neighborhood or knock over a bank to pay bills (come on, with the price of tuition
these days, I’d do the same thing).
But the actions have consequences that, sometimes, are too big to handle. In “Breaking Up” Woods chronicles the end of a relationship between two people. He constantly switches and timelines of the relationship. From the first night they met, to the last night they had coffee together. Finally, Woods ends the short with a blank canvas, and a simple promise to remain friends; something cliché, but at the same time honest.
Of course Woods was only responsible for the story, but the art was in the hands of Becky Cloonan, What’s interesting about Cloonan’s art work is that it changes from story to story. In the first comic, “NYC” the art style is heavy on ink, but the lines are textured.
In “Stand Strong” the art shifts to crowded landscapes, and dark heavy lines. Being able to master one art style is amazing, but mastering multiple and tailoring them to fit a story is nothing short of genius.
In life, the only thing that is constant is the element of change. Moving away from home to your first dorm, or frantically going over your resume because you don’t think you’re ready for the real world. Change is all around us, and it’s a scary thing. Demo is all about change, and the choices we make. It’s not a manual for how to live your life, or a plan of attack for how to get an entry job. No, Demo is a collection of stories about people like you. People who are about to change, and people who question their choices every day, just like all of us. Demo may not tell you how to get that new job, or how to survive your first chemistry mid-term, but it will comfort, it will dust you off, and push you out into the world, subtly whispering, “You’re not alone.”



Tomorrow begins UCF Homecoming 2012.
We have compiled all the information you need regarding events, times, admissions, and locations.
10/27
Event: Service Day
Time: 11:00AM
Location: Memory Mall
Admission is free to anyone who would like to attend.
10/27
Event: Concert Knight featuring Snoop Dogg, Cold War Kids and Sammy Adams.
Time: 8:00PM
Location: UCF Arena
UCF Students can pick up tickets at the arena box office starting at 3pm. Non-UCF students can visit ticketmaster.com to purchase tickets.
10/29
Event: Movie Knight (Screening The Dark Knight Rises)
Time: 7:00PM
Location: UCF Arena
Free Admission
11/1
Event: Comedy Knight featuring Jim Gaffigan with special guest James Davis
Time: 11:00PM
Location: UCF Arena
Students can pick up tickets at the OSI office.
10/31
Event: Skit Knight
Time: 7:00PM
Location: UCF Arena
Free admissions
11/1
Event: Penny Wars
Time: 11:00AM
Location: Student Union
11/2
Event: Spirit Splash
Time: 1:00PM
Location: Reflection Pond
Awarded Best Campus Tradition 2011 by the National Association for Campus Activities. Free T-shirts, guest speakers, and lots of ducks.

11/3
Event: Homecoming Football Game
Time: 7:00PM
Location: BrightHouse Stadium
Students can register for the ticket lottery.
KnightNews.com will be covering all of the Homecoming 2012 events. Be sure to check back for photos, videos and more!



On Saturday, 1,600 students signed up through Volunteer UCF for the 6th Annual Knights Give Back.
“Its one giant UCF day for students to all come together and give back to the community,” said Ryan Silverstein, Volunteer UCF student director.
Students gathered at the UCF Venue early morning where they were greeted with 24 buses parked and ready to escort students to 18 of the different volunteer sites. Before loading on to the buses, students pumped themselves up by dancing on the gymnasium floor to songs such as the South Korean hit single “Gangnam Style” and the “Cha Cha Slide Song”.
Knight’s Give Back is a campus-wide event hosted and coordinated by Volunteer UCF with the goal to make a difference in the Central Florida community for at least one day. The event was first launched in 2007 and this year marks the sixth year that Volunteer UCF has held this event.


“It’s about making a difference, hearing how you helped people, or how I helped people, it’s always good to hear you helped someone,” said Khari Fischer, 19, criminal justice student.
Fischer is part of the Domestic Violence Committee on campus and is helping with site management for the Midway Safe Harbor Fall festival on Oct. 31.
After volunteering at different sites, students met back on campus where they were provided lunch from Jimmy Johns.
Volunteer UCF has provided over 3,000 volunteers, has participated in over 11,000 hours of community service, and has saved Orlando over $200,000.
Students volunteered at the following sites: Avian Reconditioning Center, Quest Camp Thunderbird, Apopka Family Learning Center, Wekiva Springs, Mustard Seed, Central Florida Zoo and Botanical Gardens, Community Food and Outreach Center, Clean the World, Winter Park Towers, Orlando Day Nursery, Orlando Health Rehabilitation Center, Albin Polasek Museum, Greenwood Cemetery, Fern Creek Elementary School, S.E.R.V, Seminole Safe House, Oyster Mats and Dressed in Hope.



