An investigation by the University of Florida Police Department alleges its Alpha Phi Alpha chapter did something UCF’s chapter was accused of before — hitting a pledge in the chest. 
That’s according to UF police documents obtained by the Gainesville Sun, which allege UF Alpha Phi Alpha pledges were hit in the chest during a hazing ritual known as “thunderslaps.”
In 2008, a UCF Alpha Phi Alpha pledge, McAndy Douarin, died after his family claimed he punched in the chest by Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity brothers in a hazing ritual, WFTV reported. But despite the family providing photo evidence of a bruise over the UCF pledge’s heart, UCF police never launched a full investigation, WFTV reported, because the agency said it did not have enough evidence to do so. 
In the UF case, when UF police obtained a photograph showing red marks on one victim’s chest in the shape of hand prints, the agency forwarded it, along with other evidence from its investigation, to the prosecutor’s office to decide if the fraternity members allegedly involved should face criminal charges, the Sun reported.
Having police departments investigate hazing is becoming more common at some institutions across Florida, however, KnightNews.com is not aware of UCF police ever investigating hazing cases, even when physical hazing is alleged. 
When KnightNews.com broke how UCF’s chapter of Mu Sigma Upsilon allegedly hazed pledges in 2010, UCF’s Office of Student Conduct handled the investigation, instead of a law enforcement agency. 
Also, when a UCF fraternity was accused of brutally beating a pledge with a cane, KnightNews.com was never made aware of any arrests.
UF released a statement about the nine UF students and one alumnus that UFPD says engaged in serious physical hazing.
“According to UFPD, five prospective members of Alpha Phi Alpha received injuries — some serious — after being repeatedly paddled and struck in the chest by members of the fraternity in a hazing ritual in late January,” the UF statement said. 
“Someone who physically or otherwise abuses you is no friend and we are extremely disappointed with the alleged conduct of the 10 individuals charged with hazing,” said Dave Kratzer, UF’s interim vice president of student affairs. “We will not tolerate hazing or any behavior that threatens the health and safety of our students.”
UF went on the praise the alleged victims for coming forward. 
UF is also planning to host a statewide conference on hazing that will include the sharing of best practices and training from noted experts. UF plans to invite faculty, staff and university police from across the state to participate.
If media is allowed at the event, KnightNews.com will work to send a a crew to to the statewide hazing conference and work to find out why some alleged hazing incidents are investigated by police while others are not. 



