KnightNews.com just received this press release from the Gingrich camp regarding Herman Cain’s endorsement: 
Herman Cain Endorses Newt Gingrich for President
Atlanta, GA – Former presidential candidate and Georgia businessman Herman Cain announced his endorsement of Newt Gingrich for president earlier this evening at the Palm Beach County GOP Lincoln Day Dinner.  In addition to his endorsement, Cain has accepted Newt’s invitation to co-chair the Tax Reform and Economic Growth Advisory Council for Speaker Gingrich.
“It is time for conservatives and Republicans to refocus their attention on the ultimate mission of defeating President Obama,” Cain said. “I believe Speaker Gingrich is the bold leader we need to accomplish this mission.”
“America’s challenges are too great for mere tinkering around the edges. Just like Herman, who ran his campaign based on big ideas, I am running on bold solutions that will boost job creation, cut bureaucratic red tape, and fundamentally transform Washington,” Gingrich said. “I’m honored to have Herman’s support, and I look forward to working with him to help put the American people back to work.”
Cain and Gingrich have been friends for more than 20 years. In the early 1990’s they worked together to defeat Hillarycare, and as speaker, Gingrich appointed Cain to the National Commission on Economic Growth and Tax Reform (also known as the “Kemp Commission”).




Dwight Howard being recognized as the all-time leading scorer in Magic history before the Orlando Magic vs Boston Celtics game on January 26th at The Amway Center in Orlando, Florida.  Boston came from behind to defeat the Magic 91-83.
Doc Rivers during the Orlando Magic vs Boston Celtics game on January 26th at The Amway Center in Orlando, Florida.  Boston came from behind to defeat the Magic 91-83.
Dwight Howard and Paul Pierce greeting each other before the Orlando Magic vs Boston Celtics game on January 26th at The Amway Center in Orlando, Florida.  Boston came from behind to defeat the Magic 91-83.Dwight Howard and Kevin Garnett tipoff for the Orlando Magic vs Boston Celtics game on January 26th at The Amway Center in Orlando, Florida.  Boston came from behind to defeat the Magic 91-83.Ryan Anderson questioning a referee's call during the Orlando Magic vs Boston Celtics game on January 26th at The Amway Center in Orlando, Florida.  Boston came from behind to defeat the Magic 91-83.Paul Pierce questioning a referee's call during the Orlando Magic vs Boston Celtics game on January 26th at The Amway Center in Orlando, Florida.  Boston came from behind to defeat the Magic 91-83.Stan Van Gundy during the Orlando Magic vs Boston Celtics game on January 26th at The Amway Center in Orlando, Florida.  Boston came from behind to defeat the Magic 91-83.Paul Pierce before the Orlando Magic vs Boston Celtics game on January 26th at The Amway Center in Orlando, Florida.  Boston came from behind to defeat the Magic 91-83.Mickael Pietrus falling away as he takes a shot during the Orlando Magic vs Boston Celtics game on January 26th at The Amway Center in Orlando, Florida.  Boston came from behind to defeat the Magic 91-83.Celtics fan holding a poster with Dwight Howard in a Celtics jersey during the Orlando Magic vs Boston Celtics game on January 26th at The Amway Center in Orlando, Florida.  Boston came from behind to defeat the Magic 91-83.Glen Davis during the Orlando Magic vs Boston Celtics game on January 26th at The Amway Center in Orlando, Florida.  Boston came from behind to defeat the Magic 91-83.Glen Davis shooting over Brandon Bass during the Orlando Magic vs Boston Celtics game on January 26th at The Amway Center in Orlando, Florida.  Boston came from behind to defeat the Magic 91-83.Dwight Howard during the Orlando Magic vs Boston Celtics game on January 26th at The Amway Center in Orlando, Florida.  Boston came from behind to defeat the Magic 91-83.Dwight Howard and Quentin Richardson during the Orlando Magic vs Boston Celtics game on January 26th at The Amway Center in Orlando, Florida.  Boston came from behind to defeat the Magic 91-83.Dwight Howard being fowled driving to the basket during the Orlando Magic vs Boston Celtics game on January 26th at The Amway Center in Orlando, Florida.  Boston came from behind to defeat the Magic 91-83.



US Sen. Marco Rubio has repeatedly denied he would accept the Republican Vice Presidential slot this year. However, in the recent Florida debate, Newt Gingrich suggested he’d consider Rubio for a central, dignified role — more so than a cabinet spot. 
It’s put Rubio back on the radar. What do you think? Would he really decline the spot if it were offered to him? Should he? 
Rubio continues to keep a high profile. He appeared in the New York Times  and just released this Weekly GOP Address Video on YouTube about the American Dream: 
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MUD_jxv5ygw&hd=1



Former governor, and current presidential candidate, Mitt Romney came to Orlando this Friday, accompanied by Senator John McCain and Puerto Rico Gov. Luis Fortuno.

KnightNews.com was at the at the Lanco & Harris paint warehouse in Orlando where the rally took place. Check out our video and a few photos from the event.



Governor, and hopeful presidential candidate, Mitt Romney came to Orlando this Friday accompanied by Senator John McCain and Puerto Rico Gov. Luis Fortuno.

KnightNews.com was at the at the Lanco & Harris paint warehouse in Orlando where the rally took place. Check out our video and a few photos from the event.



