KnightNews.com is giving away three tickets to Universal Studios Mardi Gras LIVE tonight!
Congratulations to TY WAGNER, the winner of the tickets.
Everyone that registered is assigned a number for round 1 and round 2, those numbers can be found here. Good Luck
Skip to 2:33 in the video to see the start of the drawing.




A double stabbing has been reported at FSU in Tallahassee. WCTV has details:

Here’s the latest reports from the FSU website:
3/15/2012 3:55PM – *FSU ALERT!* ALL CLEAR. Ragans Hall Stabbing suspects detained. Campus is safe.
Weather Advisories – Posted March 15, 2012, at 3:29:50 PM by FSU Emergency Management
*FSU ALERT!* ALL CLEAR! All subjects related to the double stabbing at Ragans Hall have been detained. There are NO subjects on the loose and NO continuing threat to campus. You may return to normal operations. Law enforcement will continue to investigate. Expect law enforcement presence on scene for a extended duration.
—
3/15/12 3:30PM – *FSU ALERT!* Double stabbing at Ragans Hall #1.
Weather Advisories – Posted March 15, 2012, at 3:07:45 PM by FSU Emergency Management
*FSU ALERT!* 
The Florida State University Police Department is responding to a reported double stabbing at Ragans Hall #1. At this time, it is assumed that the responsible parties are the victims. There is no report of an assailant at large at this time. Regardless, all persons in the area should use caution and avoid the Regans Hall Complex. Numerous emergency vehicles are responding or are on scene.



The jurors in the John Goodman DUI manslaughter case got to see the mangled vehicles today at the Palm Beach County Courthouse.

KnightNews.com has been following the case since the Palm Beach billionaire was first accused of plowing his Bentley into UCF Grad Scott Patrick Wilson’s Hyundai two years ago, then walking away from the scene and leaving him to die in a South Florida canal. Goodman denies he was drunk, but prosecutors say otherwise. 
Click on the related links on the right for more coverage.


Above is a twitter feed WPTV is updating on the Goodman trial. Check back for updates and daily recaps.



Jimmy John’s sub shop is advertising $1 subs today on its Twitter page and website. 
The location on the UCF campus and 11565 University Blvd. in Orlando are both advertised as participating. 
The $1 subs are for subs #1-6 only, and must be ordered in person — not online or in a drive-thru. 
See the full details and full list of locations on the next page:



J. Cole and Sugar Ray are coming to Orlando’s Universal Studios Mardi Gras event this weekend.
J. Cole
On Friday, March 16, J. Cole will hit the stage at Universal Mardi Gras stage at 8:30 p.m. 
According to Universal’s Facebook page for J. Cole’s concert, he has been called “the next game-changing rapper.” He’s had hits including “The Come Up,” “The Warm Up” and “Friday Night Lights.” 
At 8:30 p.m. on Saturday, March 17, Sugar Ray will make his appearance on the Universal Mardi Gras stage. The group became big in the 90’s with hits like “Every Morning,” “Someday” and “When it’s Over.” The song that launched Sugar Ray to stardom was “Fly.”
Get information on tickets to see the concerts below:



