Greek Week 2012 is finally here! Starting March 25th until April 1st the Greeks around UCF will unite for a week of different events. The best part? Every event is in some way benefiting another organization.
This years theme to Greek Week is “The Happiest Greek Week on Earth” so expect lots of Disney styled events all week. This year will also be the first year of crowning a Greek God and Goddess. Check out the event list below:
Give Kids the World Service Project
Sunday, March 25th
Description: Five members from each team will go to Give Kids the World where they will be completing a service project.
Leisure Pool Day
Monday, March 26th
Description: There is no set event, but the members of Greek Week Executive Board encourage Greeks to relax by the Leisure Pool by the UCF Rec and Wellness Center.
Greeks Sing and Stroll for a Cause
Tuesday, March 27th in The Venue from 7pm to 10pm
Description: Benefiting Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, each team will put on a skit in The Venue. It is sure to be a fun time to unite the Greek Community.
Sponsored ad, story continues below:

Movies Under the Stars
Wednesday, March 28th at Lake Claire
Description: Two screenings of Toy Story 3 will be shown at Lake Claire at 7pm and at 9pm.
Knights Helping Knights Pantry
Thursday, March 29th
Description: Can donations will be collected from each team in order to benefit the Knights Helpings Knights Pantry. Also, the Greek Week Executive Board encourages the teams to get together and do something fun on their own this night.
Greek Games, Penny Wars, and Greek God/Goddess 
Friday, March 30th at Lake Claire starting at 3pm.
Description: Greek Games start at Lake Claire at 3pm along with Penny Wars, and voting for the Greek God and Goddess. The games will last throughout the remainder of the day.
Knight-Thon 
Saturday, March 31st
Description: Many Greek organizations are taking part to benefit the Children’s Miracle Network by participating in the dance marathon.
Greek Gala
Sunday, April 1st
Description: The final Greek Week event, the organizations will be awarded for their achievements throughout the week.



Thousands overran Sanford Thursday evening during the rally for the arrest of the killer of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin.
Martin died on February 26, 2012 when a self-appointed head of the Neighborhood Watch, George Zimmerman, shot him. There is much controversy surrounding the incident, and it has since gained international attention.
Most of the dissent surroundings what many believe to be the inaction of local law enforcement to arrest Zimmerman in connection with Martin’s death. Zimmerman has admitted to the killing, but claims it was in self-defense and that he was within his rights.
Many doubt the validity of his claims due to the fact that Trayvon was unarmed except for the hoodie he was wearing along with a bag of Skittles and some ice tea.
Many in the rally actually wore hoodies, adorned their signs with Skittles bags, and brought empty tea cans.
Zimmerman’s claims were further brought into public scrutiny when the Mayor of Sanford, bowing to public sentiment, released the 911 tapes of both Zimmerman and Martin from that night.
The crowd had a multitude of slogans that day, but the most recurring was, “No Rest until an Arrest!” That sentiment was shared by local UCF students in attendance.
“I really thought this was a good cause,” says UCF MBA student Dan’elle Bellamy. “It’s not just black people [here]; everybody’s out.”
That was echoed by the mother of the victim, Sybrina Fulton, who said, “This is not just about black and white. It’s about right and wrong.”
Fulton, and Trayvon’s father, Tracy Martin, repeated to the crowd that Trayvon was not just their son, but that he was everyone’s son and that Trayvon Martin was every person in America.
To support that philosophy many in the crowd could be seen with signs and shirts that read, “I am Trayvon Martin.”
“I really liked it. It was moving, so many people showed up and nothing got out of control,” said Mallory Minor, a University of Central Florida Junior in International Relations who also attended the rally.
Minor tried to organize a group of students to attend the rally as a way to signify UCF’s student support of the Martin family.
Yet, UCF students were not the only defenders of Trayvon Martin.
“You can’t defend yourself against a pack of Skittles and some ice tea…don’t talk to us like we stupid,” declared notable Civil Rights icon, Reverend Al Sharpton.
And he was not alone in his sentiments. Sharpton went on to denote the various high profile individuals who stood on stage with him.
The list went across professions, ages, and experiences, but most fell into the category of noted Civil Rights or civil/social justice leaders, such as Judge Greg Mathis, nationally syndicated talk radio host Michael Baisden, NAACP President Ben Jealous, members of Florida and other state’s Legislature, and even Congresspersons at the Federal level.
“I didn’t come here by myself. Get ready Florida. You thought it was hot. The heat just arrived,” said Sharpton who is determined to see Zimmerman arrested.
Also, Sharpton and the NAACP demand that the law enforcement agency over the case be investigated and those officials directly involved removed for what they believe to be an inability to uphold the standards of the law.
They got part of their wish, as announced part way through the rally.
The prosecutor voluntarily removed himself from the case and the Sanford Chief of Police stepped down temporarily, both on the same day as the rally.
But the Empowerment Movement, a national coalition of predominantly black churches, civil/social justice organizations, community leaders and Greek-letter organizations, working to increase civil and social justice in America in the wake of, and specifically in relation to, the Trayvon Martin killing, is not done yet.
There will be a March on Monday, March 26, 2012 from Centennial Park in Sanford, to Sanford’s Civic Center, where the City Commission meeting will be held.
Fulton will speak again on this day and concerned citizens will rally once again for Trayvon Martin.
Though the shooting was a one time occurrence, it will have far reaching effects into the future.
The killing has brought out public unrest in regards to racial discrimination, state gun and self-defense laws, as well as national hate crime standards.
None of these are simple or short term conversations, and none are going away soon as people seem tired of dealing with what they feel to be recurring issues.
As Reverend John T. Long, III, who chaired the event said, “It is a sin, too long black life has been undervalued. It is a sin too long do we sit back in silence and it happens over and over again.”



UPDATE Friday: KnightNews.com now has pictures of Alpha Tau Omega bringing gifts to Alpha Delta Pi ahead of serenades this Sunday.
ATO Gives ADPi Gifts
ATO also was out washing ADPi’s cars this afternoon. ATO is in competition with Delta Tau Delta to win ADPi for Homecoming. Check out the video below to see DTD doing a pre-homecoming serenade for ADPi last week. 
 Click to sign up for a chance to win the “new iPad” courtesy of Roxy

During Homecoming Serenades, fraternities go to sororities and serenade them, asking to be their partners. Then, sororities will vote and decide which of the fraternities that serenaded them they’ll pick to be their partners.
KnightNews.com’s team of reporters has been working sources throughout Greek Park all week to see who is going for who — and to predict pairings.
Here’s where we’re projecting fraternities are setting their sights: 
Alpha Delta Pi  | Alpha Tau Omega vs. Delta Tau Delta
Delta Delta Delta | Phi Delta Theta – unopposed as far as we know
Kappa Delta | Sigma Chi vs. Theta Chi
Zeta Tau Alpha  | Lambda Chi Alpha vs. Team Kappa Sigma & Delta Upsilon
Kappa Alpha Theta | Delta Sigma Phi vs. Beta Theta Pi
Pi Beta Phi | Zeta Beta Tau – unopposed as far as we know
Delta Zeta | Sigma Pi will serenade them next week, according to a tipster
We’re still working to find out who is serenading the following sororities:
Alpha Xi Delta
Chi Omega
Kappa Kappa Gamma
Alpha Epsilon Phi
We need your help keeping us updated with what is happening! Text us updates at 407-5-tip-ucf (407-584-7823) and email us pics or video updates to news@knightnews.com. You can tweet us @UCFKnightNews or make a post or comment on our Facebook.com/KnightNews page, or at the bottom of this story. Also, see pictures of what some fraternities have done for sororities already this week.



