KnightNews.com has independently confirmed with a Progress Coalition spokesperson that, “The violation whose penalty calls for immediate dismissal was sustained.”
That violation centered around not filing proper campaign financial paperwork. At UCF, SGA leaders don’t require the filing of any such paperwork, which has led to criticism in the past. 
“They have 24 hours to appeal and we will be submitting a appeal for one of the other violations,” the Progress Coalition spokesperson told KnightNews.com. 
According to local media reports following the meeting, the Ignite party was also accused of using state resources to help obtain T-shirts to promote its own campaign. However, the Progress Coalition told KnightNews.com the accusations actually centered around yard signs and stickers. 
Right now it’s not exactly clear what will happen next to all the Ignite elected offices in limbo, including that of Rueben Stokes, who had thought he was elected president by a sweeping margin just days ago. 
Some members of the commission recommended a new election. “However there is nothing in statutes to call for such an election,” Adam Arnold, the Progress Coalition Chair, told KnightNews.com Monday night. 
Check back for updates, as we wait to find out what the FSU Supreme Court may do regarding this unprecedented move out of the state’s capital. 



The situation, according to a release from the Progress Coalition, stems from allegations that Ignite did not file financial disclosures related to campaign finances. UCF, on the other hand, doesn’t have any rules requiring candidates account for who donates to their campaign. So, this situation is an interesting case for UCF SGA to observe, as it could be a glimpse into the one of the outcomes of requiring candidates to account for who is donating to their campaign. 
Meanwhile, the majority party leader, Rueben Stokes, broke his silence on the issue over Facebook, just hours before the meeting. Stokes published a letter to his fellow party members. 
KnightNews.com has obtained the letter, and pasted it below. Click for it to be enlarged, and check back for updates on the breaking situation in the state’s capital. 




By and large, the University of Central Florida’s medical-school had very few enemies and plenty of friends when it started here in Orlando. But that may be changing. 
UCF just agreed to spend $15 million on land next to its medical school, where UCF could build its own hospital. The land buy itself was controversial, because it appraised for less than what UCF agreed to pay in this down market, and prominent university trustee Harris Rosen criticized the deal as too expensive.
Now, according to a report in the Orlando Sentinel, two local hospitals that have invested millions in Medical City are not pleased with UCF’s plans to build yet another hospital on the east side of Orlando. Its purpose would be as a teaching hospital, UCF said. 
As far as UCF’s partners Florida Hospital and Orlando Health are concerned, the plan was to have UCF med students train at the existing hospital’s facilities, in order to avoid duplicate costs. 
“We had a clear vision when we put the partnership together,” Florida Hospital President Lars Houmann told the Sentinel. “That vision is changing. … The university has been very honest with us by telling us: That original vision does not appear to be workable.”
The dean of the college of medicine, UCF VP Deborah German, originally told the Sentinel she wasn’t even aware of the concerns being raised, and that she wants to keep having students using the partners’ facilities as well as the new UCF hospital. 
“The point is students need to have the experience of all the varieties of medical environments,” German told the Sentinel. “Our students need to have every experience. They need a breadth of experiences. We would still need them to do what they do today.”
When the medical school is fully built, it will serve almost 500 students, German told the paper. 



