Sigma Phi Epsilon of the University of Florida is no more.
Sig Ep’s Board of Directors has withdrawn the charter of the Florida Alpha Chapter of Sig Ep at UF for several reasons relating to conduct issues.

The chapter is currently being investigated by UF for numerous violations of the University’s code of conduct.
“When the cultural issues within a chapter conflict with our values and are too deeply rooted to effect change, we have no other opetion but to withdraw the chapter’s charter,” a statement from the Sig Ep Fraternity said.
The chater has existed at the school since 1925.



KnightNews.com has just obtained a series of email records regarding the Alpha Tau Omega hazing allegations which have left the fraternity suspended and unable to host their annual philanthropy. 
We will be working to sort through the documents and will continue updates throughout the week. Below is some of the most important information obtained through the records.
UCF has confirmed with KnightNews.com that the formal hearing for ATO will be today, Dec. 11, at 9:30 a.m. Email records show that David Stollman, the hazing speaker who the accuser reported the allegations of hazing to, is scheduled to speak over the phone at the meeting.
The records also state that ATO has retained Dave Westol of Limberlost Consulting, a specialized attorney and consultant to help them in their situation. 
An email from Stollman sent to UCF displays his anger at what he believed to be intentional leaking of the hazing allegations to the media. 
“I can think of a few who might have leaked it, and for very good reasons,” Stollman says in the email. “But, the negative consequences to ME may prove significant.”
From here, Stollman goes on to say that the accuser feels ousted and fears for the release of their identity. He also says that any chance of getting the accuser to come forward is gone.
“Whether it was your office or not, I’m sad to say this bridge has been burned. The student that brought the information to me is terrified…the hope of getting them to come forward is long gone,” Stollman told Nick Olesky, UCF Associate Director of the Office of Student Conduct.
UCF responded to Stollman stating that the public records were only released after specifically being requested by media outlets.
KnightNews.com will be monitoring the ATO hearing tomorrow morning. Check back for updates.



