With the challenging job market, students continue to feel the pressure of finding an enjoyable vocation upon graduation. Knightnews.com recently spoke to a few recently graduated UCF students who made a successful transition from college to the beginning of a promising career, and listened to their tips on how to succeed.
Adam Brock
Adam Brock graduated UCF in Spring 2012 with a double major in Political Science and Advertising & PR. Brock certainly had strong credentials — among his most notable accomplishments include serving as SGA’s Vice President and launching Knightlinx, UCF’s first late-night bus shuttle.
Brock now works for NBC Universal as a Consumer Marketing Coordinator for Oxygen. His responsibilities include updating weekly status reports on current marketing projects, working with our media and strategy agencies on developing plans for upcoming shows and conduct a monthly competitive analysis on other networks when it comes to e- commerce, partnerships and on-air promotions. But Brock would have selected an entirely different job, if not for a last-minute hunch.
“I was actually interviewing for [NBC Universal’s] Page program and right from the beginning of the interview, I knew this position was not for me,” Brock said.
Brock had to jump over a few more hurdles, but he eventually got the right job for him.
“The HR representative contacted me after the interview and asked if I would be interested interviewing for another position. The next day, I got a call and went through four interviews with different people and I got the offer by the end of the day.”
As far as advice, Brock emphasizes the importance of starting early. He believes that the best way to find work post-graduation is to start looking a semester before you graduate.
“For anyone graduating in spring, start your research now. You shouldn’t be applying for any jobs just yet because most of them want you to start right away. It is very important to know their company culture and some of the work that they have done in the past and reference it during your interviews.”
He also believes that recent graduates shouldn’t expect to earn high-status employment from the get go, but rather, they should realize that it’s a long road to the top.
“Because this is your first job out of college, expect to be doing grunt work. You are more than likely the most junior person on the team so you need to put your time in just like everyone else.”
Gabe Goldman
Fall 2010 UCF Graduate Gabe Goldman has always been interested in working with money. After declaring a major in Accounting, he decided to get some hands-on experience. He began by serving as the treasurer for his fraternity AEPi for a full year, beginning in early Spring 2008.
“In my years at college, I had to read many accounting textbooks and take many exams. All of that was helpful, but it’s a completely different world out there once you’re handling real money. Being the treasurer of my fraternity was a difficult but much- needed experience because it put me on the line.”
Goldman’s experience with accounting would soon grow outside of his classes and Greek life. In April of 2008, through UCF’s College Work Experience Program (CWEP), he began a paid internship at Lockheed Martin, an American global aerospace, defense, security, and advanced Technology Company.
In due time, Goldman worked his way up and was promoted in 2010 to a full-time Financial Analyst, and has gradually been given more responsibility within the last couple of years. Currently, his day-to-day duties include managing the budget for procurement material. In other words, he’s in charge of tracking and forecasting prices for products that Lockheed Martin purchases.
Goldman’s advice to students seeking employment is simple but applicable: If you want to find work, you should begin working. But Goldman also suggests that hard work can
only go so far; knowing the right people is key to job advancement.
“Go take an internship, paid or unpaid. Get your foot in the door,” stated Goldman. “Your odds of getting hired from somebody who knows you, especially if it’s someone who knows you through your own work experience is way, way higher than putting your name in a hat when you turn in a resume.”
Stephen Obeng
Stephen Obeng had a busy five years at UCF. In addition to his long list of extracurricular activities (including serving as President of his fraternity, Sigma Lambda Beta and volunteer work at the Red Cross and Habitat For Humanity), he had several jobs, working as an employee at the Wellness Center for two years, a Resident Assistant (RA) for three, and a personal trainer for four. He saw these jobs not only as opportunities to earn money, but also as a chance to form an identity.
“It’s always important to get involved in extracurricular activities at school. You’ll get a running head start to your career, and it will save you years of stress.” 



America Ferrera, the actress best known for her role on Ugly Betty, encouraged students to engage in the political process, when speaking in the Pegasus Ballroom on Tuesday.
“The most important lessons I learned about myself came from participating,” Ferrera said.
Ferrera promoted her America 4 America campaign, affiliated with the non-partisan Voto Latino organization, which registers and educates youth minority voters. The actress also discussed her humanitarian efforts. She works with advocacy groups like the ONE campaign and Save the Children, and is featured in the documentary Half The Sky, based on the book by Pulitzer Prize winning authors Nicholas Kristof and Sheryl WuDunn.
The event was part of the Multicultural Academic and Support Services’ First Generation Speaker Series, and the Multicultural Student Center’s Hispanic Heritage Month program. The event was free to UCF students, faulty and staff.
Cynthia Florentino, the MSC Leadership Committee Coordinator, was excited to have Ferrera speak at the event. “We started [planning] over the summer because we really wanted to celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month,” Florentino said. “It hasn’t been celebrated in a grand manner.”
Students were interested in hearing the actress speak about political engagement. “I thought it was very encouraging,” senior Vanessa Garcia said. “[I] Picked up a better perspective to use my voice and let it be heard.” As a political science and Spanish literature double major, Alan Zegarra was motivated to attend Ferrera’s speech. “[The event] seemed really interesting because it has to do with voting,” Zegarra said. As a first generation American whose parents are from Peru, Zegarra commented on Ferrera’s message about the potential of the Latino and youth community. “My parents always told me how lucky we are to be here,” Zegarra said. “For us to be represented.”
Ferrera noted that for her, the worst headlines after the election would report, “young people didn’t show up, again.” The actress reminded the audience that the election decides matters that directly affect students, and that their vote counts.
“The best way to fight back is with your voice,” Ferrera said. “You can’t just get mad. Get registered.”
Nicole Bleier



44th Senate Speaker of the House Wes Jones lost his seat on Senate today.

Jones ran against Kenny Betancourt 51.92% to 48.08% for College of Business, seat 8.
Wes Jones was a leader of the Black and Gold party, he took over as Speaker last October when current Speaker Alan Hardman retired.
See full results here and check back for updates on this major breaking SGA shakeup. 



Watch below to see the live SGA Senate election results, around 6pm we will be shooting live. 
College of Arts and Humanities
1. Michael Koretsky
2. Danielle Meade
3. Lauren Espisito
4. Sawyer Frescoln 
College of Business Administration
1. Jacqueline Giannini
2. Jason Sena
3. Matthew Wagener
4. Gregory Cullen
5. Gabriella Giannini
6. Jesse James Simmons
7. Gabriela Perez
8. Kenny Betancourt 
College of Education
1. Nicolas Galluzo
2. Dillon Sternkopf
3. Christina Stoeker
4. Vacant
College of Engineering and Computer Science
1. Fayez Ajib
2. Scott Lougheed
3. Bennet Davis
4. Lucas Perdue
5. Samuel Levine
6. James Wright 
College of Graduate Studies
1. Corey Esquenazi
2. Vacant
3. Gary Adams
4. Vacant
5. Vacant
6. Alan Gutberlet
7. Elizabeth Sanz
8. Trinity Pollard
9. Vacant
College of Health and Public Affairs
1. Eric Katz
2. Ryan Grail
3. Anatoliy Korzhuk
4. Demi Miret
5. Michael Cortes
6. Shanzay Pervais
7. Ray Jimenez 
College of Medicine
1. Leonel Atencio
2. Daralys Lopez 
College of Nursing
1. Anthony King
2. Michael Pellerin 
College of Sciences
1. Kailyn Perez
2. Alexis Wansac
3. Weston Bayes
4. Jacyln Graham
5. Branden Hamel
6. Jonathan Cannon
7. Elayne Miller
8. Jacob Kahn
9. Nicole Simmons
10. Arianna Young 
Regional Campuses
1. Vacant
2. Vacant
Rosen College of Hospitality Management
1. Jeffrey Keller
2. Beverly Sanchez
3. Sheridan Kushner 
College of Undergraduate Studies
1. Amanda Meyer
2. Neil Cordero 
Undeclared Studies
1. Vacant 



We’re officially a quarter-way through the season, a good marker for measuring the progress of any fantasy team. From here on out, the season will be built on smart waiver wire moves and starting the right players. With that in mind, here’s a look at the week past and a view of what’s to come.
WR Brian Hartline, MIA: Hartline absolutely exploded this weekend against the undefeated Cardinals, catching 12 passes for a massive 253 yards and one score. It seems as though he has developed a strong bond of chemistry with rookie quarterback Ryan Tannehill, as this is his second game with a hundred-plus receiving yards. Though this monster level of production is likely to decrease, Hartline is the clear number one target in Miami.
WR James Jones, GB: With Greg Jennings looking to miss more time this season, Aaron Rodgers will continue to spread the ball throughout the Green Bay receiving corps. Jones was a beneficiary of this last week, finishing the game with five receptions for 56 yards and two touchdowns, his second consecutive game with five receptions. The young receiver is a physical specimen with potential, and is worth a pickup for his upside, though inconsistency comes with the whole package.
RB Jackie Battle, SD: In Ryan Mathews’ first game back since breaking his collarbone in the pre-season, it was Jackie Battle who received the bulk of the work, finding his way into the end zone twice this weekend. Battle carried the ball for 39 yards on 15 carries, and caught the ball 4 times for 42 yards. Even with Mathews expected to play a bigger role in the future; Head Coach Norv Turner’s confidence in Battle gives him decent fantasy value.
WR Domenik Hixon, NYG: It appears as both Hakeem Nicks (knee) and Ramses Barden (concussion) may miss time this week. That leaves plenty of room for Hixon to see targets, as last week he was able to haul in 6 of the 11 passes thrown his way for 114 yards. When his teammates do return, Hixon’s value will decrease drastically, but as of now he is Eli Manning’s number two receiver.
WR Santonio Holmes, NYJ: Holmes will miss the remainder of the season with a lisfranc injury, the same foot ailment that sidelined Raiders’ running back Darren McFadden for over half of last season. Jeremy Kerley’s role in the offense will be increased, though even before this injury the Jets’ offense has been lethargic and unproductive all year.
WR Hakeem Nicks, NYG: Nicks missed last week with a knee injury, and it’s highly possible this week will be a miss as well. Victor Cruz, Martellus Bennet and Domenik Hixon will likely see most of Eli Manning’s targets.
Last week saw the return of a few featured backs to the game, though mostly in limited roles. Fred Jackson, Matt Forte and Ryan Mathews all saw some action, and look to build on their performances. Rashard Mendenhall will return for the first time this season on Sunday for the Steelers, and has immense fantasy potential with a 4.1 yard-per-carry average over his career.
Shonn Green vs. Houston Defense: The Jets offense has been atrocious this season, emphasized by last week’s scoreless offensive showing against the 49ers. Shonn Green has not done much to help his floundering team, contributing a measly 191 yards over four games. The undefeated Texans have yet to allow one rushing touchdown this year, greatly impeding Green’s ability to improve on his one score of the season. Do not start him against this impressive defensive unit.
Matt Ryan vs. Washington Defense: Matty Ice is on fire this year, lighting up secondaries all over the league with his tool belt stocked with studs like Roddy White, Julio Jones and veteran Tony Gonzalez. He leads the NFL in passer rating and is sixth in total yards, while the Washington defense is giving up the league’s second worst 337 passing yards per game. Ryan should go off against the Redskins.
Marshawn Lynch vs. Carolina Defense: Carolina’s run defense has been Swiss cheese over four weeks, allowing 134 yards per game while giving up five touchdowns, while simultaneously Marshawn Lynch has been rolling of late, averaging 4.6 yards per carry and over 100 a game. The Panthers’ defensive unit does not pose too much of a threat to end the power back’s hot streak, setting the stage for a big fantasy output from Lynch.
Week 4 kicks off Thursday night with an NFC west rivalry game as the 4-0 Cardinals take on the 2-2 Rams. Make sure to check those waiver wires and study your matchups so as not to leave any points on the bench, the bane of any fantasy owner. Good luck this weekend, and remember to check back next week for more fantasy advice.



