It’s that time of year when the UCF Greek Community joins the Kappa Delta sorority to dance for a good cause. KnightNews.com will be there to provide video coverage like we did last year. Check out last year’s KD Shakedown coverage here, and read the press release sent to us by Sydney Hirst, VP Public Relations for UCF KD, below, to learn more about this year’s event:
Kappa Delta Sorority at the University of Central Florida is preparing it’s annual “Shakedown” dance competition to raise awareness, money and school supplies for the Central Florida division of the Children’s Home Society on Monday, October 15 at 7 p.m.
The Epsilon Omicron chapter of Kappa Delta is excitedly planning the largest Greek philanthropy of the year. Over 25 organizations compete as teams against one another in a three-part competition that was uniquely created by our local KD chapter. A combination of a BBQ ticket sales and attendance, school supplies bought and donated, as well as a dance competition all combine to ultimately raise awareness for the Children’s Home Society of Florida and name one organization as the overall winner of KD Shakedown.Click to see photos from last year’s KD Shakedown
The goal of the Children’s Home Society of Florida is “to break the generational cycle of child abuse in more families.” Our chapter has taken such a keen interest in this organization because of its close relation to another philanthropic cause we support on the national level, Prevent Child Abuse America. Last fall, our chapter was able to raise over ten thousand school supplies such as backpacks, protractors, calculators, crayons and folders, as well as over $1,300 for the CHS through our Shakedown competition.
School supplies are being collected up until and at the BBQ that will be held on Sunday, October 14 at Lake Claire on the UCF Campus from 11 a.m.-2 p.m. The BBQ is featuring Sonny’s BBQ Restaurant and a drink for only $10.  All teams competing know that BBQ ticket sales and attendance make up a huge portion of points since admission into the Shakedown dance competition is free. An entry fee is required at the time the registration packet is completed and donations will be welcomed at the dance competition.  We’re also welcoming back two special guests, dance crew D.W.E.E.B.S and UCF’s hip-hop dance team, Rukus. These extraordinary groups will be performing at the dance competition, and members of the community and all UCF students are encouraged to attend.
Kappa Delta Sorority is a national organization for women with over 230,000 members, 219 chartered collegiate chapters and 518 chartered alumnae associations nationwide. In 2009, the sorority created the Confidence Coalition, an alliance of organizations and companies committed to promoting confidence in girls and women. Kappa Delta created International Women’s Friendship Month and International Girls Day to empower women and girls to reach their potential. Kappa Delta is active in a number of philanthropic endeavors, including the prevention of child abuse and Girl Scouts of the USA. Kappa Delta’s national headquarters is in Memphis, Tenn. For more information visit www.womensfriendshipmonth.com or www.kappadelta.org.



A graduate task force plans to release a November report highlighting the needs of graduate students at UCF.
The UCFGRAD Task Force has been meeting since July and is composed of three graduate student leaders, three undergraduate student leaders, two faculty representatives, and three administrators that are invested in finding methods to better meet graduate student needs, Gene Kruckemyer, news editor for the UCF News and Information Office, said.
Dr. Maribeth Ehasz, vice president and leader for the Division of Student Development and Enrollment Services, created the task force after graduate students demanded the floor at an open forum with President Hitt in March.
Maribeth Ehasz, UCF Vice President
Graduate students at the forum asked the faculty members for support after the SGA’s Judicial Council invalidated a student body vote which would have ratified the creation of a Graduate Student Assembly as a representative body of graduate students at UCF.
The task force would be aimed at conducting studies of graduate students’ needs so that leaders can come together on graduate issues, Ehasz said in March.
“They have been collecting data from direct surveys, anecdotal discussions, other Florida institutions, and various schools around the country for ideas to move our campus forward,” Kruckemyer said.
To further meet the needs of graduate students, Matt Bagwell, Graduate Student Association president, encouraged students to vote in SGA Senate elections last week.
“Consider writing in graduate student candidates that you feel might represent graduate student interests on the SGA Senate…GSA will always advocate and support UCF graduate students,” Bagwell said via Facebook.
While the task force is still only in its research stage, graduate students are making gains in the meantime. As SGA Senate voting ended Wednesday, some graduate students celebrated the simultaneous grand opening of the new Graduate Student Center.
Located in Colburn Hall, the Graduate Student Center offers a multipurpose study room, a presentation room, a conference room, and a data analysis room. The center is complete with sofas and seating, LCD screens, video and audio recording equipment, computers, and printers.
The rooms are available for reservation by graduate students.



