Florida Gov. Rick Scott came right out and said it today to a pack of reporters: “I don’t believe in tuition increases…”
Gov. Scott
But those words coming from perhaps the most powerful person in Tallahassee are not stopping universities from pushing for massive tuition hikes — and for unlimited power to skyrocket certain university tuition even more. Now, students across Florida will have to wait and see whether Scott will actually put a stop to it. 
In the wake of the Legislature’s $52.6 million slashing to UCF’s budget, a spokesman told KnightNews.com UCF will seek to raise differential tuition by 15 percent. But that 15 percent hike for the Knights could pale in comparison to what University of Florida and Florida State students could soon pay, under a bill passed by the Legislature. 
That bill, which would give unlimited tuition raising power to schools meeting certain criteria only UF and FSU currently meet, is on its way to Scott’s desk, where he could veto it. When asked about the controversial bill, Scott said, “I haven’t read that yet, but as you know, I don’t believe in tuition increases so I’m going to look at that very closely.”
Gov. Scott’s spokesman, Lane Wright, sent KnightNews.com a statement back on Feb. 1 stating Scott believed universities could make ends meet without the tuition hikes. When KnightNews.com asked today if that was still the case, Wright said, “Governor Scott’s position hasn’t changed.” 
That position, Wright said in the statement, centers around how Scott’s top priorities are making sure everyone has the opportunity for a good education, an opportunity to get a job and keeping the cost of living low in Florida. According to Wright, Scott’s initiatives are working, and unemployment has dropped from 12 to 9.9 percent under his watch. 
“But to continue that trend, we need to make sure we have a well educated workforce and a low cost of living in this state. An increase in tuition comes out of your pocket,” Wright told KnightNews.com. “That means you’ll have less money for rent, groceries, transportation, etc.”
Instead of raising tuition, Scott wants universities to save money. 
“So many families and businesses have been tightening their belts during this recession and government entities should do the same thing,” Wright told KnightNews.com in the statement. “Our governmental institutions, like universities, should be asking, “Can we do things less expensively? Are there areas where we can reduce costs and still fulfill our core mission? Governor Scott is confident they can find a way to do that and avoid tuition hikes that will put a greater financial strain on students and their families.”
But UCF argues it has already cut back — and the Legislature keeps the cuts coming anyway.
“It is also important to view this cut as part of a larger trend: UCF’s state budget now has been cut about $150 million during the past five years,” UCF spokesman Grant Heston told KnightNews.com Thursday.
KnightNews.com pointed out to Heston that UCF has previously said it had to lay people off and slash majors thanks to the massive state budget cuts. In taking these steps, it has helped UCF save a lot of money in reserves for a rainy day — more than some other universities. 
KnightNews.com asked Heston if UCF was unfairly punished for being fiscally responsible and saving money in the recent tough times, only to have its reserves raided, but Heston’s statement did not directly address that question. Heston did say, however, that “UCF is home to many talented, hard-working and dedicated staff and faculty members. Their continued unwavering commitment to our students and university will be vital to our future.”
KnightNews.com will continue keeping a close eye on Tallahassee and let you know what state leaders do next in the battle over the cost of higher education. 



The proposed 2012-2013 state university budget cuts have came out–and it doesn’t look good for UCF.
Previously, we reported that USF had massive budget cuts, but now, UCF is facing a $52.6 million cut compared to USF’s $36.9 million, a Sun-Sentinel analysis shows. Currently, the University of Central Florida is going to receive the second largest budget cut in the state, only behind Florida State University which will receive a whopping $65.8 million cut.
For UCF students this means a lofty hike in tuition, roughly 15 percent, is expected. The numbers would look somewhat like a $5,626 to $6,301 increase for university students in Florida, the Sun-Sentinel reports.
Students on Bright Future scholarships will not see their financial aid decreased, but with the tuition hikes, Bright Futures will cover less. It is interesting to note that the top scholarship, which once covered 100 percent of tuition will cover less than half for the upcoming fall semester.
Sponsored ad, story continues below:

Students on Florida pre-paid will not see their account effected as long as they bought their prepaid plan before February 1st, 2007. That’s according to the Sun-Sentinel, which reports that those who bought their pre-paid plan between Feb. 1 2007 and January 2010 may only be partially covered for tuition and those who bought after October 2010 will also be fully covered.
We reached out to UCF’s Associate Vice-President of Communications and Public Affairs Grant Heston who told us, “It is safe to assume we will seek Board of Trustees’ and, if they agree, Board of  Governors’ approval for a 15 percent differential tuition increase. As you know, differential tuition is more restrictive than base tuition in how it can be used, and 30 percent goes directly toward need-based financial aid. It will help, but not come close to making up the difference in the budget cut.”
Heston went on to tell us that UCF is still in deliberation analysis of the budget cuts.



You may have seen Big Time Rush on the Nickelodeon TV series, where four fictional friends give up hockey to make it big in Los Angeles.Universal brings Big Time Rush 
Now, Saturday March 10 at 8:30 p.m., Universal Orlando says it’s bringing this gigantic hit with fans of all ages, including Kendall, the leader, James, the ladies’ man, Logan, the brains and Carlos, who gets the laughs. 
“Their chemistry is genuine both on the show and in their music, and fans can’t get enough of them,” Universal’s website says.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2EDCpDXMowc
The band launched its 2012 “Better With U” tour, where they perform from songs from their newest album, Elevate. That comes after the band’s debut album, BTR. That one sold more than 500,000 copies, Universal says.
Some of their hit songs include: “Boyfriend,” “Big Night,” “Music Sounds Better With U,” “Worldwide,” “Til I Forget About You.” Find out more about how to get tickets to Universal Mardi gras to watch this concert by clicking the banner below:



