Update: OCSO confirmed the shooting did not happen in Avalon Park as the Orlando Sentinel initially reported, based on TV news reports. 
The shooting happened across town but the suspect was apprehended in Avalon Park. 
Deputies have not confirmed any details.
Possible Shooting at Avalon Park
Many UCF students live in this area. We are working to find out if anyone witnessed the situation or has more information.
Check back for more information on this breaking news story.



KnightNews.com recently got the chance to visit Halloween Horror Nights 22 at Universal Studios Florida. 
The haunted houses were based on a variety of different themes from shows like The Walking Dead, video games like Silent Hill and original ideas that created houses like Gothic and Dead End. Also the shows were just as much part of the fun. The new 20 Penny Circus show was unsuspecting to say the least! And of course, Bill and Ted never let you down!
Each house had its own specialty factor which made it very different from all of the others. 
Being a “Walking Dead” fan, the haunted house that Universal Studios created for Horror Nights was very cool. With scenes recreated directly out of the series, it made you feel as if you were part of the last ones on Earth! Penn & Teller’s Newkd Las Vegas was one of the most creative houses. Using a special light technology, things really seem to POP! What may seemed like a fun house soon turned less than comic however. One of the most frightening houses had to be Alice Cooper’s Nightmare house. That guy could use some therapy! For more information on houses click the banner at the bottom of this story and find out how to attend the event for yourself! 
If you decide to attend here are some words of advice: 1. DUCK! 2. Don’t look down! 3. Nowhere is safe.
Check out a video of the event as well as some photos below.

Click Next Page to view photos from the event — and see what happened when KnightNews.com tried interviewing the monsters!



Many of us who have lived on or near campus at one time or another or even those who have gotten hungry in between classes have visited Marketplace or Knightro’s, UCF’s on campus dining areas that offer an all you can eat meal with either a meal plan or small fee.
Now, when we go to a buffet, such as Golden Coral or Sweet Tomatoes, we expect just that: all you can eat food. However, many students have been recently complaining that UCF’s Marketplace has been limiting one of their best a la carte items…cookies.
Facebook pages and posts along with student tips argue that Marketplace allows students three cookies on their first trip and two more on their next. After that, they are cut off. For students who pay upwards of $1800 a semester for unlimited food, this is a severe problem and KnightNews.com decided to investigate the matter.
Students have posted Facebook statuses such as, “So when are we boycotting against marketplace about the cookie situation???” and “Occupy Marketplace,” to describe their discontent with the cookie situation.
We decided to send a crew undercover into Marketplace for ourselves and find a solution to the cookie controversy facing Marketplace. Only problem, our correspondent was not cut off. After two trips to the cookie stand, our correspondent was allowed an easy eight cookies with no end in sight. So what does this mean exactly? It is possible that we simply went in at a time that was not busy enough for a needed cookie cutoff or it is possible that the ban is only in place when certain workers are clocked in. What it doesn’t mean however, is that the investigating is over.

KnightNews.com plans to continue the investigation into the cookie controversy that surrounds Marketplace. Anyone with information, evidence, tips or ideas should email news@knightnews.com or text 407-5-tip-UCF.



