Richard Valdes, 27, was arrested during the UCF vs. Mizzou football game for trying to enter the field, according to the UCF police report.
Valdes tried to enter the field while the game was in progress through the entrance that the marching band used to enter the field, according to the report. He was not an authorized member of the University and it is still unclear on whether he is a student.
Valdes was initially detained before being transferred to the UCF Police Department for processing. He was booked at the Orange County jail, he was arrested for trespass and disrupting the activity of an educational institution.
Keep checking back to Knightnews.com for any more information pertaining to this story.
Click NEXT PAGE to view photos of the man running on the field and to see the police report!



Pretty Lights Music, a record label owned by American electronic music artist Derek Vincent Smith, will be putting on a production at the UCF Arena on Oct. 3.
Smith, a native Coloradoan, got his start producing hip-hop music while in high school, which inspired his record label’s hip-hop/synthesizer dance vibe. He’s performed with Cory Eberhard at various well-known American music festivals, including Bonnaroo, Rothbury, the Electric Daisy Carnival and the North Coast Music Festival in Chicago. Also having performed with Bassnectar and the Flaming Lips, he has had a wide array of great experiences with very talented musical artists.
Pretty Lights also offers free downloads of any songs from their albums, and continues to travel around the world to put on extraordinary music festivals and rock the universe with their “Electro Hip-Hop Soul”-themed music. Examples of recent singles are “I Know The Truth” and “We Must Go On,” and some albums are “Filling Up the City Skies,” “Passing by Behind Your Eyes” and “Pretty Lights 2011 Remixes.”
Smith uses several software programs to help produce the beats and synthesizing sounds his music lives off of.  He uses two Macbook Pros running Ableton Live 8 (which he uses Novation X-Station, and a monom with) and two Akai MPD32s whilst performing live on stage.
Set to steal the spotlight in the UCF Arena Wednesday at 8pm, the high-energy music of Pretty Lights is for people of all ages.  Tickets purchased at the UCF Arena Box Office may save money, and they offer tickets ranging from $32.50 to $39.50.
To download Pretty Lights’ free music, check out their website here.
To buy cheaper tickets through the UCF Arena Box Office, visit the Arena’s website here.



Senate elections have officially started and prospective student senators will be vying for a spot on the 45th senate.
From today until Wednesday, you will see students with laptops scattered across campus trying to get as many votes as possible to ensure themselves a seat on this years senate.
One major ticket that has emerged in the wake of these elections is the Black and Gold ticket, who notably have the 44th Senate’s Speaker of the House Wes Jones and ex-SGA presidential nominee Anthony King supporting the ticket. The Black and Gold ticket held a rally at the Moat last night, and currently have almost 700 ‘likes’ on their Facebook page which you can see here.
The other major ticket in this election is the DAWN of Knights party, standing for “Dedicated and Willing Nation of Knights”. This party has their own website at here where you can see all of the prospective senators. Notably endorsements for this ticket include the Beta Theta Pi fraternity, the fraternity of current SGA president Cortez Whatley, as well as Jessica Engalla, the president of the Chi Omega sorority.
Aside from the two parties, there are also choices that are not affiliated to either party. Unlike a government primary, you do not have to register for a party in order to vote for them. It is possible to vote for candidates from either ticket, of course if they are not running for the same seat.
To vote, all you have to do is log onto MyUCF, note however, you can only vote for senators that are in your college.



