During a hearing Friday, Judge Kenneth Lester ordered George Zimmerman to return back to jail within 48 hours. And on Sunday afternoon, Zimmerman walked back into the Seminole County jail.
Zimmerman walking into jail in handcuffs
Check out the video showing Zimmerman arriving in a white van, then walking into jail. He was wearing handcuffs as he was escorted inside. 
Zimmerman had his bond revoked after Special Prosecutor Angela Corey’s team filed a motion Friday asserting he misled the court as to the amount of money he had available when his bond was originally granted.

It’s not clear yet if Zimmerman will be able to convince the judge to give him bond a second time. Zimmerman is charged with second degree murder in the death of Trayvon Martin, but is claiming the shooting was in self defense. Check back to KnightNews.com for updates on this developing story. 



After many names thrown around, and even a contest to name it, On Tap Bar and Grill was the name given to the new bar that was previously known as Chakra and Pounders. UCF student Courtney Davis won the contest by suggesting the name “On Tap” on the bar’s “Name Our Bar” Facebook group. As reward of winning the contest, Davis will now have free drinks for life at On Tap.
After much anticipation, the bar, located on University and Dean Road, held its grand opening on Friday, June 1st. On opening night, there was a line of people reaching the parking lot by 8:50 p.m. By the end of the night the bar reached over 850 people in attendance. The drink special changed each hour with free top shelf from 9-10, free drafts and $1 bottle beers from 10-11, and free wells from 11-12.
“On Tap has a great atmosphere and pretty décor. I think that with the plaza closing in the Fall it has the potential to become a really great place,” UCF student Jamie Diamond said.
Owner Anil Sarran wanted to bring back the UCF night life atmosphere, and felt that On Tap could do just that. At the time when Sarran bought the space, he was not aware of the plaza closing. On Tap staff and managers feel that this could potentially bring significant business to them.
On Tap brings a unique feel to the bar scene by offering over thirty types of beer, opening 7 days a week, and having a full kitchen and day bar beginning at noon every day.



