Tomorrow begins the new term for recently elected members of the Student Government Senate. Elected senators will be sworn in at a meeting tomorrow evening, followed by elections for SGA Pro Tempore and Speaker. For one person however, the new term will be moving on without him.
Wes Jones, the outgoing Speaker of the Senate, lost the election to opponent Kenny Betancourt for Seat 8 in the College of Business. Jones took over the speaker role last October following the retirement of Alan Hardman.
We took the time to interview Wes the day before he would be leaving office for good to ask about his time in office as well as possibly being targeted in the recent senate election. Watch the video interview below.

Friends of Wes posted on his FaceBook wall thanking him for his time in office and help with Senate:
“It was a great time working with you, hopefully we’ll be able to do something like that again in the future,” Graham Austin wrote. 
Luke Perdue, another friend, posted this message: “Wes, I owe my success today to your support, experience, and guidance. Thank you so much for getting me involved…” 
KnightNews.com will keep you updated with the senate meeting and elections coming up tomorrow.



UPDATEReports confirm that one person has died in the collapse and another remains trapped beneath the debris. CBS News reports the trapped man is receiving oxygen and medical aid however, firefighters say the garage’s structural integrity is making rescue plans difficult.
Reports are coming in saying that an under-construction parking garage at south Florida’s west Miami-Dade College campus has collapsed leaving workers trapped beneath the rubble.

Miami-Dade Fire-Rescue Lt. Arnold Piedrahita told WSVN-TV that some workers could be heard calling for help inside the rubble shortly after the multistory garage caved in, according to Yahoo news. It was not clear how many were trapped.
 

Reports also say no students we at the garage at the time of the collapse but several workers who escaped the building received minor injuries.
We will continue to update this breaking news.



David Pesek has been late to class on several occasions because of his difficulties finding a parking spot on campus.
Pesek, a junior double majoring in finance and business management, typically spends 15-20 minutes trying to find a spot. Recently, he said, it took him 45 minutes, making him significantly late to class.
This is a problem that many UCF students deal with every day. According to Courtney Gilmartin, Communications Coordinator of UCF News & Information, there are 12,500 parking spots for green permit holders on campus, while there are 27,295 green permit holders.
Gilmartin said that an additional parking garage is going to be built on October on Libra Drive, near the water tower, which will provide an additional 1,080 parking spots.
However, even though not all 27,000 green permit holders are on campus at the same time, that still leaves more than double the amount of green permit holders than there are green permit parking spots.
On September 25, President Hitt gave his annual State of the University address. When he spoke about UCF’s population recently reaching over 60,000 students, he said, “We will stop growing when our size becomes unmanageable.”
Michelle Bruder, a junior majoring in advertising and public relations, thinks it already has.
“Parking, classroom sizes, and more classes being moved to online because there isn’t enough space all reflect that our numbers are not being managed well,” she said. Bruder is upset that the only parking lot she was able to find spots in is now the future home of two new sorority houses.
Pesek agrees that our size is too big, believing that one additional parking garage isn’t going to be sufficient.
“If President Hitt doesn’t think our size has become unmanageable, I invite him to try to find a [green permit] parking spot on campus between 10 am and 5pm,” he said.



