The University of Central Florida’s Art Gallery began its annual Faculty Exhibition on Thursday.
The exhibit features the work of about 30 faculty members from the School of Visual Arts and Design and allows students and the local community to learn about the professional abilities of UCF’s staff.
“Artwork, for anyone, is a depth of soul,” Collections Manager Kayla Hernandez said. “To be able to get a perspective of your professor or faculty member that’s not figurative, that’s not that person standing in front of you, to be able to see how they think and their process, it does help develop that relationship.”
The gallery accepts art from any faculty member that is interested in submitting a piece, and the only requirement is that the work has not been shown the past five years.
“We just wanted a fresher body of work. Some faculty tend to bring in things they have created and it’s been somewhere else,” Hernandez said. “We want to present something to the school and the public that has not been on show for five years, and mostly everything here is 2011, 2012.”
The Visual Arts department offers a variety of specialties apparent in the eclectic exhibit, which includes such art mediums as photography, digital print, painting, drawing, ceramics, 3D animation, and three different forms of sculpture. 
“This year we actually have one of the professors doing a performance piece, which is unusual, we don’t always have someone doing that so what we’ll do is they’re going to do the performance [at the opening], someone will be videotaping them and then we’ll have their performance piece looping on a TV,” Gallery Coordinator Diane Daugherty said.
Assistant Professor Wanda Raimundi-Ortiz performed the piece throughout the opening event where she appeared in Victorian era clothing, sat on a throne with a costumed woman by her side and held a silver tray on her lap that was filled with trash.
Also looping on a television in a small makeshift theater is an animation piece called “Dentophobia” by Darlene Hadrika, with a musical score by Professor Stella Sung.
“Darlene is putting on her own personal animation, written and completely generated by her own effort, which is pretty impressive,” Digital Media Instructor JoAnne Adams said about her coworker.
Adams is also featuring work, including a three-piece set called “Earth Sky Series. “I had been doing some, I’ll call it digital collage, because I start with my own photography and then take the photographs apart and piece them together into a separate piece and play with space and interpretation of space,” Adams said.
Adams earned a Bachelor’s of Fine Arts degree from the University of New Orleans and a Master’s of Fine Arts from the University of Florida. She started teaching at UCF in 2008, after working as a professional artist for years. “I have always wanted to be a teacher and I got my BFA and started working right away as an artist and had a really nice career at Disney in feature animation
for 15 years and so, saved up enough money to go back and get my MFA,” Adams said. “I always wanted to give back.”
Daugherty said that professors have a duty to exhibit their work to students at the gallery.
“I see it as a responsibility on the professors part, because they are professional artists therefore they should be creating as a professional artist,” Daugherty said. “By presenting your work you are showing your students this is what a professional artist does.”
About 200 people attended the exhibit’s opening reception, including Israel Perez, an art student who has taken classes with featured faculty including
Instructor Matt Dombrowski and Associate Professor Scott F. Hall. Perez favored a sculpture by Assistant Professor David Isenhour called “The Better to See You With.” “I really like the plan, the form, how the pedestal is dripping with paint,” he said.
Hernandez also commented on the sculpture. “It’s this piece that you want it to come to life and you’re staring at these eyeballs and foam and you’re just staring waiting for one of them to twitch and if you stare at it long enough you might think it does,” Hernandez said. “It’s this dark, cynical piece that you can’t help but appreciate.”
Although visitors admire the exhibit, Daugherty said that because of a lack of funding, the gallery has made cut backs that affect the quality of their shows. About three months ago they had to let their art specialist go because they lacked funding for the full time position.
The gallery is funded by donations and partly through the Jenkins Family Foundation.
“It was set up in 1986 to help UCF fund, focus on art, art therapy, art administration, and art education,” Daugherty said.
Because their budget does not allow for a full staff, the gallery relies on volunteers like Alison Yorinks and Kayla Robinson. During two and a half to three hour shifts, three times a week, these volunteers contribute by greeting guests, completing data entry projects, and answering phones. Other duties include hanging artwork, labeling, archiving, and maintaining the gallery walls.
“It’s very informative, more so this year,” Yorinks said. “We are getting more experienced with gallery tasks.” Yorinks, a senior interdisciplinary major has volunteered since her junior year and recommends that students visit the gallery. “It’s free to anyone, you don’t have to be a student,” Yorinks said. “You never know what you’ll find here.”
The exhibition runs through Nov. 16, and the gallery is open Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.



SGA, LGBTQ Services and the Multicultural Student Center hosted “An Evening with Kate Bornstein” last night in honor of LGBTQ History Month at UCF. 
The event, one of several in October, marks the first year that the history month has been organized university-wide. It allowed students to join the acclaimed author in her discussion on gender expression, identity and sexual orientation.
The event was open to the public, and students and faculty alike met in the UCF Pegasus Ballroom as the speaker gave her presentation, titled “World Peace Through Gender Anarchy and Sex Positivity.”
“My students are counselors in training, and they are going to be exposed to very different world views throughout their careers,” said Dr. Sejal Barden, an Assistant Professor in the UCF Department of Educational and Human Sciences. “I thought Kate would be a great person for my class to see and learn from about the topics she’ll be addressing.”
Bornstein, author of Gender Outlaw: On Men, Women, and The Rest of Us, underwent a male-to-female sex change after being raised a Jewish male that identified herself more as female individual, though she did not fully identify as being female either. Bornstein now speaks at universities and workshops nationwide about why gender binary is incorrect, the belief that individuals must identify as either male or female.
“Kate’s theories are being taught in many gender studies and courses because she’s been so impactful in challenging people to think about gender in a way that’s not so black and white,” said David Moran, Graduate Coordinator for the UCF Student Outreach Services. “I think it’s important we bring philosophers to UCF test the way we approach life beyond, say, MTV. That stuff is fun too, but I think Kate can help UCF students think about who they really want to be.”
“I’ve been suicidal six times in my life, but this is what kept me alive,” said Bornstein in regards to her third book, 101 Alternatives to Suicide for Teens, Freaks, and Other Outlaws. “Viewing gender as an “either/or” approach is a magnet for bullying. Who says we have to be one of the two?”
Bornstein also spoke on topics including the keys to make life worth living, which she described as identity, desire and power, and the queer theory, the idea that a person can be more than one gender identity at the same time.
“For a long time, people like us have been left out,” said Bornstein. “If you would bring us into the coalition of margins, I promise we’d be the fun ones.”
“When I saw the email that UCF would be hosting a trans-gender author, I knew this would be an amazing learning opportunity,” said Stephanie Worley, 22, a UCF English Literature major. “I think every student should just grab a friend, get out of bed, and come to educational events like this at UCF. If you don’t like it, then leave. But Kate was delightful.”
For more information about the event, or for information about LGBTQ History Month at UCF, please visit ucf.edu/lgbtq.



UCF has confirmed that Mr. Robert Ashely, UCF Rosen College’s first-ever faculty member, has passed away.
UCF Today reports that Ashley, who taught food service education at UCF for nearly 30 years, passed away at the age of 65, this Friday, after suffering fibrosis of the lung.

Michael Weiss, Assistant Director of Public Relations for UCF’s Rosen College of Hospitality Managementtold us that Rosen College will be hosting an on-campus memorial service for late Robert Ashley this Thursday, Oct. 25, from 3:30-5:00 p.m. at the Darden Auditorium.
Donna Ashley, his wife, told the Orlando Sentinel that Ashley fell ill after returning from a cruise last month. She also said the family does not plan a funeral but instead will donate his body to UCF’s medical college.
Students expressed thoughts and condolances over social media sites like Facebook and Twitter saying things such as “RIP Professor Ashley” (‏@alissamanion), “So sad to hear… He was a great professor” (@Bri_Moore407) and “Rosen Kiddos, you’re not gonna believe it. Prof. Ashley died. So young. #rip #favoriteprofessor” (@jaimista)
Ashley is survived by a daughter, Shannon Ashley; sister, Johanna Cyr; and brother, David Ashley.



On Monday, the Student Labor Action Project had scheduled an open discussion in the Student Union for students to discuss and question SGA President Cortez Whatley about the 15 percent hike on tuition. Over 25 students from VOX, NOW, Amnesty International, Student Disability Services and Campus Peace Action showed up to attend the discussion.
The forum had originally been scheduled for 12 pm in the Pegasus Ballroom BC, then was changed to room 228 A. Shortly after hearing of a room change, Whatley canceled the meeting 45 minutes before it was scheduled to start, but hesitantly rescheduled to commence an hour later after SLAP members and students spent an hour convincing Whatley to commence with the originally scheduled meeting.
“This meeting was never specifically about Cortez, we wanted to address Cortez because of actions and the power he has as the one student voice on the board of governors, and he did vote to increase tuition,” said Haley Cavataro, SLAP member, English major.
She continues, “He fought to increase tuition, maximum percent, 15, and as the Student Labor Action Project, and also as students who pay tuition at this school, and feel that burden, we are very well aware of the effect that tuition rising has on students.”
Cavataro said the purpose of the meeting was to sit down with students and Cortez to propose “clear cut solutions where tuition hikes are unacceptable”.
SGA’s Public Relations Coordinator Oluwafunlola Falade told SLAP the reason for the cancelation was due to a mess up with Cortez’s schedule, and that they didn’t agree with the set up of an open forum, but then proposed a solution to hold a campus wide event.


As soon as Knightly News appeared with a camera, and students were beginning to show up in protest of the cancellation, Falade delivered news that the meeting would continue as scheduled, but with only a select few of students, specifically members of SLAP.
“He’s a fellow student, it shouldn’t be that hard to get to meet with him, a leader is supposed to be easily accessible to students, an SGA leader especially,” said Luis Lopez, double major in Political Science and history.
Lopez expressed that the student government does not represent the student body, and he is frustrated with the lack of interest the SGA has done with engaging with students, considering this would make the second time the SGA has canceled a meeting due to schedule conflicts.
“He doesn’t have the decency as a representative of students to come and say to his fellow students ‘I cant make it to this meeting’, instead, he sends a PR person to talk to us and to defend him at all costs, because that’s his job, its an insult to students,” Lopez said.
Falade also told students that the SGA did not like the flyers for the event.
The flyer features a center image of Whatley with the following text: “Your president was the deciding vote to raise your tuition 15 % for the 4th year in a row, We deserve to know why, Join SLAP October 22”.
“We didn’t think it was professionally done. I didn’t think it was necessarily top notch quality, if you guys wanted an image, I feel as if maybe I could have found somebody to have assimilated an image around you guys,” Falade said. He continues on that the quote regarding the deciding vote was not entirely accurate.
“Right now, we’re at $1000 more than we were paying in 2007, it’s ridiculous. I’m studying to be a teacher, I’m not going to make that much money, I shouldn’t have to pay so much money for a job I’m not going to make much money doing,” said Stu Kalver, 23, English major.
With UCF topping a little over 60,000 students, Kalver says UCF has made an extra $60,000,000, “bleeding all the students dry, putting TV’s in the Student Union, where they really don’t need TV’s”.
Kalver is concerned with where his extra tuition money is going. He is seeing less and less classes being taught in classrooms, but being diverted to online classes. 

SLAP members and students were eventually invited to discuss the discrepancy of the scheduled meetings in the SGA office, after students protested to the SGA’s attempt to limit the meeting to only five representatives of SLAP.
“It was a forum, in my opinion, a very isolated, distinct part of the student body,” Whatley said.
Whatley told SLAP they should have sent him an agenda so they would be adequately prepared to address students’ needs.
Students proposed again to move the meeting from the SGA office to room 228 A upon handing Whatley the agenda for him to review.
“It is not in our best interest, on both parties, to take this and do this right now, if we’re to move this to a later date and hold it to a broader audience, this is an issue that’s not just related to the members in this room here, to you guys as students, but to obviously the entire student population,” Whatley said.
This isn’t the entire student body, he said, this is a select group of students that is part of the student body.
Whatley finally agreed to proceed with the discussion in room 228A after he was told the meeting was not about bashing him, but merely voicing their concerns.
However, the meeting was cut short to 30 minutes.
At the meeting, students shared their personal stories regarding how they already struggle to pay for tuition, and the rise in tuition will only cause more financial burden not only on them, but their families as well; and that education is a right no matter the socioeconomical background of a student or where they come from.
“I voted in the way that I did because it was the best for our institution the best for our current students, and students to come after us,” Whatley said. He continues with a story about a student he met that was working and paying her way through school and would rather pay more to take the classes she needs in order to not delay her graduation.
“Just to put it in the magnitude of the cut, 52 million is about equivalent than the operations of our two largest colleges,” Whatley said regarding Governor Rick Scott’s $1.3 billion cut on the state’s education last year.
Whatley said that the cuts would not have affected majors that are stem majors, but rather programs such as social sciences and liberal arts. These cuts reduce the amount of available classes and professors, therefore delaying graduation.
At the end of the meeting, students proposed to Whatley to join the national organization the United States Student Association. The USSA is an organization comprised of and led by students, and in October 2011 it was selected as the organization to represent the student voice. According to the USSA, it has lobbied to protect the Pell grant, and increase funding, they helped to introduce “The Student Loan Forgiveness Act of 2012” with Congressman Hansen Clark which created a 10-10 standard for student loan forgiveness as well as capping Federal student loan interest at 3.4 percent.
Whatley said he would have to review the pros and cons of the organization before making the decision to join the USSA.
SLAP will continue to gather petition signatures to get the USSA on the ballot.
“He really turned this into a much bigger ordeal than it needed to be, we just wanted to have a discussion,” said Paul Thurston, public relations coordinator for SLAP.
Thurston said he didn’t think Whatley answered any of the student’s questions, instead continued to blame the legislatures, Gov. Scott, and the people who took our reserves.
“He has the power to call for this referendum, we have to get 2,000 signatures to get this on our ballot as a student body, he could do it with two-thirds the majority in the senate, he has the power to do this, so whether he chooses to or not is on him, but we’re going to go forward and we’re going to get this done,” Thurston said.



