


A major fight is unfolding in UCF’s Student Government Association Senate over how millions of your student dollars are spent.
KnightNews.com has learned the Activity and Service Fee Committee has so far refused to allocate funding to the Graduate Student Association, which it could then distribute to its members, even though rules passed allowing the GSA to do so.
So Senator Nick Simons’s Legislative Judicial & Rules Committee pushed through a motion to issue a notice of non-compliance to the entire A&SF Committee. That could cause big problems for the A&SF committee’s ability to operate, if the committee is actually not in compliance and doesn’t rectify it. The non-compliance motion passed in his LJR committee.
In response, Operations Review Committee Chairman Jacob Kahn made a motion to no confidence Simons during Thursday’s Senate meeting, claiming Simons’s committee didn’t have jurisdiction to issue the non-compliance. The no-confidence issue will come up for debate at next week’s senate meeting, where the vote on whether Simons should be kicked out of his LJR chairmanship could come down.
Ultimately, it’s up to the Senate to vote on the A&SF committees allocations. The Senate could override the recommendation of A&SF not to fund GSA.
This hot botton political issue comes just weeks before the SGA 2012 Presidential Race begins, and is likely to intensify as tickets emerge.
KnightNews.com will follow these controversial developments and let you know how they unfold. Check back for updates and more details as we get them.
View Non-Compliance Report Here:




The popular direct download file sharing company was raided today by the federal government just days after sites went black in order to protest the SOPA/PIPA bills that are meant to hinder piracy of copyrighted material.
Seven people have been charged with what a grand jury calls “Mega-Conspiracy” including the founder, Kim Dotcom. Four of the seven have been caught and arrested while the other three remain at large. The total list of charges includes: racketeering conspiracy, conspiring to commit copyright infringement, conspiring to commit money laundering and two counts of criminal copyright infringement.
The Department of Justice claims that the site has caused over $500 million worth of damages to copyright holders and is said to have generated $175 million in revenue for the operators of the site.
The site has gained increasing traffic through recent years with the help of celebrity endorsements by people such as Kanye West, Kim Kardashian, and Swizz Beats, who was named CEO if the company however, this information remains unclear at this time.
Government officials are calling this one of the largest internet pirate crackdowns to date and “among the largest criminal copyright cases ever brought by the United States.”
Check back for more information as it surfaces.




Students gave their opinions on this afternoons remarks by President Obama at Walt Disney World regarding tourism.

UPDATE:3:00PM: The President announced his intentions to expands the U.S. State Department’s Global Entry program and make it easier for frequent and trusted visitors to enter the United States. The president noted the great weather and atmosphere of the park, stating “We’ve got the best product to sell. I mean look at where we are,” refering to the park itself. Obama talked further regarding increasing foot traffic throughout U.S. tourist locations and his goal to make the United States the top toursim destination in the world.
UPDATE: Obama has delivered his speech at Disney World. KnightNews.com’s Jake Sadowksy was there, just feet away from Obama as he gave the speech. Here’s a phone report he just filed.

Obama is not expected to leave Orlando International Airport until around 2 p.m. Be aware of traffic issues between Disney and OIA during the afternoon.

Earlier reports:
KnightNews.com has a crew at Walt Disney World working to gather information, and we’ll carry a live video stream of Obama’s speech below. 
It’s scheduled to start shortly after 12:30 p.m. Obama scheduled the speech before Florida’s Jan. 31 Republican Presidential Primary. Central Florida will be an important battleground during that 2012 election. 
Check back to KnightNews.com for updates from our crew at Walt Disney World. 
Report 1:
Air Force One touched down at Orlando International Airport at 11:36 a.m., four minutes early, on a completely cloudless, cool Florida morning.
President Barack Obama was joined on the plane by Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer, who had been attending a mayors’ convention in Washington D.C., and U.S. Secretary of Commerce Jon Bryson.
Report 2:
The president and Dyer made their way across the tarmac to shake hands with a few of the about 75 supporters before entering the motorcade headed for Walt Disney World.
Report 3:
The motorcade left the airport at 11:52 a.m. and made the trip, via State Road 528 and Interstate Four, and arrived on Walt Disney World property at 12:10 p.m. passing along otherwise vacant Disney roadways, except for a few crowds of waving onlookers in Hess gas stations and other spots. The motorcade stopped in the back-stage area behind the Magic Kingdom at 12:20 p.m.



