Just a week after Knightnews.com Science Editor Tyler N. Neher wrote an editorial about the possible dangers of UCF water, students have become more conscious of the problem.
According the the June 2012 UCF Consumer Confidence Report on tap water quality, UCF tap water has continued to score above the Maximum Contaminant Level Goal for  Alpha Particle Radiation, two isotopes of Radium, Nitrate, Sodium, Cadmium, Haloacetic Acids, Trihalomethanes, and Lead.
Although none of these scored into the level that they were considered harmful, it still is above the recommended amounts that the Consumer Confidence Report stated. According to some students we talked to, this gives the water somewhat of a bad aftertaste.
This isn’t the first time that UCF has dealt with water quality problems. In a news report that Channel 9 WFTV did on Thursday, they uncovered that in 2006 the Department of Environmental Regulation made UCF send out letters warning that the water posed a risk. Since then, UCF bought new filtration systems.
The problem persisted until 2009, when UCF still had 2 national exceeding contaminants.
Check out the video story below:




On the morning of the Fourth of July, the ATLAS experiment, based out of the Large Hadron Collider in Switzerland, delivered findings to the International Conference of High Energy Physics in Australia that they have found evidence that was consistent with the existence Higgs boson.
The ATLAS experiment took 40 million collisions per second at the reactor, running every day since it came online in 2008.
The Higgs boson is significant because it’s discovery helps to describe how particles of matter obtain mass. The Higgs theory states that mass is a representation of the gravitational force, like charge is to the electromagnetic force.
Particles are attracted to each other by gravity in the Higgs field, which is quantified by mass. This is one important step in the goal of a scientific understanding of the Universe.
The Higgs Boson was first proposed as a theory in the 1960’s. After decades of research and 5,000 scientists later, the physicists who discovered what some call the “God particle” were overcome with joy.
Now that the Boson is discovered, the work starts here. Joe Incandela, who leads a team of scientists at the University of California at Santa Barbara told ABC, “We’re talking about something we have no idea what the implications are and may not be directly applied for centuries.”



Many UCF students work as lifeguards, or have worked as lifeguards in their hometowns.
So this story sparking outrages across the country may hit home. KnightNews.com has learned a South Florida lifeguard patrolling Hallandale Beach was fired because he saved a man’s life — who was drowning outside of the area Tomas Lopez, 21, was being paid to patrol. 
video platformvideo managementvideo solutionsvideo player
If you were the lifeguard in this situation, what would you do? Save a life, or save your job?



