Many of you may remember a Knightnews.com article posted last year about UCF student and rapper, Brandon Howard, and his comparison to youtube sensation Rebecca Black. If not, you can read the article here:
http://knightnews.com/2011/03/rebecca-black-millionaire-less-than-a-week-itunes-friday-music-video-youtube/
Brandon Howard (A.T.) is majoring in pre-med here at UCF, but in his free time he’s hard at work: writing lyrics, recording songs, promoting, filming for music videos, and working part-time jobs to support his music. Since his debut last year, his Facebook fan page has gotten nearly 4,400 likes and he’s produced many more songs. Check out one of his latest:

Knightnews.com reached out to A.T. to see what he’s been up to lately. He has at least three new music videos on the way, and is hoping to open for Mac Miller in the UCF Arena on April 20th. 
“Performing at the Mac Miller concert would be wild. Getting my music out there to the right audience is my main goal right now, so that would be a huge step,” A.T. said.
He is also aware that his music isn’t always received in the most positive light.
“I mean, obviously I hope my music will eventually ‘blow up’ and get a lot of attention but if not, I’ll stay humble. I’m just doing what I want to do with my music and if people like it, great. That’s how I got my name A.T. (stands for Always True) because I just do what I’m passionate about,” A.T. told Knightnews.com.
Some of his major influences are Mac Miller, Eminem, and Kid Cudi. He also likes rappers who incorporate singing and meaning into their songs, like he does himself.
If you would like to follow A.T., you can visit his Facebook fan page here.



UPDATE: Read the transcript from Obama’s press conference here. 
 
THE WHITE HOUSE
Office of the Press Secretary
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
February 10, 2012
 
FACT SHEET: Women’s Preventive Services and Religious Institutions
 
Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, most health insurance plans will cover women’s preventive services, including contraception, without charging a co-pay or deductible beginning in August, 2012.  This new law will save money for millions of Americans and ensure Americans nationwide get the high-quality care they need to stay healthy.
 
Today, President Obama will announce that his Administration will implement a policy that accommodates religious liberty while protecting the health of women. Today, nearly 99 percent of all women have used contraception at some point in their lives, but more than half of all women between the ages of 18-34 struggle to afford it.
 
Under the new policy to be announced today, women will have free preventive care that includes contraceptive services no matter where she works.  The policy also ensures that if a woman works for religious employers with objections to providing contraceptive services as part of its health plan, the religious employer will not be required to provide contraception coverage, but her insurance company will be required to offer contraceptive care free of charge.
 
The new policy ensures women can get contraception without paying a co-pay and addresses important concerns raised by religious groups by ensuring that objecting religious employers will not have to provide contraceptive coverage or refer women to organizations that provide contraception.  Background on this policy is included below:
 
 
 
o   Exempts churches, other houses of worship, and similar organizations from covering contraception on the basis of their religious objections.
 
o   Establishes a one year transition period for religious organizations while this policy is being implemented.
 
 
o   Religious organizations will not have to provide contraceptive coverage or refer their employees to organizations that provide contraception.
 
o   Religious organizations will not be required to subsidize the cost of contraception.
 
o   Contraception coverage will be offered to women by their employers’ insurance companies directly, with no role for religious employers who oppose contraception.
 
o   Insurance companies will be required to provide contraception coverage to these women free of charge.
 
Covering contraception saves money for insurance companies by keeping women healthy and preventing spending on other health services. For example, there was no increase in premiums when contraception was added to the Federal Employees Health Benefit System and required of non-religious employers in Hawaii.  One study found that covering contraception lowered premiums by 10 percent or more.
 
###



Talks of the IFC breaking away from the Greek Council have officially been tabled.
Just over a week ago, Knightnews.com received word about the Interfraternity Council (IFC) possibly breaking away from the Greek Council.
This means that the IFC would be able to govern itself without going through the jurisdiction of the Greek Council.
Breaking away or not, each had it’s pros and cons.
Breaking away could have made it possible to where the IFC would be able to think about revoking the six week dry period at the beginning of the semester that was implemented by UCF.
However, breaking away would not make it so every fraternity would be able to do whatever they wanted. Breaking away from the Greek Council would mean that the fraternities would still have to get socials approved by the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life (OFSL).
Through much debate and deliberation, the IFC decided to table the talks and work on coming to terms with the Greek Council.
Interfraternity Council President Mike Irene told Knightnews.com, ” We are working to create a long term solution to better both the greek council and the individual councils and keep a positive attitude to improving our greek community and the university as a whole”
 



