UPDATE KnightNews.com has obtained the letter from UF sent to the fraternity regarding the incident and their suspension. Check out the letter below.
According to the AP, the Alpha Phi Alpha chapter at UF was suspended for hazing and is also under investigation by UF police.
UF spokeswoman Janine Sikes told the AP the fraternity was suspended after a student suffered injuries related to “serious physical hazing” this year.
UF President Bernie Machen addressed all of his students about the issue. He sent an letter Tuesday declaring the school will not tolerate hazing.
The University of Central Florida’s chapter of Alpha Phi Alpha has been accused of hazing before. According to WFTV, UCF Alpha Phi Alpha pledge Mcandy Douarin mysteriously died in 2008. His family said he was punched in the chest hours before his death, and pointed to photo evidence of a bruise on his chest as proof. The station reported UCF could not find enough evidence of hazing to launch a full investigation regarding the pledge’s death, however.
Letter Sent From UF to Alpha Phi Alpha



Rick Santorum has won the Minnesota and Missouri caucuses both by margins of at least 15 percent.
Yes–the same Rick Santorum who finished some 500,000 votes behind Mitt Romney in the Florida primary, has made this already roller-coaster of a race even more interesting.
If that isn’t shocking enough, Ron Paul, who finished last in the Florida primary, took a cool second place in Minnesota, beating the general consensus frontrunner, Mitt Romney.
In his victory speech, Santorum was quick to turn his attention towards Obama. He told the crowd, “This President believes’ that Americans are incapable of liberty.”
He went on to blast Obama for a rule requiring Catholic hospitals and institutions to include birth control in their health insurance plans for employees.
Eight days ago, in Newt Gingrich’s closing speech to his second place finish in Florida, he told the crowd that it was a two man race between him and Santorum. This is clearly not the case, as Gingrich finished last in Minnesota, and was not even on the ballot in Missouri.
Although Santorum did not receive any delegates in the Minnesota and Missouri caucuses, he did stymie Romney’s streak of success thus far in the race.
Only four states and a month remain until Super Tuesday, which is where the real front-runners are expected to emerge.
For now, it’s a big guessing game for Indecision 2012.



