Knightnews.com stopped by Sigma Pi’s annual ACE (Altruistic Campus Experience) philanthropy that helps raise canned goods for the Knights Helping Knights Food Pantry.
During these tough economic times, the Knights Helping Knights Food Pantry  is out to help students in need of food, clothing, and other consumable items. It is located in the UCF Ferrell Commons room 171 and serves approximately 2,000 students per semester.
Sigma Pi helped out Knights Helping Knights by holding their philanthropy at Memory Mall.
Sigma Pi is trying to get everyone campus-wide involved by making the philanthropy into a competition to see who can build the most creative tower out of their cans. Many students and organizations were getting very creative with this competition, using spoons, forks, and glad plastic bags to build mini-castles.
The judges for these castles were Miss Orlando, Miss UCF, and Sigma Pi’s very own Seth Iskowitz.
Iskowitz, who organized the philanthropy, told Knightnews.com that this year was a success, being that they raised over 2,500 cans to help the needy.
 
 



Universal Studios’ Mardi Gras celebration will bring Diana Ross to its stage Saturday, Feb. 25 at 8:30 p.m.

The legendary singer is known for performing hits like “Stop! In the Name of Love.”
The Mardi Gras concert series at Universal Orlando continues throughout the Spring. 
Check out ticket prices and a find out what other artists are performing by clicking the banner below:



KnightNews.com has learned of two contenders for the upcoming SGA Presidential Election.
Sources confirm Anthony King for President with Eric Katz as Vice President and Cortez Whatley for president with Rachel Brill as Vice President.
We are awaiting further information regarding more candidates and will continue to follow the election from start to finish.
Campaigns begin this week and candidates will be lobbying for your support in the upcoming SGA Presidential elections. Candidates need to secure petitions with 500 signatures in order to confirm their running status.
Keep checking back for details as the elections get under way!



