A naked male was arrested outside of the Pointe Central Apartments near UCF early this Labor day weekend.
Brandon Jawan Moody was charged with battery on an officer, resisting arrest, exposure of sexual organs and criminal mischief after police found him running through the apartment complex, according to a UCF police report obtained by KnightNews.com. Brandon Moody,19
After failing to comply with the officer’s request and hitting his patrol car, Moody was tased by an officer, according to the report. Several more attempts to subdue Moody failed, including tasing the subject, and it was not until backup arrived were officers able to put the defendant in handcuffs, the report stated.
The reports say Moody began acting erratically after being dropped off at the apartments and continued to become violent, eventually punching out a window and then crawling through it, injuring himself in the process.



Starring Shia LaBeouf and Tom Hardy, Lawless tells the story of the Bondurant brothers, a family of moonshiners during the prohibition era. Directed by John Hillcoat, the movie, based on true events, focuses on their conflict with a new special deputy, played by Guy Pierce, who aims at taking them down. It was nice to get a slower paced character drama as we end summer and ease into the fall movie season, but don’t expect to be blown away by this movie. 
The best part of this movie is the performances. I was worried about seeing Shia LaBeouf in a dramatic role. I’ve never been a huge fan of his, and felt that he wouldn’t do much after Transformers except being type-casted as the goofy kid who has trouble with girls. Most of the movie focuses on him, showing his rise through his family empire and how it affects his ego. It was great to see some true hurt and emotion from him as an actor, but unfortunately these scenes come near the end, and soon after the film ends. 
In my opinion, Tom Hardy is going to be one of the best actors of our generation. His performance as the leader of the brothers is a good one, but not as memorable as some of his more recent movies. Jessica Chastain does her job well as the love interest in the movie, but nothing special. Despite big advertising, Gary Oldman doesn’t have much screen time, but like all of his other performances, he does a great job, leaving you wishing he had a bigger role. The best performance of all by far is Guy Pearce. As the main antagonist, every time he was on screen I was on the edge of my seat, not being able to predict what his next move was. I’m surprised there hasn’t been much Oscar buzz around his performance, but I’m sure there will be once we are closer to them.
Like his two previous films (The Proposition, The Road) director John Hillcoat is able to capture the scenery beautifully. The 1930’s deep south is almost a character itself, and I was in
awe of the backdrops these characters interacted with. When I heard that John Hillcoat was the director I was excited because I am a fan of his work. I was definitely expecting more out of him. My biggest problem with the movie was I wasn’t really rooting for the main characters. 
They weren’t really relatable, and their relationships didn’t evoke enough of an emotional response in me. The main reason I didn’t want any of them to die was because I was enjoying their performances too much. With a forgettable and underwhelming climax, Lawless didn’t leave me breathless, but I didn’t walk away unhappy either. It’s a movie with great performances and scenery, but with forgettable relationships and not enough emotion. It won’t win best picture, but you will be entertained.
Rating: Rental



As students enjoy the day off from classes, KnightNews.com checked to see what’s open and closed at UCF.
The UCF library will be completely closed all day — but the UCF gym will open up.
The UCF Recreation and Wellness Center’s website says the main weight floor will open at 3 p.m. and close at 10 p.m.
Other areas of the UCF RWC are open at different times. Here’s a copy of the rest of the UCF gym schedule for Labor Day, Sept. 3, 2012:



