Photos of the UCF Men’s tennis team during the 2012 UCF Spring Invitational by Tu Du. 

































After a nearly two-month searching process, the University of Central Florida finally named its new Athletics Director, Todd Stansbury from Oregon State.
Stansbury was announced as the Vice President and Director of Athletics Tuesday to replace former UCF AD Keith Tribble, who resigned last November after the NCAA launched an investigation into UCF’s recruiting practices.
Stansbury comes highly regarded from Oregon State University, where he served as the University Executive Associate Athletic Director.
“As UCF transitions into the BIG EAST, Todd will lead our athletics programs to a new era of success on the national level and build on our student-athletes’ achievements in the classroom,” UCF President John C. Hitt said in a press release from UCFAthletics.com. “I am proud to welcome him to the UCF family.”
Stansbury has a strong resume, which includes being director of athletics at East Tennessee State University from 2000-03 and associate director of athletics at the University of Houston from 1997-2000. His resume also includes working in the athletics department at Georgia Tech from 1988-1995.
Stansbury found great success at Oregon State, helping the Beavers’ athletics annual fund, as well as ticket sales grow immensely in his tenure.
At UCF’s press conference today to introduce the new Athletic Director, Stansbury said he’s excited to help bring the Knights to the next level.
“This is an exciting time to be a Knight, and I am honored and thankful to be here,” Stansbury said at the press conference. “Around the country, UCF is known as a successful program ready to take the next step onto the national stage. I look forward to returning soon and working with our athletics and university staff, student-athletes and coaches to take UCF to the next level.”
With UCF joining the Big East in all sports beginning in 2013, the Knights needed a motivated and reputable athletic director to lead the way. With Stansbury at the helm, the Knights get just that.
As Stansbury takes over the role starting March 1st, he appears confident to help lead the charge and make UCF a competitive program for when they enter the Big East.
“With coaches, staff and students-athletes who are committed to winning the right way — with integrity and character — UCF should be very competitive immediately,” Stansbury said in the press release from UCF Athletics. “I promise our fans this: the Knights will be ready for the BIG EAST.”
Stansbury looks to be a good fit for UCF and Knights’ fans should be excited by this announcement.
 



