Headlining Acts include Alesso, DEV, 3Lau, and KillaGraham.

The University of Central Florida’s Campus Activities Board (CAB) will be taking on its biggest concert project to date, GreenWaves III, on April 11, 2012. New and exclusive “green” technologies will be used to produce the most intense concert experience from a student run show at UCF.
“GreenWaves III is taking concerts to the next level,” said Christian Damon, Director of Concerts for the UCF Campus Activities Board. “Not only are we bringing top tier talent to UCF’s campus for free, but we are also pairing it with the most intense production and special effects ever used in a CAB show.”
With this, CAB has acquired a “Piezo” dance floor that converts dancing from the crowd into electricity that will bring the lighting and special effects to life. The “Piezo” flooring technology has gained attention in Europe, and GreenWaves III will be one of the first applications of this technology in the United States.
“We will be using the electricity created by the audience to fill up a battery, when this battery is full, you can be sure to expect some surprises,” said Damon.
Along with the increase in production quality and the “Piezo” flooring technology, CAB has attained headlining acts that top both the electronic and radio charts. These acts will include:
Alesso, a Swedish DJ and electronic dance music producer, most known for his collaboration “Calling” with Sebastian Ingrosso, will be headlining the show. Other acts include Dev, known mostly for her work with the Cataracs, released her debut album The Night the Sun Came Up on March 27, 2012; 3Lau, a house/bootleg/remix producer from Las Vegas, has gained notable popularity among the electronic dance music (EDM) scene for his remix of Maroon 5’s “Moves Like Jagger”; and KillaGraham, an Orlando native who broke into the local music scene with his dubstep remix of Drake’s “I’m on One.”
GreenWaves III will follow the outdoor GreenWaves festival, which will feature “green” initiatives, activities, vendors and organizations that focus on the implementation, education, and awareness of the “green” movement towards sustainability. This festival is being organized through UCF’s Student Government Association’s Environmental Coalition (E.Co).
“We are excited to continue this collaboration with CAB and have brought this festival to a whole new level with the purchase of the ‘Piezo’ floor,” said Julian Belilty, SGA Sustainability Specialist. “The floor will be unveiled at the GreenWaves III concert and will then be permanently installed in our student union, thus reducing the amount of electricity used by the Student Union.”
Students will be able to get a sneak preview of GreenWaves III’s production at CAB’s comedy show, featuring Aziz Ansari, taking place on April 10, 2012, at 7 p.m. Doors for the GreenWaves III concert open at 6 p.m. and tickets are free for students. General admission tickets are $20 and can be purchased at all ticketmaster locations and online at ticketmaster.com.




Alpha Delta Pi | Delta Tau Delta
Delta Delta Delta | Phi Delta Theta
Kappa Delta | Sigma Chi
Zeta Tau Alpha | Lambda Chi Alpha
Kappa Alpha Theta | Beta Theta Pi & Delta Sigma Phi
Pi Beta Phi | Zeta Beta Tau & Theta Chi
Delta Zeta |  Sigma Pi
Alpha Epsilon Phi | Phi Gamma Delta & Alpha Epsilon Pi
Kappa Kappa Gamma | Tau Kappa Epsilon, Sigma Nu, and Phi Mu Alpha
 
Wednesday Update: Sigma Chi brought out its giant house banner to get KD for homecoming. Check out the photo they posted on Facebook. We’ll let you know how Theta Chi responds.
NEW VIDEO: See a replay from our live stream when ATO walked out of giving ADPi their serenade, before the bombshell that Delt beat them out was dropped.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Ur_HA4irec
BREAKING NEWS: DTD sources confirm ADPi picked them for homecoming. We’re told ATO is NOT part of the pairing. We have a replay of our live breaking news coverage on the historic upset:
Also:
– Tri Delt picks Phi Delt exclusively
– Zeta picks Lambda Chi, leaving DU/KE without a partner
– ATO also is without a partner at the moment, because ADPi picked Delta Tau Delta over ATO
Update:
– We are seeing reports from ZTA’s on Facebook that they have officially paired with Lambda Chi for homecoming. This leaves team Kappa Sigma and DU on the hunt.
– We watched Delt and ATO both compete against each other for ADPi tonight. We are waiting to see which of those fraternities ADPi picks — or if ADPi asks both to pair together as a package deal.
– Also: we talked to Pi Phi’s leaving chapter tonight who told us they aren’t doing homecoming serenades this week. We’re hearing Theta Chi may not be serenading KD until next week as well.
-We found on Theta Chi’s YouTube channel that they are having “KD Week”
Watch the video they made for Kappa Delta below:

-Sigma Chi retaliated by bring the ladies of Kappa Delta gifts tonight:

Check back for updates.
—
We’re still working to find out who is serenading the following sororities:
 
Check back for live updates posted here, and on video, throughout the night. We need your help keeping us updated with what is happening! Text us updates at 407-5-tip-ucf (407-584-7823) and email us pics or video updates to news@knightnews.com. You can tweet us @UCFKnightNews or make a post or comment on our Facebook.com/KnightNews page, or at the bottom of this story. See our 2012 Homecoming Serenade coverage recap from last week here.



Twelve students were recognized March 29 in the Pegasus Ballroom of the University of Central
Florida as part of the annual Eternal Knights Memorial service.
“It’s just a very important time for us to stop as a community and remember,” said Dr. Maribeth
Ehasz, the Vice President for Student Development and Enrollment Services.
Eternal Knights is an annual opportunity for students, faculty, staff and family members to come
together in homage to lives lost during recent academic terms.
This year’s honorees were Stephan Gomez, Christopher Beck, Kyle Urbanik, Andres Bermudez,
Anwar Rashid, Anna Adams, John Phillips, Ann Hefferin, Mathew Paul, Sean McLeod, Taylor
Wynn, and Jack Beard.
The program officially opened promptly at 3 p.m. with a campus wide moment of silence. The
welcome as well as the closing were conducted by Dr. Ehasz.
Each student was named as well as their respective college (College of Health and Public
Affairs, College of Nursing, College of Sciences, College of Engineering and Computer
Sciences, College of Education, and the Office of Undergraduate Studies) and given the
honorific of Eternal Knight.
Many ranking officials of the University of Central Florida community were present and
participating in the event.
President Hitt, Provost Waldrop and Student Body President Matt McCann were all on the program, as
well as various members of Campus Faiths and Ministries.
Yet, attendees seemed the most moved by the University of Central Florida Gospel and Cultural
Choir, directed by senior Enaris Inman.
“Very moving, very appropriate and respectful,” said Inman of the program and the way the
event unfolded.
The selections by the Gospel and Cultural Choir were “Total Praise” and “We Offer Praise.”
Inman said that those were chosen because, “I thought that they were very appropriate not only
to the event and need but also the religious. I know that there was a very diverse crowd and I
wanted to cater to them all.”
And the crowd did encompass the University’s diversity of race, gender, religion and belief to
reflect the differences of those lost.
But their shared grief was a commonality, especially amongst those who were present.
“It makes you realize how precious life is,” said Lisa Cunningham who represented the Office of
Student Involvement. Cunningham is a Master’s Criminal Justice student as well as the Graduate
Assistant for Volunteer UCF.
According to one student, a senior majoring in Health Sciences Pre-Clinical, “It was very nicely
done.”
The student declined to be named but did say the event offered an opportunity for closure in the
aftermath of losing someone very important to them.
And “[t]he great part about it is the turn out. You know that there are students who touched
people outside their families,” said Dean Foard Jones, Interim Dean for the College of Business
Administration.
All in all, most left the event feeling its purpose was fulfilled.
As said by Cortez Whatley, Student Government Association President-Elect, “Just like the
name of the program, [Eternal Knights], they’re still UCF students and they’re always UCF
students… I think it’s important to be here for the students and for the families…”



