We’re halfway through the season, and there are a ton of teams still in the hunt, meaning plenty of big-time games left for fantasy owners. Though the mid-season standings will likely change often over the next few weeks, if your fantasy team has suffered neglect, inadequacy or even just plain bad luck, it’s time to kick it into high gear with fantasy playoffs looming only a handful of weeks away. Considering that, here’s some useful information to bolster any team.
Free Agents
WR Cecil Shorts, Jaguars: Even with the horrendous Jacksonville offense, Shorts has managed to sustain himself as a legitimate fantasy option the last two weeks as the only real wide receiver option on the team.  He’s caught 12 passes for 195 yards and a touchdown over that period, and the Jags were confident enough in Shorts’ ability to trade away receiver Mike Thomas to the Lions, further reason to expect that he will play a significant role in the offense.
RB Daniel Thomas, Dolphins: Reggie Bush is slowly losing his dominant grip on the Dolphins’ running game, as Daniel Thomas received 10 and 15 carries in weeks 7 and 8, earning him a touchdown in back to back contests. The more the ‘Phins move toward a split backfield, the more value Thomas gains. For now he’s worth a pickup as insurance for Bush or for his potential if your running back situation is thin.
RB Jacquizz Rodgers, Falcons: Jacquizz is unfortunately hindered by the Falcons’ heavy reliance on starter Michael Turner. However, he has shown flashes of major talent this year, capped by last weeks’ 60 yards on a mere eight carries. Rodgers has been the more valuable of the backs in the passing game as well; catching twenty passes to Turner’s ten. If he continues to show explosiveness with the ball, expect an expanded role in the Falcons’ aerial attack, making him fairly valuable in PPR leagues.
Injuries
QB Ryan Tannehill, Dolphins: Tannehill was forced out Sunday’s game against the Jets with a bone bruise on his right knee after only five pass attempts. Matt Moore came into the game and performed well enough to hold onto a victory, but didn’t do anything spectacular. Tannehill has practiced for most of the week with a knee brace, and is expected to play this weekend.
RB Jonathan Dwyer, Steelers: Officially listed as doubtful, it seems Dwyer will have very little fantasy value this week following consecutive 100 yard rushing games. Dwyer has been limited at practice all week with a strained right quad, and fellow running back Rashard Mendenhall has been hindered by an Achilles injury. The healthiest back this week in the Pittsburgh rotation is Isaac Redman, who has returned to practice in full capacity and is expected to get the start.
Matchups
QB Matthew Stafford vs. Jaguars Defense: Through the first few games of the season Stafford has not been the offensive power that he was last year, lighting up defenses all around the league. Since his bye three weeks ago however, Stafford has averaged 308 yards per game and has passed for five touchdowns. Expect him to torch the Jags’ secondary, who is giving up over 250 passing yards a game.
WR Denarius Moore vs. Tampa Bay Defense: In his sophomore year with the Raiders, Denarius Moore is averaging 16 yards a reception, and has scored in three consecutive weeks. He has caught at least four passes in every game since he fully returned from a hamstring injury in week 3, and the Tampa Bay secondary has been the soft spot in the armor this year for the Bucs, ranked 31st in the league.
RB LeSean McCoy vs. New Orleans Defense: The Saints’ run defense has lived at the bottom of the barrel all year, giving up 170 rushing yards per game and over 30 points on average. McCoy has flashed his versatility lately, reeling in touchdown passes for 3 games in a row. He’s averaging 4 yards per carry on the year, and with the offensive woes of Michael Vick, McCoy should continue to see a healthy workload through both the air and on the ground.
The second half of the NFL is now underway and the learning curve has grown much steeper for Fantasy owners. From here on out it will be vital to give your fantasy team all the attention it deserves, as champions are made in the second half.



After a series of tense emails, the UCF College of Medicine and its partner, Florida Hospital, have come together in an attempt to earn accreditation for the medical program.
“We have focused our attention on the accreditation visit, the matter of foremost importance,” said Lars Houmann, President and CEO of Florida Hospital.
The College of Medicine received a four-day visit last month from a survey team from the Liason Committee of Medical Education, the nationally recognized authority for medical education programs.
“The College of Medicine team – including faculty, students, staff and community partners – worked extremely hard to prepare for the LCME visit. We are pleased with how it went and look forward to hearing more from the LCME next year,” said Grant Heston, Associate Vice President of Communications and Public Affairs.
The College of Medicine earned provisional accreditation from the LCME in June, but hosted a survey team this month, and expects a final accreditation decision next year.
“Full accreditation will not be determined until 2013, when the school’s charter class is in the fourth year of the program,” Heston said.
To prepare for the LCME visit, the College of Medicine invited medical leaders and partners, including Florida Hospital staff, to participate in a mock LCME visit in July.
This focus on accreditation comes despite recent tension which was revealed in September by the Orlando Business Journal’s release of a series of emails exchanged between President John Hitt; Dr. Deborah German, Vice President for Medical Affairs and Dean of the College of Medicine; and Lars Houmann, President and CEO of Florida Hospital.  The OBJ obtained the emails through a public records request. 
The emails elucidate stress on the partnership caused by the College of Medicine’s development of a graduate medical education program with Florida Hospital competitors, Hospital Corporation of America, and new plans to build a teaching hospital.
“A prominent source of the strain in [the partnership] can be largely attributed to a lack of understanding or agreement on why there has been a departure from the original, well-documented model for the proposed College of Medicine,” Houmann said in an April email.
The model had called for students to use the partners previously existing facilities.
“We are constantly working with partners from across the community to improve education, research and patient care for our region. We are proud to partner with many organizations on many different projects. As for a clinical enterprise, we continue to talk with our partners about how we can work together to best serve our community,” Heston said.



