Knightnews.com has received reports that UCF fraternity Delta Tau Delta lost their charter on Thursday. We have confirmed the news with a member of Delta Tau Delta.
Currently, exact reasoning is unknown, but the organization went under membership review at the beginning of fall.
According to our Greek Life Grade Report, Delta Tau Delta was one of five IFC fraternities on campus who had 90 or more members. Delta Tau Delta had a chapter GPA of 2.953 and is coming off of a first place finish in Alpha Delta Pi’s Cheers for Charity.
Knightnews.com will update you with any information as we get it in .



A man who posed as a foot modeling agent to fuel his foot fetish was arrested on Wednesday after an incident near UCF on April 6, reports show.
John Joseph Capio, 35, was arrested and charged with exposure of sexual organs, battery and false imprisonment after a woman claimed Capio exposed himself to her and used her foot to touch his genitals, according to a police report.
The report says that Capio approached the victim outside Lit Hookah Lounge, near UCF, and told the victim she was pretty and could make a lot of money as a foot model. He then asked her to follow him to his car for a business card and she followed, not wanting to be impolite, the police report states.
The reports says Capio grabbed her arm, pulled her to his car and pulled down his pants, exposing himself to her. He then grabbed her foot and brought it to his genitals, the incident report says. 
The victim was “able to pull her leg away, grab the shoe which had fallen off, and quickly return to her friends by the Lit Hookah.” Her friend then flagged down a police officer but by that time Capio had left the parking lot, the report says.
Police were able to locate Capio due to the nature of the crime. According to police reports, Capio had been arrested and convicted of similar crimes two years ago in the same area. Police were able to match the description of this crime to those past incidents.
Capio was arrested Wednesday night and is currently in jail.



