Johnny Keyser, a 22-year-old University of Central Florida student, just made it to Hollywood after impressing judges on American Idol.

The show featured video of Keyser, who works as a server at Carrabba’s Italian restaurant, out on the water in his Pompano Beach hometown. 
Keyser mentioned that he attends UCF on national TV, getting some publicity for Knight Nation.
httpvh://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1H3E4JnXLQc
KnightNews.com will continue following this UCF Knight’s progress on American Idol. 
As you can see from the video someone posted on YouTube, judges were impressed. Make sure to like KnightNews.com on Facebook to follow his progress!



Palm Beach billionaire John Goodman, who stands accused of driving drunk, plowing into UCF grad Scott Patrick Wilson, then leaving him to die, has reportedly pulled a legal move an adoption attorney told WPEC is “both awful and brilliant.” That attorney suggested it was done in order to shield his assets from a Wilson family lawsuit.  
A Polo club founder, Goodman, 48, has adopted his 42-year-old girlfriend, Heather Laruso Hutchins, according to reports. They’ve been dating since 2009. 
According to The Palm Beach Post, Wilson’s family attorney shares a similar analysis as the adoption attorney. The paper is reporting the plaintiff’s attorney says Goodman is “attempting to shield assets from a civil suit” filed by Wilson’s parents. 
“By way of this adoption, John Goodman now effectively owns one third of the trust assets,” the Wilson attorney told the Palm Beach Post. “It cannot go unrecognized that he chose to adopt his 42-year-old adult girlfriend as opposed to a needy child.”
Goodman’s attorney disagrees with the analysis of the other two attorneys. Goodman’s lawyer denies the move is an attempt to shield assets in response to the lawsuit. Instead, according to a statement, it is all being done to protect and grow the assets of the Trust for his two minor children. 
“Nothing in this arrangement with Ms. Hutchins is illegal,” read a statement from Goodman’s lawyer. “Everything that has been done by Mr. Goodman was done with the intention to preserve and grow the assets of the Trust for his two minor children, even should he personally be unable to continue his historical role in achieving these goals.”
“The adoption of Ms. Hutchins will have no effect on the civil proceedings as none of the assets of his children’s Trust belong to Mr. Goodman. All of the assets of the Trust have been disclosed to all parties in the current civil proceedings, so any allegation of hiding or secreting of assets is totally false.”
Read the full Goodman attorney statement here.

According to ABC news, West Palm Beach Judge Glenn Kelley described the moves as something that “border on the surreal and take the Court into a legal twilight zone.”
“The Defendant has effectively diverted a significant portion of the assets of the children’s trust to a person with whom he is intimately involved at a time when his personal assets are largely at risk in this case,” the judge wrote.
Again, Goodman’s attorney disagrees with the context in which ABC has characterized the judge’s quote. He provided KnightNews.com with the following excerpts from the judge’s Jan. 26 ruling:
·         From Page 1 – “The Court has previously held that the assets owned by the children’s trust may not be considered a part of the net worth, or the financial resources, of Mr. Goodman for purposes of assessing punitive damages.”
·         From Page 6 – “Heather Hutchins’ interest in the children’s trust maybe considered in connection with assessing Defendant John Goodman’s financial resources.”
KnightNews.com has been following the story since Wilson died in February 2010, driving home from Orlando to visit the Palm Beach area for his little sister’s birthday. It has sparked outrage among UCF students. 
Goodman’s civil trial will reportedly start March 27. Meanwhile, his criminal trial is set to start March 6, where he’ll answer for charges of DUI manslaughter, vehicular homicide and leaving the scene of a crash. He could face 30 years in prison if convicted, according to ABC news. 
KnightNews.com will follow the trials and let you know what happens.



Whether we like it or not, another holiday is on its way. Stores are full of red and
pink, 80’s love ballads are entering radio rotations and most restaurants in Orlando are
fully booked. Valentines day, a time to appreciate your sweetheart or to appreciate the
fact you don’t have one. No matter how you plan to spend the day this year, here’s some
hints to get it right.
First things first, decide on a budget. Figure out how much you intend to spend
and stick to it. We would all love to splurge and buy our valentine a pricey gift but bear
in mind, a gift is rarely valued as much as an experience.
Everyone loves to be ‘wined and dined’ especially on a day dedicated to love.
Instead of spending a fortune at a restaurant, cook a memorable dinner. Buy gourmet
ingredients you wouldn’t normally cook with. Every restaurant on Valentines Day
is packed, loud and the service is usually awful. Skip it and treat your valentine to a
romantic night in. If a certain restaurant has special meaning or significance see if they
have a carry out menu so you can still enjoy the night away from the madness.
If you ‘forgot’ how to cook, don’t worry. Check out the prepared foods section at
Publix near the meat department. Here you can find steak pinwheels with fresh spinach
and mozzarella, bacon wrapped chicken cordon bleu, marinated steak kabobs and so
much more. All of the Publix pre-made items come with instructions so if you burn it
make sure you have Papa Johns on speed dial and order a heart shaped pizza.
Ignore the typical box of chocolates calling your name. In an article titled “From
fancy salt to gourmet trucks, an appetizing look at 2012,” USA Today named artisan
chocolate one of the top food trends for 2012. Look for smaller bars that feature unique
flavors and have a higher percentage of cocoa. One bar may cost the same as a common
supersized bag, but your valentine will not complain about its size when he or she tries it.
Sweet! By Good Golly Miss Holly, a bakery with specialty cupcakes located
in Waterford Lakes Town Center, is offering a special Valentines Day collection
of cupcakes. Each cupcake is embellished with a handmade custom chocolate to
compliment each flavor of the collection. The Valentines Day collection is offered at $18
for one dozen mini cupcakes.
Try and explore other areas around Orlando. Harry P. Leu Gardens will be
hosting a Valentine’s Movie Night featuring “Crazy, Stupid, Love.” Admission is only $5
per person and you can bring your own picnic basket and blankets. The Garden will open
at 6 p.m. and the movie will start at 7:30 p.m. During the day admission is $7 and you
can explore 50-acre oasis in the middle of Orlando. Go to www.leugardens.org for more
information.
Park Avenue in Winter Park features one of the most enjoyable walks in Orlando.
Stroll the brick, tree-lined street surrounded by shops and restaurants. Most of the
restaurants will be at capacity but there’s always Starbucks and a vintage candy store.
Make sure to check out the rose garden next to the six-acre park, a frequent wedding
ceremony location due to its charm.
If you’re too busy applauding the fact that you don’t have to worry about anything
above, you should plan a night out. Regardless of relationship status, it’s still a holiday.
You can sit around, watch Christian Slater movies, play video games and pretend you
don’t know what day it is or you can enjoy yourself. Get a group together, split a cab, and
go downtown where you’ll find other people doing the exact same thing.
Remember to buy a card, or make one yourself. Flowers die, chocolate will
mysteriously disappear but a card will always be there to remind your valentine how
much you care. Don’t let you friends feel forgotten, there’s nothing wrong with buying
juvenile valentines for your friends. If all else fails think thoughtfully, speak kindly and
enjoy the people around you.
By: Sophie Grace



