Sponsored by blog Home of the Sole, the first annual SoleFest will be hosted in Central Florida. Founded by four University of Central Florida students, Home of the Sole’s main goal in hosting SoleFest is to gather and bring together the top shoes and fashion enthusiasts in each city.
SoleFest will give local vendors and up and coming brands the opportunity to showcase their products in a trade show atmosphere. SoleFest also looks to provide local “sneakerheads” with another site to buy, sell and trade shoes among one another.
The festival will be held at Blue Moon Ultra Lounge in Waterford Lakes Orlando, Fl on July 28, 2012. It will begin at noon and go until 5 p.m. Presale tickets start at $10 and tickets at the door will be $12. Tickets are available online at www.solefest.com.
“Orlando’s the launch of a Florida based tour with Miami being the next stop in August. We ultimately want to create an event for sneaker collectors to share their collections, but to also explore different avenues of sneaker culture. Eventually we will be expanding outside of Florida starting with Atlanta,” Home of the Sole founder Michael Perez said.
In order to reserve a table, vendors can contact Perez prior to the day of the event. Smaller high top tables will also be available for rent the day of the festival.
For more information about SoleFest you can visit Facebook.com/SoleFest or follow them on Instagram and Twitter at @solefest.



UCF is joining 640 other institutions in the United States by going as a “Smoke Free Campus” according to American Nonsmokers’ Rights Foundation.
For the UCF student who is used to smoking a cigarette in the car before class or while they walk around campus, change is imminent. Knightnews.com made sure to inform students on what they need to know about the new change to campus.
UCF is going Smoke Free because of the possibility of second-hand smoke putting students in danger of diseases like cancer. All students will be affected by the change, as smoking will not be permitted on any UCF property, including in your car while you drive around the UCF parking garages.
This means that the Smoke Free campus will be everywhere–parking garages, campus roads, in your car, walkways, breezeways, etc. There will be no designated smoking areas on campus.
However, there is no legal repercussions to smoking on campus. The University cannot fine someone for smoking on campus and the rule is just strongly encouraged. If someone is smoking on campus it is encouraged to explain to a person smoking that UCF has became a smoke-free campus.
According the SmokeFree FAQ on the UCF website, the change starts immediately. If you would like to know more about the change or get involved with the group “Catch Your Breath UCF” you can find their page where they are holding workshops Here.



Mix The Voice with American Idol and what do you get? The Next: Fame is at Your Doorstep, a brand new reality show coming to the CW network this Fall. 
The Next is unlike any other singing competition, as the show takes on a unique method of finding and shaping their talent. Rather than holding large auditions, four mentors- Joe Jonas of the Jonas Brothers, John Rich of Big & Rich, Gloria Estefan and Nelly- scour through five cities to find the best of their local talent. 
After each judge has chosen one hopeful, they will move in with them for 72 hours to train, advise and essentially mold them into a superstar. Then, the four contestants will battle it out onstage in front of a live audience for a coveted spot in the finals and potentially, a recording deal with Atlantic Records. 
“A lot of these musicians might have not gotten the chance that they deserve. They either got let down by record labels, or they’re just small town artists,” Joe Jonas told WESH 2 News. “It’s really nice to get to know each artist individually and find out what makes them passionate about music.”

Wednesday, July 11, The Next kicked off their five city tour in none other than Orlando. The four mentors, their protégés and hundreds of fans gathered at the House of Blues for the premiere taping of the program. Mentor Joe Jonas chose to work with 18-year-old Tayler Buono, who caught his attention through her popular Youtube channel and fan following. 29-year-old rocker Cori Yarckin was selected by Gloria Estefan, and has quite the expertise in the field, having already opened for major acts such as the Jonas Brothers and 30 Seconds to Mars. John Rich set his sights on local country heartthrob Michael Ray, 24, who is no stranger to the House of Blues stage, as he has already sold out the venue on multiple occasions. 
The fourth and final Orlando contestant was 26-year-old Itzy Rodriguez, who was mentored by hip-hop artist, Nelly. All four talented hopefuls took the stage to showcase their talent, and were later judged by the live audience who selected a winner.
“I felt that Michael Ray had star quality, so I voted for him” said taping attendee, Jeffrey Miller. “I can see him going far with his music career.” 
To see who moves on to the finals, tune in to the premiere episode of The Next: Fame is at Your Doorstep, Thursday, August 16 at 9pm on the CW.



