By: Evan D. Gregory
Though the candidates of this election may not be the strongest nominees
for the oval office, the upcoming presidential election may be
one of the most important elections that our generation will ever have to partake
in. Our young country is facing its second major economic breaking point in less
than one hundred years, but many are speculating that this time around will be a
lot more devastating to the American people than the Depression of the 30’s. There
are hundreds of speculations as to how we’ve gotten ourselves into this mess, but
the fact of the matter is if we don’t figure out a solution soon, it is the current college
generation that is going to have to pay the price. However, there is a man with
a plan that could potentially get the economy back on track.
Paul Ryan, the young gun, clean-cut, hard fought politician out of
Wisconsin’s first district who successfully got his “Path to Prosperity” through
congress back in March. He is coming into this campaign with an updated budget
plan “The Path of Prosperity: A Blueprint for American Renewal” for 2013. Though
the budget plan is not perfect, the plan does call for a $5 trillion dollar cut compared
to the current President’s proposed budget and will limit the government to only 20% of
the economy by 2015. Most importantly and controversial however, is the fact that
it will repeal the unconstitutional health care laws that the American health care
system is not ready to encompass.
Keep in mind, this election, these names, may not mean anything to you in
the time being, but these gentleman in Washington are discussing the future of
college students not only at the University of Central Florida, but of college students
across the country. In projections Paul Ryan presented to Congress in April of 2011,
the debt as a share of the economy is projected to be well above 900% nearing
the year 2080, a year that all of us have a great possibility of living to one day.
This isn’t even taking into account the very real possibility that China will come
looking for the money that is owed to them well before the year 2080. We’ve all
seen how seemingly civilized people can delude into complete anarchy in the face of
insurmountable debt with the riots in Greece.
Though we may not be on the verge of mutiny, the economic problems that
were set into motion by our parents are about to fall into our lap before we know it
and taking the “Path of Prosperity”, even though it is by no means perfect, could be a
step in the relatively right direction for the first time in awhile.



