Under the shadow of Breast Cancer Awareness Month, October is also Domestic Violence Awareness month, despite the lack of events Paint the Night Purple still came through to teach students about the issue of domestic violence that affects the community.
On Thursday, Gamma Sigma Sigma National Service Sorority hosted Paint the Night Purple, an event dedicated to teach UCF students what domestic violence is, along with the signs of domestic violence and what to do if we see a domestic violence situation and how to react.
“We wanted to focus on something that really isn’t prominent on this campus, which is domestic violence awareness,” said Valerie Perez, president of eta theta chapter at UCF of Gamma Sigma Sigma, and representative of Harbor House.

Harbor House of Central Florida and Victim services delivered a presentation to 10 students in the Harris Engineering Center.
“Domestic violence is something that’s growing, and its becoming worse, and it affects every person here,” Perez said.
Last year, Perez says, 5,300 people called the Orange County Sheriffs office requesting assistance; only 24 of the accused were prosecuted toward domestic violence charges.
Victim Services provides direct services to the UCF community, but is not only subject to areas of domestic violence.
“We worked with about 800 students last year, a predominant amount of those students are working with us because of intimate partner violence,” said Christine Mouton, director of Victim Services.
Intimate partner violence can include emotional such as verbal abuse and physical violence.
“Here at UCF we are starting to look at the principles of bystander intervention and how people can pull through or help a friend out,” Mouton said.
Domestic violence is escalating at UCF with the help of technology because it is a tool for stalking. Students are seeking help as a result of being stalked after ending relationships.
As of October 1, Florida now has an injunction for stalking, it also makes anyone legally responsible to call and report witnessed accounts of domestic violence making it a community issue.
In just one month, 11 lives have been lost to domestic violence in Central Florida, four of which were just bystanders.
“It affects everybody, because next thing you know, like the co-worker situation, homeboy is walking up shooting you and everybody else just because of one little thing,” said Rosa James, Domestic Violence Prevention Coordinator for Harbor House, regarding the recent tragedy when Bradford Baumet stormed into a Casselberry salon, shooting his girlfriend and three other women.
“That’s the purpose of my department, is to make the community aware that it is not a private issue, it is a community issue, and it affects everyone,” James said.
Mouton recounts the story of UCF student Andrew Allred who killed his girlfriend Tiffany Barwick and her friend Michael Ruschak. While Barwick was receiving threats from Allred, she reported it to the police, but was told there was little he could do. The law in Florida was then changed so that dating violence was seen the same as domestic violence.
“It starts from the beginning, in small details, such as bullying,” said Lorena Tavor, representative for Harbor House of Central Florida.



UCF has extended the withdrawal deadline for fall courses until 11:59 p.m. Wednesday, Oct. 31. The previous deadline was Monday, October 29.
UCF states that some advisors and instructors may not have been available to meet with students on Monday due to the closure of several buildings in anticipation of President Obama and Bill Clinton’s visit to the campus.
Students will have until 11:59pm on Wednesday to withdraw on myUCF.
Below are withdraw instructions for myUCF:
Navigation to the withdrawal process:
Navigate to myUCF “Student Self Service”, then click on the “Student Center.”
Click on the “enroll” link and at the next page, click on the “drop/withdraw” tab.
Choose the current semester (1460 Fall 2012).
Select the class you wish to withdraw from and then click on the green box for “DROP/WITHDRAW SELECTED CLASSES”
From there – follow the directions to withdraw.
You should also consult with an Academic Advisor if you have questions before withdrawing from a course. 



When we think of human rights, we never think of education, says Chris Mburu, Kenyan human rights activist.
Two-thirds of the population around the world, the biggest challenge is education, Mburu said Thursday in a speech to 70 people in the Cape Florida Ballroom at the Student Union.
“There is a high focus on economic, social and cultural rights, yet the most fundamental right is the right to education, without education we disempowered that person from the civil rights we speak so much of,” Mburu said.
Kenya is affected by the lack of funding and access to education, which prompted Mburu to start the Hilde Back Education Fund that offers scholarships to Kenyan students.
His speech “The Right to Education: A Solution to Global Problems” was sponsored by the UCF Global Perspective office.
Mburu has been doing human rights work for the last 20 years, first as an activist in his home country Kenya, then while earning his LLM at Harvard Law School, and finally by working with organizations such as Amnesty International, Global Rights and the United Nations. Mburu is currently heading the anti-discrimination section of the UN Human Rights Agency, based in Geneva, Switzerland. His work involves conducting research on discrimination and intolerance that could result in the commission of serious crimes.
“Ignorance is used as a political tool, people who are not educated can be easily manipulated,” Mburu said.  He continues, “With better education, we wouldn’t have dictators”.
Kenya has been affected by civil war and genocide, often at the persuasion for a pack of cigarettes, or simply telling one group of people that the other group is bad.  On average, it only costs $20,000 to cause a civil war.
“It is an outrage to see the hunger these kids have for education,” Mburu said. He goes on to quote singer Bono, of the band U2, “where you live, should not determine whether you live.”
Mburu is the founder of the Hilde Back Education Fund, a non-profit organization that started in 2001, which provides scholarships, material, medical, leadership training and psychosocial support to children in Kenya at the Secondary Level.  The Fund is named in honor to Swedish benefactors who ran a charitable education initiative from 1969 through the 70s, specifically Hilde Back who sponsored Chris Mburu’s education in the 1970s under the Swedish Sponsorship Programme.
Mburu says that education is the foundation of development around the world, and credits the draught that occurs in Ethiopia every five to 10 years to the lack of education.  He says, “it is a crisis of governance, distribution and corruption.”
“The moment we educate people, then we create an equal playing filed in which the rest of the rights can be enjoyed,” Mburu said.
He concludes by reminding the audience of John F. Kennedys words, “ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for you country,” and to remember when we point the finger at someone else, there are always three pointing right back.
“The fact that education equals peace, I can’t say I thought of that myself, but I have always felt that if you have a community that’s aware, you can do better if you know better, I liked that he layed that all out,” Kaylin Lynch, 20, sophmore in education major.  



