With another year behind us, KnightNews.com put a list of last year’s major stories together, along with a look of what is to come.

UCF Football Receives Highest Rankings Ever in Final National Polls
January 11, 2011
By: Ryan Bass
The UCF Football team won it’s first ever bowl game this season and, as a reward, is ranked in both the Associated Press and USA Today/Coaches’ Final Top 25 polls for the first time in school history.
UCF’s Request for the Release of Protected Land Sparks Heated Opposition
January 21, 2011
By: Sam Krop
The University of Central Florida prides itself in a decided shift towards environmental consciousness with newly implemented “green” projects. However, the integrity of UCF’s eco friendly program has been challenged by students and alumni due to the university’s recent request for the removal of protected status on land set aside as part of a plan for conservation.
Controversy Surrounds Kilbride’s Pick for SGA Comptroller
January 27, 2011
By: Staff
When it comes to paid positions in UCF’s Student Government Association, no fraternity has more than Beta Theta Pi…
UCF Student Government Battle Spills Into Barroom Brawl?
January 31, 2011
By: Cliff Jett
The bitterness of UCF Student Government politics hit a new level Friday night, with fallout from Darren Kaplan’s failure to be confirmed as Comptroller spilling over into a barroom brawl at Devaney’s, multiple sources told KnightNews.com.
Kilbride’s Knightmare Database Shouldn’t Be Hidden From SGA Senate, Gurney Declares
February 3, 2011
By: Kevin Wolkenfeld
According to Public Records obtained by KnightNews.com, Kilbride stripped access at the same time he faced a firestorm of controversy immediately following KnightNews.com’s investigation of his luxury retreat at a five star resort outside of Disney.
Kilbride’s Appointee for Vice President Fails Senate Confirmation
February 25, 2011
By: Kevin Wolkenfeld
SGA President Michael Kilbride could end his term without a vice president by his side, after the Senate rejected his appointee Thursday night amid sharp criticism that he didn’t do enough to seek input from the Legislative branch before making his decision.
UCF Assigns Police to Protect Imam, Regulate Media & Protesters
February 27, 2011
By: Staff
Tense moments rocked the University of Central Florida campus when crowds gathered in support and opposition of what UCF said was a Muslim student group’s First Amendment right to host a controversial speaker on campus Friday night.
Kilbride Loses Battle to Hide Knightmare From Senate
March 21, 2011
By: Staff
UCF Student Body President Michael Kilbride suffered two major losses last week in his fight to restrict access to his Knightmare financial database showing how millions in student money is spent.
‘Dangerous’ Crowbar-Wielding Man Arrested Near UCF Campus, Police Say
March 24, 2011
By: Staff
The UCF police are alerting students that a warrant was issued for a 40-year-old man named Steven Marshall, who police suspect of roaming the UCF campus with a crowbar and vandalizing vending machines.
Roofie Allegations Made by UCF Kappa Kappa Gamma Sorority Against Frat
March 26, 2011
By: Staff
The University of Central Florida released several written complaints regarding “roofies” filed by women of the Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority to KnightNews.com Friday morning — about 60 hours after UCF Director of Fraternity and Sorority Life Belinda Boston denied she had any.
Kilbride’s SGA Gives $50K to Company that Sold Him $2 Campaign Shirts
March 29, 2011
By: Staff
A KnightNews.com investigation has uncovered, that over a three day period in June of 2010, Kilbride bought 3,250 shirts at $5.05 each for a grand total of $16,412.50 from the company that charged him only $2 per shirt for his 1,001 campaign shirts just weeks earlier.
McCann/Brock Win 2011 SGA Presidential Election
March 30, 2011
By: Staff
Matthew McCann and Adam Brock have won the 2011 Student Government Election, with 6,105 votes, or 61.7 percent. Nick Gurney and Fernando Gonzales racked in 3,785 votes, or 38.83 percent.
Daniel Tosh at UCF: Comedian Returns to Alma Mater
April 5, 2011
By: Staff
University of Central Florida alumnus Daniel Tosh, now a famous comedian and Comedy Central television host, paid a visit to his alma mater Tuesday night to sign autographs outside the school’s iconic reflection pond.
Impeachment Charges Filed Against Michael Kilbride, UCF SGA President
April 6, 2011
By: Andrew Stein
The LJR Committee voted unanimously to send the affidavit on to the senate and move forward with the process which could result in UCF SGA President Michael Kilbride’s impeachment and removal from office.
UCF Greek Homecoming Serenades Live Coverage Recap
April 12, 2011
By: Staff
Several hours of live video coverage of homecoming serenades and pairings.
Michael Kilbride Throws Self Lavish Goodbye Party on UCF Students’ Dime
April 13, 2011
By: Staff
This wasn’t a setup for UCF alumni getting married on campus; it’s a lavish goodbye party embattled SGA President Michael Kilbride is throwing himself — courtesy of student activity and service fees.
SGA President Escapes Impeachment During Clouded Meeting
April 15, 2011
By: Staff
Confusion over impeachment statutes, student privacy laws and an open admission by an SGA senator that people skipped out on the meeting because they didn’t want to take a vote on whether to investigate accusations against Student Body President Michael Kilbride clouded Thursday’s SGA Senate meeting. 
Obama Announces Osama Bin Laden is Dead; UCF Area Reacts with Fireworks
May 2, 2011
By: Staff
KnightNews.com’s Andrew Stein anchored special live video coverage of this historic day with KnightNews.com political analyst Evan Weiss. They opened up the phone lines and took your calls live on the air. UCF students were very happy to hear the news.
Ereck Plancher Wrongful Death Trial Begins Monday Amid UCF Appeals
June 12, 2011
By: Christopher Menendez
The civil trial over Ereck Plancher’s death will begin Monday as scheduled after Circuit Judge Robert M. Evans rejected a motion by the UCF legal team to put the trial on hold.
Ereck Plancher Verdict: UCFAA Found Negligent in Wrongful Death Trial
June 30, 2011
By: Staff
The jury found the UCF Athletics Association negligent in the wrongful death of Ereck Plancher and his family was awarded 10 million in damages.
Jury Rules Casey Anthony is Not Guilty on Murder Charge
July 5, 2011
By: Kevin Wolkenfeld
Early Tuesday afternoon, a jury ruled Casey Anthony was not guilty on murder one along with a couple of other charges. KnightNews.com talked to students to get their reaction.
FBI Arrests UCF Student For Attempted Cyber Hacking of Infragard Website
July 19, 2011
By: Kevin Wolkenfeld
KnightNews.com broke the story this morning when we first reported that law enforcement had put a suspect into the back of an unmarked vehicle near Tower III and then reported first that the FBI was involved.
‘The Plaza’ Across From UCF to be Bulldozed, Rebuilt with Apartments, Retail
August 14, 2011
By: Staff
Plans have been announced to bulldoze “The Plaza” shopping center across from the University of Central Florida’s main campus, which hosts popular bars like Deko, Knight Library and FUBAR, so it can be rebuilt with retail and residential.
Alcohol-Free Greek Tradition Banned at UCF; Student Outrage Grows
August 16, 2011
By: Staff
At a school as young as the University of Central Florida, establishing tradition is a critical part of campus life. So when one of UCF’s few treasured traditions suddenly got ripped away, students became outraged.
UCF Slammed With NCAA Investigation
August 17, 2011
By: Jake Rakoci
A cloud of controversy has been cast over the University of Central Florida. The university has received a Letter of Inquiry from the NCAA regarding possible violations in its football and basketball programs.
Reports: UCF Sorority Member Dies After Attending Fraternity Party
August 25, 2011
By: Kevin Wolkenfeld
KnightNews.com has received numerous tips about a new sorority member of Delta Delta Delta passing away after attending a Sigma Chi house party on campus.
UCF Board Bans Alcohol from Greek Events after Ann Hefferin’s Death
September 4, 2011
By: Kevin Wolkenfeld
An email was sent out to the entire UCF Greek community banning alcohol from any and all events, effective this Tuesday.
UCF Fan’s Fight with Police Caught on Camera during Boston College Game
September 12, 2011
By: Kevin Wolkenfeld
Video posted on YouTube shows a football fan getting into a brawl with a law enforcement officer during the UCF home game against Boston College Saturday.
UCF-FIU: Turnovers Doom Knights in 17-10 Loss to Golden Panthers
September 17, 2011
By: Nick Wilke
UCF was unable to make a late comeback in the fourth quarter, and suffered their first loss, 17-10, of the season against FIU Friday night at the FIU stadium.
Speaker Dean Cannon Says USF Shouldn’t Block UCF from Big East
September 23, 2011
By: Kevin Wolkenfeld
Genshaft is apparently dodging Bianchi’s questions and has reportedly been unreachable when media tries asking her about supporting UCF. Bianchi also spoke with former state Sen. Lee Constantine, a UCF alumnus, who is sure Genshaft is trying to block the Knights from the Big East.
KnightNews.com interviews GOP Presidential Candidates
September 23, 2011
By: Staff
When the Republican presidential debate ended last night in Orlando, KnightNews.com was there to ask questions of the candidates willing to talk to the media.
Ann Hefferin’s Manner of Death was ‘Natural’
September 30, 2011
By: Staff
The Orange-Osceola County Medical Examiner’s Office has confirmed to KnightNews.com the manner of Ann Hefferin’s death was “natural” — and was caused by a bacterial infection.
UCF Fraternities and Sororities Lift Ban On Alcohol, Impose New Restrictions
October 13, 2011
By: Staff
According to documents handed out to members of the Greek community, new policies will replace the moratorium, including a ban on all Interfraternity Council events with alcohol for the first six weeks of every semester.
UCF Employee Pay Released by Gov. Rick Scott, See Salaries Here
October 18, 2011
By: Staff
But yesterday Florida Gov. Rick Scott published the pay data for all of Florida’s state university system — for free. It’s part of his “Florida Has a Right to Know” campaign. KnightNews.com has obtained the UCF pay data and sorted it from highest to lowest. 
Hitt Confirms Tribble Out in Message to Students
November 9, 2011
By: Staff
KnightNews.com obtained the following message sent to students on behalf of UCF President John C. Hitt which confirms reports about UCF’s response to alleged NCAA violations.
Rise Up UCF: An On-Campus Protest By the Students For the Students
December 1, 2011
By: Jacob Sadowsky
This Thursday nearly 100 UCF students met at UCF’s Fairwinds Alumni Center to protest the decisions being made by several Central Florida Legislative Delegates who were meeting at UCF.
UCF to Big East: John Marinatto Officially Announces Addition of Knights
December 7, 2011
By: Allen Levin
Wednesday marked the official news that UCF fans have long anticipated and waited for: UCF will be joining the Big East conference in all sports starting in the 2013 season.
Cops Identify Man Shot Near McDonald’s, UCF Bars
December 8, 2011
By: Staff
Deputies told KnightNews.com yesterday that the victim was found in a blue sedan with shattered windows, a few blocks west of “The Plaza” McDonald’s, in between the plaza housing World of Beer and IHOP.
2 UCF Alumni Arrested in Sorority House Heist; 1 Had Gun, Cops Say
December 16, 2011
By: Staff
The house was likely familiar territory for the two, as sources confirm to KnightNews.com that both men were brothers of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity when they were students at UCF. Kappa Alpha Theta moved into the house after SigEp was kicked off campus in 2007 following a hazing scandal.



