KnightNews.com has obtained the press release sent by the Osceola County Sheriff’s Office detailing the results of a child sex sting operation which netted 40 arrests — eight of which were college students.
Other than listing that one suspect went to Embry Riddle and another to Full Sail University in Orlando, Osceola deputies did not disclose which colleges the remaining six students attended. KnightNews.com will work to find out if any went to UCF, and if we discover that to be the case we’ll let you know.
Below is the press release from Osceola County:
Osceola County, Florida – Osceola County Sheriff’s detectives concluded a week long, multi-agency, undercover operation which resulted in 40 suspects arrested and charged with soliciting sex from a child via the Internet and other sex and drug related crimes. Led by the Osceola County Sheriff’s Office, Operation Red Cheeks was conducted January 8-16, 2012, in conjunction with detectives, officers and special agents of the Central Florida Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Task Force.
“The success of this operation was the result of multiple local and state agencies working together in a cooperative effort. Florida Sheriffs and the Florida Sheriff’s Association has taken a strong proactive enforcement position to combat these predators statewide. These predators stalk the cyber community looking for children to victimize. This operation resulted in 40 arrests which means at a minimum, 40 children did not fall prey to a sexual deviant,” stated Sheriff Bob Hansell.
The Osceola County Sheriff’s Office with the assistance of the Florida Department of Law Enforcement worked with Citrus, Lake, Orange, Sumter, Polk, Hardee and Manatee County Sheriff’s Offices and Ocoee, Kissimmee, Sanford, Orlando, Longwood and Casselberry Police Departments. During the operation, undercover detectives from the agencies listed, posed as juveniles or the parent or guardian of a juvenile to talk with individuals in chat rooms and instant messaging programs on the Internet. Suspects would travel to an undercover house or secondary meeting location located in Osceola County with the purpose of having sex with a child. During the chats, most of the suspects sent pornographic images to the undercover detectives and they also brought alcohol, drugs and other items to the meeting. One suspect traveled from Georgia and another was on vacation from Alaska, but most were from cities in Florida. All the suspects were arrested in Osceola County.
The arrests included a head swim coach, a professional golfer on the Senior PGA Tour, an eighth grade teacher, business professionals and consultants and eight college students.
“This operation should also be a warning to all parents to monitor and be involved with their child’s computer activities,” said Sheriff Bob Hansell.
The following were arrested:



