In 2011, UCF’s plan to open a dental school by 2014 was rejected by the Florida Board of Governors.
The planned school, which was hoped to open in the Lake Nona medical district was shot down citing reasons being inadequate planning that needed to be reworked. However, UCF has not given up hope to build a dental school in a state where there are only three accredited dental programs.
UCF included a dental school on a wish-list of items submitted to the Board of Governors. According to the Orlando Sentinel, the dental school would be a $73 million dollar project that will not rely on state funding. Similar to the dental school proposal in 2011 which was going to rely on student tuition and private donations, this current dental school will most likely have to do the same if approved.
Ultimately, the 2011 dental school proposal would have made the school cost around $50,000 a year, which is nearly twice as much as the University of Florida’s dental school program.
A UCF spokesman told the Orlando Sentinel that no timetable has been set to anew the proposal.



One UCF Board of Trustee member will not be reappointed to the position overseeing the University of Central Florida in a move by Gov. Rick Scott, according to a news release from the Governor’s office.  
Michael J. Grindstaff, who served as chairman of the board of trustees for the past two years, has been replaced by Dr. Clarence “Buck” Brown.
Brown, 72, of Orlando, is the vice president of development for oncology for the Orlando Health Foundation and the president emeritus of the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center Orlando, a press release stated. Brown’s term began Thursday and will end January 6, 2018. The appointment is subject to confirmation by the Florida Senate.
According to the Orlando Sentinel, Grindstaff, 56, said the governor’s office called him early this week to thank him for his service and to say that someone else was taking his seat. It is not immediately clear why Grindstaff was not kept on as a trustee.
“They don’t need to say why,” he told the Orlando Sentinel in a telephone interview Thursday afternoon. “I’m a company man and I respect the governor’s decision.”
He tells the Orlando Sentinel that he plans to remain involved with the university, including doing volunteer work.



