After UCF’s big win at Penn State, KnightNews.com’s Justin Levy and Jake Rakoci got a chance to do a little sightseeing in a horse and buggy.

Sponsored Ad – Story Continues Below
 
Join them and their tour guide, Wick, as they explore Philadelphia in what the guide says is the same carriage used by a certain presidential first lady.
Also, find out how some of the historic real estate is closer than the famous 6 degrees from actor Kevin Bacon.
Don’t forget to check out our other videos from the trip! We have post-game exclusives with some members of the UCF football team, and the Tailgate Cam with our own Justin Levy.
[myrelposts-related title=”See More UCF vs. PSU Coverage:“]



A new report has just been released by the Orange County Sheriff’s Office which details the terrifying rape of a UCF student at gunpoint last Friday.
The Orange County Sheriff’s Office asked us to share the information with students to help get the word out and try to find the suspect. 
According to the report, the victim went to throw out her garbage at the nearby community garbage receptacle late Friday night when an unknown Black male put what appeared to be a black in color semi-automatic pistol to the right side of her head.
The victim said she attempted to get away from the suspect, but he grabbed her by the ankles, dragged her back and told her “shut up,” according to the report. The suspect then proceeded to rape the victim, according to the report.
The suspect then punched the victim around the back of her head and back several times before fleeing the scene northbound, according to the report. The suspect then entered a yellow vehicle and left the area in an unknown direction
The suspect is described as a Black male with a thin build and deep voice. Additionally, the victim advised police that the suspect is possibly between the age of 20-30 years old and was wearing jeans shorts. The description is very limited and investigators aren’t able to share any new details at this time. 
Anyone who may have seen something that night or may have more information is asked to call Crimeline.
View the entire police report below OCSO asked us to share with students. (Warning: information may be disturbing)
http://knightnews.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/09-15-2013-13-80219UCF-Sexual-Battery.pdf
UCF’s Vice President Maribeth Ehasz issued a statement in regards to this attack and the other recent attacks near campus. Click here for more.



