Police are searching for a gunman who shot one person near the University of Central Florida on Tuesday night.
According to Wesh news, a man was shot as he tried breaking up a fight between a man and woman in a parking lot behind Wend’s on Alafaya Trail and Colonial Drive.
A passerby saw a couple fighting inside a car and walked up to the vehicle to try and stop the fight, according to Wesh.  Another man then approached the car and shot the good Samaritan, police told Wesh. Photo via Facebook Police told Wesh that the victim was  “stomped” by the shooter, the man who was fighting with his girlfriend, and another person before they fled in two separate vehicles, leaving the victim on the ground.
The victim was taken to the hospital and is talking to investigators.
Wesh reports that one person was arrested in relation to this incident but it is not the shooter.



Florida’s Board of Education met on Tuesday and approved Valencia College’s request to build a new campus in Poinciana, paving the way for Valencia to begin the process of looking for a site for the new campus.
Although Valencia College officials have been eyeing a possible Poinciana campus since 2003, the discussion began to gain traction this year, said Sandy Shugart, Valencia College president. “We have been looking forward to bringing our presence to Poinciana for many years,” Shugart said.
The new college will be Valencia’s sixth campus and is expected to serve about 4,000 students. School officials are not yet certain when the campus will open. Valencia still must acquire land and funding for the project.
“A campus in Poinciana would be a game-changer,” said Shugart. “We’d like to increase the college-going rate of students who graduate from high school in the Poinciana area; we’d like to get more adults to complete college degrees as well. We’d like to offer more career-training there; and we’d like to partner with the University of Central Florida and TECO (Technical Education Center Osceola) and others to make sure a full gamut of talent is available for companies that relocate and expand there.”



UCF’s faculty union, the United Faculty of Florida (UFF), is disappointed in a recommendation by the school’s Board of Trustees’ labor and compensation subcommittee to give UCF faculty a raise of only 0.5 percent.
At a meeting on Monday, the committee heard arguments for faculty raises from the union and union’s private attorney, Michael Mattimore. The boardroom was standing room only as UCF faculty, students, and alumni supporting improved compensation of faculty wore “respect” buttons and held signs stating “reward faculty performance.”
UCF’s own lawyer, however, argued against granting the faculty at UCF any raise at all. But after hearing the arguments, John Sprouls, chair of the labor and compensation committee, announced his committee would recommend to the full Board that faculty be granted a non-retroactive raise of 0.5 percent to begin in January.
Sprouls did acknowledge that “the faculty deserves more” and noted that UFF “had made a strong argument with regard to compensation.” Board member Ray Gilley likewise indicated that the Board would like to give “[its] precious faculty the raise they deserve.”
“UFF is shocked by the BOT committee’s refusal to appropriately recognize faculty contributions to UCF’s success,” a press release from the union stated.
At last week’s Board of Trustees meeting, the Board granted bonuses that totaled over $320,000 to some administrators (including a $117,000 bonus to President Hitt) for meeting university set performance goals.
But the faculty union says that those goals could not have been met without significant faculty teaching, advising, and research success.
“Amidst ever increasing faculty workloads, declining take-home pay, and already low morale, faculty at UCF perceive the decision to award them a mere 0.5% as a slap in the face,” a press release from the union said. “It is our hope that the Board of Trustees will take into consideration the central importance of UCF faculty to the university’s mission, and that the full BOT will overturn this committee recommendation and will grant a fair raise for UCF faculty.”



