UCF Homecoming has announced the headliner for this year’s Comedy Knight concert.
Craig Robinson, best known for his roles as Darryl from the office, will be headlining Comedy Knight 2013. Robinson’s movie acting credits include Pineapple Express, Hot Tub Time Machine and most recently This is The End. 
The opener for the comedy concert is Mark Normand. 
The Comedy Knight concert will be Wednesday, November 6th. 
The concert is FREE for UCF students with a valid UCF ID. Tickets for the general public will go on sale this week.



UPDATE The proposal to extend downtown drinking hours was tabled on Monday due to concerns and other issues raised by club owners. 
Downtown Orlando drinking hours could be extended an extra hour, but at a price to the younger crowd.
According to the Orlando Sentinel, city officials will vote on Monday on a plan to extend drinking hours downtown to 3 a.m. on Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights. For those under 21, however, the proposal would also require most clubs and bars to boot people under 21 by 10 p.m., the Orlando Sentinel reports.
The rules would only apply to bars and clubs downtown — all others around the city would still have to stop serving alcohol at 2 a.m., according to the Orlando Sentinel. 
The plan, named “Destination Downtown,” was announced earlier this year and would require downtown establishments that serve alcohol after midnight to obtain a new “Late Night” permit expected to cost about $500, the Orlando Sentinel reports. 
It would also require bars or clubs to have electronic scanners to check customers’ IDs. 
According to the Sentinel, the goal is to crack down on underage drinking at downtown establishments. City officials came to an agreement to extend drinking hours since the clubs would lose cover charges paid by the younger customers, the Orlando Sentinel reports.
What’s your take — should the bars be open later and ban underage patrons after 10 p.m.?
Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get news like this on your feeds!



