Lindsey Duke, the girlfriend of UCF football quarterback Blake Bortles, is the one in the relationship taking the spotlight this August. Duke made this month’s cover of aXis Magazine.

The magazine released this YouTube video of Duke’s shoot, where she showed her UCF pride.
This shoot takes place at Lake Claire, and outside Bright House Networks Stadium. It does not take place inside the locker room, as was the case back when Playboy’s Shanna Marie McLaughlin did the UCF shoot for aXis.
[myrelposts-related title=”See More UCF Football Coverage:“]



One year after the death of a University of Central Florida student Brandon K. Howard, new details surrounding the crash have been released.
According to the Florida Highway Patrol, Howard’s Blood Alcohol Content was .22 — nearly three times the legal limit for driving — when he attempted to walk across McCulloch Road at 1:45 a.m. on August 18, 2012.
 The medical examiner stated that Howard was struck and killed by a taxi while crossing the road and while suffering from apparent “evidence of acute alcohol intoxication.” 
 

According to the Centers for Disease Control, there are approximately 80,000 deaths attributable to excessive alcohol use each year in the United States. This makes excessive alcohol use the third leading lifestyle-related cause of death for the nation.
There are options for UCF students to get home safe after drinking, including a “Safe Ride” program which allows students to get free taxi rides up to a certain amount. Students must have a Safe Ride voucher to redeem their cab ride and these vouchers can be picked up at the SGA Ticket Center.
KnightNews.com researched taxi services between several local bars around UCF and found that one service — Orlando Taxi (407-422-2222) — offers minimal rates for rides, including a $9.82 fee to get from On Tap to UCF or $6.01 to get from the Station to UCF.
KnightNews.com also reached out to UCF for comment regarding the newly released information but did not immediately hear back. 
For more on Brandon Howard, click here.



