On Friday, the UCF Student Government Association introduced a new KnightLYNX bus stop route that could be very beneficial for UCF students.
Since the popular University Shoppes plaza was bulldozed, UCF students were out of walking distance from a lot of popular nightlife destinations. The newly updated ‘Green Route’ will make a stop for students students at the Buffalo Wild Wings plaza on University, placing them within 100 yards of the new Knight Library and close popular college restaurants such as Jimmy Hulas.
KnightLYNX has three routes; the green, red, and blue lines which all leave from the CFE Arena. The green line runs in a circle from McCulloch to University and back on campus at Central FL Blvd. The Red line goes to East Colonial Drive and heads all the way to Downtown Orlando. The Blue line goes all the way from the Rec and Wellness Center to the Waterford  shopping plaza.
KnightLYNX opened up to students in Spring 2011 as a safe means of transportation for late night hours between 8:00p.m. and 3:00a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights. Riding the KnightLYNX bus is free for all UCF students with a valid UCF ID card.



Two distinguished UCF alumni will speak at the University of Central Florida’s summer commencement ceremony on Saturday, Aug. 3.
Micky Grindstaff, chair of the UCF Board of Trustees and a partner in the law firm Shutts & Bowen LLP, will speak at the morning ceremony followed by Jo Anne Puglisi, a 1973 mechanical engineering graduate, in the afternoon.
Puglisi has spent 40 years working in military aviation simulation and aircraft development, UCF said. She has worked with Lockheed Martin Mission Systems and Training in Orlando since 1993. Grindstaff earned a bachelor’s degree in business administration at the university in 1978 before earning his law degree at Mercer University in 1982, according to UCF.
Ceremonies at the CFE Arena will begin at 9 a.m. and 2:30 p.m., with the procession of graduates starting 20 minutes before each ceremony. Doors will open about 90 minutes before each ceremony.
The 9 a.m. ceremony will feature graduates from the College of Arts & Humanities, College of Business Administration, College of Education and Human Performance, College of Graduate Studies, Office of Undergraduate Studies, and the Rosen College of Hospitality Management.
The 2:30 p.m. ceremony will be held for graduates from the College of Engineering & Computer Science, College of Health and Public Affairs, College of Medicine, College of Nursing, College of Optics & Photonics, and the College of Sciences.
Tickets are required for guests to attend the ceremonies and are available from graduates. Guests without tickets are welcome to view closed-circuit telecasts of the ceremonies from the FAIRWINDS Alumni Center across the street from the CFE Arena, the Student Union, and on Campus Cable Channel 21.



The Collegiate Water Polo Association (CWPA) has selected 54 student-athletes to the 2013 Women’s National Collegiate Club All-America Team — including three University of Central Florida students.
 Taylor Reeves (Goalie), Lauren Scheetz and Alison Mantel were selected to be a part of the club’s first team of three. The student-athletes are broken down into three teams of six field players and a goalie, plus 33 Honorable Mention selections.
Comprised of student-athletes from 36 institutions, the National Collegiate Club All-America team is voted on by representatives from each of the women’s club programs in the Collegiate Water Polo Association. Votes are tabulated with individuals receiving the greatest number of points earning first team honors.  
The totals mark an increase of four All-America recipients and four institutions from the 2012 mark of 50 recognized athletes from 32 programs, the water polo association said. 



