A graffiti covered minivan was smashed for a good cause outside Knight Library Thursday night.
“We chose to do a car smash as a fundraiser because it was different from what most people do. It is a fun way for us and for others to enjoy while raising money for a good cause,” said Ariel Baner, a member of the Bright Knights cornerstone group.
The Bright Knights put on the car smash fundraiser in order to raise money for the Boys Town of Central Florida. The car was hit, slammed and smashed repeatedly from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., and the motto of the night was “it’s for the kids.”

They charged $1 for one swing, $2 for three hits and $5 for a rampage. When asked what the group would qualify  a rampage as David Castillo, another member, said it was thirty seconds of rampage against the vehicle.
A Bright Knights group member, Sean Hyatt, said he had actually thought of the idea of having a car smash event a while ago but the concept died down for some time after they found out they could not host it on campus.
“I actually brought it up,” Hyatt said. “I thought of it because my high school did something like that for a homecoming one year.”
After the group attended a meeting at Knight Library to talk about hosting the fundraiser there and got a permit, all they needed was a vehicle.
“We got it from a junkyard off Colonial,” Joshua Murray said. “Three of us went the other day and took out the windows. We had to use a hammer so it was fun.”
The group has decided that with the funds from the car smash they will take a group of 16 to 20 kids from the Boys Town of Central Florida to the Kennedy Space Center. The group saw this as a way for the kids to not only have fun but to also learn something.
“We saw this as the best opportunity. For the kids and for us because it’s fun,” Mark Witte said.
The car smash fundraiser was a success and the group plans to host an even bigger one in just a few weeks. They ended up raising over $200 and plan to raise even more at the comedy show they are hosting this Saturday at Taste.
“The night went really well,” Baner said. “Everyone there left with a big smile on their face. We had people from 10 years old to people in their 40s come out and hit the car. Overall we are very happy with our event and we are planning on doing a bigger and better car smash in a few weeks. Now we are focusing on the comedy show at Taste this Saturday.”



Coming off of a disappointing loss in last week’s challenge against the South Carolina Gamecocks, the Knights(3-1) insist they won’t be hung up over last weeks game. After holding a 10-0 lead, costly turnovers and a late rally fell a little too short to give the Knights the win. This weekend, UCF plans on stopping at nothing to take on the Memphis Tigers at the Liberty Bowl Memorial stadium in Tennessee this Saturday at 4:30 pm (ET) on ESPN3.
As the Knights held the nationally  ranked opponents last week scoreless in the first half, O’Leary plans on traveling to Tennessee for the second year in a row and ready to leave the Memphis with another victory.
It’s under George O’Leary’s team that UCF has started the season off with a 3-1 record, including a victory over Penn State just this season.  And while Memphis comes off of a bye week after a 31-7 victory against Arkansas State, they still fall a little short against the Knights, with a 1-2  record.
Sponsored Ad – Story Continues Below
 
UCF Junior quarterback Blake Bortles has passed for 1,174 yard just this season, he also averages about 16 yards per completion, throwing a touchdown pass in twelve consecutive games. He will try and shrug off the two interceptions that he threw against South Carolina against a slower Tiger’s secondary.
Junior running back Storm Johnson also poses a huge threat against Memphis, averaging just under 93 yards a game this season.
Knights have been dominating the competition this year, ranking third in the AAC, not only allowing for an average of 16 points a game, but also scoring 25 points or more in the last four. It is the UCF Knights that have been using every player on their offensive line to the best of their ability, most notably Torrian Wilson who held South Carolina defensive end Jadeveon Clowney to only two tackles.
It’s Chris Martin, UCF’s offensive lineman who tells ESPN that UCF “won’t be satisfied till we’re conference champions,” and it is by no surprise that their hard work has been paying off.
And teams are noticing.
Tigers head coach Justin Fuente said about the UCF team, which will lead into the league opener this weekend with a 3-1 record that “they play awfully hard.”
But it’s not just the Knights bringing on the heat this season. Memphis Junior defensive end Martin Lfedi enters this weekend’s game as the nations leader in both quarterback sacks and tackles for loss.
Tigers threaten the field both offensively and defensively keeping defense down to a responsibility defense. One wrong move for O’Leary’s’ Knights could end in Tigers running down the field.
Both teams are striving for victory this weekend and only one will come out swinging in the American Athletic Conference game opener.
For George O’Leary’s team, the Knights are ready to charge on.



The $1.4 million dollar hole in the 2013-2014 A&SF budget will not be the only area impacted by the credit hour over-projections during the 2013-2014 academic school year.
KnightNews.com has confirmed that the health, transportation access, and athletics budgets will also be facing shortfalls this year. The health budget will be facing around a $733,551 shortfall, transportation access will face a $736,572 shortfall, and athletics will be around $1.7 million dollars short.
When KnightNews.com contacted Andy Seely, the Assistant Director of Athletic Communications, he told us that the athletic budgets remained flat this year rather than growing, citing the budget shortfall as one of the reasons.
The shortfalls stem from an over-projection on the amount of credit hours students would take. KnightNews.com learned that the Institutional Knowledge Management office is responsible for making the projections each year.
“The total number of student credit hours this fall is now projected to be about 1.5 percent lower than our number of actual credit hours last fall,” UCF spokesperson Chad Binette said.
 



