Amidst a current investigation of employee misconduct in the Student Union, KnightNews.com reached out to the Student Government Association to get its stance on the unfolding situation.
An e-mail from Funlola Falade, the Public Relations Specialist for SGA, said current President Cortez Whatley will ensure that SGA will assist in any possible way if asked.
“Cortez did not know of any misconduct and is not under any type of investigation,” Falade said. “Since this is a HR matter, the investigation is being handled by the university.  If asked, Cortez will ensure that SGA assists in anyway possible.”
“There is no foreseeable affects that would disrupt students. If we believe the results of the investigation will affect students we will step in and operate in our role as the primary advocate for them,” Falade said in the e-mail.
KnightNews.com is waiting on receiving copies of any complaints alleging misconduct UCF received against Suzi Halpin as well as any complaints alleging misconduct UCF received against Paul Constantino. A UCF spokesman told KnightNews.com today that he is working to get copies of any complaints received “as soon as possible.”
Most recently, KnightNews.com discovered that Joe Sciarrino is back as the interim director of the ASF budget after recently retiring. He replaced Paul Constantino, who we reported left his position around the same time as Suzi Halpin, the former UCF Student Union director.
On Thursday, the nearly $20 million Activity and Service Fee budget will be voted on.



Nothing welcomes spring better than a cool breeze, sunshine, and live music on a Florida beach.  
Rock the Ocean’s Tortuga Music Festival aims to raise awareness about marine conservation and issues affecting the world’s oceans by bringing in 20 of the top country and rock artists to Fort Lauderdale Beach Park and transforming it into an oceanfront music experience. The festival takes place on Saturday, April 13, and Sunday, April 14.
The festival’s headliners hold some of the biggest names among the country and rock genre: Kenny Chesney, a country music singer/song writer who has sold over 27 million albums, received 4 Country Music Association, as well as 4 consecutive Academy of Country Music Entertainer of the Year Awards- just to name a few; Eric Church, who’s recent number one singles have accomplished RIAA gold and platinum certification; The Avette Brothers, a North Carolina-based indie folk pop band, who’s 2009 breakthrough major label, I and Love and You, resulted in an invitation to perform alongside  Bob Dylan and Mumford & Sons at the 2011 Grammy Awards; Ben Harper & Charlie Musselwhite, Harper a grammy-winning blues-rock singer who teamed up with the harmonica legend Charlie Musselwhite, who was inducted into Blues Hall of Fame in 2010.
Aside from the headliners, there are other performances that should not be missed, such as Donavon Frankenreiter, and Bright Light Social Hour.
Even if you’re not familiar with the lineup, listening to live music on the beach while supporting a good cause is reason enough to check the festival out.
Tickets for two days of music are $149 for general admission, and $99 for a one-day pass if you don’t want to stay all weekend.  
For more information, visit the Tortuga Music Festival website, here.



Fourteen people were injured on a college campus following a stabbing rampage by one student, according to Houston media outlet, KHOU.
KHOU reports that 20-year-old Dylan Quick is suspected to have stabbed several classmates at Lone Star College Cy-Fair. 
According to a video-taped confession obtained by police, Quick told officials that he’d had fantasies about stabbing people to death since he was in elementary school, and Quick indicated he’d been planning the attack for some time, KHOU reports. 
An alert message was posted on the school’s website notifying students to remain indoors and seek shelter. 
“Two armed suspects at LSC-CyFair. One suspect is at large. Stay away from the area. Seek shelter in a secure location until the incident is resolved. Be aware of your surroundings. If you have reason to believe that the suspect is in or near your location, notify LSC Police at 281.290.5911, if it is safe to do so. Updates on the situation will follow as new and confirmed information becomes available,” the website alert said.
Out of the 14 people injured, six were sent to nearby hospitals for treatment and later released. A spokesman for Memorial Hermann Texas Trauma Institute said early Wednesday all patients were in good condition, according to KHOU.
Two people were shot on the Lone Star Campus in January. Click here to view that story.



A photo making rounds across social media websites shows a vehicle flipped over in a University of Central Florida parking garage, leaving only the cause of the crash to question.
 After a photo of the crash was sent to our Twitter page, KnightNews.com confirmed that the picture was of a recent crash in UCF parking Garage D. 
A spokesperson for UCF said the accident occurred Thursday, April 4, at night.
“Due to health complications, an individual struck a barrier inside Garage D after driving the wrong way into the garage,” Chad Binette, Director of UCF News & Information, said. “The collision caused the vehicle to flip over. The driver was transported to a local hospital.”
Tips can be sent to KnightNews.com by emailing us at news@knightnews.com or sending a text to us at 407-5-TIP-UCF.



UPDATE Winners were chosen using a random list generator. Winners for this contest are: Alyssa Scafidi and Makaylie Shear! 

CONTEST SIGNUP IS CLOSED: WINNER TO BE ANNOUNCED (4/26/2013)
KnightNews.com is giving away TWO (2) ONE-DAY PASSES to the SunFest Music Festival in South Florida!
SunFest is Florida’s largest waterfront music and art festival. The event is held annually in downtown West Palm Beach, Florida. This year, the festival takes places May 1-5.
Here’s how to enter:
1. Leave a comment below with your name and Knights email. Also, state who you can’t wait to see at SunFest (Click here to see the lineup for SunFest for this year.)
2. That’s it!
Winners will be chosen by April 26. Check back with KnightNews.com to see if you are a winner!
Be sure to “LIKE” KnightNews.com on Facebook, we might have more tickets to give away soon!
Like us to get news like this on your facebook feed!



