In a nearly packed CFE Arena, the Knights (1-1) plagued by turnovers and poor free throw shooting fell to the Florida State Seminoles (2-0) 80-68 Wednesday night.
UCF forward Kasey Wilson paced the Knights’ offense with four three-pointers to keep the Knights competitive, but costly mistakes led to the Knights’s demise. The Knights had 20 turnovers on 10 assists and shot 52.4 percent from the free-throw line. Wilson reiterated that the Knights need to improve their fundamentals if they want to be competitive in the American Athletic Conference this season.
“We get the repetition in practice. We get the focus in practice. We need to carry that over into the games,” Wilson said.
Isaiah Sykes came off the bench after sitting for eight minutes in the first half due to a couple of early personal fouls and led the Knights on a 8-0 run that gave the Knights a 26-25 lead with 4:50 remaining in the first half.
However, the Seminoles pushed back and after trading baskets with the Knights, FSU’s Ian Miller scored seven points in the final two minutes of the first half to give the ‘Noles a 38-33 lead going into halftime.
It was a tale of two halves for the Knights, who couldn’t recover from a 17-4 FSU run in the second half that ultimately led to the Seminoles victory. FSU pushed the lead to 62-45 with 10:00 remaining in the second half and the Knights couldn’t get within nine points for the rest of the game.
The good news for the Knights is that the season is still young, and a tough test early is something to build off of.
This was the 10th meeting between the two teams, with this being the first game played on UCF campus. The Knights return to the court on Sunday at 2 p.m. against Bethune-Cookman University.



EDM has become one of the newest and fastest-growing genres of music to hit the nation, including the UCF community.
I have come to find people either absolutely love it or hate it. I tend to be open to any type of music, so of course as soon as the beat has started and the bass dropped I fell in love. Ever since I heard my first song, I have been on the hunt for someone in the area who creates that euphoric feeling just by having a buzz in your ear buds.
Valencia student Dylan Ogles, otherwise known as DJ SideFX is doing just that. Recently signed to Tan Tan Entertainment, Ogles has been creating quite the stir at local gigs.
KnightNews.com got the exclusive chance to sit down and talk to SideFX for the inside scoop.
Q: Thank you for taking the time to talk to us. How did your career really begin?
A: When I was about 16, I was able to sneak my way into a club. I remember seeing some guy spinning records, and he looked like he was having the time of his life. He was really into it, ya know? Everyone else was having so much fun just because of this one person. I figured I’d give it a try. I worked a lot to save up for my turntables, and I taught myself everything I know now.
Q: That’s very impressive! How did you come up with your DJ name?
A: I was DJing a house party one night; it was big, loud and awesome. One of the people there came up and was agreeing with others and myself about how awesome the party was. He asked what my name was and I didn’t have an answer for him. He made it his mission to come up with one. He continued to compliment me on how cool my music was, and he was really enjoying himself. I replied with, “It’s just one of the side effects I have on people.” Thus, DJ SideFX was born.
Q: Do you have a favorite mix you’ve created?
A: I don’t really have a favorite, if we’re being completely honest. It’s too hard to pick just one.
Q: That’s understandable. Well, what artist(s) inspires you?
A: An artist that inspires me is definitely 12th Planet for showing diversity in his sets. I’ve loved him as long as I can remember. He doesn’t stick to a single genre and he still looks like he is having the time of his life at every show. We’ve all seen those DJ’s on their phones at the club or bar just looking like they can’t wait to get paid and go home, and that’s not what it’s about at all.
Q: I agree with you there. The crazier the DJ, the better time the people will have. How has the UCF community impacted your success?

A: It’s made all of the difference! It’s so much easier to find people with the same passion for music and will want to get involved in my success, whether it’s just sampling mixes or spreading the word about who I am and what I do. This is also Orlando, one of the best places to be for entertainment, and the market is only growing!
Q: Where can fans find you DJing in the future if they want some live “performances”?
A: As of right now, I have a couple parties planned in the next upcoming months. Wherever they want me to be seen though, they can request me and my manager will take care of it!
DJ SideFX plans on attending UCF after earning his associate degree from Valencia College in the next two years.
“I will definitely keep studying music, and doing what I love in the future,” he said.
To hear some samples or to download free mixes check out his Sound Cloud here.
For more, follow DJ SideFX on Twitter @DJSideFx6.



A new report from UCF’s Rosen College found that the school’s economic reach among Central Florida spans into the hundreds of millions of dollars.
The report determined that the Rosen College of Hospitality Management’s total economic impact of its alumni on Central Florida surpassed $531 million from 2000 to 2012. During that period, more than 5,000 students earned a degree either at the undergraduate or graduate level.
“These findings confirm the significance and relevance of hospitality education in these challenging economic times,” said Dr. Abraham Pizam, dean of the Rosen College of Hospitality Management. “The fact that Rosen College students and graduates have made such an incredible financial impact on this region cements our important role in Central Florida’s continued growth and prosperity.”
UCF began offering hospitality courses in 1983, and since then, the program has grown to be recognized as one of the top hospitality colleges in the nation. The Rosen College is known as the largest facility ever built for hospitality management education.
Rosen College attributes the report’s figures to a number of factors, including 3,465 graduates and interns working locally in 2012, more than 5,000 degrees awarded since 2000 and the corresponding economic contribution of its alumni to the Central Florida area.



The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) has granted the University of Central Florida a $3.2 million award to aid in the development of renewable energy.
According to a press release from North American Windpower, UCF will lead one of four national consortia, which will develop distributed technologies to help increase engineering capacity and prepare for a national shift from traditional sources of electricity to renewables, such as solar and wind.
The award, given to UCF’s winning proposal — Foundations for Engineering Education for Distributed Energy Resources (FEEDER) — is a part of a broader DOE investment of $12 million to increase the nation’s capacity to support distributed energy technologies.
According to North American Windpower, the FEEDER center will bring together seven universities (Auburn University, Florida State University, University of Arkansas, UCF, University of Florida, University of Kentucky and University of South Carolina), eight utility companies (including Duke Energy, Florida Power & Light, Southern Co., and Orlando Utility Commission), two national laboratories (National Renewable Energy Laboratory and Los Alamos National Laboratory) and eight industry partners (including Siemens, SAIC, LEIDOS and Schneider) to speed up the development of technologies needed to prepare the nation’s electric grid to operate on renewable energy sources.
The university adds that the FEEDER center will also focus on education by establishing a cross-institutional smart grid curriculum; facilitating research collaborations among the academic, utility and industrial partners; and incorporating the latest and most relevant research findings into new educational materials and courseware.
“This multi-university collaborative effort demonstrates our institutional commitment of being one of America’s leading partnership university,” said Michael Geogiopoulos, dean of the College of Engineering & Computer Science.



