KnightNews.com has uncovered what appears to be UCF’s proposed plan of action towards reforming Greek Life at the University of Central Florida, specifically hazing and alcohol issues.
The plan was apparently created during secret meetings when UCF officials met to discuss the unprecedented plan to halt Greek Life at UCF.
View the plan which is outlined below:
The Plan is grounded in the notion that:
Philosophy (The Creed and F/S Values) drives Policy(NIC Standards, NPC Unanimous Agreement, Golden Rule) that drives procedure (paperwork) that drives education (holistic approach) that drives Enforcement 
The Plan
1. All organizations must fulfill a specific values based checklist made up of standards that must be met. A new rubric for SOE will be developed and will be part of an annual Re-accreditation process. 
2. All organizations must go before an official re-certification committee to be recognized by FSL.
3. A Greek advisory committee made up of Faculty, Staff, Students Alumni and Community members will generate feedback and recommendations to strengthen the core of Fraternity and Sorority Life at UCF. This committee will be charged by the VP for SDES and the Director of FSL will chair. The outcome: Greek members at UCF will be able to articulate and understand the UCF Creed and the connection to Values Congruence.
4. Starting Fall 2013/Spring 2014, all organizations with an official house (University owned or not) will be required to have a live-in house director.
5. All Greek housing will be substance free facilities (on and off campus)
6. Starting Fall 2013, all new members must attend an FSL approved new member workshop led by FSL staff (WHY= Ensure policies are understood, debunk myths, create positive relationships with FSL staff, provide educational resources, ensure that members are aligning objectives with organizational purpose and values, make student aware of their right as a new member)
7. Starting Fall 2013, 10% or 2 members (whichever is greater) of every chapter’s new member class will attend an Emerging Leaders Retreat put on by FSL in the Fall (WHY = Build more leaders, debunk myths)
8. All organizations must send 3 members to the Greek Leadership Challenge in the Spring (WHY = Continued vaues-based leadership, education and community understanding)
9. Starting Fall 2013, every Chapter’s Executive Board will attend a Risk Management Summit put on by FSL or approved by FSL Staff in the Fall (WHY = Ensure policy understanding)
10. Starting Fall 2013 or Spring 2014, an Advisors Institute will be put on by the FSL staff in the Summer (WHY = Increase Alumni involvement, increase advisor knowledge of UCF Policies and Procedures, and increase overall advisor pull)
11. Starting Spring 2014, all chapters must meet Standards of Excellence minimum score or they will not be recognized by University for one full year (WHY = If they can’t meet our minimum expectations, they shouldn’t be allowed to do anything)
12. Starting ASAP, add additional staff to FSL team.
13. Implement; Mentors in Violence/Bystander Intervention Programs 
14. Creed Values and Core Values would be addressed (Community, Scholarship, Integrity, Creative Excellence)-(Academics, service, leadership, brotherhood and sisterhood, Diversity and Inclusiveness, involvement) 
15. Rolling Re-admittance for chapters to be recognized by the university/Council to gain active status again. 
16. Chapter must be UCF & Nationally Conduct free.



In a newly released document summary of UCF’s chapter of Sigma Chi KnightNews.com obtained, UCF officials are found to be apparently keeping note of exercise habits of the fraternity and referring to them as “meatheads.”  
Sigma Chi Summary from UCF officialsThe document has an objective component to show recent history of the fraternity, such as recruitment numbers for the past five years as well as GPA’s and conduct history, however, becomes subjective when a subhead titled “Image,” seems to stereotype the fraternity by saying “Known as the partiers, guys that workout (meatheads).”
KnightNews.com is working to uncover more information from the secret meetings which led to the decision to halt Greek Life at UCF. A current public records request by KnightNews.com for UCF Assistant Vice President Belinda Boston’s email records, which UCF is working to fulfill, may provide more information. 
A former IFC president tweeted after this document and others appeared on Twitter. 
“I don’t want to get entrenched in the conversation, but poor leadership. Fixing symptoms with regulations doesn’t work,” he said.
KnightNews.com has contacted UCF for a response regarding the document and will update the story when they have time to respond.
Sigma Chi’s suspension was upheld at a closed interim hearing on Friday. KnightNews.com spoke to Sigma Chi President, David Barley, who told us that the fraternity was not involved in hazing of any kind, but admitted alcohol is a university-wide culture that needs improvement.
KnightNews.com is currently suing UCF to have easier access to public records and UCF hearings where decisions involving organizational punishments are made. UCF says it will vigorously defend the lawsuit to protect student information.
SPEAK OUT: Is it appropriate for UCF officials to evaluate Greeks based on physical image?




