The University of Central Florida exclusive night at Universal Orlando is back. Below is all the information you need for the event!
UCF’s Universal Knights event will take place on Sunday, April 21 and all UCF students have the opportunity to redeem one FREE ticket to Universal Orlando’s – Islands of Adventure.
Black and Gold takeover park hours will begin at 4:00 p.m. and will continue until 1:00 a.m. with UCF exclusive hours starting at 8:00 p.m., according to an SGA website. 
Ticket pick-up times are listed below:
Mon. (4/8) | 8:00 PM – 11:00 PM	Student Union, Recreation and Wellness Center, UCF Arena
Tues. (4/9) | 8:00 PM – 11:00 PM Student Union, Recreation and Wellness Center
Wed. (4/10) | 8:00 PM – 11:00 PM tudent Union, Recreation and Wellness Center, UCF Arena
Thurs. (4/11)| 8:00 PM – 11:00 PM Student Union, Recreation and Wellness Center, UCF Arena
Each individual location will hand out a maximum of 450 tickets each day. Click here to view pick-up times for regional campuses. 
SGA says they plan on having a ballpark of 12,000 tickets for this year’s event at Islands of Adventure. 
All tickets will be distributed with an event wrist band. Both the ticket and wrist band are needed for admission into the event and the wristband must be worn at all times. If you lose your wristband or ticket, you will NOT be permitted into the event. If your wristband was stapled to your ticket at the time of pick-up, keep them stapled together until you arrive to the event to prevent lost wristbands. You must put your wristband on prior to arriving at the gate.
SGA will also have a new advanced ticket distribution system for students to pick up tickets. Students will have the ability to pre-register for a designated time slot to pick-up tickets ahead of time. Click here to sign up for a time slot. 
Another great addition to Universal Knights this year will be a shuttle service that will take students between UCF main campus and Universal Studios. Register for a time slot by clicking here.
Free parking is available to UCF students for the event; valid for April 21, 2013 from 3:00 p.m. to 2:00 a.m. SGA’s Universal Knights will be held rain or shine so please plan accordingly if rain is in the forecast.
UCF Students may directly purchase an additional ticket and wristband from Universal Studios at a rate of $40.00, plus applicable sales tax, per additional guest between 4:00 PM and 8:00 PM on the day of the event (April 21) upon presentation by the student of his/her valid UCF ID. Only one guest ticket may be purchased per valid UCF student ID.
Student Government Association has partnered with Blue Man Group to offer UCF students the opportunity to pre-purchase discounted student rush tickets for their 7:00 p.m. performance on the night of Universal Knights, April 21. This performance is Blue Man Group’s newly enhanced show featuring astounding new music and an all new stage. Beginning Monday, April 2, UCF students can call (407) BLUE-MAN to purchase tickets to the April 15 performance. When calling, reference code 12KNIGHTS! For more information on Blue Man Group Orlando please visit their website.



Several new records released by the Univeristy of Central Florida show housing issues that James Seevakumaran was facing, including an unpaid bill from UCF for thousands of dollars.
Beginning in early August of 2012, Seevakumaran was sent several notifications over the course of several months notifying him of due balances, late fees for lack of payment and an intent to re-key his dorm room. A notice sent on February 25, 2013 notified Seevakumaran that his key card access to his room had been temporarily restricted until he payed his balance of over $7000 owed to UCF Housing.
On February 21, 2013, soon after the beginning of the Spring semester, a letter informed Seevakumaran that in order to remain as a resident in the dorms, nine credit hours had to be taken per semester at UCF. The letter does say that exceptions can be made to this rule for specific reasons such as if a student only needs a particular number of credit hours to graduate, taking more courses at a community college, medical or health concerns or courses needed were not available.
Police responded to a 911 call on Monday and found James Seevakumaran dead due to an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound. Upon further investigation, police found four explosive devices, two guns and around a thousand rounds of ammunition. On top of that, they found a plan that Seevakumaran had created to attack students at UCF.
UCF Vice President Martibeth Ehasz sent a letter to residents on of the school’s dorm system on Thursday assuring them that UCF is a safe campus.
“We are safe because staff members, faculty members and students work diligently with the UCF Police Department to create a safe campus environment for academic, professional and personal achievement,” Ehasz stated.
In terms of the questions of why a 30-year old was allowed to live in the dorms, the answer is simple — UCF can’t discriminate based on age.
“UCF does not discriminate or restrict housing to students on the basis of many categories, including race, religion, ethnicity and age. Pursuing a UCF degree is open to all qualified students, and that experience often includes living on campus,” Ehasz said in the letter.
Click NEXT PAGE to view the records released by UCF.



UCF news outlet Knightly News is hosting their annual Presidential Debate for candidates. Watch LIVE below:
 
Free desktop streaming application by Ustream




Days after a thwarted attack planned at the University of Central Florida, school leaders met to discuss campus safety and the efforts of the University to prevent another incident like the one Monday.
Trustee Harris Rosen, whose son was a resident of the dorms, feels that not enough is being done to inspect rooms and ensure banned objects, such as weapons, are not being housed by students. Rosen suggested that the University work towards having the current inspection method changed to include unannounced inspections of student dorms to search for such objects.
“The inspection should be akin to what [they do] in the military,” Rosen said.
Trustee Ida Cook argued with Rosen, understanding his concern for security as a parent but stating that the University must uphold the rights of students — and that means not having unannounced searches of personal belongings conducted. 
“While we have a responsibility to maintain the facilities and sure that students are safe and secure, they all, students, also have rights and I think that we need to look more closely at what the rights of the students are,” Cook said during the meeting.
The board also applauded the efforts of the police officers who took the risks of entering the dorm to save the students on Monday morning.
“I’ve been involved with UCF for 39 years, I know its one of the toughest days in our history and I commend all of you for what you did and I think, how you performed, I think you all deserve a huge ovation,” Michael J. Grindstaff, Chair of the Board said.
Police Chief Richard Beary told the Board just how important the situation on Monday was, stating the White House Situation room was calling for answers.
“…I got a cell phone call from the FBI that the White House Situation Room wants an update on what’s going on at UCF,” Beary said. “That was an interesting phone call. Just to show you how important this situation was and we are on the national level, the White House Situation Room wanted to know what was going on, and they wanted to know now.”



Two fraternities at the University of Central Florida have accused the school of violating its own regulations by forcing members of the organizations to testify at recent hazing hearings.
In new records and audio clips obtained by KnightNews.com, both Alpha Tau Omega and Sigma Chi have stated that UCF violated its policy that states: “The University cannot compel any person to attend a student organization hearing.”
Alpha Tau Omega (ATO) said, “The President of the organization’s New Member class was forced to testify in support of the charges on the University’s behalf directly in contradiction to his wishes,” according to one of the documents.
UCF VP Dr. Maribeth Ehasz responded to ATO’s appeal, upholding the original decision and sanctions to the case — which included disciplinary probation through Fall 2013.
Sigma Chi’s President David Barley stated during a hazing hearing with a Student Conduct Board that the University violated the same rule by forcing someone affiliated to Sigma Chi to testify. Listen to that portion here.
At this time, it is not clear if Sigma Chi will appeal the decision and sanctions handed down — which included organizational suspension through Fall 2016.
We are working to upload the documents. Check back later to view them.



University of Central Florida President John C. Hitt, Police Chief Richard Beary and Spokesman Grant Heston will address the university’s Board of Trustees at today’s meeting, following a thwarted attempted massacre at the UCF campus.
The meeting will be held in the Live Oak Ballroom of Ferrell Commons. They will talk about campus safety at 1 p.m.
On Monday morning, authorities responded to a 911 call of a man with a gun in a UCF dorm and found James Seevakumaran’s body with an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound. Upon further investigation, police discovered Seevakumaran had been planning a widespread attack on campus–having a rifle, handgun, four explosive devices and around 1000 rounds of ammunition.
UCF  Counseling and Psychological Services has been reaching out to hundreds of students since Monday and are offering students the following tips:
– Talk with family, friends or counselors about how you feel, and spend time with others.
– Engage in positive and fun distractions and activities, such as sports, hobbies or reading.
– Don’t neglect your basic needs, such as eating and sleeping.
– Try to maintain your normal activities and routine.
– Use relaxation techniques and other activities to unwind.
KnightNews.com will have a crew at the meeting today. Check back later this afternoon to see video of the message delivered to the Board.



