A big crowd of fans was waiting on campus to cheer for Blake Bortles and the UCF football team as the American Athletic Conference Champions returned home after defeating SMU in Dallas.

Check out the video of the fans and hear what Bortles said when asked what he thought about the fans’ chanting “one more year!” 
Check back to KnightNews.com for coverage of UCF’s road to the BCS Bowl. An official announcement of whether the Knights will end up at the Fiesta Bowl, Orange Bowl or Sugar Bowl will happen Sunday night. 



UCF (11-1,8-0) may need to start practicing in a cooler after beating SMU 17-13.

The Knights looked a little shaky in the first half, presumably affected by the frigid subfreezing weather marking the coldest game played in UCF history. However, the Knights once again prevailed as they won the American Athletic Conference outright and went undefeated in the American Athletic Conference play.
The BCS-bound Knights won many of their games this season by seven points or fewer, many of them being extremely close calls, but that has just been the style of the Knights this season whom many are calling the ‘Cardiac Kids’.
The SMU Mustangs played well in the freezing weather, especially freshman quarterback Neal Burcham who completed 24/34 of his passes for 222 yards until he went down with a concussion in the fourth quarter.

A missed 24-yard field goal by Shawn Moffit with 2:21 remaining in the contest gave the SMU Mustangs a chance to win it on the final drive while UCF led 17-13. Walk-on quarterback Garrett Krstich couldn’t produce for the Mustangs and a couple incomplete passes followed by a sack on third down sealed the victory for the Knights.
Blake Bortles showed off his athleticism as he completed 24/25 passes for 242 yards and two rushing touchdowns, the only two touchdowns for the Knights all game. Storm Johnson and Will Stanback shared carries, but neither of them could eclipse 40 yards rushing on the day.
Although nothing is official, the Knights will most likely be preparing for the Fiesta Bowl, which will take place on Jan. 1 at 8:30 p.m. in Glendale, Arizona. The official announcement of BCS bowls will be on Sunday night.



UCF students have the uncanny ability to start creative, small businesses to serve UCF students.
Midnight Munchies delivers cookies and other baked goods around campus, DrinkDrivers is an alcohol delivery service and Sandpit Towing tows students who get stuck outside of the Knight’s Pub/Next Door Bar.
Students who park to go to the Knight’s Pub have found that there is a massive sandpit in the main parking area and many of them have been getting stuck. UCF students and fraternity brothers Adam Funk and Danny Oliva took advantage of this by starting Sandpit Towing.
The concept is simple: for $20, Funk and Oliva will tow your car from the deceiving sandpit outside of Knight’s Pub. For those worried about the legality issues of ‘Sandpit Towing’, Oliva’s mother is a lawyer and she helped make sure everything was legit.
“We have a release form that people sign, so if we were to scratch their car or something we wouldn’t be liable,” said Oliva.
Check out the video below and Sandpit Towing’s Facebook page: 

 



