Police set up a wide perimeter across the UCF campus after a man reportedly struck a woman with his car and took off running. 
UCF Police received an initial call at about 8:20 p.m. about a car accident in Garage G. Several other calls about a hit-and-run accident came in shortly after. 
According to UCF spokesperson Chad Binette, the suspect struck the victim with his car and then hit a wall inside Garage G. He then got out of his car and assaulted the woman on the ground. A bystander scared him off, and the suspect ran into the woods near Garage G.
The suspect, who UCF says is not a student, was arrested by UCF Police near Garage G following a brief search. According to Binette, the victim, who is a UCF student, was transported to Orlando Regional Medical Center. The suspect and victim know each other.
The Orange County Sheriff’s Office and Seminole County Sheriff’s Office assisted with the search.



In order to keep up with state laws and to better help first responders, several streets at UCF will be renamed while all buildings will received new, individual addresses.
About 20 of UCF’s streets will be renamed and all buildings on the main campus will be assigned individual addresses that will take effect May 5, following approval from Orange County, UCF says.
New laws require all state agencies to establish unique addresses for buildings in their property inventory. Some of the new road names were necessary because they were duplicated elsewhere in the county. The changes will will help first responders provide quicker assistance and will improve directions for deliveries and visitors, UCF says.
Previously, every building on the UCF main campus used a single address – 4000 Central Florida Blvd. – but now, each academic building, residence hall, retail establishment and other location has been assigned a numbered street address based on the closest roadway, UCF says.
Some of the new street names include Mensa Lane, Knights Victory Way, Home Run Court and Scholarship Drive
The street-name changes, which have been worked on for a year, will only affect the interior of the campus, UCF says. Roads entering the university will remain the same, as will names on regional campuses and in Central Florida Research Park.



