Admiral Al Harms, vice president for Strategy, Marketing, Communications, and Admissions, has announced his resignation from UCF effective Dec. 31.
“Admiral Harms has served UCF with dedication and distinction, and I commend him for his outstanding leadership and commitment to this university,” UCF President John Hitt said.
 Harms began as a special assistant to the president in 2005 and handled multiple projects, including UCF’s response to the Virginia Tech shootings, community outreach initiatives for the construction of Bright House Networks Stadium and the university’s program to help Haiti recover from its devastating earthquake.
Harms also served twice as interim director of athletics, and he administered the university’s response to the March 2013 shooting incident at Tower 1.
Harms, who was in charge of UCF’s game-day operations, came under fire in recent years for a decision that cut down the number of hours fans are allowed to tailgate at UCF. The rules prohibited tailgating before noon for any Saturday football game starting at 6 p.m. or later.
“This has been a difficult and bittersweet decision, but the time is right for me and my family to move on to new adventures,” Harms said. “I will miss serving with such an incredibly talented and dedicated team of professionals, and I will be forever grateful for the opportunity to help so many wonderful young men and women prepare for their next life adventures.”



Following what some college football analysts are calling the catch of the year, J.J. Worton was named the Offensive Player of the Week in the American conference.
Worton hauled in 10 catches for 179 yards and three touchdowns–including a one-handed, diving catch that made its way to No. 2 on ESPN’s Top 10 plays. The catch evened up the score with the Temple Owls 36-36 and eventually led to a game-winning field goal by UCF’s Shawn Moffit.
Sponsored Ad – Story Continues Below

UCF (8-1) players haven’t been strangers to winning player of the week this season. Worton was the sixth UCF player given the honor this season.
UCF has a short week and they are back in action on Thursday night when they take on Rutgers (5-4) at Bright House Networks Stadium.
 



If the music of the 80s was characterized by sex, drugs, and rock ‘n’ roll, then today’s music fad is undoubtedly raves and electronic dance music.
It’s no secret that EDM has broken onto the scene and is leaving its mark on popular culture. You can’t even turn on the radio anymore without hearing it. The 80’s had rock, the 90s had boy bands, and we have EDM.
I for one love that our generation’s music will be marked with techno beats and laser light shows. These concerts, or raves, are known for their high energy music and friendly atmosphere that keep ravers coming back for more. Whether you think they are just a trend or here to stay, raves are a major part of the music culture right now. After attending Sunset Music Festival, EDC, TomorrowWorld and countless smaller shows, I’ve learned a lot of interesting things about raves and the EDM culture. My experiences have not only taught me what kind of things to expect, but also little lessons and tips to help make for the best rave experience possible.
Raves are for everyone. It’s the one type of concert I know of where everyone is accepted. There’s a certain kind of crowd that you expect to see at The Vans Warped Tour or at a Justin Bieber concert, and if you’re not a 13-year-old girl you will probably be looked at funny. But at raves, everyone is accepted and no one is rejected.
Completely charge your phone before you get to the rave. Between all the photos and videos you take and your constant texting to try to meet up with people, your battery usually won’t last the day. To conserve your battery, put your phone on airplane mode and wait to upload to social media until you are home.
Make a designated meet up spot with your crew so that if you get separated and your phone does die, you can still rejoin the group. Bring a unique identifier if you’re with a big group or if you plan to meet up with a lot of people. That way it is easy for your friends to spot your location in the crowd. Anything, from a light-up teddy bear tied to a pole to a flag waving in the wind, will do the trick.
Friends make the best seats.
No outfit is off limits. Any of your 90s left-overs or any bright neon clothing will do just fine.
If you want to make a lot of new friends, bring big blow up animals, large cardboard cutouts of strange faces, or wear a costume. Everyone loves a raging banana.
Two words: comfortable shoes.
Everyone is “PLUR” until you post up in front of them in the crowd. Peace, love, unity, and respect are largely embodied in the EDM community. But the second you push your way to the front of the crowd and pick your rage spot in front of the wrong person, things can get catty. Though I guess that comes along with any concert.
No one really fights at raves. How many times have you been to a rock concert and seen drunken guys beat the crap out of each other? How many fights have you heard of or seen at raves? Exactly. The people at raves are usually extremely friendly and helpful. Granted, you may say it’s the drugs, but still, ravers tend to be pretty peaceful.
Kandi is the easiest way to approach a hottie.
Earplugs. Seriously, use them. Once you’ve been to enough shows you’ll notice the ringing in your ears and the damage you are causing. The music is still loud as hell, and you’ll be so happy you used them later.
Always go up to the guys dressed like Waldo and scream, “I found you!” They always have a story to be told or something interesting to say.
Bring a Camelback filled with water or make friends with someone who has one.
Don’t go to raves if you’re not in it for the music. If you’ve never soberly danced around your house to EDM music, you are at the rave for the wrong reasons. Nothing bothers me more than the people that go to raves to do drugs or just because festivals are popular right now. People forget that it’s about the music. If you’re only going because your friends are, or because you want an excuse to do drugs, you are ruining the scene for those of us who really love the music. Do EDM a favor and stay home.



