When bar owner Pete Zachman dreamed of opening a bar, his only requirement was that it had to have Natural Light on tap.
Unfortunately, Pete had to pass up on that requirement to have Guinness, because according to Zachman, there is no way you can call it a pub if you don’t have Guinness on tap.
Knight’s Pub is the newest bar to come to the turbulent UCF bar scene. Located cozily on the corner of Alafaya and University, its close proximity to campus and laid back atmosphere will hope to reinvigorate night life at UCF.
“Going for more of a Devaney’s type of feel, I worked at Devaney’s, my manager worked at Devaney’s. It’s a lot of the old, five years ago UCF bar feel we’re trying to go with.” Owner Pete Zachman told KnightNews.com.
Knight’s Pub will be filling a hole that Pete says has formed in the UCF bar area since the closing of the popular Devaney’s Too. He insisted that shorts and a shirt is perfect attire for the pub.
“It’s not the kind of place you come to in high heels and a dress.” Zachman said.

Although the bar is far from being finished aesthetically, Zachman has the plans laid out. After multiple messages to famous alumni and athletes, Zachman has been in contact with Daniel Tosh and Brandon Marshall to have their signatures and pictures on the wall honoring great Knights that have came through UCF.
He envisions the inside to be very UCF-fan centered, including black and gold colors dominating the bar. As a self-proclaimed UCF fanatic, Zachman feels that it is a necessity to represent the school that the bar is located in.
As for specials the bar will have “competitive” specials compared to the rest of the nightlife in the UCF area. An open hiring session will be held at Knight’s Pub on Wednesday, April 10th and Thursday, April 11th.
 



The Knights came into FedEx Park with high expectations, but were unable to get their bats going offensively in a 2-1 defeat at the hands of Memphis and their starter, Sam Moll (2-1).
Moll was un-hittable for the majority of his outing, surrendering just four hits over seven innings while striking out eleven. His ERA stood at an outstanding 1.50 after the outing.
On the other hand for the Knights, ace Ben Lively went the distance in an outstanding performance. Lively suffered his third loss on the season after struggling solely in the third inning. He yielded two runs, both on wild pitches, but would regain his composure to shut out the Tigers for the remaining frames. On the season, Lively has maintained a 0.61 ERA and has been the Knights most consistent pitcher.
UCF’s only run came on an RBI single off of the bat of James Vasquez in the second inning. This old fashioned pitching duel ultimately led to UCF’s demise.
Desperate to try to even the series with the Memphis Tigers, the Knights fell once again in Game 2 by a score of 5-2. This loss can be described in two ways: miscues and missed opportunities.
Knights starter and redshirt senior Chris Matulis (3-2) took his second loss of the season in a game he surely wishes he could have back. In the bottom of the third with the bases loaded, Matulis allowed the Tigers to get on the board with an error on a comebacker to the mound. Matulis continued to struggle with his command and was pulled in the fourth inning.
As a whole the Knights pitching staff struggled with their control, yielding seven walks and two hit batsmen. For the Tigers, starter Erik Schoenrock was in control. The lefty was dominant through six innings while only allowing two runs on four hits while striking out three.
The Knights had numerous opportunities to keep this game close or even pull ahead of Memphis but they failed to do so. According to UCF Athletics, the Knights had “the lead-off man reach in five of the final seven innings after scoring in the first two frames.”
UCF’s stagnant offense has placed a lot of extra pressure on their pitching staff, making it difficult for this team to be successful. In Game 3, look for the Knights to try and avoid the sweep and play a complete game.
In an exciting final game, UCF Knights fell to the Memphis Tigers 8-7 and were swept away in the last game of the series. Chris Taladay led the way with his bat, collecting three hits and RBIs. As a silver lining to the rough weekend, he extended his hitting streak to 11 games in today’s defeat. Taladay has been the Knights most consistent offensive weapon, producing a .379 batting average while knocking in 32 runs this season.
Knights starter Erik Skoglund (1-3), was ineffective and was removed in a fifth inning that consisted of three different pitchers for the Knights and five runs on five hits for the Tigers. In seven starts this season, Skoglund has not been strong posting a 5.08 ERA in 39 innings.
All series long, the Knights got off to an early lead and then faltered in the middle innings. In the two preceding games, the UCF bats could not get it going. In a game where the UCF offense did all it could to get the job done, the pitching was not there.
This series was a huge let down for UCF, who are now sixth in the Conference USA standings. The Knights will continue their road trip on Wednesday in Tampa and look to turn it around against in-state rival USF. The Knights were not able to put together a victory in this series in large part because they did not play any complete games. In all three games they struggled with consistent fundamentals, the essential key to winning ballgames.
With an upcoming game at USF, the Knights will need a victory to jumpstart this road trip. After playing in Tampa, the Knights will move onto an extremely important series against the Rice Owls. Look for UCF to rebound and start climbing the Conference USA standings.



Gender differences are still a factor in education; although women have advanced, men are 2.3 times likely to complete a doctoral program than women.
“Traditionally speaking, males have been more educated than females, but that’s changing for multicultural females as they move up in education,” Cyndia Morales, Assistant Director of Multicultural Academics said.
Morales is the Assistant Director of Multicultural Academic and Support Services at the University of Central Florida. She also teaches sociology at Valencia Community College, and she recently completed her doctoral degree in Education.
She said that a doctoral degree opens a lot of doors for people.
“It’s been only a month since I completed it mine, and I’m already seeing all of these opportunities opening up for me,” Morales said.
According to the 2000 Census Bureau report, there are differences between the people from different ethnic groups to pursue a doctoral degree. The Asian students were the dominant minority group to surpass the other minority groups.
Four point four percent male Asian students and 1.4 percent female Asian students completed a doctoral degree, according to the 2000 Census Bureau report.
“The numbers start shrinking as people keep going to higher educational levels. The numbers are more noticeable for certain ethnic groups,” Morales said.
According to the 2000 Census Bureau, the overall percentage of people doing a doctoral program is higher for male than female students. One point four percent male students completed a doctoral program and .6 percent female students completed a doctoral program. Men are 2.3 times likely to complete a doctoral program than women.
“We need to continue looking at the reasons for why the differences occur and try to figure out ways to stimulate equality in all disciplines,” said C. Ross Hinkle, interim vice provost and dean for the college of graduate studies.
In the Public Affairs Doctoral program the difference between male and female students is different. With a total of 96 students 54 of them are women.
Margaret Mlachak, who is the Administrative Assistant Doctoral Program in Public Affairs program, gave out this information when asked about the differences between make and female students.
“I don’t think this is true in our case,” Mlachak said. Women outnumber men in the Public Affairs program.
Morales said that there tends to be more female students in the Humanity, Social Sciences, and Educational programs than male students.
“We have programs such as the Women Research Center that recognizes the accomplishments of women. We all recognize the accomplishments of women and the roll that they play in all disciplines, and we have programs that encourage women in all disciplines,” C. Ross Hinkle said.
Marissa Kartian, a 24-year-old Educational Major is graduating this summer with a master’s degree. She wants to start working on her doctoral degree as soon as possible.
“I would like to pursue my Educational degree, because I want more experience in the field of education. It’s a good opportunity for me to do it young. I think it’s worth it because it’s a competitive market place,” Kartian said.
The University of Central Florida encourages students, regarding their gender, to pursue the educational level they aspire to have.
“I don’t think we do anything to discourage women in any discipline. I think what we really need to be sure it’s that the institution and the organization offer opportunities for everyone,” C. Ross Hinkle said.
According to the 2012-2013 UCFacts, there are 2,960 students that completed a doctoral degree the past summer. From all of the students enrolled in the UCF the degree with the most students was Psychology.
Joanna Bak, a Computer Science major, thinks about the possibility of eventually doing a Master’s degree.
“I don’t know what I love yet. I think about doing a master’s degree at some point, but I never really thought about doing a doctoral degree. None of my career goals are involve in doing a doctoral program; I don’t think I’ll need it,” Bak said.



