Chemists at UCF are unconventionally working on a new way to cure cancer.
Using organic salt and light that can theoretically kill cancer cells, the therapy that has been eight years in the making could be useful to treating melanoma, breast, colon, and prostate cancer according to researchers.
Dr. Kevin Belfield, the Chair of UCF’s Chemistry department that is heading up this research hopes that by creating an imbalance with the cells by adding a type of organic salt and shining lasers on the infected cells, it will change the cell’s make-up.
“When the strong acid is generated it creates a ph imbalance in the cell that the cell can’t recover from,” said Dr. Belfied in an interview with FOX 35.
The process, which is called “blubbing” will still leave healthy cells near the infected ones in stable condition.
The research required to make a complete cure to cancer is a long road and Dr. Belfield knows that. He is seeking to get funding from the National Institutes of Health and having clinical trials on his research done soon. For now, Dr. Belfield is remaining optimistic to his research.
“But in principle, yes, this could be a radically new cancer treatment,” Dr.Belfield told FOX 35.



KnightNews.com’s Justin Levy was back out at the Student Union for another round of freshman orientation interviews. 
Students and their parents shared orientation stories and more with our crew.
Check out the latest freshman interviews below!
[myrelposts-related title=”See More Orientation Videos:“]

Like us on Facebook to get UCF News like this on your feed! 



It’s official — UCF will be playing Penn State in Ireland in 2014.
According to the Orlando Sentinel, agreements have been made between UCF and Penn State which have solidified the plans. The game will be played at Croke Park in Dublin, the Sentinel also reports.
News about a possible game in Ireland first came earlier in May, with organizers from both UCF and Penn State actively trying to finalize a deal to play overseas. 
An official announcement is expected Sunday with further details. Travel packages for fans will be unveiled in conjunction with Sunday’s announcement, according to the Orlando Sentinel. 
Continue to check back for further updates. 



