As Orlando TV stations camped out on campus this weekend to cover the UCF hazing scandal prompted by a post on Facebook, a major question was raised: Will the Sigma Chi hazing investigation turn criminal?
Right now, that answer is not clear. 
Hazing is illegal in Florida and can be grounds for a criminal investigation. The Orange County Sheriff’s Office would only begin an investigation, however, if UCF or a victim first reports the allegations, according to Local 6 News. A UCF spokesman told the station over the weekend that he was not aware of whether or not the university reported the hazing allegations to law enforcement. The photo was taken at On Tap Bar, which is within OCSO’s jurisdiction.
Under Florida State Statutes, hazing can be a felony or a misdemeanor depending on the details surrounding the situation. Even if nobody is injured, substantial risk of physical injury can be enough to charge someone with a misdemeanor.
The entire investigation stems from a photo posted on Total Frat Move’s Facebook page a few days ago. The photo appears to show two males sitting hunched over and sick from drinking an excess amount of alcohol, as well as another person being fed a drink of some kind. 
UCF told KnightNews.com it suspended Sigma Chi based on the photo, as well as other information UCF learned. UCF didn’t elaborate on what that additional information was. However, sources tell KnightNews.com that UCF had been attempting to contact other Greek members outside of the Sigma Chi organization in order to uncover the names of those in the photo as well as any other information. KnightNews.com is working to find out if information from other UCF Greeks was used by UCF to issue Sigma Chi’s suspension. 
TV news crews who knocked on the door to UCF’s Sigma Chi house over the weekend were turned away without the fraternity giving any comment. 
Click here for more on the suspension of Sigma Chi from KnightNews.com, and see the photo of the alleged hazing. And click here to watch WFTV Channel 9’s coverage of the hazing scandal, which was the top story Sunday. 



