The No.17 UCF Knights will host Rutgers at 7:30 p.m. Thursday, Nov. 21, in a football game that will air nationally on ESPN.
On Thursday, Nov. 21, UCF classes on the main campus will end at 3 p.m. Faculty members who teach classes that are in progress at 3 p.m. may choose to conduct the portion of their classes that occurs before 3 p.m.
The main campus and university offices in the Research Park will close for normal operations at 3 p.m. in order to allow adequate time for a smooth transition to game day activities. Classes and normal operations at the Rosen College of Hospitality Management and UCF’s regional campuses will also end at 3 p.m.
Campus parking lots will open for fans and tailgating will begin at 4 p.m. However, the E lots, Baseball Lot and Garage F will open to authorized Golden Knights Club members for parking (and the E lots will be open for tailgating activities) at 2 p.m. For the entire campus, the open-container waiver that allows alcohol consumption for fans 21 and older will be in effect from 4 p.m. until game start.
Regular university parking policies will be in effect until 3 p.m. Staff and faculty members who will be staying on campus after 3 p.m. should park in one of the following areas: garages A, B and I, lots B1-B3, B5, B9, B12-13 and lots H1-H4. Parking is permitted in those areas throughout the day.
Gold Zone parking lots and garages (those closest to Bright House Networks Stadium) will be restricted to vehicles displaying official Golden Knights Club or UCF Athletics Association parking passes starting at 3 p.m. Gold Zone parking areas include the E lots, Baseball Lot and Garage F, plus garages C and D and parking lots C1, C2, D1 and D2.
All unauthorized vehicles in the Gold Zone (including any vehicle not displaying an event-specific, official parking pass), Garage H and Lot B4 are subject to towing beginning at 3 p.m. Garage H is reserved for authorized students displaying SGA-provided parking passes, credentialed staff and cash-paying customers. Lot B4 is reserved for ticketed patrons attending a Thursday evening theater performance.Staff and faculty members who have a game day parking permit may remain parked in their designated Gold Zone lot or garage after 3 p.m. as long as the official game day permit is prominently displayed.
UCF faculty and staff members can purchase $5 tickets for the Rutgers game with a valid university ID and email address. Click here for more information. 
Knights fans are invited to wear gold while students are to wear black to turn Bright House Networks Stadium into a Black and Gold extravaganza. Click here for more information.



