Transformers: The Ride at Universal Studios Orlando is set to open this summer — and crew members from KnightNews.com got an inside sneak peek at the new facility that’s housing the next generation experience.

Crew members of KnightNews.com were taken on an exclusive behind the scenes tour of the soon to come Transformers ride at the Universal Studios Orlando. Led by Thierry Coup, Senior Vice President of the Creative Studio at Universal Creative, our crew got a chance to see first hand what “recruits” will experience upon entering the ride.
The special tour began with soldiers from NEST, (Non-biological Extraterrestrial Species Treaty) who escorted our crew from the front of the park to the NEST “bunker,” which houses the ride and the last remaining shard of Allspark saved from the last Transformers movie!
After meeting Optimus Prime and Bumble Bee in person at the front of the ride, our crew entered the massive steel and concrete structure into the beginning experience of the ride. 
Optimus Prime The entire inside structure is built as an Army war bunker — from the all concrete design to the heavy metal equipment and tools. While the finishing touches were still being applied, the inside of the facility was  well designed and very well detailed with Autobot markings, blast-proof steel doors and more.
Passing through the heart of the structure, our crew was led into the Allspark room where the artifact remains protected from the Decepticons. Heavy pulsating bass and blue strobe lighting allows you to feel the actual power the Allspark contains. 
Finally, passing further into the structure, we saw exclusive video filmed during the actual shooting of Michael Bay’s Transformers movie that instructs recruits on how to remain safe and gives more insight into the journey. 

Although our crew wasn’t able to take the actual journey onto the ride (it was still being tested), Coup provided a lot of insight into the new ride.
Transformers: The Ride is a 3D, next-generation experience that brings recruits on a high-action journey with the Autobots to help save Earth. Riders come face to face with live size versions of  Megatron as they try to save mankind alongside Optimus Prime and the Autobots. Incorporating all new advanced 3D glasses, riders will get an up-close experience of the robots during the ride through Sixty foot projection screens that bring viewing to an all new level.
The robots for the ride were designed alongside Industrial Light and Magic (ILM), the animators of the transformers in the actual film. 
Recruits take the journey on EVAC, an all new Autobot created for the ride!The ride is more technologically advanced than its sister rides in California and Singapore — mainly due to the advancements in projection and 3D technology over the past few years. The ride, one of Universals fastest builds, is slated to open in summer 2013 at Universal Orlando. 
“We broke the mold and have taken this ride to a new technological level in terms of blending seamless 3-D,” said Michael Bay, director of the “Transformers” films.
Click “Next Page” to read about our crew’s experience at the Blue Man Group show following the Transformers: The Ride tour!



Update:
We’ve confirmed the following pairings through our sources:
Alpha Delta Pi & Phi Delta Theta
Alpha Xi Delta & Theta Chi
Keep checking back as we confirm more pairings. Email any more tips to news@knightnews.com
UCF Homecoming 2013 is just a short time away and sources tell KnightNews.com that many Greek organizations will choose partners for the event tonight. 
Sources have provided KnightNews.com with tips that show pairings that are being sought:
Alpha Delta Pi – Phi Delta Theta vs. Kappa Sigma vs. Sigma Pi
Zeta Tau Alpha – Zeta Beta Tau
Kappa Delta – Alpha Tau Omega 
Sigma Chi and Alpha Epsilon Pi are still suspended and are not expected to be participating in UCF Homecoming. 
Check back for constant updates as serenades begin. Send tips to news@knightnews.com or text 407-5-TIP-UCF!



UCF’s largest student run philanthropy raised over $258,000 for Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals — an increase of $140,000 from last year’s total.

Knight-Thon is UCF’s official philanthropy that holds events throughout the year to raise money to help children. Each spring, an 18 hour dance marathon unites hundreds of students who remain standing for the children who can’t. 
This year’s dance marathon raised $258,554.17 for Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals.
“The mission of Knight-Thon the University of Central Florida’s Dance Marathon, is to educate, inspire, and unite our campus and community to provide ongoing support for the Greater Orlando Children’s Miracle Network. Through our efforts, we will forever stand for the families we are privileged to serve. For The Kids We Are,” the event’s website says.
One of the event directors was shocked and ecstatic about the amount of UCF students who came out for the great cause.
“I cannot believe the number of people that are here,” Catering Director Chelsea Trynz said. “The amount of UCF students that are getting awareness about Knight-Thon and CMN is crazy to me, like shocking, and I’m so ecstatic about how many people are learning about Knigh-Thon. It’s awesome.”



