Student government election results were announced on Wednesday in front of the Student Union.
See the results below.
College of Arts and Humanities
Seat 1: Michael Koretsky
Seat 2: Alanna Fulk
Seat 3: Sara Gomez
Seat 4: Bradley Rahr 
College of Business Administration
Seat 1: Gregory Theiss
Seat 2: Jason Sena
Seat 3: Matthew Wagener
Seat 4: Gregory Raymond
Seat 5: Garbiella Giannini
Seat 6: Daniel Urgartechea
Seat 7: Gabriella Perez
College of Education
Seat 1: Caitlyn Zona
Seat 2: Brian Zagrocki
Seat 3: Christina Stoecker
Seat 4: Morgan Meislohn
College of Engineering and Computer Science
Seat 1: RUNOFF – James Briggs and Vita Hines
Seat 2: Michael Tuthill
Seat 3: Andrew Hall
Seat 4: Luke Davis
Seat 5: Bernard Hofmeister
Seat 6: Clifford Rice
College of Graduate Studies
Seat 1: Eric Patz
Seat 2: Empty
Seat 3: Stephen Phillips
Seat 4: Sean Klover
Seat 5: Empty
Seat 6: Empty
Seat 7: Empty
Seat 8: Siavash Mohammadalipoor
Rosen College of Hospitality Management
Seat 1: Sarah Gates
Seat 2: Christopher Bush
Seat 3: Kristina Furstenburg
College of Health and Public Affairs
Seat 1: Lauren Croft
Seat 2: Ryan Grail
Seat 3: Shane Yodlowski
Seat 4: Maddlyn Hart
Seat 5: Melissa Rodriguez
Seat 6: Shanzay Pervaiz
Seat 7: Victoria Benbow
College of Medicine
Seat 1: Fayez Ajib
Seat 2: Ivory Paulk
Seat 3: Nathalie Gil
College of Nursing
Seat 1: Ross Fraser
Seat 2: Melissa Pena
Regional Campus
Seat 1: Empty
Seat 2: Empty
Undergraduate Studies
Seat 1: Stefanie Cash
Seat 2: Shane Fiondella
Undeclared Majors
Seat 1: Empty
College of Sciences
Seat 1: Kaitlyn Perez
Seat 2: Michael Ingram
Seat 3: Weston Bayes
Seat 4: Jacyln Graham
Seat 5: Brandon Hamel
Seat 6: Jonathan Cannon
Seat 7: Rodolfo Padilla
Seat 8: Stephen Campell
Seat 9: Meghan Kircher
Seat 10: Matthew Diaz



At Tuesday’s State of the University address, UCF President John C. Hitt announced a new admissions program that is like one of few in the nation.
The Top 10 Knights program promises UCF admission to high school students that graduate in the top 10 percent of their class, even if they have average SAT/ACT scores. 
“It aims to reward academic success and streamline the university selection process, while bringing more of Florida’s best and brightest students to UCF,” Hitt said at the address.
The program looks to curtail the reliance on standardized testing in order to get accepted to the university. It also helps students eliminate the uncertainty they may have when applying to college. 
UCF decided on implementing the program after determining that a student’s high school GPA was the best indicator of academic success at the collegiate level. 
“Top 10 Knights should eliminate some of the uncertainty in applying to UCF and should help students who have middling test scores but have excelled in their high-school courses,” said Gordon Chavis, associate vice president for undergraduate admissions. 
The requirements to qualify for Top 10 Knights are as follows:
•Attend a Florida high school(private or home-schooled) and be ranked in the Top 10 percent of your high-school class.
•If your high school does not rank seniors, have a grade-point average of at least 3.9.
•Be on track to complete at least four “core” math courses by the end of high school.
•Score at least a 21 on the ACT or a combined score of 1,010 on the SAT math and reading exams.



KnightNews.com spoke with SGA President Melissa Westbrook on Tuesday to get her view on the UCF budget deficit. 
The A&SF budget deficit stems from student credit hour projections. Compared to last fall, students are taking 1.5 percent less credit hours and as a result the university is generating $1.45 million less in A&SF fees than anticipated. This gap represents 7.7% of the $18.8 million dollar A&SF that was approved in spring.
UCF is planning to trim expenses and use A&SF fee reserves to curb the impact of the $1.45 million dollar hole. When KnightNews.com spoke to SGA President Melissa Westbrook on how this will affect students, she was adamant that she does not want this to affect the students in any noticeable way.
“My outlook on the whole situation is that we just have to be more fiscally responsible and creative, because there’s no way I’m going to compromise the student experience this year for any amount of money,” Westbrook said.
As for trimming expenses, the talks are in early stages as to what would be cut. 
“We’re not exactly sure what would be trimmed just yet, we’re still working on it. What we’ll have to do as an agency or a student government is look at different ways..if we wanted to have this event here, maybe we should have it here to have the same impact,” Westbrook said.
The reserves, as explained by Westbrook, are in place in case of an emergency such as a hurricane or other disaster where repairs would be needed. When asked if she supported taking money out of the reserves to quell the $1.45 million dollar impact, she was not entirely convinced yet.
“I’m on the fence about that, I don’t think you should pull all from reserves. That’s for us to deal with, you as people elected us to deal with challenges like this and entrusted us that we could come up with a creative solution. I don’t think we should pull all money from reserves, but I also don’t think we should be afraid to take some,” Westbrook said.
Watch the full video interview below:




