The University of Central Florida will honor 11 Knights who recently passed away during an annual memorial service the school holds. 
The Eternal Knights Memorial Service recognizes and honors students who have passed away during recent academic terms. This ceremony enables families and friends to join with campus leaders and members of the University of Central Florida community in a solemn tribute to their loved ones. During the eulogy, each student is recognized and given the title Eternal Knight.
The ceremony for this year will take place on Wednesday, April 10, at 3 p.m. in the Pegasus Ballroom within the Student Union. All students, families, and friends are welcome to attend this ceremony. A campus-wide moment of silence will also take place on Wednesday, April 10, at 3 p.m. 
The following individuals will be remembered at this year’s ceremony:
Amir Alequin – Bachelor of Arts in Digital Media, College of Arts and Humanities
George Alphonse – Bachelor of Science in Business Administration, College of Business Administration
Jarrett Blass – Bachelor of Science in Psychology, College of Sciences
Laurie Chasseur – Bachelor of Arts in Interpersonal and Organizational Communication, College of Sciences
Zachary Gilman – Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Economics, College of Business Administration
Brandon Howard – Bachelor of Science in Biology, College of Sciences
Alexie Krill – Bachelor of Arts in Art, College of Arts and Humanities
Shaun Pleima – Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Management, College of Business Administration
Brittany Rhymaun – Bachelor of Design in Architecture, College of Arts and Humanities
Kathy Sellers – Bachelor of Arts and Liberal Studies, Office of Undergraduate Studies
Johnathan Andrew Zeuske – Bachelor of Science in Business Administration Management, College of Business Administration
For more information about the memorial service, click here. 



Knights Plaza at the University of Central Florida is hosting a community wide garage sale on Saturday, April 20,  to help fellow students, the community and the environment. 
“With the school year coming to an end, students can be part of a new event where you can buy, sell, trade or donate clothes, appliances, furniture, electronics and more,” the event website says. 
For $10, each student vendor will be provided a 10’ x 10’ space along with a table to set up their goods on the plaza. The deadline to register	is April 12, 2013.
The event is open to the public and the community is welcome to participate as a buyer or by donating items to our charity partners. Free parking is available in Garage D and Garage F as well as along East Plaza Drive and West Plaza Drive, next to the UCF Arena.
The event will run from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. at Knights Plaza, in front of the UCF Arena. Items that are not sold by the end of the event can be donated to AmVets and Knights Pantry (non-perishable food items). 
To register for the event, click here. 



