On Tuesday, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) recommenced that all 50 states lower the threshold to the drinking and driving standard from 0.08 blood-alcohol content rate (BAC) to 0.05 BAC in an effort to curb the nation’s drunk driving death toll.
Lowering the rate to 0.05 would save about 500 to 800 lives every year, according to the NTSB.
The recommendations of the Board are only advisories. Therefore, it cannot impose any regulation but can recommend changes to Congress and other agencies. 
“This is critical because impaired driving remains one of the biggest killers in the United States,” NTSB Chairman Debbie Hersman told CNN.
According to CNN, the board also recommended that states vastly expand laws allowing police to swiftly confiscate licenses from drivers who exceed the blood alcohol limits. The NTSB is also pushing for laws requiring all first-time offenders to have ignition locking devices that prevent cars from starting until breath samples are analyzed, CNN reports.



In a recently released poll on the sub-culture of the hipster, survey shows that just 16% of Americans have a favorable opinion of hipsters. 42% percent have an unfavorable opinion on hipsters, while 43% are not sure how they feel about them.
What exactly is a hipster? The PPP poll on the polarizing culture did not clearly define what it is, but included the fondness of Pabst Blue Ribbon in the survey. The 43% percent of voters who weren’t sure on their stance of the hipster could be a reason of ambiguity.
It is shown, however, that younger people are more fond to hipsters than older people. The poll shows that voters age 18-29 have a favorable opinion to hipsters(43% favorable- 29% unfavorable). It is the older voters that have very little favorable opinion of hipsters(6% favorable- 37% unfavorable).
The PPP poll asked voters if they thought that hipsters were bringing a positive cultural change to society or if they were “soullessly appropriate cultural tropes from the past for their own ironic amusement.”
The poll showed that 23% of voters said they made a positive cultural contribution, while double the amount of voters, at 46%, went with “soullessly appropriate cultural tropes”.
One of the final and arguably most outrageous polling question asked if hipsters should be subjected to a special tax for being annoying. The hipsters won this one in a landslide with 73% thinking that this would be absurd, while 27% voted in favor of the tax increase.
The poll worked by PPP surveying 571 voters nationwide on May 6th and May 7th. The margin of error on the poll is at +/-4.1%. No political party or organization sponsored or authorized this survey. Read the full results here..



