Final exams are upon students once again — which only means graduation for many is very soon after.
Graduation for Spring 2013 takes place between May 2 and May 4 at the UCF Arena. Ceremonies last around two hours.  
Approximately 6-10 weeks after Commencement, all baccalaureate and masters diplomas will be mailed to the address indicated on the student’s Intent to Graduate.
View dates, times and commencement speakers for UCF Spring 2013 graduation below. 
Thursday May 2, 2013
Graduate candidates should plan to arrive at the UCF Arena at least 70 minutes before the processional begins.
Morning Ceremony
8:40 a.m. – Procession of graduate candidates begins.
College of Arts & Humanities
Architecture, Art, Digital Media, English, Film, French, History, Humanities, Modern Languages Combination, Music, Philosophy, Photography, Spanish, Theatre, College of Engineering & Computer Science
9:00 a.m. – Commencement ceremony begins (will last approximately 2 hours)
Commencement Speaker: Peter Delfyett, professor, College of Optics and Photonics/CREOL
Afternoon Ceremony
Graduate candidates should plan to arrive at the UCF Arena at least 70 minutes before the processional begins.
2:10 p.m. – Procession of graduate candidates begins.
College of Health & Public Affairs, College of Medicine, Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences
2:30 p.m. – Commencement ceremony begins (will last approximately 2 hours)
Commencement Speaker: Former U.S. President Bill Clinton
Friday May 3, 2013
Arena doors will open for guests approximately 90 minutes before each ceremony begins.
Morning Ceremony
Graduate candidates should plan to arrive at the UCF Arena at least 70 minutes before the processional begins.
8:40 a.m. – Procession of graduate candidates begins.
College of Business Administration, College of Nursing
9:00 a.m. – Commencement ceremony begins (will last approximately 2 hours)
Commencement Speaker: Jim Heekin, Orlando attorney and CPA, partner in the law firm of Lowndes, Drosdick, Doster, Kantor & Reed
Afternoon Ceremony
Graduate candidates should plan to arrive at the UCF Arena at least 70 minutes before the processional begins.
2:10 p.m. – Procession of graduate candidates begins.
College of Education, Rosen College of Hospitality Management
2:30 p.m. – Commencement ceremony begins (will last approximately 2 hours)
Commencement Speaker: Michael Crow, president, Arizona State University
Saturday May 4, 2013
Arena doors will open for guests approximately 90 minutes before each ceremony begins.
Morning Ceremony
Graduate candidates should plan to arrive at the UCF Arena at least 70 minutes before the processional begins.
8:40 a.m. – Procession of graduate candidates begins.
College of Optics and Photonics, College of Graduate Studies, Interdisciplinary Studies, Office of Undergraduate Studies, Applied Science, Interdisciplinary Studies, College of Sciences, Actuarial Science, Anthropology, Advertising/Public Relations, Biology, Chemistry, Communication (Interpersonal/Organizational), Forensic Science, Journalism, Mathematics, Modeling & Simulation*, Physics, Political Science, Psychology, Radio-Television, Sociology, Social Science, Statistics
9:00 a.m. – Commencement ceremony begins (will last approximately 2 hours
Commencement Speaker: Florida Supreme Court Justice James E.C. Perry
For more information on graduation, click here.



Cortez Whatley slowly enters the multi-storied student union in the center of the University of Central Florida.
As his dress shoe strikes the polished tile inside, he looks up, flashes a vibrant smile and glances at just a few of the over 60,000 students he represents.
“Cortez is someone who is a visionary leader,” Student Body Vice President Rachel Brill said.
As president of UCF’s student body, Cortez Whatley has had life experiences that most 22-year-olds do not get to experience.
Whatley’s unique life experiences began before he attended UCF. As a child he moved often because his stepfather is in the Air Force. He lived in four different states and also lived overseas in the United Kingdom from the age of 8 until he was 11. Whatley’s time in the U.K. lasted three years, but left a lasting impact on his life.
“It was a truly incredible experience,” Whatley said. “While I was there we were able to visit different countries.”
Whatley went on to say that his time spent in the U.K. was an “enriching experience” and made him “more well-rounded.”
“I think meeting the diversity of people that we did had a great effect on him getting to know people as people,” Cortez’s mom Latanya Whatley said.
These experiences helped to shape Whatley into the man that he is today and have provided him with the qualities needed to lead a student body of approximately 60,000 students.
“He knows what needs to get done and knows how to properly delegate that,” Brill said.
“He has to be someone professional, someone who people tend to look up to, someone that is not lazy, hard working and has good social skills,” UCF student Ana Ruiz said.
Cortez Whatley has been able to lead through these qualities. These qualities are necessary if a person in a position such as student body president is going to lead effectively.
“Honesty, and that he is not afraid to stand up for what is right,” Latanya Whatley said when mentioning the qualities that help her son lead.
As UCF student body president, Whatley serves the students of UCF and is looked toward to provide leadership. This leadership includes his role as the voice of the students.
“I think they have a defined sense of responsibility, your job is to coordinate student events and make sure the student body is represented through you,” UCF student Anthony Cambero said.
Throughout his time as student body president, Whatley has experienced things that most 22-year-old do not get to experience at such a young age. For example, he served on the greeting committee when former United States President Bill Clinton visited UCF. Whatley recalled casually speaking with Clinton for 10-15 minutes.
Whatley also sits on Florida’s board of governors.
“As a student representative, you sit on a board that pretty much regulates all state universities,” Whatley said.
In addition to the activities that he takes part in, the people that he works with also are remarkable. Whatley mentions members of UCF’s board of trustees with ties to major companies such as Disney and Sea World. He also works with Wayne Huizenga Jr., son of the former owner of the Miami Dolphins and Florida Marlins, on the board of governors.
“I am fascinated by the people I work with,” Whatley said. These experiences and acquaintances have shaped a 22-year life unlike most others. As Cortez Whatley looks toward the end of his term as president and graduation, what his future holds remains to be seen. Whatley will look toward his experiences and leadership qualities to be successful in life post-UCF.
“He is someone who is going to be successful in anything he decides to do post graduation,” Brill said.



We are all getting our bodies’ bikini ready, so everyone has been hitting up the gym a lot lately, especially when spring has already sprung.
But another side to our certain goals to toning up is also dieting and making sure that good things also go into our bodies. A health and wellness communications firm, Pollock Communications, located in New York, surveyed 200 registered dietitians in order to uncover this year’s new dieting trends. Find out which one could work best for you!
Trend 1: Make your ingredients as natural and as raw as possible.
Whole foods are all the rage now. Stay away from processed foods as much as possible. Anything that is packaged was processed, so make sure that you are reading your labels to make sure that the freshest and most natural ingredients were being used to make any product you want to eat. So make sure there are very little or even zero preservatives in your food. Even foods that contain low fat or low carbs can still contain a lot of sugar and salt.
Trend 2: Gluten-free Diet
Going gluten-free isn’t for everyone. This diet is the best for people that have specific medical conditions. Those people that may have these types of conditions, like celiac disease, a gluten-free diet is extremely limited.
Trend 3: Your phone can help you become a smarter eater.
Practically everyone has a smart phone and access to thousands and thousands of phone apps. Many phone apps offer ways that people can get fast information about the amount of calories at common restaurants and fast-food places, like Fast Food Calories. They also keep track of their food intake throughout the day, like Calorie Counter & Diet Tracker by MyFitnessPal. Social media apps such as Twitter also helps through tips from actual nutritional experts, like @Nutrition_gov and @TeamNutrition.
Trend 4: Quality over taste.
It won’t be about the quantity of calories this year, but the quality. Although something may taste good, and we all know many foods that are absolutely delicious, like ice cream, brownies, burgers, and fries (just to name a few…), could be absolutely horrible for your body. Instead of worrying about your taste buds, think about the nutritional value of the product and what it does for you body. Pay attention to products with high sugar and salt value. There are some yummy foods that have great nutritional value, which brings us to the next trend.
Trend 5: Fruits and veggies above everything.
Fruits and veggies still remain the best choice that satisfies your nutrition and taste. They follow the first trend because fruits and veggies come great raw and they are full of antioxidants, vitamins, and minerals that benefit to your overall wellness. My personal favorite thing to do with fruits and veggies, which is also great for people on the go, is making your own fruit and veggie smoothie. You can incorporate not everyone’s favorite dark greens like kale and spinach in a common favorite, berry smoothie. Your favorite yummy berry smoothie will mask the taste of dark greens, but you will be getting your serving of fruits and veggies that will give your body the right amount nutrition. Smoothies like this also keep your tummy full and give you a lot of natural energy to get you through a busy day. And the best part is that these smoothies taste great. The Tropical Smoothie Café located on UCF’s campus on Research Parkway offers a kale and spinach smoothie, try one and get a day’s worth of great tasting nutrition.



UCF has confirmed that the NCAA has granted the school’s appeal of a one-year postseason football ban today, making the Knights bowl eligible for the 2013 season.
“We are pleased with this ruling and applaud the NCAA for handling our appeal with care, competency and professionalism,” UCF President John C. Hitt said in a statement. “Our football program looks forward to competing for an American Athletic Conference championship and a bowl berth.”
UCF’s football and men’s basketball program faced sanctions for multiple recruiting violations and “lack of institutional control”. Those penalties originally included a one-year postseason ban on the programs.
In its report about the appeal, the NCAA wrote “the penalty in question was based in significant part on irrelevant factors resulting in an abuse of discretion” by the NCAA Committee on Infractions, a statement from UCF said.
KnightNews.com first reported that UCF won the ban on Friday after confirming the information through multiple sources.
“I think it was great news for UCF, the UCF football program and the fan base with the appeal committee reversing the decision on the postseason ban,” head coach George O’Leary said. “President Hitt decided to appeal this ban and I’m glad for UCF and the football program that it turned out in our favor.”



Written by: Jalish Dawes
Cherline Callot, an early childhood education student, upload songs, scriptures, and pictures that are related to her faith on Facebook.
“I post these things to encourage myself and my friends on Facebook. It is not a regular thing; I post once a month.
If one feels comfortable about posting religious material on Facebook, what is the big deal?
“Why have a fight over religion?” Nolan Roditus said. “I consider religion a touchy subject when people mention it in their conversations. They defend their religion to the fullest potential.”
For some UCF students, the tendency to write religious material strengthens both their character and friend’s character. A few UCF students frequently read religious posts sent by their friends on Facebook.
Cody Delany, a science education in biology student, has had his Facebook account since 2007. Delany spends five hours a week on her Facebook account. She shares Bible scriptures on Facebook.
“I post scriptures on Facebook after reading Bible verses that really encourage me,” Delany said. “I want to share Bible scriptures to other friends on Facebook.”
Delany also avoids commenting on Facebook about controversial topics.
“I do not post anything controversial on Facebook,” Delany said. “I would not post anything controversial about gay marriage because I know it will upset people. I do not have any problem in posting lyrics to a religious song because I feel like that is not offensive.”
Delany shares her reasons why faith [Christianity] is important to her life.
“Faith is definitely the most important thing in my life,” Delany said. “It is the reason why I have joy. It is the reason why I have a positive outlook on life.”
However, Dashelyn Jarque, a senior biology major, had her Facebook for seven years. Jarque rarely uses her Facebook for anything other than connecting with family and friends from Valencia, Venezuela. She only comments on religious material when God wants her speak to someone about Jesus or if she is need of help from God.
“I tend to post scriptures from the Book of Proverbs,” Jarque said. “It depends on what battles I am currently facing in life.”
Jarque explains the importance on why her religion is important to her.
“My religion is important to me,” said Jarque. “It [Jarque’s religion] guides my footsteps. I pray to God.”
On the other hand, few UCF students ignore religious post that their friends send them on Facebook.
Delany admits that she occasionally skim read scriptures on her Facebook. Her Facebook friends post religious materials every day, particularly scriptures.
“ I do not necessary say I read every single scriptures that every one of my friends post regularly on Facebook,” Delany said.
Ryan Miller, a business pending major, had a Facebook account since he was in eighth grade. Miller spends 30 minutes a day on Facebook. He does not waste his energy in updating his status or posting religious material on Facebook.
“I think most people put ignorant things about religion on Facebook,” Miller said. “I would not start a flame-war with people who have previously posted information about their religion.”
Miller receive religious post from a range of once every two days in a week or three religious post every other day. He also have a lot religious friends on Facebook, but he does not get offended to know his religious friends are heavily guided by a different religion than him.
“I do not get offended at all because religion is a personal thing to me,” Miller said. If you personally believe [in your own religion] then go ahead.”
Cherline Callot had her Facebook account since 2007. Callot spends 12 hours a week on her Facebook account; she is obsessed with checking it on her phone. She is actively finds different ways to encourage herself and additional friends by spreading her Christian faith on Facebook.
Callot posts videos on Facebook to help brighten her gloomy days.
“I upload music videos on Facebook that relates to my experiences in life,” Callot said. “For example, if I am feeling depressed my song choice encourage me to know things will okay and things will get better.”
Callot feels Christianity is important factor in her life.
“My religion is important to me because it guides me on how to live my life according to the Bible,” Callot said. “It reminds me of my purpose in life which is to spread the Gospel (Good News) about Jesus Christ. It shows me how to be happy, love others and live a stress free life.”
The first sign of trouble on Facebook will likely end in two mutual friends sitting down a round table with a stack of their research from each sides of the argument on his/her religion.
The most important issue that will learn in their discussion: Everyone else have their own opinion about their own religion.



