Most of the decisions we make when we are 18, fall apart. When I was 18, the Registrars office at my University knew me by first name since I filed a “change of major” form once a week. And the day I decided to go get an ink stain on my wrist and piercing through my lip, I walked out of the tattoo parlor with nothing more than a temporary tattoo on my elbow.
Six years later, the only decision I made back then that has not fallen apart was when I decided to join a sorority.
Just the other day, I was in the middle of a conversation with a man who was not from this country when he shot me a look into my tea cup eyes and asked me sternly, “What is a sorority?”
Where, oh where in the this world, was I supposed to start.
I told him it started in the most simplistic chaotic way. Six years ago, I went to college and a girl named Heather who I knew from my hometown, told me about a thing called sororities and this crazy little thing called “RUSH”, which at first sounded like a heard of freshman trying to navigate their way around campus continuously crashing into each other, but turned out to be a term for speed dating sorority women. This girl, looked my bun-head, punk rock style, freshie self and said, “Jen, you really should come see what it’s all about.”
And my skeptical, “this is SO not for me” rebellious mindset started kicking through my bones but I went through sorority recruitment anyway and I found these girls who learned all about who I was and instead of laughing at my weirdo ways, took me by the hand and ran with me, making me feel like it was okay to be a little different, and 6 years after joining, they never made me change who I was. They only made me grow up, just enough.
Living in this 9-(whenever I get out of work) real world, I only ever hear about sororities, unfortunately, when they are in the news for bad, unthinkable, things. And whenever I introduce the fun- fact that underneath these black slacks and 9pm bed time ways, I am a “sorority girl”, people always ask me about the hypothetical terrible things they assume I endured. But they, and you, will learn that like anything else in this world (boyfriends, jobs, hobbies), you get whatever it is you put into it and you must only stand beside people and things you believe in, or else you will fail miserably.
There are many different sororities, with many different women who join them and dance with them for different reasons. I can only fairly speak on behalf of my experience, so I won’t generalize or stereotype the whole sorority experience as being “rainbows and butterflies”, but ill tell you this.
When you ask me about the crazy parties or rumors of nasty, degrading hazing, I’ll tell you that at the age of 18, I was the newsletter chair of my sorority because I loved to write. At 20, I was the Vice President of Philanthropy, raising tens of thousands of dollars for two causes that were founded or influenced by sisters. At 21, I was the President, but more importantly the role model of 150 impressionable and resilient women
It does not just matter why you joined things or why you started something, we start new things every day. Job positions, inseparable relationships, lines outside of Jamba Juice, goals to finally hit up the gym. It’s about what keeps us, if we stay. And you will learn, that if you stay for the long-haul, the marathon sprint, you’ll stay for the right reasons. Because the wrong reasons exhaust us, make our faces wrinkle and our hair gray. Leave us with upset stomachs and indigestion.
You’ll see.
Some things in life stay together, but most things will fall apart. Hold on real tightly and celebrate the nouns that keep you from falling apart.
Jen G. graduated from UCF in 2010 after painfully filling out one of those “Intent to graduate” forms and realizing her Bright Futures money would no longer pay for classes such as “History of Rock and Roll”. She is currently living in NYC and you can read about all her most recent mistakes on her site www.thethingsilearnedfrom.com



The meetings leading up to the decision to suspend all Greek Life at the University of Central Florida were held away from the public view–leaving UCF to make important decisions that affect thousands of students in secrecy.
“It is an unfortunate day when the actions of a misguided administration disrupt the productivity and happiness of a vast multitude of positive organizations and the individuals that represent them,” one student posted on an event Facebook site.
Sources tell KnightNews.com that fraternity and sorority presidents were called Tuesday night in order to inform them of a mandatory GLC meeting Wednesday at 3 p.m. We are told that the meeting was actually to discuss the decision to suspend Greek Life activities in order to address alcohol and hazing issues. We are also told that the meeting was held by UCF Vice President Maribeth Ehasz, Director of Fraternity and Sorority Life, Belinda Boston and Associate Vice President of Student Development and Enrollment Services, Dr. Kerry Welch.
“We want to be ahead of the curve on this,” Ehasz told the Orlando Sentinel. “We don’t want to wait for a catastrophe to occur. We want our Greek system to be as strong as I know it can be.”
Ehasz tells the Sentinel they could not say how long groups will be suspended. But she is hopeful that at least some will be allowed to resume their activities by the end of the spring semester. According to the paper, Ehasz said the change was prompted by a recent string of hazing investigations. Just this month, the university has suspended two of its fraternities — Sigma Chi and Alpha Epsilon Pi — amid allegations of hazing and alcohol-related misconduct.
To date, however, no records or information have been provided to the public by UCF that tell of any meetings where the decision to suspend Greek Life at UCF may have been discussed. While there is currently no certain idea as to who issued the notion to halt Greek Life, it is clear that the entire decision making process was done out of the public eye.
UCF says that they expect to approve alcohol-free philanthropy events — such as an organization holding a walk to raise money for a local charity or cause. Other events, specifically those that involve alcohol, are likely not to be approved at this point. 
Continue to check back with KnightNews.com for more information about the suspension of Greek Life at UCF. Click here for more on the suspension of Greek Life at UCF.
SPEAK OUT: Tell us your thoughts on UCF’s decision. 



UCF has officially announced they will halt all Greek activities including socials, new member education and initiation activities in order to work with fraternities and sororities on comprehensively addressing alcohol and hazing issues according to the UCF Fraternity and Sorority Life webpage which can be found here: http://FSL.sdes.ucf.edu/.
All fraternities and sororities at UCF are prohibited from holding socials, new member education, or initiation activities. However, they will be allowed to hold normally scheduled chapter meetings. UCF is hoping to have this ban lifted by the end of spring semester for most chapters.
Maribeth Ehasz, vice president of Student Development and Enrollment Services sent out an e-mail to fraternity and sorority presidents on Wednesday afternoon saying, “Chapter activities will resume when we are satisfied that our Greek culture reflects the values of the UCF Creed and, more importantly, that we can ensure compliance with laws and university regulations governing hazing and alcohol.”
Philanthropy events held by chapters must be specifically approved by the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life.Students living in the Greek houses on campus will still be allowed to stay there as long as they remain financially current and follow the rules of the University.
This ban comes a day after hundreds of UCF Greek students attended Delta Delta Delta’s annual D-HOP event, which raised thousands of dollars for the St.Jude’s hospital fund. Due to UCF banning all philanthropic activities unless approved by OFSL, these events will no longer be able to happen until further notice.
Students reacted to the suspension very quickly, a Facebook event called “UCF Greek Life Sit In Protest” had 400 attending within hours of the event being made. The creator of the event, a Greek student at UCF wrote, “This is still in its infancy. As previously stated, this is just a place holder for what COULD potentially become a united Greek event. Presidents need to get in contact and come to an understanding, but until that time, hopefully this can serve as an arena for concerned members to voice opinions and ideas, and channel their feelings and thoughts into productive and proactive actions, rather than rash, irresponsible outbursts that will only continue to hurt the Greek community.”
Video of Greek students raising money for St.Jude’s Hospital fund the day before UCF suspended Greek Life:

 



Update: The package was indeed confirmed a backpack, the building is fully operational as of 5:30pm on Wednesday.
A suspicious package found in the Math and Physics building at UCF on Wednesday afternoon cancelled all classes in the Math and Physics building as well as classes in the Health Services building.
UCFPD told KnightNews.com they are investigating an unattended yellow backpack found in a stairwell in the Math and Physics building.
A UCF alert said that, “Math/Physics and Health Services buildings evacuated due to suspicious package.”
The Orange County Bomb Squad in on the way to see if this suspicious package poses a threat.
Check back to KnightNews.com for this breaking news.




KnightNews.com has just learned important dates and ticket information for Universal Knights 2013.
Like us to get news like this on your facebook feed!
Student Government’s Ashley Jaramillo, Director of Campus Life, says the event will be held April 21, pending the contract approval with Universal Orlando.
 SGA says they plan on having a ballpark of 12,000 tickets for this year’s event at Islands of Adventure. The event times will be 4 p.m. to 1 a.m. with UCF exclusive hours beginning at 8 p.m., also pending contract approval.
“There will be a few minor changes to increase the efficiency of ticket distribution and I’m working on shuttles for this year, Jaramillo told KnightNews.com.
Continue to check back for more information regarding Universal Knights including ticket pick-up times as well as an event schedule.



UCF lost 5-3 Tuesday night to the nationally ranked Florida Gators, moving to .500 on the year and on their home turf.
Southpaw Brian Adkins got the start for the Knights, and gave up three earned runs over 5.2 innings while striking out 3 and walking none. Adkins served up an early lead to the Gators, allowing a run to score off a sacrifice fly in the first, and then putting a mistake pitch in Vickash Ramjit’s power zone, as the Florida first baseman crushed a solo home run to right field to start the second inning.
Adkins settled down after the home run, allowing only one more earned run to cross the plate before being pulled in the sixth inning in favor of righty Zac Favre, who came in just to close out the sixth. Two unearned runs were put on the board when Chris Taladay underthrew his toss to first and Vazquez was not able to dig it out.
It wasn’t until the bottom of the sixth that the Knights were able to produce any offense. First baseman James Vasquez kick started the run production with a solo shot of his own to right field, the first of his career.
Austin Johnson followed up Vasquez’s bomb with a double, and was brought home by shortstop Tommy William’s RBI single. The two runs put the Knights in a great position for a feasible come back, closing the gap to 5-2.
The last real threat to Florida’s lead came in the seventh inning, when right fielder Eric Hempe was able to advance to third from first on a wild pitch. Taladay brought home the Anaheim native with an RBI ground-out.
Neither team made any progress in the final innings, and Florida was able to survive the late game surge by UCF to hold on to a 5-3 victory.
UCF Athletics caught up with Coach Rooney after the game, and quoted him as not being disappointed with the effort, but saying that “It was a great game tonight. The University of Florida played better than us. In order for us to be a great team, we have to play fundamentally sound and Florida played a little bit better than us, making a few more plays, and they got a few more clutch hits.”
The Knights will get a chance at redemption April 2nd in Gainesville, and will play next in the Wawa Weekend Classic at Jay Bergman field this weekend. UCF begins the tournament at 7:00 p.m. Friday night against the University of Connecticut (1-2), continuing their initial 8 game homestand.



