UCF has won its bowl ban appeal and will be eligible for post-season play in their first season in the American Athletic Conference, multiple sources told KnightNews.com on Friday.
The NCAA originally imposed a one-year postseason ban on the men’s football and basketball teams for multiple recruiting violations and “lack of institutional control”. The infractions eventually led to the resignation of then Athletic Director, Keith Tribble.
UCF accepted all penalties, which included reduced scholarship money and the ban on post-season play for basketball. The only penalty UCF appealed was the ban on post-season football, which allowed them to play in the post-season in 2012.
It looks like the gamble has paid off for the Knights who capped off last season by winning their second bowl game in program history against the Ball State Cardinals, 38-17.
The Knights start their season on August 29th at home against the Akron Zips.



Sitting on his office with a cup of coffee besides him and his fingers on his keyboard, Eduardo Kouri typed an e-mail with the daily pricelist for his customers.
There is a shopping cart stationed at the center of his office filled with the most popular products he sells. He has two chairs by his desk and a small stool besides him. There’s a computer screen on his desk and a laptop right next to it. He has small posters of different places hanging off the walls of his office, and his door open.
Kouri, 29, has accomplished what many others wouldn’t even dream of at his age. He is the owner of Jetset Foods, an export company that is based on Miami FL, and a full time sales associate for Allied Caribbean, which is a company based in Miami that supplies merchandise to the Caribbean.
Jetset Foods has grown from $10,000 to $800,000 sales in over three years; with only four employees working part time, including him. His employees mainly work remotely from their homes and report to him over the phone and by e-mail.
His company has achieved more than a 40 percent growth in less than 4 years.
“The best way to start your company is to work for another company that’s already in the field and learn from them the industry,” Kouri said. “I have been working in other companies for over 7 years. I finished my bachelors and my masters, but there is a lot to learn from the industry that you specialize in.”
Kouri came at the age of 20-years-old to the United States from Mexico. He was an international student for the remaining three years of his college career. He was able to find a program called, Florida-Mexico-Institute sponsored by the Florida government. This program gave his parents the opportunity to pay for his tuition every semester, instead of getting loans.
“Paying for your education should be doable; not easy. Kouri said. “Your best investment is education.”
At first he started working for a moving company during the weekends to get some cash. Later, he was working in a restaurant, taking out the trash and helping with basic things. He later became the assistant of the manager and he started learning from them. He later found a job in an export company, which gave him a lot of expertise and ideas of what he wanted to do.
Kouri’s mother, Edith Gomez Pedrozo, has an export company as well. Kouri was born in a family of entrepreneurs.
“I think he has accomplish a lot by being 29, because everything he has made it’s for himself. He is a vey intelligent person, who is always open to learning and open to new things. He always has a goal to pursuit and he doesn’t stop until he accomplishes it,” Gomez Pedrozo said.
Eduardo has to manage his time between Jetset Foods and Allied, the company he works full time in. He also travels, he uses the weekends and holidays to travel and promote his products to new customers, mainly in Latin America.
“He is a good person, but he’s stubborn. I think that at this moment he has alot of stress, and he sometimes is a cranky person. Sometimes he thinks he knows everything. He needs to have more patience and relax,” Gomez Pedrozo said.
Carol Teruel, is one of the few employees that works for Jetset Foods. She manages many things, and oversees the logistic parts of the company as well as the human resources.
When asked about the experience of working for a small company, such as Jetset Foods she mentioned, “It is a very small company, but it’s growing and growing little by little,” Teruel said. “There are more opportunities in other companies for sure, but in Jetset Foods I have a better experience.”
Working with Kouri has inspired Teruel to pursuit her dreams sooner rather than later.
“I always wanted to put my own restaurant, but I’ve always look at that as a very distant goal. Now I look at myself and I say, in 3 years I’ll reach my goal,” Teruel said.
Kouri always wanted to have his own company, as long as he can remember he dreamed of having his own company, he has it now. Even it it’s small he hopes to keep working on it.
“My dream is to be able to work in my company full time,” Kouri said. “Everything takes time and it’s a lengthy process. “With each step you make a risk must be taken, but you need to be smart about it.”
Kouri has accomplish many of the goals he had six years ago, but he thinks that everything can be gone in a minute, the important thing is to have the right attitude to accomplish whatever you want all over again.
“People tell me that I have the right attitude towards success. The truth is that I ask questions, I am honest—you’ll be surprise to find out that honesty is a rare skill—and I listen to my customers and colleagues,” Kouri said.



Gerald Condon, a junior studying Aerospace Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Central Florida, compares himself to Ferb from Disney’s animated show Phineas and Ferb. Along with his younger brother, Todd, Gerald drove his babysitters, of which there were many, crazy with daily schemes and projects.
Keeping babysitters on their toes came naturally by virtue of Gerald’s unique skill set. As a toddler, Gerald built elaborate wood train tracks with lego bridges connecting different furniture. Gerald had to promise his parents that he wouldn’t dismantle and repurpose his new toys with his father’s tools, which he usually ended up doing anyways.
“He constantly dissects everything he sees and imagines every component the way it functions,” Todd said. “Once I witnessed him standing on a small bridge structure supported by a pile of books on each end. Turns out he made the bridge which could hold hundreds of pounds out of two file folders and wood glue.”
Pitching his innovative ideas to his friends is something of a regularity for Gerald, and his friends are always helping him bounce ideas around.
Lauren Taylor, Gerald’s girlfriend, detailed an afternoon hearing Gerald’s idea for a custom turbocharger for his car. Gerald explained his plan over lunch, using napkins to draw detailed sketches while enthusiastically conveying his vision.
“Every other week he’ll come into my room with a new idea for a product he wants to make,” said Josh Sheldon, Gerald’s roommate at UCF’s Towers.
Gerald’s father brought the family business, Condon Jewelers, to Stuart from his hometown of Madison, Wisconsin. He met Gerald’s mother, who is from the Philippians, while earning his graduate gemologist diploma in California. He built a home in Port Saint Lucie, where Gerald was born and raised.
As a child Gerald loved to daydream, but his parents, who specialized in precious metals, tried to convince him that “no one pays you to think.” They didn’t anticipate his kind of thinking and motivation however, and when what had started with Gerald simply paying attention to simple things, such as random particles floating in class, he began to pay particular attention to what the wind was doing around buildings and cars, finding his invisible new interest: fluid dynamics.
“Just the fact that it [wind] is invisible made me want to learn so much about it,” Gerald said.
Among Gerald’s list of interesting hobbies is lucid dreaming, which means to realize consciously that you are dreaming. In middle school he started to recognize when he was dreaming, and used it to study for exams the night before while sleeping using only his memory of his textbooks.
“He’s just very unique, finding someone who is both so scientific and artistic isn’t easy,” Lauren said.
Having tinkered with the old computer in his home regularly as a child, Gerald developed advanced technical skills and proficiency in over ten programming languages. He made a little money on the side in high school fixing people’s computers.
“He doesn’t think like anyone else I know,” Todd said, “he thinks in shapes, numbers and equations.”
Gerald’s massive rocket encyclopedia sits close to his desk, which resembles more of a command center than a desk. His whiteboard is filled with equations and miscellaneous sketches for ideas.
Gerald compares himself to the Fennec fox, a small, agile animal native to the Sahara. Though Gerald’s endless energy can get him distracted easily, his motivation keeps him bouncing between fresh new ideas, Lauren said. Gerald describes his life as a grand bridge, and by focusing on what he wants he can envision the steps he needs to get where he wants to go, which is usually faster and upwards.
Under his bed Gerald keeps his toolbox, and always nearby his trusty B’laster lubricant, which he is always applying generously to his mechanical projects, which include a longboard he built.
Out of high school Gerald landed an internship shadowing a NASA engineer at the Kennedy Space Center. After peaking over the shoulders of NASA rocket engineers, Gerald paid particular attention to their work on consoles monitoring thousands of sensors on regularly launched rockets carrying satellites.
“I used what I knew of computers and gaming programming to write a program that did the job of monitoring these sensors and presenting the data in real time with real-time statistics,” Gerald said.
Gerald’s work astounded NASA management, and although he was courted by private firms, chose to keep his talents at NASA. He has been working at NASA as a Launch Services Program Fluids Programmer ever since.
Gerald records anything he says that he might consider quote-worthy; one of his own quotes reads:
“Success is only determined by the extent and effort of our own capabilities. A good harvest to a simple farmer, is no less joyous than the invention of the light bulb is to Thomas Edison. The flourishing of your efforts alone should be justification for continuing in this conundrum called life.”



