UCF students Alex Kinsey and Sierra Deaton, both 22, have won the Fox TV show ‘The X-Factor” along with a $1 million dollar recording contract.
Deaton, a recent graduate of UCF, and Kinsey, a senior at UCF, performed “All I Want For Christmas is You” and “Love Me Again” as their final songs. The duo’s mentor was Simon Cowell who continually praised the couple and said it has been an education for him since he has never worked with artists like them.
The duo are the only ‘X-Factor’ contestants to hit No. 1 on the iTunes Top 100 chart with their cover versions of A Great Big World’s “Say Something” and Sara Bareilles’ “Gravity”.
 



The UCF Student Government Activity and Service Fee Budget Committee was faced with the task of shaving $900,000 from the A&SF budget on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday.
SGA agencies, such as Late Knights, KnightCast and Pride Coalition, received zero funding for the 2014-2015 school year. Student Legal Services, Recreation and Wellness Center and the Campus Activity Board all saw significant cuts in their respective budgets.
SGA President Melissa Westbrook, who had to make the decision on cutting many of these agencies, even offered to cut her own pay in order to help fill the gap in the budget.
“It’s something I’ve been planning to do for a very long time before budget cuts. Actually, when I first came in as president, I looked into cutting all cabinet pay,” said Westbrook.
Students should not be seeing anything drastically changing around campus due to the budget cuts. For example, the Campus Activity Board was not funded for speakers for 2014-2015, but received almost full funding for every other event such as concerts and comedy shows.
The budget cuts stem from over projections of student credit hours by the Institutional Knowledge Management office. The gap in the budget represents 7.7 percent of the $18.8 million dollar A&SF that was approved in spring.
“The total number of student credit hours this fall is now projected to be about 1.5 percent lower than our number of actual credit hours last fall,” UCF spokesperson Chad Binette told KnightNews.com back in September.
Click here to see the full A&SF Budget and watch the video below:




