New details released about the planned attack on the UCF campus show details of the gunman’s communication with a convicted murderer and his troubled life, depicted through a manifesto that tells the story the attack.

A UCF press conference held Friday afternoon to discuss UCF’s own review of its handling of the March planned attack by former UCF student James Seevakumaran included the release of new photos, notes and letters from Seevakumaran – details which displayed the attack and Seevakumaran himself. 
Seevakumaran’s autopsy report shows that he was in-fact killed by a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head which investigators say Seevakumaran sustained just minutes before police entered the Tower 1 dorm where he was living. 
Of the new details released, a letter written by Seevakumaran depicts the life of a troubled and harassed young man named Damien who, similar to Seevakumaran, had plans to attack and kill people before killing himself.
Another note found within the gunman’s room says “Hate is the key.”
Seevakumaran also had contact with a jailed inmate in a prison in Texas. Trey Sesler, 22, is serving life in prison without parole for killing his parents in early 2012. It was also discovered that Sesler had plans to attack his high school.
A letter from Sesler shows that Seevakumaran had been in contact with him in some way. The FBI is currently investigating this relation, however, authorities don’t believe Sesler was involved in Seevakumaran’s plan.  Click here to view that letter.
UCF also reviewed its own policies and handling of the entire incident. The school laid out a series of “lessons learned,” which included positive remarks and items that need improvement or further development. Recommendations were ultimately created to be presented and further investigated for their applicability for the school.  
“UCF remains a very, very safe campus, and it’s because of the dedicated hard work of police, staff members and all those who play a part,” said retired Navy Vice Admiral Alfred G. Harms, Jr., UCF’s vice president for Strategy, Marketing Communication and Admissions, who led the two-month review. 
View the letter and pictures below. [WARNING, CONTENT MAY BE GRAPHIC]
‘Damien’ Letter
http://knightnews.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/DamienStory-1.pdf
OCSO Report
http://knightnews.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/OCSOReport.pdf



The University of Central Florida will hold a news conference Friday afternoon at 3 p.m. to discuss the March 18 incident at the school’s Tower 1 dormitory that involved a former student who was planning an attack on the campus. 
James Seevakumaran, a former UCF student, shot and killed himself inside of his dorm before he could commit the attack he had planned. Police went on to find two guns inside his room as well as several improvised explosive devices. 
UCF releases this information about the investigation:
“Overall, UCF responded commendably to the March 18 incident by focusing on the safety of the campus and supporting the needs of affected students and staff, as well as sharing timely and accurate information with the broader university family and beyond. Crisis response plans generally worked well and involved personnel addressed real-time and follow-on challenges with noteworthy dedication and outstanding professionalism.
This review identifies several areas for improvement, primarily involving the adequacy of certain housing policies, the designation and alignment of assets (staffing and funding) available for support of a prolonged emergency event, and the implementation of enhanced campus security infrastructure (such as universal building access capability, improved security-camera coverage and interoperability, and upgraded emergency messaging systems).
Various action items recommend these and other improvements, many of which have already been completed or are in progress, with others undergoing further analysis.
I led the two-month review, which included contributions from multiple UCF departments, an independent group of university and community members, and an independent security and crisis response expert.
The police investigation showed that two factors likely contributed to preventing the deceased from carrying out his plan of violence against the UCF community.
First, UCF police arrived at Tower 1 within four minutes of the initial 911 call. Material retrieved from the deceased’s computer showed that he anticipated having 10 to 15 minutes to carry out his plan. Second, police found that the deceased’s rifle jammed.”
The news conference will include an update on the university’s after-action review and the conclusions of the police investigation. 
KnightNews.com will have a crew at the conference and have live updates via our Twitter feed. Follow @UCFKnightNews to stay updated.
For more on the incident, click here.



The Kyoto Sushi and Grill located near University boulevard was broken into early Thursday morning, according to WKMG Local 6.
According to deputies, the suspect is a 45-55 year old white male who used a blunt object to break into the restaurant. He got away with a cash drawer holding around $130 dollars, the entire incident took about 30 seconds.
A mop was found near the entrance of the restaurant, but it has not been confirmed if that was the object the suspect used to break into the restaurant.
The man fled in a light colored vehicle, possibly a Hyundai. The suspect is still at-large.



