Two brush fires in Central Florida have fire departments trying to control the situation, evacuating several apartments in Avalon Park. 
Officials said one fire was reported in Avalon Park that prompted the evacuation of 5 buildings from an apartment complex as the flames crept closer. Firefighters have cut fire lines, but the concern is the wind that has been pushing the flames to the apartments, Local 6 news is reporting. 
The fire is causing visibility issues on Avalon Park Boulevard, prompting officials to put their patrol cars in the road, the outlet said. 
Another was reported at 4:30 p.m. near Wewahootee Road and John Wycliffe Boulevard in a wooded area. It’s not clear how big the fire is but is listed as Level 3 by the fire department.
No other information was immediately available. Check back for constant updates.



UCF’s full Big East schedule was released on early Wednesday, and the Knights are set to play six games at Brighthouse Networks Stadium and six games away.
UCF will immediately be seeing the effects of moving into a bigger conference despite many of the marquee Big East teams leaving for other conferences. The Knights will play three nationally televised games including at Louisville which will be broadcasted on ESPN or ESPN2, Rutgers at home which will be on ESPN, and finally USF, which will be on either ABC, ESPN, or ESPN2.
The Knights have a lot of variety in their schedule this season, playing a total of four games on either Thursday or Friday, including the Thursday home opener against Akron on August 29.
This seasons schedule is the longest that the Knights have ever seen, totaling 101 days, but with the increased competition the three bye weeks may prove beneficial.
The War on I-4 game has the potential to gain lots of serious traction nationally, the game against USF will be played the day after Thanksgiving on Black Friday, and is already set to be nationally televised. With Rutgers being nationally televised the week before, that means the Knights will be playing under the national spotlight two weeks in a row.
Check out the Knights full schedule below:
UCF’s 2013 Football Schedule:
Thursday, Aug. 29- Akron
Saturday, Sept. 7- at Florida International
Saturday, Sept. 14- at Penn State
Saturday, Sept. 21- BYE
Saturday, Sept. 28- South Carolina
Saturday, Oct. 5- at Memphis
Saturday, Oct. 12- BYE
Friday, Oct. 18- at Louisville (ESPN/ESPN2)
Saturday, Oct. 26- Connecticut
Saturday, Nov. 2- BYE
Saturday, Nov. 9- Houston
Saturday, Nov. 16- at Temple
Thursday, Nov. 21- Rutgers (ESPN)
Friday, Nov. 29- USF (ABC/ESPN/ESPN2)
Saturday, Dec. 7- at SMU



