Coming soon.
That’s what it says on newly placed signs for two businesses — Wawa and 4Rivers — preparing to come closer to the UCF area.
4Rivers owner John Rivers announced the expansion of the popular barbecue restaurant to a vacant site located at 11850 University Blvd. earlier this year after a deal to move a location into the Waterford area fell through. But, limited information was available on the Wawa expected to open right next door. 
We are working to confirm the planned Wawa expansion and learn an expected completion date. 
Continue to check back for updates. 



This past Friday night, UCF students experienced a concert like no other.  
When it was announced back in September by UCF CAB that One Republic would be making an appearance at UCF — nonetheless for free — the word spread faster than wild fire.
As part of the truthLIVE tour, OneRepublic and the opening act, TeamMate, were scheduled to appear at five schools: Pennsylvania State University, Ohio State University, the University of Pittsburgh, the University of Florida, and the University of Central Florida.
The (ugly)truth campaign finds ways to spread the word about the truth behind tobacco-based products.

Prior to the doors opening, the truth campaign had a truck set up to advertise who they were, and what they stood for.  Representatives handed out drawstring back packs that had facts written on the inside, similar to the one in the video above.  A live DJ was also present getting the crowd pumped to go inside the venue.
Also, in between and before the musical acts they showed cartoon animated messages about the harmful affects of Tobacco to promote their cause.
As students entered the arena, the DJ from outside followed to continue, getting the crowd pumped up for the soon to be astounding performance.
TeamMate is a California based band that was formed in 2010. Composed of lead vocalist, Scott Simons and drummer, Dani Buncher, their indie pop vibe was felt throughout the arena.  The duo performed songs off of their new EP, title ‘The Sequel’ to bring the crowd to their feet.
They really knew how to get the crowd going and left many new fans in the crowd, myself being one, after their performance.  I highly recommend them to anybody.
After a small break it was time for OneRepublic to take on the University of Central Florida.  A white curtain dropped at the edge of the stage, separating the crowd and the band.  The lights went off and the silhouettes of the band members began to appear. The crowd erupted into fits of screaming and cheering on, eager to see OneRepublic.
One song was sung titled Light It Up, as the opening number before the white curtain fell to reveal the whole band as the rest of the show kicked off.
The band performed their most common songs, such as Secrets, All The Right Moves, Stop and Stare, Apologize, Good Life, and a Spanish guitar solo that led into their latest radio-hit, Counting Stars along with multiple other songs from their newest record, Native. 
OneRepublic also performed what I believe to be the best rendition of Gold Digger I have ever heard and seen.  Despite the fact that the lead singer, Ryan Tedder had the crowd hanging on his every word throughout the show — the playful piano solo that led up into the epic light show blew away every fan in the crowd.
Tedder made the show as personal as he could. He dedicated the song, Life In Color, to the students in the crowd and told us all about how we should embrace every moment and live life to the fullest, and that ‘it was our time now’. 
The song talks about the different ‘shades of color’  in each persons’ life, having hope in others, and living ‘life in motion’. I know for myself, as I am sure many other UCF students will now and always associate this song with their UCF career and overall college experience.
Closing with an encore and confetti falling over the crowd, everybody seemed happy and pleased and that they didn’t want it to be over.
This was the last stop on the truthLIVE tour and for the two bands.  OneRepublic will be touring around the world in the next couple of months and will not be back “home” for a good nine or ten months.  



An open forum being held by UCF President John C. Hitt has been cancelled. 
President Hitt notified students via email of the cancelled event, stating that an SGA event on the same day conflicts with the forum. The forum was supposed to be on Oct. 16 and it was not immediately clear if it was going to be rescheduled.
Vice Presidents Maribeth Ehasz (Student Development and Enrollment Services), Al Harms (Strategy, Marketing, Communications & Admissions), Dan Holsenbeck (University Relations), and Bill Merck (Administration & Finance) were also planning to be in attendance. 
The event conflicting with the open forum is a “Fireside Chats” meeting — an event held by Student Body President Melissa Westbrook  as a way to update the Student Body of the administration’s current achievements and future endeavors. The event itself will be taking place in the Student Union Room 221 from 12 p.m. to 2 p.m. on October 16, 2013. 



