Sigma Chi’s National Headquarters has suspended its University of Central Florida chapter while UCF investigates an alleged hazing, the organization’s national director told the Orlando Sentinel on Monday.
Mike Dunn, executive director of Sigma Chi, said it did not appear that anyone had been injured, but tells that paper that many details are not yet clear, including whether pledges were involved.
“Those are the types of things the university is investigating so we have all of the facts in front of us,” he said.
This suspension by the fraternity’s headquarters reinforces the suspension placed by UCF following allegations of hazing that stemmed from a photo posted on Total Frat Move’s Facebook page.
UCF President Dr. John Hitt tells CFNews 13 he is waiting until all the facts come out before taking more action against Sigma Chi.
“Everybody’s entitled to due process,” Dr. Hitt told the media outlet. “But if there was hazing or underage drinking going on – both are illegal in Florida and they’re against University rules – they’ll be dealt with accordingly according to the law and the rules.”
UCF Sigma Chi President, David Barley, is expected to meet with UCF on Feb. 22 to discuss the incident, which alleges hazing as well as alcohol related misconduct.
Last semester, the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity was suspended by UCF following allegations of hazing reported by an anonymous source. In that instance, the ATO nationals did not suspend the chapter while UCF investigated, as was done in this case by Sigma Chi.
KnightNews.com asked UCF if they had reported the crime of hazing that was cited in the letter to Sigma Chi to the Orange County Sheriff’s Office yet, however, did not immediately hear back.



Florida’s Board of Governors has recently extended the deadline for applications to join the University Boards of Trustees. This news follows the resignation of Trustee Meg Crofton, who sat on UCF’s Board.
Four of the state’s public universities have a vacant position:  Florida A&M University, Florida International University, University of Central Florida and University of South Florida. The extended deadline runs until March 4.
“Individuals passionate about the future of higher education in our state are encouraged to apply for this opportunity to help shape the future of the second largest university system in the country,” the Board of Governors said in a recent press release.
The universities’ 13-member boards of trustees are responsible for implementing and maintaining cost-effective policy and high quality educational programs. They also work to adhere to state policy, budgeting and education standards.
University of South Florida’s vacancy is for a term ending January 6, 2016.  The vacancies at FAMU, FIU and UCF are each for a term ending January 6, 2018.
Those interested in this intensive public service opportunity must complete an application with the Board of Governors’ Trustee Nominating Committee. Applicants do not need to live in Florida to serve on a board of trustees.
“The Board of Governors is looking for dynamic and diverse individuals who are interested in higher education, passionate about assisting our institutions and committed to working toward the goals of the State University System,” said Morteza “Mori” Hosseini of Daytona Beach, Chair of the Board of Governors’ Trustee Nominating Committee.



UCF Football commit Shaquem Griffin out of Lakewood high school made a Sportscenter Top 10 worthy play in the Team USA vs. The World International Bowl.
Griffin is a safety who is one of the focal points of the UCF defensive recruiting class for 2013. The interception came in at number four on ESPN’s top ten plays, and if that’s not impressive enough, Shaquem only has one hand.
When he was 4-years-old Shaquem had his hand amputated due to a rare birth defect called Amniotic Band Syndrome. However, this did not stop Shaquem from realizing his goal to play football at a higher level. Shaquem and his twin brother Shaquill both signed letters of intent to UCF and are both ranked in the top 115 for their position in the state of Florida.
Check out the video of Shaquem’s interception here:




The UCF College of Business Administration will be celebrating UCF’s 50th Anniversary Mardi Gras style the week of February 11-15. 
Students, staff and faculty can stop by the business courtyard from 12 to 2 to for some Tibby’s New Orleans Kitchen jambalaya and gumbo from CBA Dean Paul Jarley and other administrators, watch the parade of student organization “krewes,” get some beads and vote for a student king and queen. 
 UCF will be hosting different events throughout the week as part of the school’s 50th Anniversary.



