UCF College of Medicine has won full accreditation from the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME), UCF has confirmed with KnightNews.com
The LCME is an accrediting body for educational programs at schools of medicine in the United States and Canada that accredits only the schools that grant a Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) degree.
UCF’s school of medicine was previously working under provisional accreditation and now will move into a fully accredited medical college.
“Full accreditation is necessary for our graduates to be licensed and to be admitted into residency programs,” Wendy Sarubbi, Coordinator of Information/Publications Services for UCF College of Medicine told KnightNews.com back in 2011. “So accreditation means everything.”
The College of Medicine will now be able to provide degrees for its students.



The UCF Men’s Rugby team routed the USF Bulls, 66-5, in front of a healthy sized fan turnout in the Spring Semesters home opener.
The game started with a kick to the Bulls. With a quick advance and a well-placed kick, the Knights got the ball back and set a brutal tempo for the game that the Bulls could not match.
In Rugby, the resulting possession of the ball after a kickoff is nowhere near as guaranteed to a team as in football, where the kickoff is more or less a formality to trade possession.
A well placed kick in rugby will be within 30 yards of the kicking team and provide enough hang time for that team’s players to get under the ball and make a bid for it. Successfully hawking a kickoff can provide enormous momentum, like a fumble recovery on a punt in football, and places the team deep in the opponents territory.
The Knights were first to score with a penalty kick, worth 3 points, by Max Roehm. After making the kick, the Knights received the ball and used hard drives from the backs and forwards to control the ball for most of the first half, leaving the Bulls to play catch-up.
While the match up was more of the Knights putting on a clinic instead of a competition, the Bulls did manage to sneak a few points onto the scoreboard.  The Bulls advanced down the field and a well placed penalty kick put them within 5 yards of the tryzone. A strong run from their forwards gave them the score, 5 lonely points that would not see any more company for the rest of the day. The Knights responded immediately with a swift try that showed the Knights had no intention of letting up. The half ended with the Knights up 35-5, and UCF had plenty left in the tank.
The second half began with the Knights receiving the ball and continuing to outperform the competition.
Andy Goins, fullback for UCF, rushed for over 150 yards and two tries. Man of the Match, Sean Nicholl, scored once and punished USF every time he had the ball, bulldozing defenders like bowling pins.
After a strong second half from UCF and no further scores from USF, the Bulls were handed a demoralizing defeat. And while the Knights could have chased the Bulls back to Tampa with their tails between their legs, rugby is gentleman’s game…
As is tradition for the home team to be a gracious host, the Knights invited the Bulls out for some camaraderie at the Knights Library to polish off a Saturday well spent.
This Saturday at 1:30, February 9, the Knights hosts the best rugby game to come to Orlando in years. The Seminoles are a disciplined team that will key on any weaknesses that UCF presents. This game will decide conference play for the season. Last year, these two teams played in Mobile, AL and the ‘Noles were victorious. Join us Saturday and see if the Knights take the next step to a Conference Championship



A homeless man was shot by Florida Atlantic University campus police Friday morning after he threatened them with a knife at the school’s Boca Raton campus, police said.
WPTV NewsThe shooting happened on a rooftop at a research building in a section of campus away from most classes. The school was not evacuated or put on lockdown over the incident.
The man, whose identity was not released but police described as being a homeless man in his 20s or 30s, was taken to Delray Medical Center, the Palm Beach Post reports. His condition is unknown.
FAU officers arrived at the scene around 10:15 a.m. and saw the man was armed with a knife, police say. At some point they apparently felt threatened and shot the man. No one else was on the roof besides the man and the officers.
Boca Raton police were then called to come to the scene. Boca Raton police and the state’s attorney’s office will investigate the incident.
“Officers were presented with what we believed to be a threat, and they dealt with that threat,” said Boca Raton Police Chief Dan Alexander.
Employees of a business in the complex said they heard running around on the roof but assumed they were the air conditioning workers who had been on the roof of the one-story building the past  couple days. But when they were told to stay in the building, they knew it was a more serious situation.
Police said they could not confirm whether the man had ties to the school or the community.
Police are still determining whether the officers involved will be put on paid administrative leave, said Officer Sandra Boonenberg, Boca Raton Police spokesperson.
The incident took place near the school’s Spanish River entrance on the north side of campus.



The University of Central Florida will hold an open forum for students on Thursday, February 14.
 President Hitt, Provost Waldrop, Vice Presidents, Ehasz, Harms, and Merck will be hosting the forum, any students are welcome to join and voice their opinion on any topic concerning UCF.
The event will take place from 11:30 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. in the Student Union, Key West, 218AB.  
All students are invited to discuss their ideas, concerns, and experiences.



