University of Central Florida Student Government Presidential and Vice Presidential Candidates Andy Green and Zac Lee hosted their platform release party Tuesday night at The Moat Sports Bar and Grill.

KnightNews.com spoke to both candidates about their decision to run as well as many of their platform points and issues facing UCF.
“I think the biggest thing that we have is that we’re not afraid to be a strong voice for students…we can work with the administration but we’re not afraid to tell them no and I think that’s one of the biggest things that sets us apart,” Green said.
Major platform points for the duo include:
– Fight against any tuition or fee increase
– Use vacant retail space on campus to host student run small businesses
– Return student groups and RSOs back to the A&SF Budget
– Create a TED UCF to promote ideas worth sharing
– Advocate for better campus lighting and organize group night-walks to highlight the danger of poor lighting on campus
– Work to create a Greek Student Conduct Board to promote peer-to-peer reviews
– Make SGA a transparent entity by detailing and publishing where every student dollar is spent
To view the entire platform and see more information, click here.
The opposing party, Melissa Westbrook and Jacob Kahn, will be hosting their own platform release party at The Moat Sports Bar and Grill on Wednewsday at 8 p.m.
UCF SGA elections will also be holding their own Campus Involvement Debate with candidates Wednesday at 2 p.m. in the Student Union. Candidates will be discussing major issues including those relevant to the Greek community, registered student organizations, and campus life.
Continue to check back with KnightNews.com for full coverage of the SGA elections.



A new list from CoEdmagazine ranks several Florida cities as some of the top trashiest Spring Break destinations in the United States for 2013.
According to the site, the city’s ranks are based on criteria that include Girls Gone Wild, bike weeks, Hooters, tattoo parlors, etc. 
Orlando ranks number five on the list along with other Florida cities like Daytona Beach (number three), Miami (number seven) and Key West (number nine). See the full list below:
1. Las Vegas
2. South Padre Island, Texas
3. Daytona Beach
4. Myrtle Beach, S.C.
5. Orlando
6. Lake Havasu, Ariz.
7. Miami
8. Panama City Beach, Fla.
9. Key West
10. Fort Myers
11. Tampa
12. Virginia Beach, Va.
13. Scottsdale, Ariz.
14. New Orleans
15. San Diego
What do you think of Florida dominating the list?



UPDATE The investigation was completed by the Orlando Police Department, however, with the videos surfacing after the initial report, OPD is actively reviewing any and all evidence pertaining to the incident.
OPD declined to release any records on the basis of the investigation being open and active at this time. 
Two video cameras captured a violent confrontation between a man and a UCF student that left the student passed out on the ground with several teeth knocked out.
Warning: Graphic Content
 
According to WFTV news, University of Central Florida student Monai Willett was in downtown Orlando with a fellow UCF student on Tuesday and at the end of the night they stopped at a pizza restaurant. That’s when it is reported that Willett got into an argument with a man over a minor accident with her car.
911 was reportedly called as the argument grew heated but Willett told WFTV that before a police officer arrived, the man she was arguing with tried to talk to her and was touching her arm. She then slapped him three times.
The video posted online shows the man choking Willett before slamming her to the ground, knocking out several of her teeth. Willett told WFTV that she doesn’t know the man who attacked her.
Police told the news outlet they were able to find the man and talk to him but did not arrest him. They also said they did not know that the incident had been recorded when they spoke with the man.
Police also told the outlet they have completed their investigation. They said the video of the incident has been added to the evidence in the case.
View the raw video from a nearby surveillance camera obtained by WFTV.




