UPDATE UCF expects to generate about $1.45 million less in AS&F fees than anticipated. This represents 7.7 percent of the total $18.8 million activity and service fee budget that was approved in the spring.
According to a UCF spokesperson, the total number of student credit hours this fall is now projected to be about 1.5 percent lower than our number of actual credit hours last fall. UCF is planning to address this gap by trimming expenses and also by using activity and service fee reserves to limit the impact on students. Those discussions are in the early stages.
KnightNews.com has learned from sources within student government that there are concerns about the strength of the projected $18.8 million SGA Activity and Service Fee budget.
We asked UCF Wednesday afternoon if the budget in place will be completely sustainable for this year’s activities and we are currently waiting to hear back. A spokesman Thursday morning said that he is checking on it. 
Watch an interview with SGA Speaker Anthony King.

We tried to speak with SGA adviser Matt Betz about the situation but he dodged our questions, saying he couldn’t confirm or deny the situation. Betz also did not mention any issues during his report to the Senate, however, SGA Speaker and AS&F Chair Anthony King confirmed to us that something was going on. 
Matt Betz“Stay tuned,” King said when asked if there was a shortfall in the budget. “…I do know something is going on but I would not like to say anything because I don’t even know if I’m 100% correct on the situation.”
We also asked if the situation could effect gym hours, however, King did not immediately know if it would. 
“I wouldn’t say 100% it would or wouldn’t be effected but if it’s as AS&F I guess anything’s potentially open to be effected,” King said. 
Check back to KnightNews.com for updates on this developing story.



UCF Athletics is expecting all of Bright House Networks Stadium’s 45,323 seats to be filled in the game against South Carolina.
The Knights host the South Carolina Gamecocks on September 28 at noon and UCF Athletics has released information about getting into the game as well as their expectations of a sold out crowd, especially since the game falls between family weekend.
UCF Athletics will be distributing 2,000 Early Entry Passes to students with a valid ID for the South Carolina game. View more information about tickets below. 
Student Ticket Policy
UCF Athletics’ student ticket policy is “Free with ID – Every Game, Every Day.” Our student capacity philosophy is to admit students in available public seats if the student section is full (subject to availability). With the anticipation of a sellout crowd for the South Carolina game, it is unlikely that additional seating areas will be made available to students once the student section reaches its capacity.
Student Guest Tickets
UCF Athletics will offer a limited number of student guest tickets that go on sale at 9 a.m. Monday, September 23rd at the CFE Arena box office. Students can purchase up to two (2) tickets with a valid UCF ID (while supplies last).
If a UCF student purchases a student guest ticket, the holder of that ticket is guaranteed entry into the game. Students inviting a guest are not guaranteed admission and are therefore encouraged to arrive early. All students are admitted on a first-come, first-served basis with a valid UCF ID.  
Early Entry Option
On Friday, September 27, UCF Athletics will be distributing 2,000 Early Entry Passes to students with a valid ID for the South Carolina game. UCF will distribute 1,000 passes at the women’s soccer match vs. USF ( 6 p.m. Friday, Sept. 27) and 1,000 at the volleyball match vs. USF (8 p.m. Friday, Sept. 27).
These Early Entry passes will serve as an early entry option for the South Carolina game but will NOT guarantee admission. UCF Athletics will open Gate 6 at Bright House Networks Stadium at 9:30am for Early Entry Pass holders. A valid student ID must be presented along with the Early Entry Pass. Students with Early Entry passes will be the only students who will be allowed entry into the stadium from 9:30 a.m. – 10 a.m. At 10 a.m., all student gates open and standard student-entry policies will take effect.
Early Entry Pass – Women’s Soccer – September 27th at 6pm
UCF Athletics will distribute vouchers starting one hour (5 p.m.) before game time to the first 1,000 students at the match. Students will redeem those vouchers for Early Entry Passes at the end of the soccer match. The vouchers and Early Entry Passes will be distributed at the student gate of the Soccer Complex.
Early Entry Pass for Volleyball – September 27th at 8pm
UCF Athletics will distribute vouchers starting one hour (7 p.m.) before game time to the first 1,000 students at the match. Students will redeem those vouchers for Early Entry Passes at the end of the match. The vouchers and tickets will be distributed at Gate 2, at the southeast corner of the Venue on East Plaza Drive. 



