A new report just released by UCF shows that aggravated assaults on UCF’s main campus nearly doubled last year compared to 2011.
According to the Annual Security and Fire Safety Guide released by UCF, there were 20 reported aggravated assaults on-campus last year and eleven in 2011. There were also 11 reported forcible sex offenses on-campus last year compared to six in 2011.  
Other notable stats include:
– Robbery 2011: 6, 2012: 3
– Burglary 2011: 27, 2012: 25
– Motor Vehicle Theft 2011: 20, 2012: 11
– Liquor Law Arrest 2011: 105, 2012: 131
– Liquor Law Referral 2011: 135, 2012: 111
– Drug Law Arrest 2011:  51, 2012: 39
– Drug Law Referral 2011: 62, 2012: 76
Earlier in September, a UCF student was charged with raping another student on campus. In a separate, off campus incident, a UCF student was sexually assaulted by a gunman. 
UCF Vice President Dr. Maribeth Ehasz issued a statement after the attacks were reported.
“This report, and others recently, remind us that safety must be the top priority for our UCF community,” Ehasz said. “Safety should be at the forefront of our minds wherever we are: on campus or off, at home or traveling. As a community, we must look out for each other at all times.”
http://knightnews.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/Safety-guide-redirect.pdf



KnightNews.com was at Memory Mall on Saturday to catch up with the fans before kickoff against the South Carolina Gamecocks.
Although the Knights came up three points short against the no.12 ranked team in the nation, the fans thoroughly enjoyed themselves before the game.
Check out the video below:




A new texting while driving law effecting drivers in everywhere Florida begins on October 1.  
Texting and Driving will no longer be considered “legal” in Florida; anyone who is caught in the act will have to now face major consequences. This new law was created December of last year and passed April 30 by the Florida Senate. 
With this date just days away, it is going to have a mass effect on students, staff, and everybody in the state of Florida.  This is the first many of our students have heard of this new law.  
“No, I didn’t know anything about this new law,” UCF student Teaonca Haddock said when asked about the new law. 
The law bans manual texting while driving but not while stopped in traffic or at traffic lights. It is also a secondary offense — meaning a driver would have to be pulled over for some other violation to get a ticket.
In recent months, phone companies such as AT&T have been showing texting and driving pledge commercials as part of the “It Can Wait” campaign.  According to the National Safety Council, over 100,000 crashes occur each year because of texting and driving.
“I feel like this could be a good thing but only if it is enforced thoroughly,” Teaonca also said. “I’m not too sure that it will be enough to stop a lot of people from texting and driving unless the consequences are big.”
We tried to reach out to Florida Governor Rick Scott for comment on the new law but did not immediately hear back.



Starting on Tuesday, Oct. 1, texting and driving will no longer be something that is frowned upon, but instead against will be against the law.
Florida’s texting while driving ban was signed into law by Governor Rick Scott earlier this year. Florida will be joining 40 other states in the ban of texting while driving.
The bill (SB 52) bans manual texting only while the vehicle is moving, but it allows drivers stopped at traffic lights or stopped in traffic to text on their cell phones. It will be labeled a secondary offense, meaning that the driver would have to be pulled over for another offense in order to receive a ticket for texting while driving. The ticket will be $30 plus any courts costs associated for first offenders, the price doubles to $60 for second time offenders.
For those who use talk-to-text or GPS navigation on their phones can continue to do so without any repercussions. 



