Making genitals out of Play-doh and hunting for condoms were just two of the activities that one UCF dorm office staff had planned for its residents.
On April 16, the Apollo Office Staff at UCF sent out an e-mail to its residents inviting them to a program called “Finals? That Blows” located at the grassy knoll on campus. The e-mail, which contained very strong sexual innuendo, had a picture of an animated condom at the bottom. You can see the text of the e-mail click here.
We spoke to a resident of Apollo, who for good reason wanted their name redacted from the article.
“When I saw the e-mail, I couldn’t believe that they would actually send that. The innuendo in the e-mail was so strong I couldn’t tell if it was just funny or creepy,” the student told KnightNews.com.
The program was designed to have students ask any questions they had regarding sex. The speaker that was there to answer questions was an employee from Fairvilla, an Adult Toy Store located in Orlando.
UCF spokesperson Chad Binette released a statement to KnightNews.com regarding the e-mail sent out.
“This event and the email promoting it clearly demonstrate a lack of judgment. Housing and Residence Life will be reviewing its approval process for events and event promotions. The email was sent and approved by the Apollo community staff, and the event was scheduled by Apollo community staff,” Binette wrote in the e-mail.
Check back to KnightNews.com regarding any developments to this story.



High above a site of distress, a black figure gracefully glides through the air like an eagle in full extension.
The chaos ensuing below is now taking place under the eagle eye of this UFO like object. Emergency teams receive video from the object and are now ready to execute a plan that will end the madness.
This object is a drone.
“Every agency has to stay current with technology,” said Capt. Angelo Nieves of the Orange County Sheriff’s Office.
With an increase in the number of police departments utilizing drones, the University of Central Florida may look to use them as well.
The specific name of the drone is the Draganflyer X6. NexGen, a company that has worked with organization such as the United States Air Force in the past, creates  these drones. Each Draganflyer costs $25,000, but this price tag does not seem to bother police agencies around the world.
From as far away as the United Kingdom to as close to campus as Orange County, these Unmanned Aerial Surveillance, or UAS, has been purchased. The Draganflyer has been used so often by police forces, NexGen release a police version of the UAS that has been used north of the border by the Ontario Provincial and Saskatoon police departments.
This growing trend may be attributed to the UAS’s capabilities. The Draganflyer X6 is capable recording high-resolution videos that can aide police during crisis situations.
Capt. Nieves cited hostage situations and oil spills as possible situations that a UAS could be use.
“When you deploy a tactical unit, this is the technology that can be useful,” Nieves said.
With it’s advanced skillset and capabilities; will the UCF police department look to join the national trend of drone-equipped departments? 
As of now, the university has no plans to use the aircraft. The community relations department for the UCF police department said the school, one of the largest in the nation, is too small to use that type of technology.
This does not stop students from wondering whether the Draganflyer will ever fly above campus. 
This possibility also brings up concerns for student privacy. 
Capt. Nieves, who hopes to end these misconceptions, said the UAS is “not something that you can put in the air and walk away from,” and that it must “fly within view of the operator.
Some students understand the limitations of the Draganflyer and see its purpose.
Other students feel that the cost of the Draganflyer X6 is not worth the money. They feel that the money could be used in a different way.
For now, the skies above the University of Central Florida remain clear. No object is flying gracefully through the air and no eagle eye is provided to police. Maybe there is no UAS because there is no chaos ensuing, or maybe emergency teams can execute a plan without its help.
One day the department may look to an object that can provide them with helpful video and that allows them to get into areas that armed police officers would not be able to get to.
This object is a drone.
Its future is unknown.



UCF’s 2003 National championship winning cheerleading team was the first team to be inducted in UCF’s Hall of Fame on April 19.
One word that would describe that season for this team’s head coach is teamwork.
“Ultimately, whenever you’re in a team sport you have to be willing to trust the people around you,” Head Coach Linda Gooch said. “Giving up wasn’t in this team’s vocabulary.”
The 2003 UCF cheerleading squad was one that honored teamwork. Gooch even admitted that this team wasn’t the best skill wise, but greatly commemorated them on their effort and hard work as a whole.
During their national competition’s performance, like any anxious coach, Gooch was holding her breath. But they had confidence in their performance, and the team was able to count on each other to give 100 percent during the one routine that mattered first. Once their rival, University of Kentucky, was called as second place, their dream became a reality.
“It was very exciting, and I was happy for them,” Gooch said. All their hard work has paid off. Even with one of their main bases, James Kersey, injured, they were able to bring the gold home. 
One word that Kersey used to describe his season is “challenging”.
Kersey suffered 2 torn rotator cuffs, and still performed his hardest along side his teammates, and another injured main flyer, Jamie Woode, who suffered a broken leg that had not been fully recovered in time for their national’s competition.
This team showed true determination and dedication. UCF credits all the team members in their inspiration to work together and in becoming the real meaning of a championship team.
“For us it was definitely an honor,” Kersey said about being inducted in the Hall of Fame. He reflected on what his team accomplished that day, and what he sets as a goal for UCF cheerleading squads every year as a coach.
“We do go out there, and we do give one hundred percent” Kersey said. UCF can thank the cheerleading teams for creating an unbreakable school spirit.



