Brutal hazing allegations were the subject of UCF’s latest secret conduct hearing — and KnightNews.com only found out about it because it was referenced in records we requested. 
It’s yet another controversy UCF has kept hidden from the public in its string of secret conduct panel hearings during a time when the school tries to defend itself against a Knight News lawsuit that would require it to open these hearings to public scrutiny and be transparent about how they treat organizations accused of breaking the rules.
According to an incident report form filed by Director of Fraternity and Sorority Life Clay Coleman, an anonymous caller reported that his roommate and cousin was returning home in the early hours of the morning in “physical pain and discomfort,” which resulted in “his inability to sit or lay down for an extended period of time.”
“The caller also described hearing his cousin wince in pain in his private bedroom over the past four days,” the report says. 
The caller told Coleman that he believed his cousin may have been paddled by the organization he was wishing to join. UCF later determined that Phi Beta Sigma was the only organization to fit the description given by the caller.
On September 18, several days after the report was filed, the fraternity was notified that they were placed on interim suspension.
Phi Beta Sigma was found not in-violation by UCF’s conduct panel — which stated that, based on the information at the hearing, there was no indication that any potential member was endangered mentally or physically nor suffered any type of physical harm, such as paddling. The panel is said to have interviewed three members who expressed interest in the organization and all three stated that at no time were they subject to hazing. 
At the end of the hearing, the panel came to an “inescapable conclusion” that the Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity did not haze any prospective member during that week in September. 
Because these hearings are closed to the public, it is also unclear why one organization gets out of anonymous hazing complaints while others, like Alpha Tau Omega, don’t. And UCF charges hundreds of dollars to obtain the tape which would shed more light on whether UCF did all it could to protect the students allegedly being victimized.
But another issue arose during our investigation into this brutal hazing claim involving the same fraternity.
According to an email from a chapter leader, which was submitted as part of the evidence in the hazing investigation, the fraternity held what appears to be an unregistered alcoholic recruitment event on May 18th, 2013 at 7 p.m. The event was advertised as “a game knight with the bros currently in the chapter” that was to feature drinking games such as “beer pong” and “flip cup.” 
“This will be a great opportunity to get to know the brothers you are not yet familiar with,” the email states. 
We asked UCF why there was no accountability for this unregistered event, especially in light of how UCF has come down hard lately on fraternities from other councils, such as ATO, for alcohol at events.
According to UCF, the information in that email came to the attention of the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities after the initial hazing hearing date and charges for the hazing allegations had already been provided to the organization.
“The office is currently looking into the matter,” UCF spokesperson Courtney Gilmartin said. “Once the appeal window expires for the organization as it relates to the hazing case, the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities may pursue charges regarding the email correspondence in question.”
But documents released to KnightNews.com say the fraternity was found not in-violation and therefore, it was unclear what appeal UCF was referring to. 



The University of Central Florida’s annual holiday event, Light Up UCF, is returning to campus this November and the Student Government Association will host two nights dedicated to students. 
SGA will on Thursday, November 14, 2013 from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. and Monday, November 25, 2013 from 5 p.m. to 12 a.m. Both events will be taking place at Knights Plaza in front of the CFE Arena, and will be kicked off by Student Body President Melissa Westbrook.
“The event itself is simply a gift from SGA to accentuate the holiday season with a little bit of cheer, and allows students to take off their thinking caps and indulge in pure bliss,” a press statement from SGA said.
Limited edition “UCF Runs on Dunkin” tumblers will be distributed to the first 500 students on the first night and followed up with 250 on the second night. These tumblers, sponsored by SGA and Dunkin Donuts, will give students a free coffee on both student nights of Light Up UCF, as well as discounted coffee refills for the year at the Dunkin Donuts at Knights Plaza. Free pizza will also be given at 12 a.m. on the first night and 9 p.m. on the second night.
Light Up UCF consists of multiple attractions including: Orlando’s largest skating rink, a chance to take pictures with Santa in his workshop, a horse-drawn carriage and a Ferris Wheel. There will also be a showing of “Home Alone” that will begin promptly at 9 p.m. and “Fred Claus” will be shown at 6 p.m. on the second night.
“I’m really excited for what we have planned for this year’s Light Up UCF because this event has always been a phenomenal opportunity for students to get out of the house and engage in some light-hearted fun,” remarked Aubrey Marks SGA’s Director of Campus Life. “I feel like it has been taken to a pinnacle with the addition of a whole other day.”
The event will be free to UCF students during these two days, however, students are encouraged to get their wristbands in advance to expedite the process. Distribution for both days will be on November 13, 2013 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Student Union Atrium. Wristbands will still be available at the beginning of each student night, but long lines are expected.
Please be aware students are encouraged to bring canned goods and nonperishable items that will be collected by SGA and Volunteer UCF, all collected goods will be donated to Second Harvest Food Bank.



UPDATE According to UCF, parts of campus were impacted by a power outage. Power is being restored right now. All campus operations are normal.
A UCF alert message sent out Tuesday afternoon notified students of a major power outage across UCF’s main campus.
“*UCF ALERT* Power Outage for portions of Main Campus. Facilities working to restore power/Operations normal www.ucf.edu.”
Students first reported power outages at the Recreation and Wellness Center and the Student Union. The UCF Recreation and Wellness Center has been closed until further notice.
Some areas of campus, like the John C. Hitt Library, still have power.
It was not immediately clear what caused the outage or when it would be back up.



