Alpha Epsilon Pi will remain on emergency interim suspension(on top of the school wide Greek Life suspension) following their hearing held on Tuesday.
The fraternity was the most recent to go under emergency interim suspension following hazing allegations, which occurred on a bus chartered by the Alpha Epsilon Pi fraternity where alcohol was on board. According to documents uncovered by Local 6 there was “forced consumption by new members”.
The Board of Governors released a statement on the Greek Life suspension last Friday, saying, “At this point in time, this is a matter rightfully being handled by the university. We stand ready to help should UCF need our guidance, and we will continue to monitor the situation as it progresses.”
Currently, 46 fraternities and sororities are under a school wide Greek suspension. UCF may make fraternities and sororities comply with the guidelines that KnightNews.com uncovered in order to be reinstated.



On Wednesday, Feb. 27, former White House Press Secretary and the real-life inspiration for Olivia Pope, Judy Smith, will be speaking at the University of Central Florida.
After leaving the White House staff, Smith started Smith & Company, a consulting firm specializing in crisis management and media relations. Her firm has advised such notable people as Monica Lewinski, actor Wesley Snipes , and NFL quarterback Michael Vick. Kerry Washington plays the lead role on ABC’s hit TC show ‘Scandal,’ which is inspired by Smith’s life.
Smith will be speaking at 6 p.m. in the Pegasus Ballroom and will be conducting a meet and greet and answering questions afterwards. 
The event is free and open to the public.



UPDATE UCF spokesperson says the package has been declared NOT dangerous. All operations will resume normally. 
 UCF’s Alert system has sent out a message notifying students of a suspicious package at the UCF College of Science building.
*UCF Alert* Suspicious Package at College of Science. Bldg evacuated, avoid the area.  More info to follow.
Police are currently investigating the package. UCF’s Emergency Management has been called to the area along with the Orange County hazmat and bomb squad team.
This is the second report of a suspicious package on the campus in less than a week. On Feb. 20 a suspicious package shut down the Math and Physics building. The package turned out to be a backpack.
Continue to check back for constant updates.



UPDATE KnightNews.com has learned that Student Government President and Vice President tickets will be Melissa Westbrook/Jacob Kahn and Andy Green/Zac Lee.
Sources tell KnightNews.com that the following people are currently petitioning for 500 signatures in order to run for Student Government President and Vice President for 2013-14:
Melissa Westbrook for President with Vice President as Jacob Kahn. Westbrook is the current Community Affairs Specialist under the Whatley/Brill administration and Kahn currently serves as a Senator in the College of Science.
 
Andy Green for President and Zac Lee for Vice President. Green currently serves as Director of Governmental Affairs under the Whatley/Brill administration while Lee holds the Project Coordinator position.
 
 
Oluwafunlola Falade for President. Sources say Falade has not chosen a running mate yet. Falade is the current Public Relations Coordinator for SGA under the Whatley/Brill administration.
 
 
The last day to turn in petition packets is Feb. 28. KnightNews.com will be following Student Government elections from start to finish. Be sure to check back for further updates and coverage.



