
UCF Student Government candidates took to this stage Tuesday night to face off in an SGA hosted presidential debate, answering queations about their plans for office as well as the shocking events that took place early Monday morning.
“I think the first thing to say is that we are grateful for our first responders. Without them, today we could be having a candle light vigil instead of hosting a debate…” Presidential candidate Andy Green told KnightNews.com
Melissa Westbrook, an SGA Presidential Candidate, nearly teared up during the debate when the subject came up, since her sorority sister, who lived a few doors away from the gunman in tower 1, called her soon after the fire alarm sounded.
“To the kids in tower 1, my sentiments go out to them because we actually have people who are our friends and our personal friends who live within that tower and every time I think about it breaks my heart, knowing that my sorority and my friends lives on that level and lives next door to them–they would have walked out in that one moment and they would have been shot…”  Westbrook said.
View the entire debate below:





UCF officials held a press conference Tuesday afternoon updating the public about the planned attack at the UCF campus and releasing a video of police entering the dorm room early Monday morning–only to find the lifeless body of James Seevakumaran, the man believed to have been planning a large attack on campus.
Police Chief Beary said James Seevakumaran left behind a list which described his plan to carry out his attack. Each time Seevakumaran completed a task, he crossed that item off of the list. The last thing on the list said “give them hell,” Beary said.
Some of the items on the last (pictured below) were:
11:15 head to Madhatter
1:30 leave and head back / get bags
2:00 Take shower
2:30 prepare
2:55 put up YouTube, etc.
3:00 pull alarm
3:05 “good luck and give them hell!”
Officials also said they found around one-thousand rounds of ammunition inside the dorm room.
Authorities discovered Seevakumaran had two packages delivered on March 12 in the UCF mailroom which contained a weapon-related materials including magazine clips, a Blackhawk tactical sling and training DVD on proper shooting and use of a laser.
Listen to the 911 audio below: Warning: content may be graphic.

Seevakumaran’s family issued a statement, agreeing that he was a loner, but never had any past violence issues.
Handwritten note from Seevakumaran
“The family of James Oliver Seevakumaran states that James was a loner and did not have a history of violence. The family does not wish to make any further comments to the media, and they are requesting privacy during this difficult time.”
The motive is not clear at this time, Beary said.
A police officer was in Tower 1 last, UCF Spokesperson Grant Heston said. That will continue for the foreseeable future, he said.
Like us to get news like this on your facebook feed!
Click next page to see the rifle found in the dorm room view a 19-page 911 audio report as well as an incident report.



Officials have released video footage from a body camera worn by police who entered the tower one dorm at UCF early Monday morning.
Watch the video below: Warning graphic content.

Police entered the dorm with weapons drawn while the fire alarm was still activated. Upon entering gunman James Oliver Seevakumaran’s room, police found his body as well as both weapons, which are visible on the floor in the gunman’s room.

Click here for more.



UCF will hold a news conference at 3:45 p.m. today at the Teaching Academy for additional updates regarding yesterday’s events on campus. The updates will be made by UCF Police Chief Richard Beary and UCF spokesman Grant Heston.
Watch live video of the conference below:

Check back with KnightNews.com for constant updates. For more on the story, click here.



In the wake of yesterday’s events, UCF President John C. Hitt released the following statement to all UCF students:
“Days like yesterday test us as individuals, as an organization, and as a university community.
No president wants to abruptly cancel classes, close residence halls, or evacuate students into temporary quarters. But the safety and welfare of our students, faculty, staff, visitors, and neighbors are UCF’s highest priority.
The first test for all of us is whether we are focused on protecting our campus community, and I am confident that UCF has passed that test. The test of compassion is also very important, and our prayers go out to everyone affected by Monday’s incident.
I have directed that all university resources be used to help comfort students affected by this incident and to return the campus to normal activity as quickly as possible.
I commend our students, faculty, and staff for their cooperation, sensitivity, and patience during extraordinary circumstances. Thanks also to Chief Richard Beary, the UCF Police Department, and all of our law enforcement partners who provided essential assistance yesterday. A special thanks to our dedicated counselors and to our Housing and Residence Life staff members who responded so caringly to the needs of our students.
We will continue to update the situation on the UCF Website, www.ucf.edu.
All of us have a role to play in the welfare of our campus, and we will work together to use this experience to make us even more prepared, more alert, and more secure.”
UCF will be holding a second press conference Tuesday afternoon at 3:45p.m. KnightNews.com will have a live stream of the event.



A main who claims he was the roommate of the ex-ucf student who was found dead in his dorm room spoke out to a local reporter, talking about the gunman’s behavior and the scary morning he had on Monday.
According to a Facebook post sent to KnightNews.com, Arabo “BK” says he is the roommate of James Oliver Seevakumaran, the man who apparently shot himself after a failed attempt at a larger attack on campus.
KnightNews.com spoke to the roommate yesterday but he said he was unable to speak to the media about the incidents. Instead he thanked us for our support and asked we do not publish his personal Facebook message he sent out to friends and family Monday afternoon.
Now, UCF owned student news outlet Knightly News, says they sat down and spoke with Arabo “BK”  Babakhani, who told them about Seevakumaran’s anti-social behavior and the incident the night before.
Listen to the interview below:

It is believed that Babakhani’s quick action towards calling 911 sped up the response time of responding officials and may have saved many lives.
UCF did not return our request for comment to confirm the identity of the roommate.



