A picture posted on a website’s Facebook page is raising a lot of questions concerning the appearance of possible hazing at a UCF bar.
Picture posted on TFM’s Facebook page. The faces of those in the picture have been blurred until more information is uncovered. KnightNews.com was sent a Facebook link by a tipster who questioned whether the act of hazing was being committed due to the nature of the details surrounding the photo.
The picture was posted on the Total Frat Move Facebook page showing what appears to be two sick people being tended to, as well as another person being fed a drink of some kind. The description for the picture reads: “Forcing a pledge to chug while two others puke in misery. TFM” The location is linked to UCF by a poster hanging in the background.
One student posted on the picture’s message section, identifying the location by saying “Thats OnTap.” KnightNews.com has not independently verified that the photo was taken there. Other people left messages on the post such as “Getting your Charter pulled. TFM” and “Taking pictures while you haze your pledges. That’s brilliant.” One UCF student even mentions the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life saying, “OFSL will have a field day with this.”
While it’s unclear if any hazing was going on, or if this was some sort of hoax or stunt to get a photo on Total Frat Move, the tip and descriptions alone have been enough to cause concern in the UCF Greek Community.
UCF issued a brief statement on the photo stating: “We are aware of the photo, and we are checking into it.” 
The faces of those in the picture have been blurred until more information is uncovered.
Continue to check back for more.



Universal Studios Orlando kicks off its Spring Mardis Gras concert series with Lifehouse performing this Saturday, February 9, 2013 at 8:30 p.m.
Lifehouse comes to Universal
According to Universal Orlando, “Lifehouse have made soul-searching their calling card with songs like “Hanging By a Moment,” “You And Me,” “Whatever It Takes,” and “Halfway Gone.” Their music has been heard on TV in Grey’s Anatomy, One Tree Hill, and others, as well as the film, The Time Traveler’s Wife.”
Steve Miller band comes to Universal Mardi Gras Feb. 16 and then Boys Like Girls come Sunday Feb. 17. Click below for info on tickets, packages and annual passes to see the shows! 



Getting arrested is bad enough in its own sense, but giving the judge the middle finger at a hearing might not make things much better. So was the case for a Miami woman arrested on drug possession charges.
Penelope Soto, 18 Miami television station NBC 6 reports 18-year-old Penelope Soto laughed Monday when Circuit Judge Jorge Rodriguez-Chomat asked how much her jewelry was worth as he inquired about her financial assets.
The judge told Soto “we’re not in a club, be serious about it.” Soto said she was being serious.
He set Soto’s bond at $5,000 and said, “bye-bye.” Soto laughed again and replied, “Adios.” He summoned her back to the podium and reset bond at $10,000.
Soto then asked, “Are you serious?” To that the judge replied, “I am serious. Adios.” Soto flipped him off and blurted an expletive as she walked away.
The judge then sentenced her to 30 days in jail.
The video, being hosted on WPTV news, is making its rounds across the web and can be seen below.




As previously reported by KnightNews.com, KnightLYNX will be expanding to provide a UCF to downtown Orlando bus route. Some students, however, are questioning the true motive behind spending student money on the expansion.
The bus will operate from 8:00 p.m. to 3:00 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights and travel throughout the UCF community. The bus is open to any rider and will be free for students with an ID and $2 for riders without a student ID.
The expansion of the KnightLYNX route between Orlando and UCF was added last year by the previous SGA administration. They set aside $15,000 for this year from the student Activity and Service Fee. All three KnightLYNX routes are funded by the UCF SGA as a way to provide a safe and reliable public transportation option on and near the university’s main campus. Currently the service is averaging 250 riders per weekend night.
While many consider the new route a great way to get UCF students downtown in a safe, efficient manner, some students worry that the bus’s operation times only cater to people going to clubs and bars downtown.
“I understand transportation to get students to campus during the week for class or work,” student Vanessa Jeannot said in a message to SGA. “But this route and time Fri & Sat from 9p to 11p and pick from 1a to 3a is only going to be used by people who have just gotten out of the club. True, they shouldn’t be driving back home impaired but i don’t want my tuition money & other fees going to support somebody’s club hopping habit”
Many other comments of student opinions, however, are positive, saying that it will cut back on the amount of drunk driving that may occur between the two destinations.
“I think this is a great idea. UF has a bus that shuttles people downtown so it really cuts back on drunk students driving,” UCF Student Andrew Brown posted on a Facebook page.



