Subway, the world’s largest fast food chain with over 38,000 locations, is facing some heat after an Australian man posted a photo of a Subway footlong measuring only 11-inches.
The photo went viral on the Subway Facebook page, receiving over 100,000 likes and comments before Subway hid the photo on their page which has 19.8 million fans. The New York Post even did a study of its own, finding that four out of seven footlongs they purchased were under 12 inches.
As a student of UCF, it is not hard to find a Subway nearby. We have one at the heart of campus in the Student Union, by the towers, and multiple Subways within two miles of Gemini boulevard.
KnightNews.com went out to see if Subway footlongs near campus are less than 12 inches. We went into the Subway near Sage Leaves and the Sterling apartment complex to do the test. Surprisingly, we found out that the footlong we received was indeed less than 12 inches, roughly 11 1/4 inches to be exact.
Is the extra inch of lost meat, cheese, lettuce, and other various condiments enough to cause Subway to respond?
Subway sent out an e-mailed statement saying, “We are reinforcing our policies and procedures in an effort to ensure our offerings are always consistent no matter which Subway restaurant you visit.”



Budget cuts have burdened state universities for the past several years causing the schools to find alternate means of income–in most cases, raising student tuition.
Here at UCF, tuition was increased the maximum amount allowed by law, 15%, this past year to help pay for what UCF Student Government President, Cortez Whatley, said was about 90 instructors and certain majors.
A new report from Kiplinger, however, lists the University of Central Florida as number 42 on a list of the top 100 best value public colleges in the nation.
The site lists several factors that were taken into consideration when determining the list. You can see some of those factors below.
ANNUAL COSTS
Tuition (in state): $6,247
Tuition (out of state): $22,345
Room and board: $9,357
Est. book expense: $1,146
Total cost (in state): $16,750
Total cost (out of state): $32,848
Average debt at graduation: $20,624
Other statistics that took into account the academic quality of UCF are listed below.
ACADEMIC QUALITY
SAT I Verbal score 600-699: 35%
SAT I Verbal score 700+: 7%
SAT I Verbal score 600+: 42%
SAT I Math score 600-699: 45%
SAT I Math score 700+: 9%
SAT I Math score 600+: 54%
ACT score 24-29: 67%
ACT score 30-36: 10%
ACT score 24+: 77%
Students applied: 33,968
Students admitted: 15,303
Admission rate: 45%
Students per faculty: 32
4-year graduation rate: 34%
6-year graduation rate: 63%
The University of Florida ranked 3rd on the list while Florida State ranked 26th. Just below FSU, the site listed UCF as having one of the highest costs after financial aid in the state at over $10,903 for in-state students.
To view the full list, click here.



It seems that within a matter of a few hours, Central Florida’s temperatures have gone from blazing to comfortable, and will stay that way throughout next week.
Watch out, though. Thursday night temperatures are expected drop into the 30s to middle to upper 40s. 
Here is the forecast for the next seven days:
Thursday: Temperatures in the mid/high 30s to 40s. Chance of rain 30%.
Friday: Temperatures in the mid 60s with a low of 45. Chance of rain 20% after 11 a.m.
Saturday: High of 75 with a low around the mid 50s. Mostly cloudy.
Sunday:  High of mid 70s with a low around the mid 50s. Chance of rain 20%.
Monday: Partly sunny with temperatures ranging from mid 70s to mid 50s.
Tuesday: High of 68 with a low around the low 50s.
Wednesday: High around the low 70s with a low of 50.



In one of the more interesting stories to sweep the internet this week, Notre Dame’s Manti Te’o, is facing sorrow, scrutiny and question, depending on which story you choose to believe.
Where to start?
Manti Te’o is a Mormon linebacker at Notre Dame who led his Catholic school’s football program back to the spotlight. He was a runner for the Heisman winner spot and was helping to lead his team to victory.
However, in the span of just a few hours last September Te’o supposedly learned first of the death of his grandmother, Annette Santiago, and then of the death of his (supposed) girlfriend, Lennay Kekua. From here, he drew the support of thousands of people who looked to Te’o for inspiration–he was a model for people around the world.
Here’s where things get a bit odd.  
Kekua, 22 , was said to have been in a serious car accident in California, and then had been diagnosed with leukemia shortly after. 
Sports Illustrated’s Pete Thamel described to Deadpsin.com how Te’o would phone her in her hospital room and stay on the line with her as he slept through the night. “Her relatives told him that at her lowest points, as she fought to emerge from a coma, her breathing rate would increase at the sound of his voice,” Thamel wrote.
It is apparent, however, that Te’o never met with any woman and kept interaction strictly between phone, text and internet.
And thus, the legend of the Manti Te’o girlfriend arises, as no girlfriend ever existed.
Where it stands.
Manti Te’o did actually lose his grandmother this past fall, according to multiple news site’s reporting. Annette Santiago died on Sept. 11, 2012, at the age of 72, according to Social Security Administration records in Nexis.
No records, however, show someone named Lennay Marie Kekua, dying on that day, or any other day for that matter. Her passing, recounted so many times in the national media, produces no obituary or funeral announcement in Nexis, and no mention in the Stanford student newspaper, Deadspin.com says. There is also no report of any car accident and every background check available to the public turns up nothing.
Furthermore, Deadspin.com reports that the photographs that identified Kekua in online tributes and on TV news reports are pictures from the social-media accounts of a 22-year-old California woman who is not named Lennay Kekua. She is not a Stanford graduate; she has not been in a severe car accident; and she does not have leukemia. And she has never met Manti Te’o.
Te’o claims he became aware in December, and then says he realized he was the subject of a hoax after Notre Dame hired private investigators and computer forensic experts to figure out exactly who, or whom, Lennay Kekua was and why she pretended to die – and later come back to life, Deadspin.com says.
The three scenarios.
1. Manti Te’o made the entire thing up to make himself look good in the press spotlight. He is a projected first-round NFL pick, finished second in the Heisman voting, and has won numerous other awards so a story like this is sure to gain support from the public. 
2. Kekua is nothing more than a hoax done in poor taste by people (or person) with no time on their hands. Manti Te’o was severely duped and now is filled with sorrow as he has no idea what is real or fake.
3. Manti Te’o, a devout Morman, is homosexual and the entire situation was drawn up by him to cover this fact. While it’s more of a stretch, this would be a perfect story for parents, coaches and teammates to hide the fact that he is gay.
YOU DECIDE: What do you believe?



