KnightNews.com has learned the official candidates for this year’s SGA Presidential and Vice Presidential elections.
Melissa Westbrook for president and Jacob Kahn for Vice President. Westbrook is the current Community Affairs Specialist under the Whatley/Brill administration and Kahn currently serves as a Senator in the College of Science. View the website the duo have set up already, here.
Andy Green for President and Zac Lee for Vice President. Green currently serves as Director of Governmental Affairs under the Whatley/Brill administration while Lee holds the Project Coordinator position.
 
 
Continue to follow KnightNews.com for full SGA election coverage. Like us on Facebook for election updates and more!



KnightNews.com has just received the audio from the secret Sigma Chi interim suspension hearing that took place Feb. 22.
During the hearing, Sigma Chi’s President, David Barley, refutes the allegations that say the fraternity was hazing and says that during the fraternity’s own investigation of the incident, which involved speaking to those pictured in the photo, they came to the conclusion that the circumstances surrounding the photo are not what they appear and are just a typical night at a college bar.
“From what we’ve uncovered – and I was not there and no one in this room was there so all we can do is speculate unless against what they tell us – is they were not consuming alcohol, Barley said. “One is said to be, he was sick with the flu, which would be the one up front. The one in the back stated to us that he was actually getting the girl’s number who was behind him. And the one standing told us that he was consuming water,” Barley said.
Barley also said that from what the fraternity has uncovered, they speculate that the photo was taken and posted by a member of another Greek organization.
Barley said the fraternity is planning on taking further measures on their own to better show the community their leadership and values by voluntarily enhancing their risk management program for new and existing brothers, planning to hold an open forum seminar with local establishments and the public to speak about local issues within the community and performing two additional service programs within the community by the brotherhood.
The fraternity was also suspended for 45 days by their national headquarters as a result of an investigation into allegations of hazing as well as violations of the fraternity’s alcohol and risk management policies.
Jeff Novak, the hearing officer, informed the fraternity that they would remain on emergency suspension until a formal hearing could take place at a further date.
Listen to the full hearing audio below:




According to the Orlando Sentinel, a motion filed Wednesday with the 4th District Court of Appeal in West Palm Beach, has Goodman’s attorneys arguing that former Assistant State Attorney Ellen Roberts tainted his trial and there are grounds for a hearing in Palm Beach County Circuit Court to revisit the whole case.
Goodman in court during sentencing Last year, polo mogul John Goodman was sentenced to 16 years in prison, fined $10,000 and had his drivers license revoked after being convicted by a jury of killing recent UCF grad Scott Wilson in a DUI crash.
Goodman’s attorneys are now asking a judge to vacate Goodman’s conviction and 16-year prison sentence, or grant a new trial because of Roberts’ apparent conflict of interest, according to the Sentinel. 
The Orlando Sentinel reports that as a result of a review of Roberts’ work emails, “Goodman’s attorneys claim that Roberts reached out to Scott Smith, attorney for William Wilson: First, for his political connections concerning her application to become interim Palm Beach County state attorney; and second, for a job in Smith’s law firm after her retirement.”
“In return, Roberts is accused of offering Smith a “direct pipeline” to the prosecution of Goodman that aided the Wilson family’s civil lawsuit against Goodman, the founder of International Polo Club Palm Beach and heir to a Texas manufacturing fortune,” the Orlando Sentinel said.
Goodman, 49, has been on house arrest at his Wellington mansion while out on a separate appeal.
To read more about the incident, click here.



