The UCF Knights Softball team achieved perfection as they beat Rollins College 1-0 in 12 innings on Thursday night, finishing the fall season an undefeated 7-0.
The win was monumental for the softball team as they look to continue the winning ways heading into Spring. There’s no question that these girls can and will bring speed and offensive firepower to the Knights’ lineup this spring and will test their opponents’ defense with their big hitters.
“Coming out with a 7-0 record in the fall is just a foreshadowing of many things to come this spring,” Coach Luers-Gillispie said.  “We have had a lot of seasons where we haven’t had that outcome so having that motivation and that kind of support just makes us more hungry to work that much harder during our off season. “
It’s not just Luers-Gillispie that sports this winning mentality for the spring season. Potential All-Americans Kayln Cenal, Andrea Neswiacheny and Mariah Garcia brought on the firepower in the past seven games as they led the Knights to their undefeated fall season.
UCF shortstop Kahley Novak realizes the potential that this team has for the upcoming spring season.
“We’re extremely excited about this upcoming season; we know we have a good team and we’re so ready for it to finally begin,” Novak said. “To come in this season and to bring the heat is our goal. We want to show what our progress was in this off season and what this preparation has done for our team.”
“There are three months this off-season to grow as a team and get stronger,” said Head Coach Luers-Gillispie. “We have played good teams this fall which only helps us prepare for spring in two major ways. It gets us prepared to work harder because we know we’ll have better competition to face in the spring and to give the girls the confidence to handle the competition we will see in spring.”
The Knights have been very stingy this season, holding their opponents to very few runs.
“We have a pretty set infield and outfield this year but it’s by no surprise that much of that weight was held to the many accomplishments that our pitchers have done for us,” Novak said. “Pitching without a doubt has been one of our biggest strengths in the infield this season. The girls are constantly striking batters out and getting ground and fly balls in the field, which is what we need. The Pitchers bring on the heat, so we as infielders are back there in case they need us.”
Novak supports her infielders, but it is outfielder Maddy Schroeder who shows off her agility and speed for the Knights defense.
“We’re extremely fast in the outfield; we get our feet up and constantly move across the back of the field. We have speed both on and off the bench so we really hold a full advantage in the ability to holds runs in and stop major defensive plays as well as fueling the fires when it comes to our up to bats,” said Schroeder.
Coming into a new conference this year, both the players and the coaches are looking forward to the new competition.
“Coming in from the Big East, the top two teams we will face this coming season will be Louisville and USF,” Coach Luers-Gillispie said. “Louisville have always been in Regionals every year, bringing in a very solid team and South Florida has always given us a run for our money. Coming in from the Conference USA, Houston is always one of our biggest rivals so those three will definitely be our top competitors.”
The UCF Knights will have a few months before their first competition. There is no question that these Knights are going to work that much harder coming into spring season.
“We thrive to keep winning and we’re ready to play,” Schroeder said.
And it seems this season that the players and coaches are on the same page.
“That’s what we work towards for spring, to have the expectation to keep winning,” Coach Luers-Gillispie said. “Knowing that we have certain runners and certain big hitters, we bring them into certain situations when we need to get in the runs. This game tonight was a really good idea for what we could expect to see at the beginning of our season.”
The Knights hope that they have what it takes to bring a conference championship home to Orlando, and maybe more.
“I think you have to have speed in order to win games,” Coach Gillispie said. “We work a lot on this team on agilities and a strong core. Speed kills in this game so if you have runners that can steel bases, bunt slap to get on base, or big hitters to send it over the fence, you’re going to have a lot of pressure on the defense and fuel the momentum for our at bats ready to put the fire on the ball.”
The UCF opener will be on February 7 for the UCF Knights Invitational Tournament, competing against Kansas, Fordham, and North Florida. With three months to prepare for the upcoming season, the Knights hope they have all the tools to put together a season for the books.



The University of Central Florida’s College of Medicine enrolls about 2,000 students every year in their Biomedical Science programs. 
Every one of those 2,000 students has their own personal reasons for choosing to go into the medicine industry.  For some, the calling for financial stability drives them through the near endless years of school.  Others go into the field after being inspired by a family member’s related career path or unfortunate health issues. 
For junior Biomedical Science major Shauna Ragbir, 22, going into medicine wasn’t exactly a choice, as much as it was a hope at extending her own life span.
“I didn’t choose the medicine life, the medicine life chose me,” said Ragbir, laughing.  “I’m learning medicine so I can cure myself, and any one that has my cancers. I don’t want anyone to have to go through the obstacles that I still have to go through,” said Ragbir. 
Ragbir was born with a rare brain cancer called ependymoma, which took her team of doctors seven years to diagnose.  Ependymoma is a tumor that comes from the cells lining the ventricular system of the brain or spinal cord. Children that have this cancer usually only have it in their brains. Ragbir was one of the few kids who also had it in their spinal cord. The most common symptoms of this cancer include headaches, nausea, and lethargy. 
The amount of tumor mass Ragbir had called for some very drastic surgeries. At age 7, Ragbir had total spinal surgery to remove as much of the tumor as possible, and then a series of radiation to kill the roots of the tumors. Because it was not a complete success, Ragbir was transferred to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, where they started her on an experimental chemotherapy drug. Fortunately, the drug worked and there were no traces of the tumors left in her spine. 
“Having cancer makes for a very weird childhood,” said Ragbir. “I knew how to say words like, ‘neurologist,’ ‘radiologist’ and ‘pathologist’ while other kids were struggling with how to say ‘hippopotamus’. My normal surroundings were the cold and white hospital rooms and the wide and empty hallways, while my friends only knew of the classrooms and the playgrounds.”
Ragbir said her parents tried their hardest to make her and her brother, Ramin’s life feel as “normal” as they could. They took trips across the States when Ragbir wasn’t too sick, and even chaperoned school field trips. They even disciplined her and her brother if one of them ever started to slip in their school work.
“I never wanted Shauna to feel as if she was entitled to a ‘D’ grade on a test just because she was sick,” said Ragbir’s mother, Shantie. “I never wanted her to settle. I want my kids to know the value of hard work, no matter what troubles life puts in their way. From learning how to sit and study through her pains, Shauna has learned how to believe in working to live.  She will not give up. She will beat this.”
That core value is the reason Ragbir managed to get her Associates of Arts degree even though she was hit with another diagnosis, Papillary Carcinoma, a form of thyroid cancer, causing her to withdraw from Valencia College. For this new diagnosis, Ragbir had to go through radioactive iodine treatment, which prevented her from being around people, including her family. 
To top it off, because she had to withdraw from school, Ragbir had to pay back the state for the classes that were paid for by her Bright Future Scholarship.  
“The State of Florida did not believe that I was sick enough to have to withdraw from my classes. Go figure,” said Ragbir. “My neurologist wanted to go with me own to the Bright Future offices to fight the case. I think he was more upset than I was. At that point, I was looking at life with a, ‘what else can you throw at me,’ type of view.”
In the spring of 2013, Ragbir was in her final semester at Valencia College when her brain tumor came back, this time, causing total paralysis of her entire body.  Fluid had been building up in her brain for the past ten years and with her thyroid cancer, the fluid had no way of filtering out. Somehow, Ragbir still made school her top priority.
“I took online classes, had work sent to my house, rolled into class in my wheelchair if I actually had to show up. My mom drove met to school and took down notes for me. She became my arms and legs,” Ragbir said.
At this point, the prognosis was dimmer than a black hole. Ragbir said she was given two choices. The first one was to live out the remainder of her already shortened life span as peacefully as she can, still paralyzed, or she can undergo another major surgery to insert a Shunt in her back to drain the fluids from her brain and spine.  The catch? Because of all the scar tissues in her brain, she had a one percent survival rate if she chooses surgery. Another catch? Finding a surgeon that would agree to perform the high risk surgery. 
“For the longest time, I didn’t want to do the surgery. I was tired and beat down by this cancer. I was ready to accept life for what it was and to go out happy and peaceful,” said Ragbir.  “Then my brother came to me crying one day, saying he didn’t want to live without me. That’s when I changed my mind.”
Last spring, during the time when most college students travel down to Miami to party and enjoy their spring break, Ragbir went down to Miami to go under the knife for the sixth time in her life.  She spent the next two months alive and recovering before being transported home to start the process of re-learning how to walk.
“That was the worst,” said Ragbir.  “It’s tough when you have professional people around you telling you that it can’t happen or that it will take years before you will be able to do something as simple as pick up a pencil. Those people really need to go to some kind of positive outlook class. The next time I hear someone tell me that I can’t, I swear I’m going to resort to some violent actions. Just take a look at my medical records and my academic record. Heck, just look at my life and then look me in the face and tell me that I can’t do something. I dare them.”
Ragbir made it her new goal to be able to walk before the fall semester started and worked with a physical therapist three times a week. While she did manage to walk with two weeks left before school started, Ragbir just completed her last therapy session this week.
Today, Ragbir continues to study to become a neurosurgeon, having just past two major tests last week.  She is currently studying for her MCAT and training her Siberian husky, Dakota, to be a service dog. 
“I honestly believe that there is nothing I can’t do. It sounds cocky and arrogant, but I’ve come too far to stop now. I just have to keep on believing in myself and staying strong,” said Ragbir. 
Written by My-Nhon Truong



