A retired UCF Ad-PR professor, known for his essential role in the creation of the program, has passed away.
Dr. Bob Davis, retired Nicholson School of Communication Ad-PR professor and area coordinator, passed away on July 23, the communications college reported. 
“Davis was an essential part of creating the Ad-PR program that NSC is known for today,” Nicholson News said. “He started C-day in the early 90s as a day to honor all majors within the Nicholson School of Communication. The event has now grown to become COMM week.”
Davis began teaching at UCF in 1977 when the university was still known as Florida Technological University, according to Nicholson News.
A Memorial Service for Davis will be held on Saturday, July 27 at 11 a.m.  at Tuskawilla Presbyterian, 3600 W. SR 426 (Aloma), Oviedo, FL 32765. 



The Knights will be getting more exposure than ever this season as they enter the American Athletic Conference.
“Inside UCF Football” and “UCF Sports Today with George O’Leary” will both be airing on Sundays during the season aside from the two bye weeks on Sept. 22 and Oct. 13.
“Inside UCF Football” will air each Sunday on Bright House Sports Network at noon starting on Sept. 1 and running through Dec.8. “UCF Sports Today with George O’Leary” will air right after that at 12:30 p.m. on the same dates.
For those that don’t have Bright House Networks, the shows can be watched on UCFAthletics.com on the Monday after the show free of charge.
UCF also has three guaranteed games on either ESPN, ESPN2, or ABC this season. The games expected to be nationally televised are the Penn State, Louisville, South Carolina, or USF games.



A new upscale sports dining experience is coming to UCF.
Culpepper’s is planned to be opened where the Ichiban Hibachi Buffet was located on University boulevard. The restaurant, which shares the same name as ex-star UCF quarterback Daunte Culpepper, is aiming to bring tradition and an upscale sports dining experience to UCF.
“At the University of Central Florida, traditions have naturally found roots within its athletic programs. Those traditions openly invite the young and old, neighbors and friends, freshman and alumni, to become a part of the large, diverse family that is the UCF Knights,” their website stated.
KnightNews.com is working on finding out Daunte Culpepper’s exact involvement with the restaurant, but we did learn that another ex-UCF quarterback, Kyle Israel, has involvement in the restaurant.
Culpepper’s is aiming to bring the accomplishments of alumni athlete Knights blended into the architecture with sophistication, but still casual enough for a t-shirt and shorts.
Keep checking back to KnightNews.com for more information on this new restaurant.



