The University of Central Florida and its president, Dr. John C. Hitt, were sued Thursday by student media outlet KnightNews.com, regarding UCF’s handling of its recent hazing scandals and other issues, in a public records and Sunshine lawsuit.
Dating back from Feb. 2012 to the present, the complaint seeks to remedy ten alleged violations committed by the university that range from a series of public records request violations involving the University and the University’s Student Government Association, to Sunshine Law violations which denied the public access to recent suspension hearings on anonymous hazing allegations lodged against Alpha Tau Omega at UCF.
The timing of the lawsuit challenges the legality of the closure of Friday’s Sigma Chi suspension hearing, as KnightNews.com seeks a judicial order requiring changes by the University that would allow the public and media access to observe the hearings under Florida’s Sunshine Law. That law establishes a basic right of access to most meetings of boards, commissions and other governing bodies of state and local governmental agencies or authorities. If a judge determines that the closure is in violation of the law, he or she could effectively throw out the decision made in the secret suspension hearing.
In previous emails, the University has said that the student conduct panel is only a fact-finding body and therefore, isn’t subject to the Sunshine Law. The lawsuit, however, cites case law and UCF’s own regulations, disputing UCF’s position on the issue. 
The lawsuit is aimed at showing UCF’s continued pattern of noncompliance with the Public Records Act and other Florida Statutes towards KnightNews.com. The award-winning media outlet’s lawsuit also seeks a permanent mandatory injunction as a solution to the roadblocks to public information put up by UCF.
The University has already hired Orlando law firm GrayRobinson. 
KnightNews.com attorney, Justin Hemlepp Esq., provided a statement regarding the lawsuit.
“This lawsuit is about protecting the public’s rights under Florida’s Government-in-the-Sunshine Law and Public Records Act. Everyone in Florida, including Knight News, has a clear right under those laws and the state’s constitution to inspect UCF’s records and attend university board meetings where decisions are made.
“Knight News’s lawsuit alleges that UCF has committed a variety of violations of Florida’s open-government laws in the past year, including refusing to produce public records, failing to explain the legal basis for redacting from records that were produced, and prohibiting public access to board meetings where decisions concerning discipline of student organizations are made.
“Knight News is asking the court to order UCF to remedy those past violations, enjoin the university from committing future violations of the same type, and find unconstitutional university regulations that place Student Conduct Board hearings concerning discipline of student organizations outside of the Sunshine.”
KnightNews.com received a statement from UCF on Friday regarding the lawsuit.
“UCF is committed to complying with Florida’s important open records laws,” said Grant Heston, UCF Associate Vice President, Communications & Public Affairs. “We are also dedicated to protecting student information, as we are required to do by federal law. We will vigorously defend this case.” 
Continue to check back with KnightNews.com for more information. 



Fraternal Law founder, Tim Burke, spoke to Local 6 news on why he believes UCF’s decision to halt Greek Life activities are unconstitutional an issue of civil rights. See the statement acquired by Local 6 below: 
“This is the second instance this academic year that I am aware of where a state university shut down all (or most ) activities by men’s and women’s fraternities and sororities because of the bad action of some. The University of California Chico took action earlier to shut down its Greek system for an undetermined period of time to attempt a similar cultural change as UCF is seeking.
“In both cases I believe the actions of the schools to be unfair and unconstitutional. National fraternities and sororities take the issue of hazing and alcohol abuse very seriously. Most, but unfortunately not all members and local chapters, do too. When National groups identify bad actors within their members or chapters which do not live up to the fraternities creed, they deal with those wrongdoers following the disciplinary procedures in their governing documents.
“For a state university to impose discipline, to deny the freedom of association rights to all Greek groups, without following either the University’s own disciplinary procedures or any due process is a violation of the constitutional and civil rights of the groups involved. That is particularly true of the groups which have not engaged in wrongdoing and conform to both university rules, civil law and the standards and policies of their national organizations.
“I don’t know all of the details of what prompted this action at UCF or what UCF is doing, but the university’s actions may well be subject to challenge under the federal Civil Rights law 42 USC 1983 and if such a challenge was won by a Greek group or one of its members, the University would be obligated to pay the plaintiffs attorney fees and costs.”
Timothy M. Burke
Attorney at Law
Manley Burke, LPA
What’s your opinion: Do you think UCF is breaking the law?



Starting on February 22, Evolve Group and Party Tutor are partnering up to present the concept of “Evolve Your Night” which they hope will change the Orlando nightlife experience.
With “Evolve Your Night,” the two local nightlife advocates will begin to provide a pass to those that are 18 years of age or older that will grant access to nearly all downtown bars for just $10. The pass will also give you food discounts, including receiving a free taco with any purchase at Gringos Locos.
“I think nightlife around UCF has been stale lately and I feel like more people are going to be headed downtown anyway,” Evolve Group partner Mike Grinberg said.
Before “Evolve Your Night”, an evening downtown might have consisted of staying in one place to avoid paying cover at multiple venues, or the multiple wristbands up to your elbow scenario, but starting this weekend, Evolve Group is hoping that those days are over.
“Party Tutor is all about providing UCF students with great deals and a good time, so when Evolve Group approached me with the idea to partner up on this I knew it was a great opportunity for everyone involved. I think this is going to be a game changer for the way people plan their night out downtown,” Party Tutor owner Brent Henderson said.
You can pick up you downtown all-access pass from Evolve Group promoters, at The Station from noon to 4 p.m.Thursday through Saturday, on the KnightLYNX Red Line bus or at The Plaza downtown the night of, the $10 pass you purchase will include access to Vain, Wall Street and over 20 more bars.
“I think this is a great idea because it gives people a chance to discover places downtown they might want to visit in the future. It might not appeal to people who don’t enjoy taking the bus and don’t want to drink and drive, but it sounds fun to me,” UCF sophomore Danielle Padron said.
Grinberg took the KnightLYNX Red Line bus downtown last Friday night to see how the experience would be. He thinks that it has a long way to go, but believes that it has potential and that “Evolve Your Night” compliments these buses.
“We have experience in revolutionizing the way people party. We did it years ago with the party buses that are now readily available through many companies, we’ve done it lately with our EDM and Hip Hop shows, and we are doing it again with Evolve Your Night,” Grinberg said.
For the full list of bars that the “Evolve Your Night” bands will give you access to are available at this link: www.facebook.com/evolveyournight
For the KnightLYNX Red Line bus schedule visit http://www.golynx.com/plan-trip/route-details.stml?portalProcess_dd_0_1_1=showPublicPosting&calendar_entry_id=1347



UCF alumnus and Greek Life member Fernando Gonzales Portillo  has created a petition on Change.org to oppose UCF’s decision to halt all Greek Life activities at the school.
Photo included with the petition “Greeks dedicate themselves to the community and to each other by providing community service through creative fundraisers, striving for higher grade-point averages, and building the skills and abilities needed to become strong leaders in their academic, professional and social life,” Gonzales Portillo  said in the statement with the petition.
One of the major points brought up in the petition by Gonzales Portillo  is the way UCF has handled the situation.
“Ultimately it is to show that the wrongs that UCF wants to address in regards to hazing and alcohol abuse are problem that afflict entire student population as a whole and nationwide.  Hazing, alcohol abuse, and underage drinking are issues that are not confined solely within Greek Community, but the Greek Community is being made scapegoats, Gonzales Portillo told KnightNews.com.
Students have taken to the “reason” section of the petition to express their desires to have the ban on activities overturned
“I am a Greek who’s organization has never been on probation for absolutely anything. Now because of the actions of others, we’re being punished,” a student posted on the Change.org website.
We asked Student Government President, Cortez Whatley, what he thought about UCF’s decision to halt all of the Greek Life activities.
“At this point in time we are waiting to receive more information from administration. SGA is working hard to advocate on behalf of the students effected. We will do everything we can to ensure that this phase is as short as possible,” Whatley said.
View the petition HERE.
For more on the suspension, click here.



