Update: SGA’s Senate rubber-stamped the nearly $19 million budget in less than an hour — making no changes and barely raising any questions. Check back for updates. 
SGA’s Activity and Service Fee budget Bill defines the allocation of millions of dollars to different agencies around UCF. The SGA Senate votes on whether to approve or modify these budget recommendations. 
KnightNews.com has a LIVE crew at the meeting which begins at 7 p.m. Watch the SGA Senate vote below:




Originally, KnightNews.com first reported that the University of Central Florida was investigating possible employee misconduct in the Student Union.
On Thursday, UCF confirmed that the investigation began in late February when employees came forward with allegations of misconduct of three of the division’s employees.
According to UCF, Paul Constantino, director of the Activity & Service Fee Business Office, admitted to taking complimentary tickets provided by vendors to the Ticket Center as well as not reporting leave he should have taken when he was out of office. Constantino resigned from his position on March 22. Kristine Nola, senior accountant, resigned on April 10.
As the investigation furthered, the Director of the Student Union, Suzi Halpin, admitted to not reporting leave taken when she was out of office as well as the inappropriate use of UCF resources for personal use, which included repairing a chair for her personal use and building a bench for her homeowners association. Suzi Halpin resigned from her position on April 3.
Several employees came forward and raised the allegations during a meeting with Dr. Sharon L. Ekern, Associate Vice President of Student Development and Enrollment services, who then outlined the allegations in an e-mail to Kathy Mitchell, the Associate Director of the University Audit. 
On Thursday night, the $20 million dollar Activity Service and Fee budget will be voted on. When KnightNews.com contacted the Student Government association on the matter, they predicted that the investigation will not affect students directly.
“There is no foreseeable affects that would disrupt students. If we believe the results of the investigation will affect students we will step in and operate in our role as the primary advocate for them.” Funlola Falade, the Public Relations Specialist for SGA, said in an e-mail.
See the complaint that initiated the investigation here.



Newly obtained video shows James Seevakumaran — the man believed to have been planning a large attack on the UCF campus — pulling the fire alarm in his dorm just minutes before killing himself. 


“One angle is from outside the door of his room, and the other is from the end of the hall. Because the video is a series of still shots, the motion is not smooth and the fire strobes are not seen consistently flashing in the video, though they did work as expected,” a spokesperson for UCF said.
Seevakumaran left behind a list which described his plan to carry out his attack at UCF. Pulling the fire alarm was one of those steps. Each time Seevakumaran completed a task, he crossed that item off of the list. The last thing on the list said “give them hell.”
“The UCF Police Department is continuing its thorough investigation into the March 18 incident. Once the investigation is complete, UCF will share its findings with the community,” Grant Heston, Associate Vice President for Communications and Public Affairs, said. 
Click here for more on the original story. 



Tuesday night the UCF arena held a concert that should surely go down in the record books. 
Not many college campuses can say they had two major headliners perform a sold out show at their school. But what made this show even more unique was that the headliners were from two totally different genres of music: hip-hop and techno. 
 Yes, the forces of Kendrick Lamar and Steve Aoki stormed the stage Tuesday night and performed one of the most lively shows UCF has ever seen. Orlando was the first stop on Lamar and Aoki’s US College Bus Tour, and I’d say UCF definitely helped them kick it off right. Hundreds of fans were lined up outside of the arena hours before they opened its doors in hopes of being one of the first five hundred people to get floor access. 
Soon after the doors were opened, thousands of people started flooding the arena. Almost every seat was filled with fans excited for what was sure to be an amazing night.
First to take the stage was Kendrick Lamar, and he did an outstanding job opening the show. He began his set by asking who from the crowd had been following him since day one, and you could see hundreds of fans in the crowd cheering and throwing up their hands. Lots of fans even held signs with his name and some of his lyrics. He performed songs that originally had put him on the map, and songs that are popular today such as “Swimming Pools” and “Poetic Justice”. 
Throughout his performance you could see fans dancing and rocking from everywhere in the crowd. After leaving the stage and coming back to perform one last encore song, he left the audience with some grateful words. He ended his set by promising that he would always come back to Orlando because of the amazing love he received at UCF. 
That was one of the biggest things that stuck out to me from that entire night.
Once Kendrick Lamar was finished killing the stage, it didn’t take long for Steve Aoki to come out ready to please the crowd. But really, this guy is a major crowd pleaser. Throughout his entire set he was constantly throwing waters and drinks into the crowd, making them go crazy. He began his set with some new songs many fans hadn’t heard before but then transitioned into some of his popular stuff. 
At one point during the show, I slowly turned around to get a full view of the arena. I was truly amazed by how much energy and excitement I saw. From the people dancing on the floor to fans jumping in their seats, the entire arena just came to life. The energy was at a constant high throughout his entire set, which lasted over an hour. But anyone who has been to an Aoki show before knows that he always does one thing in particular during his sets. 
Steve Aoki always throws a cake at his fans in the crowd, and the UCF audience was fortunate enough to have three cakes thrown at it. It seems crazy to want to have a cake thrown at you, but fans were begging and pushing to have a cake thrown at them by this guy. He also sent multiple fans floating through the crowd in large inflatable rafts throughout his set, and he even got in one himself and sprayed the audience with champagne. I thought his wackiness really brought the crowd together and made his performance so much more fun. 
What I also thought was really cool was that he brought Kendrick Lamar back out at the end of his set. They performed a collaboration together, and you could tell the fans really enjoyed the camaraderie. Between the techno beats, the bright lights, and Aoki’s crazy stage antics, this was definitely one of the coolest performances I have ever witnessed.
Looking back on the performances that night, I’m not surprised the arena sold out over 8,000 seats. That was one of the most lively and enjoyable concerts I’ve been to at UCF, and apparently Steve Aoki thought it was just as fun. The next day he posted a picture of the UCF crowd on his twitter page, tweeting “First show with @KendrickLamar on this tour was insane! #orlando #ucfragers”.
It’s great to know that the performers enjoyed us just as much as we enjoyed them.



While looking at her computer, Nahir Alvarado grabbed a fried chicken nugget from the box beside her computer and put it in her mouth.
She is another student that chooses to eat while she studies at the Student Union to save on time. Alvarado is a Microbiology senior student at the University of Central Florida. 
“We’re in school all day. Some of us can’t go home whenever we need to eat. I definitely learned that when I first started college; I need to look at what I’m buying in order to not gain too much weight,” Alvarado said. 
Just like Alvarado, many other college students are having a hard time managing their time. For many students the most convenient option is to eat while they are on campus.
“Time management is something that affects college students. Up to this point someone was taking care of them. Their time, their cloths, and their food, what and when they ate. Once they’re in college they have to organize their time and they don’t know how,” Meghan Van Camp said. 
Van Camp is a dietician and nutritionist that works at the University of Central Florida focusing on helping students in general and the University to have better and healthier choices.
“Most of the places in UCF don’t meet the daily recommendation someone should eat. Eating out in general would be high in sodium; It doesn’t matter the healthy labels they put,” Van Camp said.
Brittany Rozen, a former UCF student who lives on campus says that, “When I’m home I try to have good food, but because I’m so busy with school sometimes I run out of my good food, and I have to eat at the Union in the meantime.”
The United States legislature requires big restaurant chains to have a nutritional guide in the restaurants for people to see how many calories the food they’re buying has. Of all the restaurants in the Student Union only two of the restaurants, Burger King and Subway follow this rule. Chick-Fill-A is another restaurant that has the guide available if a person requests it.
“I think all the places should keep out—before you order your food—the nutritional guide, not at the register. I think that people would definitely look at that. I think UCF should definitely enforce that, because people would benefit from it,” Rozen said. 
“I definitely think that at least they should try to show some information to the kids, or you know, everyone here so that they can know what they’re eating. I think that if people are given the information, they’ll definitely would want to learn, but when it’s not given to them, and they don’t know any better they do what they do best, which is getting what they feel like getting,” Alvarado said.
Van Camp is currently working on trying to help UCF balance their food choices. She would also like for UCF to enforce restaurants to have a nutritional guide for students to see.
“I’ve been working with the business end of it; this is where you get to the decade long debate. What I’m working with is for them to have a contrast in UCF, I want them to have one or two healthy options. You don’t want to drive business away, because that’s part of the money the union makes, so it’s kind of a tight road we walk,” Van Camp said.
According to the United States Department of Agriculture a person should filled have of their plate with fruits and vegetables for every big meal. A person between 19 and 30 years of age should not consume more than six teaspoons of oils in a 24-hour period. 
Michael Puez, a music composition major thinks that it’s ok for the union to have a variety of restaurants, and to let people decide what they want to eat. He has never seen a nutritional guide before eating in any of the union’s restaurant, and he doesn’t think that people would care about that.
“If I have time in between classes I come here and eat, because it’s very convenient,” Kyle Aten said.
Some students know the importance of working out while at the same time balancing their nutritional health. Some of them are conscious of the high calorie foods they consume and they only choose to eat it once or twice a week.
“I usually eat at home, so when I eat out is usually once or twice per week,” Alvarado said.



