The Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity was found to have been recently placed on organizational suspension by UCF through the Spring 2013 semester after being found in-violation of disruptive conduct and hazing.
That’s according to new documents obtained by KnightNews.com as part of a public records request filed with UCF for hazing information dating back to 2008.
Lambda Chi Alpha was alleged to have sent new members on a scavenger hunt to Gainesville during the pre-initiation week in order to steal a composite photo from a sorority in Gainesville, one of the documents from UCF says. While a UCF conduct panel found the fraternity not in-violation of theft, they did find them in-violation of hazing, stating that associate members were indirectly conditioned to believe they needed to complete the scavenger hunt in order to obtain membership.
The executive board members of Lambda Chi Alpha must review and revise the pre-initiation week activities for associate members prior to recruitment for the Fall 2013 term as well as write a 3-5 page paper on the organizations seven core values and how they reflect the five core values of the UCF Creed.
The executive board members of Lambda Chi Alpha must also design an anti-hazing presentation and campaign that focuses on what constitutes hazing and meet with members of UCF’s Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life to discuss how events must be registered.
KnightNews.com is sorting through hundreds of new records from UCF to investigate UCF’s secretive hazing complaint and adjudication process. The incident involving this fraternity is only one of the possibly many more to come from our investigation. 
It is not clear at this time if Lambda Chi Alpha appealed this decision.
Continue to check back for more information that is uncovered as we continue reading through these newly release records. 
Click NEXT PAGE to view the records from Lambda Chi Alpha.



Update: Both Sigma Chi and Alpha Tau Omega have accused UCF of breaking its own rules. Read more here. 
Also, a third UCF fraternity, Lambda Chi Alpha, was also suspended for hazing. Read more about that hazing situation here. 
New reports obtained by KnightNews.com confirm the previously reported sanctions recommended by a student conduct board for Sigma Chi and Alpha Epsilon Pi. 
The Sigma Chi Fraternity was found “in-violation” of hazing, disruptive conduct and alcohol related misconduct by UCF’s Student Conduct Board and sanctions placed on the fraternity included organizational suspension through the end of Fall 2016, as KnightNews.com previously reported. During this time, the fraternity will not be recognized by UCF. 
Under the sanctions, the fraternity must also develop a comprehensive curriculum on hazing education using the support of an external expert consultant as well as a similar curriculum for alcohol education.
Alpha Epsilon Pi was also found “in-violation” of hazing, disruptive conduct and and harmful behavior by the board and a sanction was handed down to have the fraternity placed on organizational suspension through Spring 2014. Following this one year suspension, the fraternity will be placed on disciplinary probation for Summer and Fall of 2014–meaning all activities by the fraternity must be alcohol free.
Alpha Epsilon Pi must also redevelop its new member education program as well as a new risk management policy. In addition, the fraternity will be required to bring in an outside speaker to discuss hazing for the chapter, a speaker from the Wellness and Health Promotion Services Office to discuss alcohol education and a speaker to discuss harassment, bullying and bystander behavior. 
At this time, there is no word on whether either group will appeal the decision to Maribeth Ehasz, Vice President of Student Development and Enrollment Services.
Click NEXT PAGE to view the full reports sent to the organizations. 



An “Original Brooklyn Water Bagel Co.” restaurant will be opening near the University of Central Florida on April 10, making it only the 15th Brooklyn Water Bagel to open in the country.
The new restaurant will be located at 4026 N. Goldenrod Road. Operating hours for this location will be from 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
“Founded in 2009 in Delray Beach, Florida, The Original Brooklyn Water Bagel Co. is revolutionizing the bagel-making process from start to finish, a press release stated. “As an innovator in the quick service industry, Brooklyn Water Bagel distinguishes itself from other “authentic New York” bagel franchises by using proprietary water technology that creates Brooklynized™ water. This advanced technology allows the company to produce authentic Brooklyn bagels anywhere in the world for its loyal customers”
Other locations around the country include Coconut Creek, Boynton Beach, Delray Beach, Jupiter and Miami Beach. 
The restaurant specializes in mixing pure Brooklynized water with the finest flour to produce the dough. The franchise is also well known for their Iced Coffee Cubsta, which features ice cubes made completely out of coffee.
Visit the restaurant’s website here.



A new campaign by KNIGHTSHARE, or Knights Helping Advocate Resiliency in Emergencies, has been designed to help the UCF community prepare for, respond to, and recover from emergencies, UCF said. 
The UCF Office of Emergency Management will host an Expo on March 25 – March 29, 2013 to alert the community on how to stay safe on campus.
Events will include bomb robot demonstrations, K9 demonstartions, DUI simulators and much more. Training courses will also be available for many different subjects including UCF Alerts and shots fired incidents as well as fire suppression training and other incident control situations. 
View a schedule of the expo below:
Monday, Thursday, and Friday:  Training courses are available for faculty, staff, students, and community members. Register here.
Tuesday:  The Office of Emergency Management invited key players from our Regional Campuses for an exercise that will take place at the UCF Emergency Operations Center to discuss emergency management programs.
Wednesday:  Free food and prizes!  Emergency Response equipment will be staged by the UCF Veterans Commemorative Site near Memory Mall.  Come out and visit your first responders and get a tour of their equipment, command trailers, and vehicles!  They will also be in the Student Union, room 218, from 10:00 am – 2:00 pm.
News of this expo comes days after a planned massacre at UCF was thwarted when the gunman’s roommate called 911, hurrying responders to the scene. The gunman was later found dead in his Tower 1 dorm room from an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound. For more on that story, click here.
To view more about the expo, click here.



