Hans Erik Kohler, UCF’s public address announcer for sports, including football, men’s basketball and baseball, was arrested Thursday for a DUI, according to an Orange County police report.
HANS ERIK KOHLER, 43 Kohler is a CBS affiliated Sports Radio Orlando host, according to his Twitter page. He is not a host for the actual CBS radio network, however. He’s also the announcer for the Washington Nationals in spring training at Viera. Kohler is known among UCF football fans for his iconic “That’s good for another UCF first down!” line.
According to the police report, Kohler was stopped Thursday night by an officer for doing 58mph in a 35mph zone. The officer then detected traces of alcohol which prompted several sobriety tests, according to the report. Kohler was then placed under arrest for a DUI, the report states.
“In life unexpected things happen which u can’t control, practice positive #energy and surround yourself with family & friends who know u!,” Kohler posted in a message on his Twitter page.
KnightNews.com contacted UCF for a statement regarding the situation. 
“We are aware of what took place and will address it appropriately,” UCF spokesperson Grant Heston said.

Click NEXT PAGE to view the police report.



KnightNews.com was granted an exclusive behind the scenes look at Universal Studios Mardi Gras Celebration on Saturday, enjoying live music, New Orleans style food, catching beads at the parade and even getting an up close look at the concert series artist of the night, Trey Songz.
Mardi Gras is an annual event in Universal Studios Florida that recreates the feel of the famed New Orleans street party with a dazzling parade, colorful street performers, authentic Cajun food and concerts from top recording acts. The event is held on select nights until April 20 and features many different bands and singing artists as part of their concert series.
Demi Lovato will be performing at Universal Studios on March 2. Check out some photos from KnightNews.com’s time at Mardi Gras and be sure to check the event out for yourself!
For ticket and concert information, click the graphic below!



