KnightNews.com has just received three Society of Professional Journalists (SPJ) Region 3 Mark of Excellence Awards in Online News reporting, Online Sports Reporting and Online In-Depth Reporting.
The awards were given to the following stories:
Online News Reporting: Questions About UCF’s Massive Reserves Unanswered in Wake of Tuition Hikes by Jacob Sadowsky
Online Sports Reporting: UCF Hopes to Grow From Tough Loss to Ohio State by Jake Rakoci, Eric Py
Online In-Depth Reporting: Man Filing Hazing Charges Against UCF ATO Defends Credibility of Accusations by Jacob Sadowsky
SPJ is the nation’s most broad-based journalism organization, dedicated to encouraging the free practice of journalism and stimulating high standards of ethical behavior, the SPJ website says. The Mark of Excellence awards program honors the outstanding work of student journalists. 



Prosecutors today upgraded the charges facing 10 former FAMU band members to manslaughter in the hazing death of drum major Robert Champion, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
The charge was filed in a document known as an “amended information,” the Sentinel said. It carries a potentially longer sentence.
The new charges were filed as lawyers for band member were meeting with prosecutors and Circuit Judge Marc Lubet, who is presiding over the hazing case, the paper said. The judge imposed probationary, community-service sentences on two other former members of the Marching 100, Brian Jones and Ryan Dean, who pleaded no contest last year.
Champion, 26, died last November following a hazing ritual that took place on a charter bus outside of the Rosen Plaza hotel in Orlando after where the band stayed during the Florida Classic weekend. Reports say he was beaten by fellow members of the famed Marching 100 band aboard a bus.
Manslaughter, a second-degree felony in Florida, is punishable by up to 15 years in prison.



Casey Anthony is back in court Monday morning for a bankruptcy hearing after being hidden from the public eye for more than a year.
Video shows Casey Anthony was swarmed by media Monday morning as she walked into a Tampa Federal court to participate in a hearing regarding her bankruptcy.

Anthony, 26, filed for bankruptcy in Florida in late January, claiming about $1,000 in assets and $792,000 in liabilities, Local 6 news reports. Court papers list Anthony as unemployed, with no recent income.



Tuesday begins the annual 60-day Florida Legislative session and it will cover a variety of issues from tuition to healthcare to election reform and more.
One of Gov. Rick Scott’s biggest proposals is a $1.2 billion increase to school funding and almost $400 million more for higher education. This includes a proposed $2,500 raise for every public school teacher. Some leaders argue, however, that a merit-pay system to reward teachers should be used, rather than Scott’s across-the-board pay plan. Needless to say, a general rise in salary and wages of public school workers is expected to come out of the session.
Other hot issues being covered include election reform as legislation moves to correct recent problems like long lines at polling places as well as altering contribution factors allowed for campaigns. 
A new bill being passed around will decide whether or not Florida will ban texting and driving, just as 39 other states have done already. The Senate’s bill would make texting while driving a secondary violation, which would mean mean motorists would have to be stopped for another reason before they would face a potential $30 fine.
Other issues that will be mulled over include guns, taxes, healthcare, spending and environmental. Continue to check back for updates throughout the session.
To view a list of proposed bills, click here.



