Students, fans and administrators from two teams, preparing for an unprecedented BCS battle, took the time to step away from the game and work together to help the Arizona community.
Spirit squad members, fans and school officials from the University of Central Florida and Baylor University met on New Year’s Eve at the children’s hospital in Phoenix and at the St. Mary’s Food Bank to give back to the community before the Fiesta Bowl on New Year’s Day.

Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get UCF BCS Bowl game coverage on your feeds!
Follow @UCFKnightNews
The two schools met with patients at the hospital to interact, play games and support the young children going through treatments at the hospital.
“We’re here to have fun with them and just get their minds off of things and just spend the day with them,” UCF cheerleader Jay Hollman said.
The two schools, including UCF administrators President John Hitt, Vice President Maribeth Ehasz and Student Body President Melissa Westbrook, worked together at the food bank to help package food that feeds hungry families around Arizona.
“I think it has a good impact on the community and it also shows them that two people that are going to the last BCS bowl game, Fiesta Bowl bowl game, are working together,” UCF Student Body President Melissa Westbrook said.
KnightNews.com will have continuing coverage of UCF’s first BCS bowl game. Continue to check back for tailgate fan cam, game coverage and post game coverage!
[myrelposts-related title=”More UCF Fiesta Bowl Coverage:“]



The Knights were down 28-14 on the road in the third quarter amidst the biggest comeback in school history against then ranked No. 8 Louisville.

Heisman candidate Teddy Bridgewater took the field to extend the Cardinal’s national championship hopes and put away the Knights team that was down three touchdowns earlier in the game.
Music started blasting throughout the sold-out Papa John’s Cardinals Stadium, but it wasn’t the Cardinals players who were jumping around getting hyped up.
The Knights defense, comprised almost entirely of underclassmen, started to jump around to Louisville’s music before the drive, setting up a fumble which turned into another Knight’s touchdown and the rest was history.
Experience is something that most college football coaches think helps their team out, but it hasn’t exactly been the case for the Knights this season. The audacity the Knights had to hype themselves up like that against a hostile Louisville crowd on the road is almost the exact type of naivete that has helped the Knights win seven games this season by less than seven points.
“Sometimes you look at experience as helping you out. The young kids didn’t know any better but to play with great effort for 60 minutes and good things were going to happen,” UCF Head Coach George O’Leary said.
When the Knight’s BCS hopes looked to be over against Temple, J.J. Worton made a catch that was considered one of college football’s plays of the year. The Houston Cougars had a chance to beat the Knights on a game winning drive on homecoming night, however, the Knights didn’t falter and stopped them at the goal line. The South Florida Bulls stymied the Knight’s offense all game, but a fourth-quarter Bortles bomb downfield once again gave the Knights a victory.
Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get UCF BCS Bowl game coverage on your feeds!
Follow @UCFKnightNews
Some UCF fans call it destiny, some say that the football gods are on the Knight’s side. By the end of the season it got to the point where UCF fans  started to expect some type of miraculous Knights comeback. However someone wants to look at it is their own prerogative, but there is no denying the almost palpable, youthful energy that has developed within this Knights squad.
The Knights aren’t the most highly recruited guys coming out of high school. Freshman standout Will Stanback was a zero-star recruit and UCF was his only D-1 school offer. Junior quarterback Blake Bortles played in the shadow of crosstown rival Jeff Driskel in high school and was often overlooked in quarterback recruiting camps. Now scouts are saying he is a top NFL prospect.
“I think a lot of kids come to UCF with a chip on their shoulder, maybe they’re a little mad they didn’t get recruited by the bigger schools. I think that’s what makes us have a little edge on other people…that’s the attitude we have,” Bortles said.
George O’Leary loves to reiterate that he doesn’t recruit based off of the star-system and instead bases his recruiting off of looking at tape.
“I think the key to recruiting is to take kids that fit into the culture of your program. Chemistry-wise is so important on the football field as far as the program is concerned,” O’Leary said.
The Knights will be playing in the Fiesta Bowl on New Years Day, one of the biggest games in college football. The guys recruited ahead of them at Florida will be sitting at home, and the guys at Miami just got blown out by the same Louisville Cardinals the Knights beat.
The Baylor Bears are favored to beat the Knights by 17 points, a bigger spread than any other bowl game.
Just like the Knights like it.



The UCF athletics department, players and media have been in Arizona getting prepared for UCF’s first BCS bowl game against Baylor since Dec. 26.
With less than 48 hours before kickoff, the Knights are making their final preparations before facing off the number one scoring offense in the nation in Baylor. On Tuesday, UCF head coach George O’Leary will be holding his final press conference along with Baylor head coach Art Briles following after. UCF and Baylor will also be hosting a joint community service event at the St.Mary’s Food Bank Alliance after the press conferences.
O’Leary has taken on more responsibilities preparing for the Fiesta Bowl, since previous defensive coordinator Jim Fleming left for Rhode Island, O’Leary has been on the field coaching the defense up close and personal.
“I think sometimes a head coach is a very boring job on the practice field.  I think anytime you can get involved in the coaching aspect of it, helping youngsters get a little better each day, I think that’s why you’re in the business,” O’Leary said in Sunday’s press conference.
KnightNews.com is in Arizona for the game and will be bringing constant updates leading up to the game and a full game recap afterward.



