A UCF Instructor has been featured in an all new Walmart commercial that will be airing state-wide for the next two weeks, according to the East Orlando Post. 
Sunshine Joy Baker Sunshine Joy Baker starred in the Walmart commercial which began airing Thursday, the Post reports. 
Baker told the East Orlando Post that she filmed a demo interview and was chosen to shoot the commercial which filmed on Tuesday. Baker also said that she is on summer break from teaching and hoping to do more commercials. 
Click here to to see the commercial!
To see Baker’s acting profile, click here. 



The man accused by police of hitting a UCF student with his car and then repeatedly punching her in the face had his first court appearance Sunday afternoon at the Orange County jail.

The judge placed Paul Gomez, 20, on a no bond status for attempted murder and aggravated battery with a motor vehicle on top of a $1000 bond for attempted aggravated battery, a $1000 bond for each of two counts of battery and a $150 bond for criminal mischief. The judge also banned Gomez from having any contact or coming within 500 feet of the victim in this case.
Gomez will have a bond hearing set at a future date to see if another judge will grant him bond on the two most serious charges. The next bond judge may also have the option of banning him from UCF’s campus.
Gomez was arrested Friday night after a campus-wide search after police say he struck a UCF student with his car before repeatedly punching her in the face. Gomez was apprehended by police about an hour after the search began, according to a police report. The report also states the the victim suffered a broken leg as well as numerous cuts and abrasions across the body.
For more on the the story and to read the police report, click here. 



A man remains in jail Saturday night after police say he struck a UCF student with his car and assaulted the victim in a parking garage on campus Friday night — leaving the victim with a broken leg and numerous cuts and abrasions across the body.
Paul Gomez, 20 Paul Gomez, 20, was arrested Friday evening after a short search across the UCF campus by police. According to a police report, Gomez is being charged with attempted homicide, aggravated battery with a motor vehicle, attempted aggravated battery and two counts of domestic battery after police say he intentionally struck the victim with his 2012 Dodge Avenger before leaving his vehicle and repeatedly punching the victim in the face.
Bystanders were able to aid the victim and call police, which prompted Gomez to flee the scene and for police to begin a search. Following a one hour search across the UCF campus, Gomez reportedly exited a wooded area near the baseball stadium and approached several people and asked for a drink. According to the police report, one person became suspicious and called police who responded and apprehended Gomez and took him into custody. 
For more on the initial story, click here. 
View the police report below. 
http://knightnews.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/gomez-new.pdf



