The UCF College of Business Administration hosted its annual Joust Business Plan Competition on April 12, in which entrepreneurial students from across many different business disciplines compete for the best, most promising business proposal.
UCF students Taylor Cheeley and Nicole Enterlein, of Team Entourage Red LLC, were the winners of the event with their product called the SMARTWAY Sanitary Cup, a disposable urinal funnel designed for women.
The SMARTWAY Sanitary Cup is designed for women to be able to stand and urinate without having to deal with any unwanted contact with a potentially contaminated surface, like a public restroom toilet.  The product is designed to be mess free and inexpensive.
“Winning the Joust validates that SMARTWAY Cup is a revolutionary product with serious market potential,” Cheeley told UCF Today. “We’re honored to receive the prestigious recognition and poised  to pursue national contracts. We believe the Joust has refined our business model and changed our lives.”
The Joust competition is set-up like the popular reality television show “SharkTank”. Students form teams and originate a business proposal to leaders of the industry. Paul Jarley, the dean of the college claimed that the SMARTWAY Cup was quite overlooked at the beginning of the day, but it was Taylor and Nicole’s presentation that impressed the judges.
“Taylor and Nicole took everyone way outside their comfort zones. They learned from their past experience and used data along with a crisp presentation to allay fears, overcome social norms and pitch a potentially disruptive product that no one had given a chance at the beginning of the day.” Jarley told UCF Today.
The Center for Entrepreneurial Leadership hosts four competitions per year including the Big Idea Competition, Business Model Competition, the Joust Business Plan Tournament, and the Cornerstone Competition.



A state legislature committee drafted a law requiring a revision in the General Education Program, cutting courses in September 2013.
This new law will change the number of hours of the General Education Program (GEP) to 30 hours, instead of the current 36-hour requirement, according to the initial draft recommendations of the General Education Steering and Faculty Committees, given in December 2012.
The first part of the program is a statewide core; so all institutions in Florida will have the same core requirements that can be accepted in Florida’s colleges and universities. The second part of the program is specific to each institution. The first part of the GEP does not include economics any longer, according to the draft.
Dr. Mark Dickie, chair of the department of economics at UCF, cannot say why the General Education Steering and Faculty Committees chose economics to be cut from the GEP, but he opposes to this decision.
“I think it’s a bad idea for many reasons,” said Dickie. “Economics is concerned with the nation’s growth and development.”
Dickie recognizes economics as a “social science” and he appreciates what the course offers students. Most students will have careers directed to markets and businesses. Economics teaches the core information needed for students’ futures.
In the revised version of the GEP, the social science courses that are offered include the following: Introduction to Psychology, Principles of Sociology, 20th Century World History, Comparative Politics, and Introduction to Anthropology.
Economics is no longer a part of this curriculum, as noted in the initial draft. The new law is still going under revision and it will not go through the approval stages until later this year.
Do student’s really need economics as a part of their GEP? Cesar Neira, a sophomore at UCF, points out a positive note of the new curriculum that lacks this course.
“The basic concepts that are taught in the course can be learned through everyday life experiences. This new change will allow a student to take a different course in which they can learn something new or take something they are interested in,” said Neira. These life experiences include jobs and internships that students can be involved in.
Maybe the opportunity to take another course could benefit students that are already exposed to economic concepts. But, not all students have these experiences, and being in class could teach you a lot about the subject.
Andrew Goodman, a junior at UCF, puts a different perspective to the importance of taking an economics course, as he points out the nationwide debt.
“I believe that economics should be a required course. The majority of college students are in debt or have families that are in debt, so taking away a class that teaches us how to manage money makes no sense at all,” said Goodman.
Learning about how to manage money, the ins and outs of how businesses work, and how the money systems work nationally and globally through a textbook could help out students now and in their future. Students that aren’t required to take this course as an undergraduate won’t see the benefits of taking this course and how it can help.
“As much as I hated taking it, I actually learned a lot about it and I think while being a college student you should have some brief knowledge about economics,”  said Nina Ricci, a sophomore at UCF.
Whether or not students support this course being cut from the core curriculum of all universities and colleges in Florida, this is a red flag to our state university system. Economics is a part of almost all the nation’s top universities’ core requirements, as Dickie mentioned. If this course is eliminated from the state’s core GEP requirements, Florida could be at risk of not offering the courses that students should take in order to get the best educational foundation in the first couple years in college, no matter what major students decide to pursue in.
“Economics is rigorous and demanding. It is appropriate in the inclusion of the GEP because it teaches skills targeted in education, such as problem solving and communication,” said Dickie.
Economics is an important class to take in order to be well-rounded students that understand critical concepts about how money works in businesses and around the world.



UPDATE All of the devices have been cleared by the Orange County Bomb Squad. Businesses will reopen shortly. 
Several suspicious device have led authorities to evacuate the Waterford Lakes Town Center early Tuesday morning.
The Orange County Sheriff’s Office bomb squad has been called to the scene to investigate four devices, which were found behind the Best Buy department store. 
Several surrounding businesses have been evacuated as well as a day care center while authorities determine if the devices are dangerous. 
Bomb sniffing dogs and a robot are currently being used to investigate. 
Check back for constant updates.



