After announcing a delayed move-in date for residents moving into the newest UCF dorms, school officials now say one building at the Neptune residence halls is complete and work is continuing on the final two. 
UCF sent notices to the approximately 650 residents Thursday evening with information about the three buildings in the Neptune Community.
The largest building, Building 158, will be ready for the approximately 254 residents to move in starting Saturday. Work continues on Building 157, and residents have been asked to delay a possible move-in until Sunday to give crews the maximum time to finish the final work. If residents must arrive before Sunday, they will be provided temporary UCF housing, UCF officials explained in a statement.
Building 156 will not be ready this weekend, and the about 200 residents will be temporarily placed in the Towers at Knights Plaza.
“We expect that any buildings that do not open this weekend will be open very early in the fall semester,” UCF officials said in a statement.
Students in temporary housing will have the option to move into Neptune once their room is ready or remain in their temporary room for the fall and spring semesters at their current rent.
If they choose to move, the school will provide them with assistance and supplies, along with flexibility in moving dates. Students also may choose to remain at home or stay with friends until their residence hall opens, and in those cases we would only charge them rent for the days when their residence hall is open.
“Students and their families have been remarkably patient and understanding as we work to complete the Neptune Community,” said UCF spokesperson Grant J. Heston. “Our team won’t rest until our students are taken care of.”



The Victoria’s Secret PINK party will be coming to UCF on September 12, according to the Victoria’s Secret Facebook page.
In April, UCF won a social media challenge to win the school a concert hosted by Victoria’s Secret models. UCF eventually beat out the University of Texas in the final round by tweeting out more than 40,000 tweets.
According to a UCF Victoria’s Secret representative, the headlining artist has not been released yet, but Drake and Kid Cudi have headlined in the past. The representative also told KnightNews.com that when the Victoria’s Secret Pink page at UCF reaches 6,000 Facebook ‘likes’ they will release another update.
Keep checking back to KnightNews.com for more information on the PINK party.



