The third report of a sexual assault in just a few weeks near the UCF campus came Friday — leading UCF Vice President Dr. Maribeth Ehasz to issue a statement to students reminding them of the need to take precautions for safety. 
Read the statement from Ehasz below.
On Sept. 13, the Orange County Sheriff’s Office responded to a report of a sexual battery at an off-campus apartment complex. Sheriff’s officials say that a female student reported she was attacked when she took trash to a dumpster at the Arbour Apartments, a facility not associated with UCF.  
Our hearts go out to the victim, and we urge you to contact the Orange County Sheriff’s Office if you have any information about what took place.  
This report, and others recently, remind us that safety must be the top priority for our UCF community. Safety should be at the forefront of our minds wherever we are: on campus or off, at home or traveling. As a community, we must look out for each other at all times.  
Some of the most important steps we can all take to increase our personal safety are simple: don’t go out at night alone; tell someone where you will be; bring a cellphone; monitor how much you drink; don’t accept drinks from strangers; and never leave a party or bar with someone you don’t know.  
Many UCF departments offer guidelines, services, programs and tips to help you stay safe. I urge you to visit the websites below for more information about safety.   
Your safety is UCF’s top priority — please make it your top priority as well.  
Sincerely,  
Maribeth Ehasz
Vice President, Student Development and Enrollment Services  
Several news sources reported that a woman was raped by a gunman Friday night on Discovery Drive. The victim was taken to Florida Hospital East Orlando for evaluation. 
Deputies told Local 6 they are working to get a description of the suspect and the vehicle involved in Friday’s attack.
Click here to read more about the crimes near UCF. 



KnightNews.com’s Justin Levy was out all day at Penn State’s tailgate talking to students and alumni of both Penn State and UCF.

Sponsored Ad – Story Continues Below
 
Tampa City Mayor Bob Buckhorn, a Penn State alumnus, came up for the game and was tailgating with his family. Buckhorn, who said he plans on going to Ireland next year, had some trash talk towards UCF and specifically, Orlando Mayor Buddey Dyer.
“Buddy Dyer, you got nothing on the Penn State Nitany Lions,” Buckhorn said.
Continue to follow KnightNews.com for full game coverage. [myrelposts-related title=”See More UCF vs. PSU Coverage:“]



We are in Happy Valley live tweeting the Penn State-UCF game. Check the twitter box below for updates all game.
Sponsored Ad – Story Continues Below

First quarter breakdown:

The Knights started the game off with a nice mix of pass and run. The Knight’s 89-yard drive ate up almost seven minutes of the clock. Penn State quickly answered back after converting on 4th and 2 to tie the game up 14-7.
Second quarter breakdown:

The Knights stopped Penn State who tried to go for it again on 4th and 5. 
Tweets by @UCFKnightNews




Saturday’s matchup between the Knights and the Nittany Lions of Penn State marks a stark contrast between two very different football programs.
On one hand we have Penn State, one of the most storied, if not the most storied football program in college athletics. We all know how that empire came crashing down in a disheartening manner that captivated the entire nation. However, the past is in the past and the Nittany Lions are looking to re-establish themselves as a legitimate national football program.
On the other side we have the Knights, a program with high expectations and an early favorite to challenge Louisville for the conference title and the chance to go to the Orange bowl. If the Knights can steal this one from Penn State, they immediately launch themselves as a Top 25 contender and a serious headache for the national championship hopeful South Carolina Gamecocks.
Sponsored Ad – Story Continues Below

Let’s take a minute to look at what Penn State is bringing to the table:
What to take out of all of this?
Christian Hackenberg is young and untested, but has proven he can sling the ball deep. It will be absolutely imperative for the Knights to stop the big plays on 1st and 2nd down if they want a shot to walk out of Happy Valley victorious. It should also be noted that Hackenberg has matched his three touchdowns with three interceptions this season, the Knights need to capitalize on this.
The Battle in the Trenches:
The Knight’s biggest weakness thus far in the season has been their offensive line. Blake Bortles looked to struggle a bit early against FIU when he wasn’t getting enough time in the pocket. We know that the Penn State defense isn’t keen to giving up a lot of rushing yards, but the Knights will need to establish some type of run game early if they want NFL prospect Blake Bortles to get some looks downfield.
Center Joey Grant is the undisputed heart of the offensive line, if he can hold down the battle in the trenches–even just buy Bortles a little bit of time, the Knights will be able to put points on the board.
The Bottom Line:
It should go without being said, but I’ll say it anyways. The magnitude of this game is huge.
By the looks of things, this will not be a huge offensive battle. There are so many factors that come into play this game, but the Knights have a serious shot to win this one.
If the Knights can keep the Penn State defensive line in check and allow Bortles to use his pro-style arm, the Knights will win the offensive battle. Keeping Hackenberg honest and limiting the big plays will at least allow the Knights to keep Penn State’s score low. If this happens, then the Knights will beat Penn State and start their season 3-0.



