The UCF Knights take on the South Carolina Gamecocks this Saturday at noon atop a national stage. Here are a few fameday reminders.
The SOLD OUT game is Saturday, September 28 at 12 p.m. at Bright House Networks Stadium. ABC (including WFTV-Channel 9 in Orlando) will broadcast the game to a national audience.
All campus parking lots will open and begin tailgating activities at 7 a.m. The open container waiver will also begin at 7 a.m. and conclude at kickoff. These early start times are only in effect for the South Carolina game.
Most of the UCF campus will be open parking Saturday. The exceptions include designated Gold Zone parking lots and parking garages located closest to Bright House Networks Stadium. These include the C and D lots and garages, the E lots and Garage F. Special game day parking permits are required for those parking areas.
Garage H will be reserved for authorized students displaying SGA-provided parking passes, credentialed staff and cash-paying customers ($20) on a first-come, first-served basis. Lot B4 will be designated for those who have made reservations for official university business.
Students, faculty and staff are reminded that vehicles without valid game day parking permits are subject to towing in garages C, D, F and H, as well as the C, D and E lots and lots B4 and B7 beginning at 5 a.m. Saturday.  Additionally, no parking will be allowed on East Plaza Boulevard.
UCF will operate additional park-and-ride shuttles beginning at 9 a.m. and concluding two hours after the game ends to take fans to and from the game. Fans should park at the Research Pavilion, 12424 Research Parkway, in the Central Florida Research Park. Shuttles will transport fans to and from Lot C1 near the Health and Public Affairs building.
Students can ride free student shuttles for all normally serviced apartment complexes except NorthView, Tivoli and Northgate due to their proximity to the stadium.
Although the game is sold out, students are reminded that they do not need tickets for admission. They will need to bring their valid student ID on game day for admission. Additionally, UCF Athletics will distribute a total of 2,000 early entry passes to students (with a valid ID) who attend the women’s soccer and volleyball matches Friday evening against USF. 



KnightNews.com has just obtained recruitment numbers for fraternities for the Fall 2013 semester.
 
Sponsored Ad – Story Continues Below
  
Kappa Sigma had the most new members this semester with 53 people, followed by Phi Delta Theta with 45. Phi Delt continues to be the largest organization with 144 active members. 
As a whole, UCF’s IFC fraternities saw 395 new members this semester giving a total of 1190 active IFC fraternity members across campus. 
Several fraternities on suspension were not listed in this information, including Alpha Tau Omega and Alpha Epsilon Pi. 
Check back soon for sorority recruitment numbers and more information. 



