The Alpha Delta Pi sorority hosted its annual Cheers for Charity event, which benefits the Ronald McDonald House charity.
Winners for the events included:
Fraternities
1st Place: Sigma Pi
2nd Place: Lambda Chi Alpha
3rd Place: Kappa Sigma
Sororities 
1st Place: Kappa Delta
2nd Place: Delta Delta Delta
3rd Place: Zeta Tau Alpha

Like us to get news like this on your facebook feed!
Watch video replays of each performance below!
Alpha Delta Pi | Kappa Sigma  | Kappa Delta | Beta Theta Pi | Phi Delta theta | Zeta Tau Alpha | Delta Delta Delta | Sigma Pi | Alpha Xi Delta | Lambda Chi Alpha 



In 2009, Sebastien Salzmann was ranked as the 12th best tennis recruit in Florida with an intent to play at UCF. Four years later, agents say Salzmann was caught trying to purchase a massive quantity of the ‘Molly’ drug by the Drug Enforcement Association.
According to the complaint, Salzmann was caught by U.S. marshals on Monday with intent to buy over a kilogram of the party drug ‘Molly’.
Federal agents set up an informant to negotiate the terms of buying the drug. Salzmann had the intent to have the kilo of molly shipped to a friend’s duplex near campus while he was in Arizona, according to the complaint.
According to the complaint, the undercover informant would get $10,000 from the buyer, and then pay Salzmann anywhere from $6,000 to $7,000 for the kilogram of Molly. The undercover informant would then keep the difference in return for brokering the deal.
Molly is a drug similar to Ectasy, which has recently gained popularity among college students, most notably in the Electronic Dance Music scene. It had an emergency ban placed on it in 2011 by Attorney General Pam Bondi.
According to WFTV, Salzmann was on the UCF tennis team in 2009 and was currently playing on the UCF club team. He is now out on $50,000 dollars bond. See the full WFTV story below.




In 1980 Stephen LaBerge, a psychophysiologist, sent messages to his colleague from his dream via eye movements during REM sleep. His doctorate study marked the first published, scientifically verified communication from a dreamer’s mind to the outside world.
Lucid dreaming, or becoming aware you are dreaming, has gained popularity in recent years, although its practice has been recorded for centuries.
Buddhists documented their version of lucidity, what they call dream yoga, as early as the 8th century. About half of adults have had a lucid dream before, according to Susan Blackmore’s published 1984 study surveying 321 random participants from the electoral register in Bristol, United Kingdom.
Josh Blackwell, a high school senior in Dayton, Ohio, became interested in lucid dreaming after watching the film Inception. The 2010 blockbuster film fueled a revival of interest in the practice, nonetheless, the movie remains science fiction due to “dream sharing.” No device exists for two people to share a dream.
“I wouldn’t say Lucid dreaming necessarily improves my waking life, rather it gives me something to look forward to when I go to bed,” Blackwell said. “I feel  exponentially more refreshed when I wake up from an LD as opposed to “normal” sleep. I lucid dream once or twice a month on average, but the frequency has increased as time goes onHaving ultimate control over your entire environment can’t be beat.”
In the past decade, many niche sites and books have dedicated themselves to helping people achieve lucidity. Misinformation about lucid dreaming has spread  alongside scientifically supported research, according to Patricia Keelin, an associate of LaBerge and The Lucidity Institute.
LaBerge helped pioneer the scientific research of lucid dreaming, making his name synonymous with lucid dreaming in the scientific community. In 1987, he founded The Lucidity Institute, which supports lucid dreaming research and educative training.
LaBerge developed a device called the NovaDreamer, which monitors REM sleep and sends auditory and visual cues while the wearer dreams. Users can modify the settings and practice mental exercises while awake to enhance the likelihood of recognizing the cues in their dreams, greatly increasing the likelihood of inducing lucidity. The mask retailed for $300. The NovaDreamer 2 has been under development for several years now, and is scheduled for release soon. The Lucidity Institute has been using and testing the device at workshops for the past  few years now, Keelin said.
Lucidity can be achieved regularly, as long as it is practiced. LaBerge, while writing his doctoral dissertation, needed to be able to lucid dream almost on demand. He increased his lucid dreaming frequency over the course of three years from once a month to four times a night, at which point he could have them at will.
Sabrina M, a 21 year old “frequent lucid dreamer” in Reddit’s online lucid dreaming sub-community, learned to lucid dream by keeping a dream diary for three months. Sabrina claims to lucid dream once every ten nights.
“You can do what you always wanted to do, for me it is flying,” Sabrina said. “A problem of mine is remembering what I wanted to do as soon as I lucid dream, the flying response is now a habit of mine that’s rather difficult to break.”
Lucid dreaming and dream control are distinctive however. While you may achieve lucidity and become aware you are dreaming, controlling the dream requires confidence and practice. Lucidity usually leads to dream control, and both are regularly practiced in tandem.
After first achieving lucidity, dreamers often wake up due to excitement. Eighteen Lucidity Institute members tested three different techniques for prolonging lucid dreams and prevent waking up immediately. The motion of spinning around your axis was shown to greatly increase the chance of staying in the dream, due to your brain’s ability to easily duplicate the sensation. The odds were 22 to 1 in favor of continuing the lucid dream after spinning.
If you die in your dream, you’ll probably wake up due to the level of anxiety involved. Lucid dreaming is safe however, as your body is paralyzed while you sleep. As pleasurable as the dream world may be, psychological addiction is unlikely because REM sleep is limited, according to the Lucidity Institute’s FAQ  about lucid dreaming.
“I would not say I’m psychologically addicted to LD’s,” Blackwell said. “In my opinion though, I can’t see how anyone wouldn’t prefer their dream life to the waking life at least a little bit. Having ultimate control over your entire environment can’t be beat.”
LaBerge describes in the FAQ how lucidity can help people cope with nightmares:
“Monsters often transform into benign creatures, friends, or empty shells when courageously confronted in lucid dreams. This is an extremely empowering experience. It teaches you in a very visceral manner that you can conquer fear and thereby become stronger.”
Marvin Rodrigues, a 20 year old financial advisor from Sarasota, learned how to lucid dream specifically to help combat his sleep paralysis. He now claims to lucid dream about once a week.
“I went online and did research seeking a solution after experiencing extreme heart wrenching situations,” Rodrigues said. “Sleep paralysis was my worst fear when it came time to go to bed.
Whether you learn to lucid dream to overcome your fears, explore your subconscious, or simply for pleasure and enjoyment, lucid dreaming allows you to access the expanses of your imagination.
“Lucid dreaming has helped me stay motivated towards my goal in life, I live in a world [in dreams] where I see myself in 5 years or so,” Rodrigues said. “In turn it has improved my waking life drastically. I think it is something everyone should experience.”
Click “Next Page” to find out how to induce Lucid Dreams.



Fire safety measures in on-campus housing have been revamped since the infamous Towers incident, said UCF communications coordinator.
“Lately, students have chosen not to leave their apartment when a fire alarm has sounded,” said Courtney Gilmartin, communications coordinator for UCF News and Information.
In response to this, the university has taken an active stance on improving student awareness for emergency protocols. Towers residents have received notice that housing will not conduct any more unannounced fire drills for the remainder of the semester.
“That was a joint decision between housing and our environmental health and safety folks,” Gilmartin said.
By doing this, Gilmartin said, the university hopes to aide with the anxiety of on-campus residents after the incident, especially those students living in the Towers.
“If the fire alarm does go off, it’s not us testing,” Gilmartin said. “It’s likely a real emergency and they need to leave the building.”
However, some are not convinced that this new system will provide any major improvements.
“I usually go somewhere else on campus,” said Lisamarie Grafe, UCF student and resident of the Towers, referring to when an alarm sounds. “They take too long and are always at inconvenient times.”
In addition, contrary to the university’s concern of student anxiety, a month may have been enough time for calming the nerves of residents.
“It feels so distant,” said Rachel Jeter, UCF student and resident of the Towers, “since nothing actually happened.”
This proved to be the common consensus among many of the students.
“It’s not too surprising considering how big the school is,” said Sandeep Bala, UCF student and Tower 3 computer lab monitor. “I don’t feel unsafe.”
As far as any concern, it seems as though residents are merely annoyed with the frequency of the drills and false alarms.
“One time I set off the fire alarm by accident,” said Ben Babchick, UCF student and resident of the Towers. “We were bringing a cake to my friend, and as we were running the wind blew out the candles, setting off the whole building.”
Even while the university is posting notices of when the fire drills will occur, it doesn’t seem as though it is happening on schedule.
“They were 45 minutes late on the last one, and it disrupted my lunch break,” Grafe said. “I never got to eat my tater tots.”
Public changes that the university has also implemented include increased patrol on campus, increased fire safety conversations with on-campus residents, and encouraging students to utilize the electronic alert system of text messages and emails, Gilmartin said.
“A lot of what’s going on is internal review,” Gilmartin said. “It’s hard to kind of articulate what the long term changes might be just because it’s still so fresh for all of us.”



Everyone else had left, but Kyle Coon, the instructor of the spinning class, had stayed behind with one student.
One-on-one, he was pushing her to do better and to challenge herself even though his job teaching the 1-hour class was finished.
Kyle Coon “He kept me motivated and he kept telling me, ‘You’re stronger than you think you are,’” said Saraya Perry.
At just ten months old, Coon was diagnosed with Bilateral Sporadic Retinoblastoma, also known as cancer of the eye. He underwent procedures to remove his left and right eyes at ages 5 and 6, respectively.
“I went through this stage of depression, I was angry and scared about being blind,” Coon said.
Coon found a role model in Erik Weihenmayer, the first blind person to reach the summit of Mount Everest. Through Weihenmayer, Coon learned that he, too, could overcome blindness and accomplish extraordinary feats. He uses his triumph over blindness to show others that limits are all in the mind.
“I love to inspire and motivate people to reach their full potential through my experiences,” said Coon.
He has certainly made this mission evident in his life. Coon enjoys outdoor activities like hiking, canoeing and camping; he has even hiked Mount Kilimanjaro, the highest peak on the continent of Africa. Oftentimes, Coon and his fiancée Kailee Smith enjoy these activities together.
Smith says that Kyle Coon is just like any other guy, and even more remarkable in some ways.
“He’s the love of my life. I don’t even notice that he’s blind because he’s always been able to do anything that anyone else can do,” Smith said.
Coon is also a member of Team Sight Unseen, a group that includes him and five other men. The group goes on outdoor adventures including hiking trips to places like Gannett Peak, WY. They document their trips and upload videos to their blog at TeamSightUnseen.com.
Out of all of his successes, Coon values his positive attitude toward life as his crowning achievement.
“My biggest accomplishment is my attitude. I try not to limit myself in any endeavor,” said Coon.
Coon carries this ideology into his academic life; he is studying interpersonal organizational communication in hopes that he might one day be able to motivate and inspire people as his role model did for him.
In every aspect of his life, Coon’s peers can’t help but notice his remarkable attitude and personality.
“I believe Kyle is more perceptive to his students, even more so than someone with sight, and that’s saying a lot about an instructor,” said Coon’s supervisor, Jack Crumley.
Coon can be found walking around campus with his Seeing Eye dog, Tyrone, or in the gym teaching spinning, washboard abs and other group exercises.



A 21-year-old UCF student accused of shooting two people in a crowd in Gifford on March 31 had his charges dropped Monday, according to WPTV news.
Julian Butler, 21, was arrested and booked into jail on Saturday on charges of aggravated battery with a deadly weapon, two counts of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon, carrying a concealed weapon, and discharging a firearm in public, WPTV news reports.
According to WPTV, three people who were at the shooting were able to identify Butler from a photo lineup, however, Butler’s attorney was able to show investigators a store receipt and store surveillance video — proving that Butler was in Orlando at the time of the shooting.
Gunfire erupted within a crowd of at least 500 on March 31, according to WPTV. The news outlets also reports that the Easter night shooting was over a long-stanging dispute over a woman. Five people were injured, including a baby who was shot in a stroller, WPBF news reports. 
Police are currently using video surveillance footage to try and locate suspects.



