Several SGA senators are facing pressure to resign amid speculation they temporarily switched their majors to Engineering in order to secure a spot on Student Government Senate, according to sources within SGA.
It is perceived that the Senators switched their majors to Engineering with no intentions of taking Engineering classes. An Engineering Dean allegedly caught wind of the actions and raised serious concerns.
SGA sources say Speaker Anthony King issued notices of noncompliance to several of the engineering senators.
Currently, much is unknown, and even current members of the 45th Senate are still learning the information.
Greg Cullen, Student Government Senator seat 4 for College of Business, was quite unaware of the situation telling KnightNews.com, “This is all news to me, I’m going to talk with my fellow Senators and will try and find out more information about it.”
KnightNews.com has contacted SGA and the interim dean of the College of Engineering for more information but they did not immediately return our e-mails. We will update you with more as we find out.



The Orange County Sheriff’s Office has released a suspect in the double shooting that happened at the Campus Crossing Apartment complex near UCF on Monday evening. 

The suspect in this case has been identified as Cortez Derrell Glover, 19, and is wanted on charges of attempted first-degree murder, according to the the Orange County Sheriff’s Office. 
“This is an active investigation and detectives continue to search for Mr. Glover,” OCSO spokesperson Ginette Rodriguez said. “Mr. Glover is from Jacksonville and there is a possibility that he may flee there.”
For more information on the incident, click here.
Anyone with information on the suspect is asked to call CRIMELINE.



KnightNews.com has just obtained the full list of fraternity and sorority GPA’s and sizes for Fall 2012.
Phi Delta Theta is now the largest fraternity on campus with 132 members, followed by Alpha Tau Omega (116) and Theta Chi (104). Alpha Delta Pi is the largest sorority at UCF with 175 members, followed by Alpha Xi Delta (170) and Alpha Epsilon Phi/Delta Zeta both with 168 members.
Here are the top three highest Greek GPA organizations:
Fraternity
1. Delta Lambda Phi – 3.059
2. Delta Sigma Phi – 3.038
3. Beta Theta Pi – 3.028
Sorority
1. Sigma Gamma Rho – 3.417
2. Alpha Delta Pi – 3.315
3. Kappa Delta – 3.284
Click the links below for full breakdowns.
SEE FRATERNITY GRADES & SIZES | SEE SORORITY GRADES & SIZES 



