Congrats to all the winners and participants in UCF ZTA Lip Sync 2013, benefiting breast cancer awareness! A team of KnightNews.com staff worked all night to upload all the high quality video replays! Directly below, check out the video of who won. Then scroll down to the bottom of the page to click on each group’s name to watch that replay video.

Please take a second to like this story by clicking the like button up at the top, so your friends see this story on Facebook. Also, make sure you like KnightNews.com on Facebook and Twitter, so you get all the major UCF news you need to know — plus UCF community stories like this! 
Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get UCF Greek News like this on your feeds!



UCF Student Government Association Senator Jaclyn Graham was elected the 46th Speaker of the Senate on Thursday night.
Graham defeated Senator Clifford Rice with a 45-3-1 vote count, she previously served as Senate President Pro Tempore before being elected Speaker of the Senate.
Along with Graham being elected, Senator Weston Bayes was elected Senate President Pro Tempore with a 30-17-2 vote count.



We’re working to edit and upload high quality individual video replays of tonight’s performance here. In the meantime, here’s a low quality replay of the live broadcast while you wait for the high quality uploads!

Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get news like this on your feeds!
The high quality videos will begin uploading soon. Continue to check back!



The University of Central Florida has asked the state for $118.1 million to fund projects in 2014.
According to the Orlando Business Journal, UCF made a case on Oct. 9 to the Florida Board of Governors’ finance and facilities committee, which overseas the state’s universities and creates the list of prioritized construction projects, for the funding. 
According to the Orlando Business Journal, UCF is seeking state funding for the following projects:
UCF Valencia Classroom Building: Request: $7.5 million
The University of Central Florida’s share of the cost to build the UCF Valencia classroom building in Osceola County. That building has already been built, but UCF still owes Valencia College $3.75 million for it. The facility created 15 permanent jobs.
UCF Arts Complex, Phase 2: Request: $50 million
This is the second phase of the Performing Arts Center. Phase I was classrooms, support and studio space. Phase 2 is a 600-seat concert hall, a 263-seat recital hall, a 520-seat proscenium theater and a 225-seat black box theater. The school is asking for $50 million in state funding, in addition to the $17 million in private donations the school has raised for the project, for a total budget of $67 million. The facility will create 316 construction jobs and 39 permanent jobs; additional benefits include creating a talent pipeline for the tourism industry. The facility would be finished in January of 2017.
Engineering Building 1 Renovation: Request: $14.9 million
This building is 30 years old, and the state has already contributed $3.6 million of the $18.5 million needed, leaving $14.9 million remaining to be funded. The project would create 118 construction jobs, but no new permanent jobs. Renovations could be finished in January 2017.
Interdisciplinary Research Facility: Request: $45.7 million
This project got $5.9 million in 2010, but that money was since spent on the Classroom II building project. That means UCF still needs $45.7 million for the project, which would house nano-science technology, advanced materials processing and analysis, optics and lasers, and energy research. It will also house the UCF business incubator program, which, on average, creates graduates with an average salary $67,541. The project would create 350 construction jobs and 83 permanent jobs. This project would have an annual economic impact of $10.6 million per year, said UCF economist Sean Snaith. The facility could be opened in mid-2017.
If funding were to be received in full, the projects would create work for 784 construction workers and add 122 permanent jobs into the local economy, the Orlando Business Journal says.



UPDATE UCF has confirmed that Fusaro is a student at UCF. 
A man wanted by police for taking upskirt video of women at a Target in Waterford Lakes has been arrested. 
Nicholas Fusaro Nicholas Fusaro, 28, was arrested Wednesday night on charges of video voyeurism after he was caught by shoppers doing the same thing at a Walmart on East Colonial Drive, WKMG Local 6 reports.
According to the Local 6, a couple of people inside the Walmart at 11250 East Colonial Drive recognized Fusaro from TV news reports and called police after seeing him taking more upskirt videos.
Police released video of the alleged suspect in Target, where he can be seen tucking his cell phone under a large bag of dog food at the bottom of his shopping cart before following a female wearing a dress, presumably trying to record images under her skirt.
Video from the Walmart incident has not yet been released.
Fusaro was being held at the Orange County Jail on no bond.  His first court appearance is scheduled for Thursday afternoon. 




