Students say a new parking policy could be encouraging people to drive drunk on Alafaya Trail, one of the biggest drunk driving roads in the country.
“It’s putting college students at risk, 100 percent,” UCF student Tommy Valentine said.
Students who made it a habit to leave their cars in the University Commons Shopping Center after a night drinking at either The Station Bar and Grill or The Mad Hatter were left with a heavy consequence: a towed car and a $125 fine.
Valentine said the towing spree hit the plaza without notice. When he got his car towed during the day at a UCF tailgate in September, he said at least 30 other cars were towed.
“There are signs up now stating that the parking lot is a tow-away zone, but those signs weren’t put up until weeks, even months after the towing began. There wasn’t any warning,” Valentine said.
Valentine also had issues with the towing company. His day ended in him being pushed down by one of Constellation Towing’s employees when he tried to get his wallet out of his car.
“I followed my car to retrieve it and realized my wallet was in the car. I was thrown out of my car to the floor and had the cops called on me for attempted grand theft auto,” Valentine said. 
Constellation towing claimed Valentine had no right to be at his car since it was towed, but Valentine said when the police arrived no action was taken against either side.
Now bar managers are outraged. They said this policy could encourage students to drive drunk in order to avoid a $125 fine.
“I feel that not only it’s harming the safety of students who come in here, but it could possibly endanger other lives out there that aren’t even going out…that are just trying to travel the roads late at night and get home safely,” The Station Bar and Grill owner Mikey Rubino said.
Both bars posted a sign on their doors expressing their dissatisfaction with the policy and prompting students to reach out to the property manager directly to help settle the towing issue.




UCF is ranked No. 16 in the BCS poll following their win against USF on Friday at Brighthouse Networks Stadium. The Knights are ranked No. 15 in the AP Poll and No. 17 in the Coaches poll.
The Knights moved up three spots from last week, and are sitting behind undefeated Northern Illinois and LSU in the standings.
UCF can secure a trip to a BCS bowl on Thursday if Louisville beats Cincinnati, or if Louisville loses to Cincinnati, the Knights can still secure the BCS-berth with a win against SMU on Saturday.
If Louisville loses to Cincinnati and the Knights lose to SMU, it would depend on the polls as to which of the two teams would go to the BCS-game.
 



With the I-4 Corridor Clash in the books, it’s time to reflect on UCF’s big win. So we’re taking you to the very beginning of this historic game: The Tailgate! 
Sponsored Ad – Story Continues Below

Join KnightNews.com’s Justin Levy as he gives marriage advice, breaks it down with the black power ranger, and feeds into his gambling problem in the UCF vs. USF Tailgate Fan Cam!

[myrelposts-related title=”See more coverage of UCF Football:“]



The UCF Knights moved up two spots in both the AP and Coaches poll following their 23-20 victory against rival USF.
The Knights are ranked No.15 in the AP ranking and No. 17 in the coaches poll ranking. The Knights still remain one spot behind Louisville in the coaches’ ranking, despite defeating them 38-35 on the road earlier this season.
Sponsored Ad – Story Continues Below

Northern Illinois, a big factor in UCF’s possible BCS destination, is ranked one spot behind the Knights at No.16 in the AP ranking.
The Knights will travel to Texas on Dec. 7 to take on the SMU Mustangs with a chance to clinch the American Conference title and BCS berth outright.



