I have come to find that each city in the world holds secret treasures. For the Orlando/UCF area, I feel that the hidden gem is music. Numerous local bands exist, some better than others; but hey at least they’re pursuing their dreams!
When moving to UCF for school I immediately submerged myself in the local music at venues that were considered to be just another “hole-in-the-wall.” Earlier in the summer I came across a band that were ‘407’ locals, and nonetheless UCF alumni. The pop rock band is called Shout London and is composed of lead vocalist Tyler Whiting, bassist Chris Metz, guitarist Harley Marcel, and drummer Cameron Parker. Tyler and Chris graduated from UCF in 2012.
The four-man band has a similar sound to the genre that holds All Time Low, Mayday Parade, Go Radio, and A Rocket To The Moon. The band was put together in the early months of 2013, and has a rapid growing fan base. This honestly doesn’t surprise me at all; they are one word: brilliant. Their first EP self-titled, Shout London, was released earlier this year and they plan to release their first album in mid-November of this year.
KnightNews.com was given the opportunity to speak with Tyler for a little Q&A earlier this week.
Q: How did Shout London get started? Can you tell us about the bands background?
A: Well, Shout London was first started as my own solo acoustic project to just pick up gigs around town. Soon, my buddy who played the drums was super interested in playing. He bought a drum set immediately. I couldn’t tell him no after that and we started a band.
Q: When did you know you wanted to use music as your career?
A: About five years ago I started getting involved with bands in general. However, music wasn’t my sole career choice. I actually have three college degrees and a minor! After I received my BA I just thought it was a good time to push harder with my music because I had more free time on my hands (no more homework, woohoo!). Right now though, my two career choices are music as well as web design; which what two of my degrees are in, Go UCF!
Q: Wow, that’s impressive! Did you study music in school as well?
A: No, not at all actually, I never learned how to read it, and I can barely ready tabs too. It’s kind of pathetic being a musician.
Q: It’s not pathetic at all, it’s quite amazing honestly! Okay, so you said you and Chris are alumni, how did UCF help impact yours and the bands success?
A: I’d have to say UCF taught us to succeed you have to work hard. At the end of the day you can’t blame anyone except yourself for being unsuccessful. (yoU Can Finish!) Chris and I both have Bachelors degrees from UCF. We put that same hard work and drive from school into Shout London. We also have gotten nothing but great support from people at UCF! We also played a show for the unsigned club once when we were just starting out.
Q: What would you say your favorite memory from your UCF career would be? It doesn’t have to be music related.
A: My favorite memories were definitely music related. My first music project in Orlando was with my friend Brandon. We both played our acoustic guitars on campus while long-boarding. We would just cruise around and people would ask to take our pictures. We stopped in some of our favorite spots and jammed. People would come hang out and listen to us. I’m a big fan of the UCF campus atmosphere that is created by the students.
Q: Yeah, that is one of my favorite things about UCF as well! Well, I have to ask you, what inspires you? Who are your favorite musicians?
A: I’d say a lot of the people around me inspire me; my band-mates, my friends, my producer, and my parents. The bands I’ve been inspired by lately are A Day to Remember and Mayday Parade. Jason Lancaster has always been a huge inspiration as well. Last, but not least, past relationships have always played a role when it comes to inspiration for songs!
Q: Well what do you consider the “formula” for success?
A: Time + dedication + motivation towards something worth putting that towards. You have to truly believe in what you’re doing and be extremely passionate about it as well. If you are and you’ve put in the work, you will find success in it. It may not be the “get rich and retire success”, but then again success comes in many forms!
Q: So, Shout London has a new album coming out in November, is there anything you can tell us any secrets about it?
A: I am so excited for this album. We’re going to first release it on Bandcamp.com so make sure to look for it there first! There is eleven tracks and it’s full of awesome surprises. It’s a very versatile piece of art including acoustic tracks and even more pop punkish tracks. The songs are much like the first EP, but I’d say the sound is a little more grown up. We also made a new version of Don’t You Dare from the first EP!
Shout London’s next show will be November 18th at Backbooth in Orlando. It is $10 for pre-sale tickets, or $12 at the door. To get in contact for pre-sale prices message the group on their Facebook page at www.facebook.com/shoutlondonmusic . You can stay up to date with news regarding the bands fast-moving progress by liking the page, or following them on twitter at @ShoutLondonBand . Their music is available on Spotify, iTunes, BandCamp and YouTube.



Homecoming 2013 at the University of Central Florida kicks off this Saturday, Nov. 2 with a week full of festivities and ending with the football game against the Houston Cougars at 7 p.m on Nov. 9.
Tickets for Concert Knight featuring Benny Benassi and Timeflies and Comedy Knight featuring Craig Robinson can be picked up Oct. 30 from 4-7 p.m. in the UCF Student Union Atrium with a valid UCF ID.
Other Homecoming activities include:
Saturday, Nov. 2
Concert Knight will begin at 7 p.m. at the CFE Arena. Performers will be Benny Benassi and Timeflies. Free tickets for students with a UCF ID are available in the Office of Student Involvement, room 208 of the Student Union. Student ticket distribution will continue while supplies last. Non-UCF students can purchase tickets at the CFE Arena or through Ticketmaster.com.
Sunday, Nov. 3
Skit Knight will begin at 8 p.m. in the CFE Arena. Student organizations will show their school spirit and compete to be the best at singing, dancing and acting. Change donations will be accepted by Knight-Thon, the student philanthropy dance marathon that benefits the Children’s Miracle Network.
Monday, Nov. 4
“Monsters University” will be featured for Movie Knight along with free handouts and popcorn. Trivia will begin at 8 p.m., and the movie will start at 9 p.m. at the CFE Arena. Student-made commercials also will be shown, and the event is free for students and the public. Kids are welcome.
Wednesday, Nov. 6
Comedians Craig Robinson and Mark Normand will perform at Comedy Knight, which will start at 8 p.m. at the CFE Arena. Free tickets for students will be available at the Office of Student Involvement until supplies last. A valid student ID must be shown at the door with each student ticket. Non-students can purchase tickets through Ticketmaster.com.
Thursday, Nov. 7
Penny Wars will start at 11 a.m. at the Student Union patio. Students will compete to collect the most money for Knight-Thon.
The achievements of UCF alumni will be celebrated at the Black & Gold Gala at 6 p.m. at the CFE Arena. The evening will include an awards presentation, dinner, reception and silent auction to benefit the UCF Alumni Trust Scholarship Fund. The cost is $70, and corporate tables are available for $800. Reservations are required and can be made at https://www.ucfknightsnetwork.com/homecoming2013.
Friday, Nov. 8
The Homecoming golf tournament will be held at Disney World Resort Golf Courses. Registration will start at 7:30 a.m. The cost is $125 and includes greens fees, range balls, cart, continental breakfast and awards luncheon. Reservations can be made at https://www.ucfknightsnetwork.com/homecoming2013.
Spirit Splash, UCF’s annual Homecoming pep rally, will begin at 1 p.m. at the Reflecting Pond. The event was awarded Best Campus Tradition by the National Association for Campus Activities in 2011.
Black & Gold Takeover will start at 9 p.m. in downtown Orlando. Wear school colors to celebrate the night before the Homecoming football game. The event is hosted by the Young Alumni Chapter, and all alumni are welcome. For more information, visit https://www.ucfknightsnetwork.com/takeover2013.
Saturday, Nov. 9
The UCF Alumni Association will host an indoor tailgate party at the FAIRWINDS Alumni Center. Admission is free for UCF alumni and their guests who show alumni key cards at the door.



Written by: Nicole Moshe
Former UCF student and founder of the popular Party Tutor smartphone app, Brent Henderson, was at the Blackstone LaunchPad in the Student Union on Oct. 28 giving students a presentation on how to start an app business.
“Young people for the first time can build a business that connects to everyone on a global scale because now with the Internet you can reach millions of people,” Henderson said. “Applications are taking information that’s on the Internet and organizing the information into applications that make our lives easier.”
Since its launch in June 2011, the free Party Tutor app has had almost 50,000 downloads and provides information on drink specials, food specials, and gives you access to everything you need to know around college campuses, which include UCF, FSU, UF, USF, UA, UK and UofL, that can help students save money.
“With party tutor we want to bring out students more to the businesses and to the community and save them money,” Henderson said.
During his presentation, Henderson said the idea for the app arose when one night him and his friends were trying to figure out where they wanted to go out and they had to search on multiple websites to figure out the specials local bars and restaurants were having.
“I built the app based on a problem I was having as a student,” Henderson said. “When I had the idea I didn’t know how to make an app or website, I had never started a business I just new it was a good idea. A business idea comes from a problem that you’re passionate about and working on how to solve that problem.”
Freshman Andrea Prado attended the presentation and said since she uses Party Tutor a lot, going to the presentation would be a good way to spend her time.
“Brent taught us how to look at an idea, make it our own and how to progress as an entrepreneur,” Prado said. “I love how he said we have to look at the world we’re living in and then see the world we want to live in and then make it happen.”
Henderson said launching an app is a lot more complex than just a good idea.
“I first started out with a website, so I found a friend who had made a website and contacted his developer and he built the website,” he said. “Then enough people were using it that I thought it was time to pull the trigger on making it an app. I built it as a student building my dream app.”
After listening to the presentation, Prado said she really enjoyed what Brent had to say and he presented the challenges that come with starting a business in a way that allowed her to understand the importance of overcoming these challenges.
“If I ever do get a random idea that I think could be helpful to others I’ll look back at this event because it was super helpful,” Prado said.
The best advice Henderson said he could give to students wanting to start an app business is “to figure out what you love doing and build a business around that.”
To stay informed about local bar and restaurant deals around UCF download the Party Tutor app or visit www.PartyTutor.com.



