This past weekend, UCF head coach George O’Leary and UCF Athletic Director Todd Stansbury flew to Ireland to make the UCF-Penn State game official.
The Croke Park Classic, as the game is being called, will take place at 8:30 a.m. ET Saturday, Aug, 30, 2014, in Dublin, Ireland, and will air on ESPN2. UCF just recently released information which you can see here.
Not only will this game give UCF exposure on national television, it will give UCF international exposure, something that the program has yet to see. With the move to the American Athletic Conference and budding conference rivalry with USF, it’s hard to imagine how this could not be helpful for the program. 
Check out the video below of George O’Leary and Páraic O Dufaigh, Director General of the Gaelic Athletic Association announce the game below: 




After an automatic doubling of student loan rates earlier in July, the Associated Press is now reporting that a bipartisan group of senators have reached a deal that “would offer students better rates this fall but perhaps assign higher rates in coming years.”
According to AP, the deal would offer students lower interest rates through the 2015 academic year. After that, however, rates would be expected to climb above where they are currently (6.8%).
A vote on the agreement could come sometime this week but it could be pushed back to the middle of next week depending on the Senate calendar, AP says. 
The agreement comes after the student loan rate increase that took place on July 1. Rates doubled from 3.4% to 6.8%. 
Under the deal, all undergraduates this fall would borrow at 3.85 percent interest rates. Graduate students would have access to loans at 5.4 percent and parents would be able to borrow at 6.4 percent, AP reports. 
Continue to check back on this breaking news report.



A UCF professor was recently honored for his work and contribution to the science of exercise and sport.
UCF associate professor Jeffrey Stout, coordinator for UCF’s Sport and Exercise Science program, is the recipient of the William J. Kraemer Outstanding Sport Scientist Award, UCF said. The award is given each year by the National Strength and Conditioning Association. 
NSCA brings together professionals from the sport science, athletic, health and fitness industries to study and encourage proper strength training and conditioning to improve fitness and athletic performance.
Stout received the award during NSCA’s national conference on July 12, which was held in Las Vegas this year. 
Stout joined UCF’s College of Education and Human Performance in January 2012, UCF said. He oversees UCF’s Human Performance Lab, where students and researchers study healthy aging, athletic development and nutrition.



UCF junior quarterback Blake Bortles added to his list of preseason honors by earning a spot on the Davey O’Brien watch list.
The award is given to the nation’s best quarterback and is considered the most prestigious national quarterback trophy in college football.
Blake Bortles and Stephen Morris(Miami) were the only two quarterbacks from the state of Florida to be named to the watch list and one of two players in the AAC, the other being Louisville Heisman candidate Teddy Bridgewater.
Bortles is coming off of a breakout sophomore season, as his first season as a full-time starter he threw for over 3,000 yards and is entering the season on a streak of 174 pass attempts without an interception.
Bortles has had quite the impressive offseason, as this is his third major preseason award watch list he has been named to including the Maxwell Award watch list and the College Football Performance Awards Quarterback Trophy Watch List.



