With all proceeds benefiting the St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, the Delta Delta Delta sorority at UCF hosted “Delta’s House of Pancakes”.
Hundreds of Greeks and students across UCF came together to once again raise thousands of dollars for  an annual charity aimed to help children with cancer and other catastrophic diseases.
In 2006, Tri Delta took on a commitment to raise $10 million in 10 years. In just four years – by May 2010 – Tri Delta met the $10 million fundraising goal. Following that, Tri Delta announced it would try to raise $15 million in the next 5 years.
The event featured a photo booth, pancake eating contest and a DJ. KnightNews.com was at the event to see how it went:




According to fauowlaccess.com, a deal struck Tuesday between Florida Atlantic University and The Geo Group leaves the University with $6 million and their football stadium with a new name–one that links it to prison. 
The GEO Group agreed to a deal with the University that gives the athletics department $500,000 for the next 12 years in return for the stadium to be named Geo Group Stadium for that allotted time.
The story, however, falls in with the nature of the Geo Group’s business. The Group proclaims themselves as the world’s leading provider of correctional, detention, and community reentry services.
FAU’s Board of Trustees erupted in applause, however, when the deal was approved at Tuesday’s meeting, fauowlaccess.com reports. A few hours later FAU Athletic Director Pat Chun called it “a landmark day for our athletic program,” they said.
The fauowlaccess.com story says also says GEO Group CEO George Zoley, holds two degrees from FAU.



Student Government Presidential and Vice Presidential elections have just begun with the availability of petitions to run and KnightNews.com is bringing you full election coverage, from start to finish.
Sources within SGA tell KnightNews.com that, so far, Melissa Westbrook, current SGA Community Affairs Specialist, plans to be a candidate for Student Government President and her running mate for Vice President will be College of Science senator, Jacob Kahn. 
View important information about elections below:
Petition Pick Up – Feb. 18th (9 a.m.)
Declaration of Candidacy – Feb. 25th – Feb. 28th (9 a.m. – 5 p.m.)
Active Campaigning – Begins immediately following the ticket’s Declaration of Candidacy
RSO/Greek Candidate Debate – Mar. 13th, 2:00-4:00 p.m. in SU 218 CD
Formal Candidate Debate – Mar. 19th, 7:00-9:00 p.m. in SU 316 AB
Election – Mar. 25th, 8:00 a.m. – Mar. 27th, 5:00 p.m.
Continue to check back with KnightNews.com for full coverage of the SGA Presidential elections for 2013.



UPDATE As of 11:34 a.m., communication has been restored with the space station, NASA said via Twitter.
According to CNN International, NASA lost communication with the International Space Station on Tuesday and has established only sporadic connections since, according to NASA spokesman Josh Byerly.
The space agency told CNN it is currently only able to communicate every 90 minutes when the facility passes over ground stations in Russia.
The station, which is carrying one American astronaut and two Russian cosmonauts, does not appear to be in danger, Byerly told CNN.
The loss in communications is not considered unprecedented, though it’s considered a cause for concern, officials told CNN.
NASA issued this message early Tuesday morning:
“This morning, at approximately 9:45 a.m. EST, the International Space Station experienced a loss of communication with the ground. At that time, flight controllers in Houston were updating the software onboard the station’s flight computers when one of the station’s data relay systems malfunctioned. The primary computer that controls critical station functions defaulted to a backup computer, but was not allowing the station to communicate with NASA’s Tracking and Data Relay Satellites.”
“Mission Control Houston was able to communicate with the crew as the space station flew over Russian ground stations before 11:00 a.m. EST and instructed the crew to connect a backup computer to begin the process of restoring communications. Expedition 34 Commander Kevin Ford reported that the station’s status was fine and that the crew was doing well. More details will follow as events warrant.”



