As UCF gets set to enter the new American Athletic Conference, it’s adding new uniforms and helmets in addition to just recently announcing facility upgrades.
The UCF Knights unveiled three new jerseys and a new glossy primarily black helmet on Tuesday at the “Hometown Huddle” fan event.
The Knights showed off two styles of the black helmet, one with a stripe across the center, and one with a stripe on the side. O’Leary said they have not decided on which helmet they are going to be using, but did say that the traditional white helmets will still be in use.
It has been a long dispute with fans on whether or not the Knights will put names on the back of their jerseys. O’Leary told the fans present at the event that it could be a possibility if enough interest is shown.
O’Leary also touched on the topic of the Knights playing their 2014 opener against Penn State in Ireland. He confirmed that talks are in the works, but nothing is set in stone. The matchup would pit two coaches with traditional Irish names against each other, O’Leary and O’Brien.
Take a look at the new uniforms and helmets below, pictures courtesy of UCFSports.com:





Fans of Harry Potter will soon be able to experience yet another part of the Wizarding World as Universal Studios Orlando gears up for an expansion to the Potter world.
On Wednesday, Universal Studios Orlando announced plans of an expansion to the Wizarding World of Harry Potter at the resort’s theme park. Named “The Wizarding World of Harry Potter – Diagon Alley,” the new section will be located at Universal Studios and will be themed on London.
“The new area within Universal Studios will be just as expansive, immersive and authentic as the existing themed environment,” a statement on Universal Studios Orlando’s Facebook page said

The expansion, said to be of “historic proportion” will feature an all new themed environment and is expected to open in 2014. The Orlando Sentinel reports that the expansion will include a Hogwarts Express connector to the original Wizarding World at Islands of Adventure.
“Scheduled to open in 2014, the world’s first centrally themed, multi-park experience expands The Wizarding World of Harry Potter across both Universal Orlando theme parks and allows Universal’s creative team to bring an unparalleled vision to this unique project,” a statement said. “The new area will bring to life some of the experiences and places found in and around London in the Harry Potter books and films, offering brand-new adventures for fans and theme park guests from around the world.” 



