One of America’s favorite, least healthiest snacks may be making a comeback.
According to Fox News, Hostess is close to announcing that C. Dean Metropoulos & Co. and Apollo Global Management, the companies most known for owning Pabst Blue Ribbon, will be the highest bidders for the popular snack.
In a deal that is reportedly worth close to 400 million, Metropoulos & Co. told Bloomberg,  “We have analyzed this opportunity very carefully for a few years now. Shedding the complications of the unions and old plants makes it even more attractive.”
Hostess declared bankruptcy officially in November when a strike by the baker’s union that eventually took the company to the ground. Since then, Hostess has been liquidating their assets including selling off Devil Dogs, Little Debbie cakes, and Yodels.
 



Students expressed concern to KnightNews.com following a violent robbery that took place on campus early Tuesday morning.

One student, a resident of the Nike dorms, parked her car in the same lot the victim was robbed in only 40 minutes beforehand, telling us it could have just as easily been her or any other student who had been robbed and sent to the hospital. She also told us that her parent was very worried about her safety and is considering having her take self-defense classes to avoid situations like this.
“I called my mom and she wanted to put me in almost self defense classes…that’s ridiculous, I shouldn’t have to   why don’t we have police patrolling at night…
Another student told us she was concerned that the police department was within viewing distance of the parking lot in which the robbery took place.
“That’s really bad,” she said. “I mean it seems like the perp(s) should have been apprehended immediately, I mean if you can see them, be right there, the fact that he did it right next to the security [police], that’s bad.”
KnightNews.com will continue to monitor any action taken by UCF or police to ensure students remain safe.
To read more on the story, click here.



Students and alumni searching for jobs may have to look no further.
UCF’s Career Services will be hosting a career expo on Tuesday, Feb. 5, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. that is expected to bring more than 150 employers to UCF. Companies from Disney World to Pepsi to the Orange County School District will converge at the expo to provide students and alumni with a way to connect with the job market.
The event will be held at the UCF Arena and offer available positions in engineering, accounting, sales, marketing, management and other fields. Last semester’s career expo attracted 100 employers and more than 1,500 students and alumni.
Attendees are required to dress in business professional attire and should take copies of their resumes. Students interested in attending may take their resumes to Career Services for critiques during the drop-in hours of 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. on the days leading up to the Career Expo. They can also prepare by attending one of the Career Services professional development workshops.
To find out more about the expo and to see which companies will be participating in the event, click here.



UPDATE  A spokesperson for UCF said that the victim has been treated and released from the hospital.
According to the email, four suspects pistol-whipped and robbed a male victim walking in the parking lot closest to the UCF Water Tower at Gemini Boulevard and Libra Drive early Tuesday morning and then fled in a gray Ford Focus. The victim flagged down a passerby who contacted the UCF Police Department to report the crime, which occurred at about 12:20 a.m. Tuesday in parking lot B12 near the Print Shop, police said.
The victim spoke with police on the scene and then was taken to a local hospital for treatment. He told police the four suspects were a white man and three black men wearing hoodies and bandanas. The victim’s current condition is unknown.
Police remind and encourage students to walk in groups whenever possible and to walk with a purpose without distractions. Keep your cell phone and car keys handy so you can reach them quickly.
Anyone with information about the incident is asked to contact the the UCF Police Department at 407-823-5555 or Crimeline at 800-423-TIPS (800-423-8477).



