In a game that could have easily been the first conference loss for UCF (8-1, 5-0), the Knights rallied once again in the fourth quarter to beat a resilient Temple (1-9, 0-5) team.
Blake Bortles tossed a 30-yard, circus-esqe touchdown pass to J.J. Worton in the fourth quarter to even the score at 36-36 with 1:06 remaining. The UCF defense came up with a big stop after allowing Temple 518 yards of total offense on the day to get the ball back with 19 seconds left in the contest.
Bortles then threw a deep pass downfield to connect with Rannell Hall for 64 yards, moving the ball inside the Temple 10-yard line. After a quick spike, Shawn Moffitt hit a game-winning field goal to lift the Knights to a 39-36 victory.
Sponsored Ad – Story Continues Below

Despite Temple being a one-win team on the season, they played UCF just as well as any team has. After a relatively slow first quarter where UCF got ahead 5-0 on a safety and field goal, the Temple Owls came charging back scoring three touchdowns in the second quarter.
True freshman P.J. Walker passed for 382 yards and 4 touchdowns, but that wasn’t enough to stop the Knights offense which gained a season high 657 total yards on the day. The Knights responded in the second quarter to get the slight edge on the Owls, going into halftime with a 22-21 lead after a Moffitt field goal.

P.J. Walker threw his only interception on the ensuing drive, but the Knights were forced to punt after a three-and-out series.
Walker and the Owls offense did not seem phased, and unlike most teams that are winless in their conference, scored to give Temple a 36-29 lead with just over two minutes remaining in the game.
Bortles once again pulled off what he has seemed to do with ease all season, and lead another game winning drive for the Knights.
The Knights do not have too long to relish in the win, they have a short week as they face conference foe Rutgers at Bright House Networks Stadium on Thursday.
 



The season was on the line Saturday night for the UCF Knights, who are generating lots of national buzz as they’ve worked themselves into every major national poll. The AP No. 15 Knights buckled down in the waning moments for a monumental win over the Houston Cougars 19-14. The win placed the Knights (7-1) alone atop of the American Athletic Conference.
With the Houston win under their belt, the Knights put themselves in position for a BCS-bid, but have another AAC showdown against the Temple Owls at the Lincoln Financial Field, Saturday at 12 p.m. (ET) on ESPN3 (and in Orlando on WKCF CW 18) before they can look too far ahead.
While the Knights play their opponents away this weekend, they face yet another challenge. Head coach George O’Leary, in preparing his team for the upcoming game, has often spoken about and praised the young players on the team who have led the Knights to victories this season. When Jacoby Glenn went out with an ankle injury, freshman Shaquill Griffin stepped up on Houston’s final drive. The youthful defense kept Houston out of the end zone on four do-or-die plays to end the game and limited the Cougars to just 14 points, far below their average of points per game this year.
UCF has the power and strength to keep pulling out the victories, from both their incredible offensive speed to their defensive line blowing up other teams’ backfields.  The Owls (1-8, 0-5) averaged only 15.8 points through the first five games, but have improved to 30.5 points in their last four games. Temple is improving, so the Knights need not to take this game lightly. Temple’s junior running back Kenneth Harper has rushed for 463 yards, 11 total touchdowns and provides much of the Owls’ offensive firepower.
The Owls will have their hands full if they want to challenge UCF. Blake Bortles, now the No. 11 rated passer in the country, has passed for 2,080 yards this season for 15 touchdowns and only 5 interceptions. Storm Johnson, although limited in yards last week, poses a huge threat against Temple’s defense as he has scored 9 TDs, and amassed 719 rushing yards on the season.
While many look to UCF as the team favored to win against the Owls, this is no time for UCF to be complacent or take any team for granted. O’Leary’s team will have to overcome obstacles, like playing away and in the big city of brotherly love known as Philadelphia.
Look for the Knights’ offense to get back on track. UCF wants the plane ride back to be smooth and relaxing, which only a win will bring.



