Homecoming week at the University of Central Florida is just weeks away and the official Greek pairings list has been released.
Fraternities and sororities submitted their match ups to UCF Homecoming this week. See the official pairings below.
Beta Theta Pi/Pi Beta Phi/Sigma Pi 
Kappa Delta/Alpha Tau Omega 
Tri Delta/Lambda Chi Alpha 
Sigma Nu/Kappa Alpha Theta/FIJI
Kappa Sigma/Zeta Tau Alpha
Theta Chi/Alpha Xi Delta
Zeta Beta Tau/Delta Zeta
Alpha Delta Pi/Phi Delta Theta
Kappa Kappa Gamma/Delta Sigma/Pi Kappa Phi
Chi Omega/ Tau Kappa Epsilon 
Alpha Epsilon Phi/ Delta Upsilon
Homecoming week is filled with events and concerts, including shows by Benny Benassi and funnyman Craig Robinson and is topped off by the homecoming game against the Houston Cougars. This year’s homecoming week takes place Nov. 2-9.
KnightNews.com is monitoring the pairing of ATO and Kappa Delta to see if it becomes impacted by the fraternity’s conduct situation. Earlier this month, it was announced that ATO was suspended by UCF after having an unregistered party in its on-campus house. ATO is currently appealing its suspension and may still be able to participate in homecoming. 
Continue to follow KnightNews.com for homecoming event coverage. 



The student government at UCF is asking: Do you want a thrift store on campus? 
The survey asking this question is being conducted to determine the interest level of a store, which would be called “Knightro’s Closet,” on UCF’s main campus at Knight’s Plaza.
Clothing would be at a set rate, just like Goodwill, and students would be allowed to drop off their donations to the store. The thrift store would plan for an opening in during the spring semester.
Students are being asked if they would want to see this initiative pursued further. 
Click here to access the survey. 



She has made history at the University of Central Florida in many categories and now, she has signed a deal with Nike.
Aurieyall Scott, UCF’s first NCAA champion in athletics history, recently signed an apparel contract with Nike, according to UCF. Deciding to forego her senior year of eligibility, Scott signed with Global Athletics — an organization which represents many of the nation’s top sprinters — in August, officially turning pro.
“When I came to UCF, I wanted to do something that no one else had before. It was a tough decision to leave, but I am really excited about moving on and representing Nike,” Scott told UCF. “Even though I won’t be wearing Black and Gold anymore, this team will always be a part of me. We accomplished a lot, and I’m proud of the time I spent here.”
During her collegiate career, Scott became the most decorated All-American in program history (14 honors, indoor and outdoor),according to UCF. She made history as the first Knight to win an NCAA title, claiming gold in the 60 meters at the 2013 NCAA Indoor Championships. 
Scott is currently enrolled in classes and is on pace to finish her degree in interdisciplinary studies in Summer 2014, according to UCF.



