“A chemistry experiment gone wrong has resulted in the virus that is beginning the Zombie Apocalypse, and it is beginning at UCF. Our campus is being overrun by the living-dead and they are very, very hungry.”
A description like that is sure to garner a bit of interest.

UCF’s Campus Activites Board is teaming up with SGA and other community members for a UCF Zombie 5K run. The race will take place on April 11, beginning at 9:30 p.m. The registration deadline is April 5, with only a set amount of spots available.  
According to the event page, each runner will have two flags attached to their belt to represent their life. Runners will have to get those two lives, along with themselves, across campus into the safety zone. 
“Obstacles may stand in your way and there’s a chance zombies have broken through our barricades – stay aware,” the site says. “We have been able to set up a few first aid stations along the path, if you lose a life it’s possible our medics can help.”
The race will begin at the UCF Teaching Academy and end at the Arena. Runners will only need to bring an ID. The race is only open to UCF students. Students can register to be either a runner, a zombie or an event volunteer.
Visit the event’s website for more information and to sign up.



The Knights (17-10, 3-1) lost to Conference USA rival Southern Miss (10-15, 2-2) on Thursday night, 4-1.  Headed into the game UCF was undefeated within the conference after sweeping UAB this past weekend.
Knights’ pitcher Ben Lively pitched a strong outing until an injury and staggering pitch count forced him out early in the eighth inning. Lively had pitched 7.1 innings while striking out four before exiting, and was changed with both the loss and two unearned runs.
“In my mind Ben was the highlight of the night,” said UCF Coach Terry Rooney when UCF Athletics caught up with him after the game. “He did what he’s been doing all year,” Rooney said. “He gave us a chance to win.” Coach Rooney went on to say that Lively is not just a great player but a great competitor
“Our team needs to show more of the same competitiveness and fire that Ben Lively pitches with.  If we can figure that out then we’re gonna be okay,” Rooney said.
JoMarcos Woods led off for the Knights and managed to score UCF’s only run after reaching on an error in the first. Third baseman Chris Taladay brought Woods home with an RBI double ripped down the right field line.
The Knights defense held strong against the Eagles until the top of the fourth when USM’s Blake Brown made it to first on a fielder’s choice, stole second and scored the first run for USM. A throwing error to first base allowed Brown to reach home, bringing the game even at 1.
Lively took a hard shot off the leg from USM’s Isaac Rodriguez in the eighth, who made it up to first because of the errant bounce the ball took. Lively recovered quickly, but was in clear pain and was removed after giving up a single to the next batter he faced, putting runners on first and second. Zac Favre relieved Lively and allowed one runner to score before ending the inning.
The heat was turned up on the Knights in the ninth as they entered the top of the inning with a one run deficit, down 2-1.  Favre was almost able to close out the inning with the game still close, recording two outs while only allowing one runner to reach base.
But after allowing USM’s Travis Creel to advance to second on a wild pitch, Favre walked the Eagle’s Connor Barron and hit Isaac Rodriguez to load the bases, quickly spelling the end of his night.
Jimmy Reed was chosen to relieve Favre, but walked in two runs and was pulled before recording an out.  Danny Davis retired the first batter he saw to end the ninth.
UCF was unable to put anything together in the bottom of the inning, ending the game at a 4-1 loss.
This is just the first of three games that UCF will host Southern Mississippi. There will be another game Friday at 6:30 p.m. and an additional game Saturday at 12:30 p.m.



Efforts to increase study abroad rates amongst American students achieves marginal successes, but pales in comparison to European students.
A few UCF students surmise the culprit behind our notoriously low study abroad rates in comparison to students from western European countries boils down to economic circumstances.
“Well, traveling and studying abroad is more, like, accessible to them. The plane tickets still cost roughly the same, sure, but they’re not going into as much debt as we are for their education so they have more spare money in their pocket to travel,” said Sarah Tilly, a graduate student majoring in communication sciences and disorders.
A variety of statistical reports and studies consistently demonstrate that American students tend to travel significantly less than their Western European counterparts. Despite nationwide attempts to boost participation of U.S students studying abroad, year-to-year increases have remained modest.
“I also think they [American students] prefer to work in the summer and save up rather than indulge in a study abroad program and add to their student loan debt. If the government really want us to go study abroad more then they should follow Europe’s example and actually make college tuition more affordable,” Tilly said. 
According to a 2012 press release by the Institute of International Education, the rates have been steadily growing, but still remain negligible if the overall amount of American students enrolled in higher education institutions is taken into account.
“However, American students studying abroad still represent a small proportion of total enrollment in U.S. higher education. About 14 percent of American students receiving Bachelor degrees this past year have studied abroad at some point during their undergraduate programs, while only one percent of U.S. students are studying abroad during a single academic year  (273,996 out of the more than 20 million students enrolled in U.S. higher education),” the press release from the IIE reported.
Chris Cook, a coordinator of academic advising, said the Office of International Studies has expanded options for study abroad programs in order to cater to more student majors. They also offer a variety of scholarships to students, many of which often go unclaimed due to lack of applicants. 
“There’s a lot of scholarships out there. Our website lists about four pages of different scholarships. Our office alone gives out $500 to $1000 every summer for short term programs, and we give out approximately $30,000 per summer,” said Cook.
Although data show low study abroad rates among American students, the OIS at UCF are not finding it difficult to find students to fill their programs.
“Most years one to two programs get closed out of 30, so we’re not really struggling to find students. Some programs do better than others, especially the short terms programs which seem to be the most popular,” Cook said.
Sarah Taylor, a senior majoring in Social Work, said she believes the government needs to encourage students to study abroad by offering monetary incentives and alternate funding. 
“I think a good method would be to reach out to local businesses that hire students, like agencies and restaurants, and make them provide scholarships for their student employees who want to study abroad. I don’t know, its just an idea, but they really should make study abroad programs more affordable, and maybe finally raising the minimum wage would be really helpful,”  Taylor said.
Western Europe boasts various incentive programs that accommodates students who wish to study abroad. One such program allows students from countries that are part of the 
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to obtain “maintenance grants” from their country of origin for a certain amount of years even if they study abroad at foreign universities. 
Another such incentive is the Bologna Agreement, signed by 47 countries, which was implemented to increase ease of transfer and reduce academic inconvenience. It standardizes Bachelor and Master degree programs and considers the degree offerings across all the signatory countries as equivalent.
Chelsea Piner, a student majoring in environmental studies, said she thinks the biggest issues that weigh down study abroad rates is the lack of government funding for such programs, the lack of distribution of tax money toward higher education, and the fact that pell grants can only be received for credits taken at an American university.
“European students get pretty cheap tuition, and I think some are even free. The education budget here on the other hand is usually one of the first things to get cut. We seem to be paying all this tax money, and so do countries in Europe I guess, but the difference is that we’re certainly not seeing any of it,” Piner said.
Despite the economic hardships and challenges American students face when attempting to study in a foreign country, study abroad advisor, Maureen Waked, said she would advise students to take into consideration that traveling will be much harder to do once you’ve begun your career.
“In 10 years, or five years from now once you’ve graduated and you’re working, will you have regretted not doing something that you’ve always wanted to do? I think it would be worth it, maybe, to take out a loan to go study abroad because I’ve seen students do that and come back and say ‘oh I’m so glad that I did that because it was one of the best experiences of my life,'” “Waked said.  
“And I mean, they should take the opportunity because once you graduate and you start working, it’s hard to get away.”



