The University of Central Florida Knights head coach George O’Leary was named to The Paul Bear Bryant Coach of the Year Award Watch List Friday evening.
The watch list was announced by the American Heart Association and The Paul Bear Bryant Awards’ title sponsor Marathon Oil Corporation.
Coach O’Leary was one of 20 members on the watch list:
David Bailiff – Rice
Art Briles – Baylor
Rod Carey – Northern Illinois
Tim DeRuyter – Fresno State
Jimbo Fisher – Florida State
Al Golden – Miami (Fla.)
Mark Helfrich – Oregon
Brady Hoke – Michigan
Kliff Kingsbury – Texas Tech
Pete Lembo – Ball State
Tony Levine – Houston
Gus Malzahn – Auburn
Urban Meyer – Ohio State
Les Miles – LSU
George O’Leary – UCF
Gary Pinkel – Missouri
Nick Saban – Alabama
David Shaw – Stanford
Bob Stoops – Oklahoma
Kevin Sumlin – Texas A&M
The UCF Knights are currently ranked No. 19 in the AP Top 25 poll as well as No. 23 in the BCS standings.
The Paul Bear Bryant Coach of the Year Award will be revealed at the 28th annual event on Jan. 15 in Houston. In early December, a finalists’ list comprised of five to 10 coaches will be announced. Finalists will attend an awards dinner in January at the Royal Sonesta Hotel in the Galleria in Houston, where the winner will be announced. The Bryant Coach of the Year Award is the only college coaching honor voted on after all of the bowl games are concluded.
The Knights take on the Houston Cougars (7-1, 4-0) at Bright House Networks Stadium Nov. 9 at 7 p.m.



UCF Homecoming kicked off on Nov.2 celebrating UCF’s 50th anniversary.
The activities start with a community service  “Knightro’s Kidz Carnival” on Saturday in Memory Mall from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. with free admission. The activities will wrap up on Saturday night when the Knights take on the Houston Cougars at Brighthouse Networks Stadium on ESPN2.
See the rest of the events below:
Saturday, Nov.2: Concert Knight will begin at 7 p.m. at the CFE Arena with Benny Benassi and Timeflies performing. Students with a valid UCF ID can receive tickets for free in the Office of Student Involvement while supplies last.
Sunday, Nov. 3: Skit Knight will begin at 8 p.m. in the CFE Arena. Student organizations will be performing short skits that pertain to UCF school spirit and their respective homecoming themes.
Monday, Nov. 4: “Monsters University” will be played at 9 p.m. in the CFE Arena for Movie Knight. The student-made commercials will also be shown.
Wednesday, Nov. 6: Craig Robinson and Mark Normand will perform at Comedy Knight, which will start at 8 p.m. at the CFE Arena. Students can also receive free tickets to this event by going to the Office of Student Involvement while supplies last.
Friday, Nov. 8: UCF’s famous tradition, Spirit Splash, will begin at 1 p.m. at the Reflection Pond. This event was awarded Best Campus Tradition by the National Association for Campus Activities in 2011.



