UCF was voted to finish fourth in the American Athletic Conference preseason football poll, just barely edging rival USF who were voted to finish fifth.
To no one’s surprise, the Louisville Cardinals were voted the favorites to win the AAC, garnering 28 of the 30 first place votes. The other two first place votes went to Cincinnati, who finished second in the voting. Rutgers were voted to finish third.
UCF were the favorites to win the C-USA last season, but lost to Tulsa in the C-USA championship game. UCF still finished with their second double-digit winning season, going 10-4 en route to blowing out the Ball State Cardinals in the St.Pete bowl.
At the AAC media day, USF Coach Willie Taggart finally acknowledged the rivalry between UCF.
“I think as the season gets closer, I am starting to sense the displeasure of Central Florida by all of our fans, and seeing it from them, too,” Taggart told the Orlando Sentinel.
O’Leary also weighed in on the budding conference rivalry.
“He said he’s got to own the I-4corridor..I said to him, obviously you’ve got to go back and look at your geography,” O’Leary told the Orlando Sentinel.
The two teams will clash at Brighthouse Networks Stadium on Black Friday, Nov.29, on either ESPN, ESPN2, or ABC.
UCF will be holding the annual Countdown to Kickoff Luncheon on Thursday, Aug. 15, and UCF Football FanFest is scheduled for Friday, Aug. 23.



UPDATE Five people remain in critical condition at hospitals around Florida, multiple sources report. There are no reported fatalities at this time. 
A series of large explosions have erupted at a gas plant in Tavares, Florida — causing multiple injuries and forcing evacuations of homes up to a mile away.

According to the Orlando Sentinel, the explosions began just before 11 p.m. at Blue Rhino, a propane tank-exchange business at 300 C.R. Road 448. A deputy said someone may have been filling a propane tank with a leak and a spark ignited, but that information is preliminary.
 Residents reported seeing flames up to five miles away as well as hearing several explosions.
Fire officials are working to contain the still blazing fires that continue at the plant, however, propane tanks continue to explode at the scene. Information on injuries and possible fatalities is limited at this time but officials have set up a mass casualty scene.
Continue to check back on this breaking news. 



