Freshman Blake Keller solidified himself on the Knight’s defensive line against Memphis, recording two sacks in his first career start. However, Keller will not be able to start again against Louisville this coming Friday.
On Monday, UCF Head Coach George O’Leary announced that Keller told him, “I don’t love football anymore.”
Keller had been having a stellar freshman season so far, recording eight total tackles and three sacks which made him the overall team leader. To George O’Leary, the news of Keller leaving the team came as a shock.
“I was surprised, I had no idea anything was going on, none of the coaches did either. A lot of it stemmed from other issues,” O’Leary said during his press conference.
On a brighter side, the Knights have shown a lot of depth at the defensive end position. Deion Green, Thomas Niles, and Seyvon Lowry should all get a chance to lead the Knight’s defensive line as they take on Louisville.



The Alpha Tau Omega fraternity was forced to vacate its on-campus house on Monday, according to members of the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity.
Alpha Tau Omega was found “in-violation” of university policy for alcohol related misconduct following an unregistered social event in its on campus house in July.
“After our appeal came back upholding the suspension they gave in-house guys two weeks to move out. No idea why they forced it so soon. We tried to fight it but UCF wouldn’t budge,” said a member of the ATO fraternity who wanted to remain anonymous.
While the fraternity has to vacate their house, KnightNews.com was sent a photo by a member of the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity claiming that during the moving out process, the house was robbed of a flat screen TV and an Xbox 360. The brother of the fraternity said that the door on the house has been broken and fixing it was a neglected task.
When KnightNews.com asked UCF if any robbery had been reported at the ATO house within the past week, they said no.
“UCF Police have not received any reports of a robbery at 4419 Greek Court, the address of the ATO house, during the past week,” UCF Spokesman Chad Binette said.
“Everyone had to break their leases and find new homes in that time period. No help was offered in finding new places to live,” said the anonymous member of ATO.
However, UCF did send KnightNews.com documents that notified the ATO president that UCF would provide assistance to evicted members, but its unclear on why certain members believed there was no assistance provided.



 This Friday night’s game between the UCF Knights (AAC 1-0, 4-1), and the Louisville Cardinals (AAC 2-0, 6-0) is going to be a throw down. At this point, each team’s dedication, motivation, and determination seem to be impossible to stop.
Leading the AAC, ranked in the Country’s Top Ten, the Louisville Cardinals have dominated their opponents while holding a 6-0 record.
The University of Central Florida has come out this season with the undoubted ability to win. While the Knights looked prime to upset the #12 South Carolina Gamecocks going into halftime, momentum turned and left them with just not enough time to dot the I’s on the victory.
UCF took that loss into perspective. Instead of looking back, they chose to only look forward. Chris Martin, UCF’s offensive lineman, said that we “won’t be satisfied till we’re conference champions.”
In their last game against Memphis, the Knights snuck out a ‘closer-than-it-should-have-been’ win, beating the Tigers 24-17. After a bye week and daily practices for the Knights football team, Chris Martin says that he is just as determined and motivated now than he was a couple of weeks ago. He reflects a certain kind of momentum, and motivation to look forward, a mindset that will only help UCF prosper in this Friday night’s game against the Cardinals.
“We have to believe that [we can win the conference], we’re forced to believe that, and we believe that we have the team to take us there. We thrive on that belief each and every day, and that belief gives us the drive and force to keep working harder,” Martin says.  “Just like in Memphis, we truly believed we were going to win, even with all the misfortune we had, we still always believed we were going to win, and we truly believe we are going to go out to Louisville this Friday and do the same thing. We believe in ourselves to outplay them.”
While Martin brings in the confidence for his offense, UCF linebacker Terrance Plummer kills it for the UCF defense. Playing the game of his life against Memphis two weeks ago in a game saving win against the Tigers which earned Plummer the AAC defensive player of the week award the second time this season and now in the running for the Bronko Nagurski award. Plummer tells insiders “being up for the award, it’s an honor, but more importantly it just makes me more hungry, more hungry for the team, and more hungry for the game.”
When asked what the Knights will do to defend Louisville, T-Plum answered that “this is what this bye week has been all about, trying to get rested and have the upper hand against Louisville. They have a great quarterback and great receivers. Our mission is to get the upper hand by going in there, adjusting to their offense, and stopping them from driving down the field.”
The players did not just find that mindset on their own, coach George O’Leary certainly led by example to help them get there.
“Louisville is a very good football team,” O’Leary said. “They have a very good offense and a very good defense. They are well coached, and we’ll have our work cut out for us.”
Louisville defense has held opponents to just 7.3 PPG, the best mark in the nation. But Louisville does not just stop with their defensive ability to completely derail an offense. Cardinals quarterback Teddy Bridgewater, signal caller for Louisville’s explosive offense, amasses absurd yardage in the air and on the ground, averaging over 500 yards of offense per game.
“In order to stop them, we have to make progress with the defense,” O’Leary told insiders. “There is no subtle change we have to do, we just have to keep getting better.”  O’Leary and the Knights have been preparing their defensive schemes all week in their preparation to try to limit Bridgewater. George O’Leary said during last week’s interview: “The bigger the playbook the worse the team. It’s not about adding more calls; it’s just doing what we do better. There are no predictions, we just have to go out there and play the game I expect my boys to play.”
This Friday night’s game will be one for the books. The Knights will not give in to the hype of playing a Top Ten team, rather they have spent days and weeks of preparation so their play on the field will determine the outcome.  “It will be a test this coming Friday, a test for us as well as a test for them, so I definitely look forward to the competition.”
O’Leary and his team are as ready as ever to #ChargeOn against the Cards on ESPN, this Friday, at 8:00pm ET.



“UCF was an opportunity that popped up, that I jumped at the chance to do. I love speaking to college students, and visiting UCF was very impressive,” said Dan Gheesling.
On Monday September 23rd, the University of Central Florida got the chance to meet, ask questions and learn from Big Brother season 10 winner, Dan Gheesling. Not only did Dan talk about the steps to getting onto Big Brother and answering questions about the two times he’s been on Big Brother, but he also gave some advice and tips for all the UCF students who came out to the event.
Many people wonder how the show Big Brother has lasted so long due to some bad reviews the show has received. However, Dan Gheesling clears that up by saying, “The show has lasted long because it has a very unique connection to the fan base. It’s the only show I’m aware of that is live 24/7.”
Students asked many questions and in addition, Dan shared that his first attempt of getting on reality TV was actually Survivor, not Big Brother. His role model on Survivor, Richard Hatch, who won Survivor back in 2000 caught Dan’s interest at 16 years old.
“To me, Richard Hatch was always a symbol (in Reality TV) of how a sharp mind can pretty much beat anything,”  Gheesling said.
Although Dan never played the game of Survivor, he did get the opportunity to play the game of Big Brother. Some people may not know that Dan actually has had more than one or two opportunities to be on Big Brother that he had to decline due to other commitments or the fact that his girlfriend at the time, who hated reality TV, didn’t want to go on as the couple twist in season 9.
Although Dan says it killed him to do that, he still persevered and did everything he could to make it onto the show. — finally making it on Season 10 in 2008.
“My strategy was to completely remove any emotion from any game decision/reactions I made,” Gheesling said. “You can think most clearly when not emotional and I knew it had served other players in the past.”
If you know the game of Big Brother, then you know the amount of lying and strategy that goes into it. When speaking in front of the many UCF Big Brother fans, he gave a tip of the game: you have to look at lying as bluffing, but only in the game.
When asked how it felt when Julie Chen announced his name as the Big Brother Season 10 winner, Gheesling said was something he’d been looking forward to for a long time.
“It really didn’t hit me until the next day. To see something come to fruition from age 16 all the way to age 25 was pretty special,” Gheesling said.
Usually when people see someone win a reality TV show they automatically expect that the money won was blown on expensive material things, but in this case Dan didn’t buy a new car, but instead he invested in real-estate and bought himself a house.
If you follow Big Brother than you know that Big Brother 10 was not the only time Dan Gheesling showed himself inside the Big Brother house. Season 14, on the first night, twelve new House guests entered the Big Brother House to two new twists of the season. The first twist was that four successful ex-house guests would re-enter the House not to compete against one another, but to coach the new Houseguests. A part of the coaches was none other than Dan Gheesling.
“The Big Brother house was everything I expected and more. It was a once in a lifetime experience, that I was able to experience twice,” said Gheesling.
For all those future Big Brother house guests, Dan has left you with a letter of advice and his five best tips on how to be successful at the game of Big Brother at: http://www.dangheesling.com/my-letter-to-the-new-houseguests/.
Also, if you missed the event, you too can learn each duty by purchasing his book, Clean Your Own Mirror: 6 Necessary Duties to Lead and Influence Others, coming out in December.



Deep into the semester, many students are getting used to the multiple changes around them and on campus.  
Whether they are new to the Knight family, or getting ready to leave, the UCF Knights take pride in their academics. Multiple resources have always been available to students and are being constantly updated.
One of the major updates went into affect earlier this semester to prepare for the new academic year.  The John C. Hitt Library was equipped with all new resources that included the following:
• New white boards in every study room.
• A variety of iPad, iPhone, phone, and laptop chargers are now available to be checked out for four-hour intervals at the media desk.
• The number of graduate study rooms increased from five to thirteen.
• 12,000+ videos across ten subject areas that will support the humanities, sciences, and social sciences have been added to the collection of streaming videos.
• A new web search program has been installed that is similar to Google setup for all UCF databases to create an easier search system.
• A new “Subject Librarian Service Model” has been initiated to create a more specific search for different categories for students and faculty, and give a more hands-on approach.
• More items have been added to the ‘Special Collection’ section that included information on the Disney World land purchases. Personal papers and memorabilia of Republican Legislator, John L. Ducker, and a new collection of published and unpublished original drawings, sketches and comic strips by Glenn “Marty” Stein were also added.
• A large collection of photographs and documents that display UCFs history were donated by Norman Van Meter’s son, Robert, have been added to the University Archives.
• Videos, memorabilia (including jerseys and cleats), and photographs were also donated by former defensive lineman for the UCF football team in 1979 and 1980, Michael O’ Shaughnessy.
• New computer security software updates for students to gain access have been added.  Students are now required to use their NID and NID password to sign in on any UCF computer, including those in the library.
It should also be noted that at the Osceola regional campus now has a full time UCF librarian; as do the other regional campuses of South Lake, Cocoa, Palm Bay, Sanford, Daytona, and Valencia West. 
All of these updates and advancements are being used to better the student body and create an overall better study and learning environment for the Knights. 



