Fraternities at UCF continue to hold rush events throughout this week. 
Check out the events each organization will be holding. 
Alpha Tau Omega
Thursday, September 5th 5:30-9:30 pm: Open House (ATO House)
Beta Theta Pi
Thursday, September 5th 8pm: Beta House BBQ (Beta house)
Friday, September 6th 7pm: Invite-Only Dinner
Delta Sigma Phi
Thursday, September 5th: Interest Presentation
Friday, Septembre 6th: FIU Tailgate
Delta Lambda Phi
Tuesday, September 3rd 7:30-10 pm: Delphi Bowl-Off
Wednesday, September 4th 7:30-10 pm: Comedy Queens
Thursday, September 5th 7:30-10 pm: DelPhi Feud
Delta Upsilon
Tuesday, September 3rd 6-9 pm: House BBQ (DU House 12113 Mendel Drive)
Lambda Chi Alpha
Wednesday, September 4th 5-8 pm: Open House (LXA House)
Kappa Sigma
Wednesday, September 4th 6-8 pm: Open House (Kappa Sigma House)
Phi Delta Theta
Tuesday, September 3rd 6pm: Formal Rush BBQ
Thursday, September 5th 6pm: Formal Invite-Only Catered Dinner
FIJI
Tuesday, September 3rd 8-12 pm: Billiards and Poker (FIJI House)
Wednesday, September 4th 12pm: Greek Lunch (Student Union)
Wednesday, September 4th 8-10 pm: Movie Night with Brothers
Thursday, September 5th 4-8pm: Lake Claire Day
Friday, September 6th: Special Event, Invite Only
Pi Kappa Phi
Tuesday, September 3rd 8-10pm: Bowling (Boardwalk Bowl)
Wednesday, September 4th 7-10 pm: Relax Night (Northview Apartments)
Sigma Nu
Tuesday, September 3rd 8:30pm: Laser Tag (Hard Knocks)
Thursday, September 5th 6pm: BBQ (Sigma Nu House 12115 Napiers Circle)
Sigma Pi
Wednesday, September 4th 11:30-2 pm: Brotherhood Lunch (Student Union)
Saturday, September 7th 11:30-3 pm: Football game (IM Fields)
Tuesday, September 10th 7-9 pm: Video Game Night (Boardwalk Apartments)
Friday, September 13th 8-10 pm: Invite Only Event (Cigarz at Waterford)
Tau Kappa Epsilon
Tuesday, September 3rd 7pm: Lil 500 Go-Karting
Wednesday, September 4th 8pm: Dodgeball Tournament (Hercules Basketball Courts)
Thursday, September 5th 8pm: NFL Season Kick-Off Game catered by Huey Magoo’s
Theta Chi
Tuesday, September 3rd 7-10 pm: House Rush Event (Theta Chi House)
Thursday, September 5th 7-10 pm: House Rush Event (Theta Chi House)
Zeta Beta Tau
Tuesday, September 3rd 6pm: First Night of Official Rush (Lake Claire)
Wednesday, September 4th 7:30 pm: House Rush (ZBT House)
Thursday, September 5th 7:30 pm: House Rush (ZBT House)



Residents at The Lofts and Orion on Orpington going back and forth between class and Publix may have noticed the new, still closed-off road extension at the end of Orpington Street.
This new road extension is a state project and will lead to East Colonial Drive. The Publix that is currently located at Alafaya Commons Shopping Center is moving down the road to the Town Park Shopping Center, a new development by Halvorsen Holdings.
 The new Publix will increase in size to 46,600 square feet and be at prime location to serve the UCF and Central Florida Research Park area, sitting at the corner of East Colonial Drive and Woodbury Road.
PRWEB released a quote from the president of Halvorsen Holdings on the new development back in February. 
“We believe this center will draw a unique mix of restaurant, service and lifestyle retailers to join Publix in servicing the vibrant and thriving population surrounding Town Park,” said Tim Berg, President of Halvorsen Real Estate Corporation. “With approximately 60,000 students at UCF and nearly 10,000 employees at the Research Park, Town Park has tremendous daytime traffic potential.”
The opening date for the Publix and the road extension has not yet been announced. 



Nathan Holic, author of the book “American Fraternity Man,” has seen Greek Life from a perspective that many haven’t.
As the vice-president of Pi Kappa Phi during his undergraduate career at UCF, Holic eventually accepted a job as a leadership consultant for the National Headquarters of his fraternity. Holic’s fictional novel shows an intimate perspective of a graduating fraternity president’s struggle to become a morally driven professional member of society while realizing the harsh reality of the real world.
Holic says he wrote the book for people who haven’t seen Greek life from an honest perspective. In a world where movies like ‘Animal House’ and websites like TotalFratMove.com dominate the culture, Holic wanted to show how a fraternity man deals with the world from what he feels is a more realistic perspective.
Holic eventually accepted a job at the University of Central Florida where he instructs creative writing classes.
KnightNews.com had a chance to sit down with Holic to discuss his book and the tribulations that have affected UCF Greek life recently.
Check out the full interview below:




On Monday, middle linebacker Terrance Plummer was named the American Athletic Conference Defensive player of the week, the first player to take home the award in the history of the conference.
Plummer shined in the Knight’s 38-7 debut win against the Akron Zips recording 10 tackles, 3 tackles for losses, and one pass breakup. The Knights held the Zips to just 250 yards of offense and held them scoreless until the final minutes of the fourth quarter. 
Plummer is no stranger to anchoring the linebacker position for the Knights, Thursday was his fourteenth start for the program and the fifth time that he recorded 10 tackles in a game.
Quarterback Blake Bortles had quite a week himself, passing for a career high 314 yards and getting named to the honorable mention list for the College Football Performance Awards weekly accolades along with Plummer. 



An area of low pressure in the Caribbean has a chance of developing into a storm over the next few days and current computer models show it heading towards Florida. 
 According to the National Weather Service, the area of low pressure currently has a 20% chance of strengthening in the next two days, however, that percentage jumps to 50% over the next five days.
First Choice Weather’s computer models show the path of the storm heading towards Florida — the actual strength of the storm when it gets there, however, is still uncertain. 
The storm is currently moving West-North-West at 10 mph near the Caribbean Sea. The next named storm will be called Gabrielle.
Continue to check back for updates.  



