Suzi Halpin, the UCF Student Union Director has abruptly resigned from her position, according to her Facebook page.
“As of 5pm tonight – I have resigned from UCF – all good things must come to an end. Getting ready for a new adventure in my life!” Halpin wrote on her Facebook page.

Reasons are unclear as to why Halpin resigned. According to the UCF Student Union website, Rick Falco is acting as interim director.
Check back to KnightNews.com for more on this story.



The Knights lost a close game in Gainesville Tuesday night, falling to the Gators 3-5 in the team’s second meeting of the year. Reliever Chris Matulis was charged with the loss, though he was on the bump for less than a full inning and didn’t give up an earned run.
Jeramy Matos put the first run of the game on the board in the second inning with a line shot to left field, bringing home Parker Webster from second base. A string of solid at bats and shaky pitching from the Gators led to a second run when Jamarcos Woods drew a walk with the bases loaded.
Florida got things rolling in the bottom of the sixth inning with two runs of their own, tying the game and spelling the end of starter Eric Skoglund’s night. The southpaw gave up two earned runs and a walk while striking out one batter over 5.1 innings.
Woods added his second RBI of the night the next inning with a sharp ground ball to shortstop that allowed Tommy Williams to score after he scorched a double down the left field line.
UCF did not fall behind until the bottom of the seventh, when a Chris Taladay error allowed the tying run to score from third and put runners on the corners for the Gators. UF was unable to bring in either runner with their bats, but capitalized on a wild pitch by Spencer Davis to take the lead 4-3.
With only six outs to work with the Knights were unable to produce any runs in the eighth or ninth inning, only managing to put one runner on when Taladay walked in the eighth.
This is the last time UCF will play Florida this season, leaving the series at 0-2. UCF continues its April road trip 7:30 p.m. Friday night at Memphis, who is 2-4 within Conference USA.



According to ESPN, the current Big East basketball conference will be renamed the American Athletic Conference as early as Thursday.
UCF will be joining the conference as an all-sports member this upcoming season, along with nine other teams from Conference USA. When the Catholic seven basketball-only schools– DePaul, Georgetown, Marquette, Providence, Seton Hall, St. John’s and Villanova — split from the current Big East conference, they took the name, and the conference needed a new name for basketball. The new Big East conference, beginning July 1st, will also add Butler, Creighton, and Xavier.
In 2015, the American Athletic Conference will split into two six-team divisions, it is unclear at this time which teams will be in each division.
“We also received terrific input from our partners at ESPN and CBS Sports. Our name is a nod to tradition, but at the same time makes clear our determination to be a Conference with national impact and appeal. The American Athletic Conference will represent core American values of optimism, energy, growth and innovation. We have a broad geographical footprint that represents unity as well as diversity.” Conference commissioner Mike Aresco told CBSSports.com.
 



A mid-aged suburban man test drives a Chevrolet Camaro for supposedly the first time, only to do donuts and jump sidewalks. When the car dealer has had enough and wants to call the cops, he finds out the driver is actually Jeff Gordon.
Currently, 31-million people have viewed the viral Pepsi MAX video, which was uploaded not even a month ago on March 12th.
Kristina Krkljus, a UCF Alumna, was the creative drive behind the commercial. Working at TWBA\CHIAT\DAY in Los Angeles, Krkljus is the Art Director for the commercial that went viral.
Krkljus graduated from UCF in 2007 with a degree in interpersonal and organizational communications. While at UCF, Krkljust was a member of the Alpha Delta Pi sorority and interned at Y Partnership.
“We wanted to leverage Jeff Gordon in an interesting way,” Krkljus told UCF Today. “We wanted to create a piece of content that would appeal to a larger audience and break out of the niche following in the motorsports world.”
Watch the video below:




