Isaiah Sykes was “Mr. Everything,” scoring 22 points, dishing eight assists and grabbing eight rebounds in Sunday afternoon’s victory against Bethune-Cookman.
UCF (2-1) started a little bit slow, allowing the Wildcats to take an early 16-10 lead, but a 12-2 run to close out the half gave the Knights the edge to eventually pull away by ending the half up 10 points.
The Knights controlled the second half, keeping Bethune-Cookman from scoring for multiple minutes at one point. Calvin Newell added 18 points and Tristan Spurlock scored 16, including a perfect three for three from deep in the Knights victory.
The most noticeable difference in the Knights was Sykes coming off of the bench, even though he played just as many minutes as anyone on the team. After a tough 12 point loss against the Seminoles where the Knights turned the ball over 20 times, they played a lot more conservatively on Sunday, only turning the ball over 11 times.
“We are nowhere where we need to be. We still have to be a better team at sharing the basketball. I think we need to continue to trust our teammates. I thought we made some strides over the weekend from the loss, and I saw us do some better things today,” head coach Donnie Jones said.
The Knights are back in action Thursday when they head down to Miami to take on the Hurricanes.



The annual winter event has once again hit the UCF campus.  Light Up UCF has been running for six years and is located on the UCF campus outside of the CFE Arena in Knights Plaza.  The event is presented by Carl Black of Orlando and the CFE Federal Credit Union. Light Up UCF runs for 50 days, from Nov. 15  until Jan. 5.
UCF students were able to gain free early-access to experience the winter wonderland the day prior to being open to the public.  For the first time ever, UCF SGA is hosting two Student Knights.  The first was Nov. 14, and the second will be November 25th.  Advanced wristband distribution will occur Nov. 20 from 11 a.m. – 2 p.m. in the Student Union Atrium.

This year’s attractions include ice-skating, an Arctic glide slide, horse-drawn carriage rides and a Ferris wheel. There will also be free food, giveaways, games, music and entertainment for all guests.  Movie screenings will also be available as part of the Holiday Film Festival. Free Dunkin’ Donuts tumblers were given away to the first 500 students for the first Student Knight, and 250 will be given out at the second event.
For the public, tickets are available for purchase at the CFE Arena Box Office now until the event is over.  Select tickets are also available for purchase through Ticketmaster at www.Ticketmaster.com or by calling 1-800-745-3000.
Prices
Ice Skating: $12.00
Carnival Rides: $4.25 – $6.50
Photos with Santa: $12 – $25
There are also a number of free components available to the public and students.  These include the Holiday Light Show, the Holiday Film Festival and convenient parking.
A Charity 5k has been added to the list of events over the 50-day span.  The 5k will support Second Harvest Food Bank and Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals with UCF’s Knight-thon. The Knight Run is Saturday, Nov. 23 and is open to people of all ages and activity levels. Wear your most creative holiday costume; groups are encouraged to participate, as there will be a group costume contest.
More information on all of the winter elements of Light Up UCF can be found at www.LightUpUCF.com



