Despite efforts from Governor Rick Scott and much debate across the university system, UCF students will face a 1.7% state-wide tuition increase for the 2013-2014 school year, raising UCF’s credit hour cost to $105.08.
This is due to the inflation provision, which became state law in 2007 in hopes that universities would not fall behind if lawmakers or administrators freeze tuition rates from year to year.
This provision has never been an issue prior, because universities generally raised tuition themselves from year to year because of legislative budget cuts.
Gov. Scott vetoed a 3 percent tuition increase passed earlier this year and sent letters to all public Universities urging them to not raise tuition.
“The governor has consistently opposed tuition increases,” a spokeswoman for Scott said in a statement.
UCF Spokesman Chad Binette said that this will result in about $1.4 million for UCF and some of the money will go towards financial aid for students.
“We have committed that at least 30 percent of that will go to need-based financial aid for students,” Binette said.



A UCF spokesman has confirmed that the sanctions placed against Sigma Chi have been adjusted and the sanctions for Lambda Chi Alpha and Alpha Epsilon Pi were sustained.
Originally, Sigma Chi was found “in-violation” of hazing, disruptive conduct and alcohol related misconduct by UCF’s Student Conduct Board and sanctions placed on the fraternity included organizational suspension through the end of Fall 2016. The new adjusted sanctions have Sigma Chi on organizational suspension through the end of the Fall 2014 term, taking two years off of their suspension.
Alpha Epsilon Pi will remain on organizational suspension through Spring 2014 and Lambda Chi Alpha will be on disciplinary probation through Spring 2014.
KnightNews.com is suing UCF, claiming it broke state law by holding fraternity hazing hearings in secrecy. Certain hazing punishments could be thrown out, unless UCF conducts the hearings again in the public eye. Read the full report published yesterday about how UCF suffered a legal setback from the judge hearing the Open Government lawsuit:

Click here to read the letter Dr. Maribeth Ehasz from UCF sent Sigma Chi modifying its sanctions.



