Knight-Thon, the University of Central Florida’s Dance Marathon and largest student-run philanthropy, announced its fundraising goals for this year.
 The philanthropy raises money to benefit the Greater Orlando Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals. On April 5, over 1000 knights will stand 20 hours to fundraise and spread awareness “For The Kids” or “FTK.” 
Last year, Knight-Thon’s goal was $170,000. On April 13, it was announced that a total of $258,554.17 had been raised — more than doubling the previous year’s total of $118,972.27.
This year, Knight-Thon participants will aim to raise $365,000 for local children’s hospitals.
All funds raised by Knight-Thon directly benefit Shands Hospital for Children, Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children, and the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit of Winnie Palmer Hospital for Women and Babies. 
After this year’s event, Knight-Thon will have raised over $1,000,000 cumulatively for Greater Orlando Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals.



The Alpha Tau Omega fraternity at UCF has officially appealed its year-long suspension. 
According to a UCF spokesperson, ATO filed the appeal with UCF on Thursday. 
“The unregistered house party on July 28 was not the result of our hard work in planning to better the chapter, nor did the leaders in the chapter condone it,” ATO President David Scaff said in the appeal. “Many attempts were made to shut it down, and ultimately we realize that as an organization we did not abide by the rules of Student Conduct and actions need to be taken against us.”
KnightNews.com requested the audio and video from the secret hearing UCF held with ATO in August. UCF has agreed to provide the audio and video, after redaction, at a price of just over $230. UCF also released radio transmissions from UCFPD in response to a KnightNews.com records request for the information. After listening to the transmissions, we asked UCF if part of it was left out and a police spokesman said he would check and get back to us. Listen to the released audio below. 

ATO was suspended through summer 2014 after being found “in-violation” of university policy for alcohol related misconduct following an unregistered social event in its on campus house. 
A Knight News lawsuit against the University of Central Florida over public records and hearings, such as the one with ATO, casts the validity of ATO’s latest suspension in doubt because the panel justified its decision for the latest suspension based on ATO’s past probation. The Knight News lawsuit could cause the past probation to be declared void, meaning ATO’s probation couldn’t go into effect unless UCF were to hold that hearing all over again in the public eye — and secure a new in violation finding.
UCF Vice President Dr. Maribeth Ehasz will review the appeal submitted by ATO. Continue to check back for that decision as well as the audio and video from the hearing. 
Click to read the appeal.
[myrelposts-related title=”Read More About UCF Greek Life:“]



