Candidates for the role of UCF Student Government President and Vice President will face off in two debates this week as campaigns heat up for the chance to take charge of the student body.
SGA will hold an “official” Presidential Debate in the Student Union on Tuesday, March 19, at 7 p.m. Students will have the opportunity to ask candidates questions in regards to the UCF Student Body. Students will learn more about their candidates’ platform and plans for the future. 
The debate will be moderated by a special guest, a prestigious UCF Alumnus. 
Campus news outlet Knightly News will hold their annual debate at their television studio on Thursday, March 21st at 5 p.m.
Elections for SGA will be held March 25-27. Continue to follow KnightNews.com for full coverage of the campaigns, debates and elections.




A former UCF student found dead inside his dorm due to an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound was believed to have been planning a wider attack on campus, officials believe.
30-year-old James Oliver Seevakumaran, a UCF business major who wasn’t enrolled in the spring semester, was found dead in his dorm room in Tower 1 at the University of Central Florida on Monday. The dorm, which houses around 500 students, was evacuated early Monday after a fire alarm went off. A 911 call shortly after notified police of a man, later identified as Seevakumaran, with a gun.
Police entered the dorm armed with assault rifles and found Seevakumaran dead of an apparent suicide along with two guns, which included an American-Tech tactical .22 caliber rifle and High Point .45 caliber handgun, purchased at an Orlando gun store. Four improvised explosive devices were found in a backpack in the dorm. There were also hundreds of rounds of ammo found, officials said.
UCF police chief, Richard Beary, told the media that notes and timelines were found inside the dorm, making it appear that Seevakumaran had plans to make an attack on the campus. A timeline and other laid out plans appear to have been thrown off after authorities responded to the fire alarm quicker than he expected.

“His timeline got off,” Beary said at a press conference. “We think the rapid response of law enforcement may have changed his ability to think quickly on his feet.”
No individuals were named specifically, and he was acting alone, according to preliminary investigations.
Like us to get news like this on your facebook feed!
Police speculate Seevakumaran pulled the fire alarm himself to get students to evacuate. That’s when Seevakumaran pointed a gun at his roommate, who was able to get to safety and dial 911, police said. The roommate’s 911 call made the response to the fire alarm faster, officials said.
This roommate took to social media afterwards to thank everyone for their support. Officials say another roommate was out of town and the third roommate had left the apartment immediately when the alarm was set off, before Seevakumaran showed his gun.
UCF Spokesperson Grant Heston said Seevakumaran wasn’t currently enrolled at UCF and didn’t pay for housing that was due months before. UCF had begun its eviction process but didn’t immediately kick the student off campus.
“We try to take a compassionate approach, not to kick them off on day one,” Heston said.
Seevakumaran’s roommates told officials that he had shown anti-social behavior before but had never expressed any violent tendencies, Beary said. Seevakumaran was never seen by UCF Counseling and Psychological Services and had no student conduct record, UCF confirmed.
Seevakumaran was arrested back in 2006 by troopers after a traffic stop. During the traffic stop it was determined that Seevakumaran did not have a valid license and he had attached a tag not assigned to the vehicle. He was arrested without incident and booked into the Seminole County Jail.
“Times like today challenge us individually, as an organization, and as a university community,” UCF President John C. Hitt said. “The first test for all of us is whether we are focused on the safety of our community, and I am confident that UCF has passed that test. The safety and welfare of our students, faculty and staff, visitors, and neighbors is UCF’s highest priority. The test of compassion is also very important, and our prayers go to everyone affected by today’s incident.”
Tower 1 has been reopened.
Click here for more information on the story.
Video produced by Sam Switkes 



KnightNews.com is live streaming the press conference on the suspicious death in Tower 1.

The press conference is set to start at 3:45p.m.



A man identifying himself as a Tower 1 resident and roommate of the UCF student who was found dead of an apparent gunshot wound is speaking out to his friends on social media, according to a copy of a Facebook post sent to KnightNews.com.
The roommate, who KnightNews.com is not naming at this time to protect him from unwanted media attention, said on Facebook that the gunman pulled the fire alarm, waited for him to come out of his room, and pointed the gun at him before the gunman turned the weapon on himself. The roommate was able to get to safety and call 911, according to his Facebook post.
After being sent a copy of the Facebook post, KnightNews.com sent a message to the roommate we were told made the post. He thanked KnightNews.com for reaching out but said he can not talk about the situation right now. He confirmed that he wrote the Facebook post saying he was OK, but asked that we do not share his entire personal message. For that reason KnightNews.com is only posting generic newsworthy information about the gunman the roommate revealed on Facebook.
Police speculate Seevakumaran pulled the fire alarm himself to get students to evacuate. That’s when Seevakumaran pointed a gun at his roommate, who was able to get to safety and dial 911, police said. The roommate’s 911 call made the response to the fire alarm faster, officials said.
UCF did not immediately return our request for comment.



The University of Central Florida main campus is shut down as police investigate a suspicious death and improvised explosive devices found in the Tower 1 residence hall in Knights Plaza, UCF says.
UCF Police received a fire alarm call at about 12:20 a.m. While responding to that call, police received a 911 call regarding a man with a gun. When police arrived, they found a victim, who has been confirmed as a UCF student, who died of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound.
Tower 1, which houses around 500 students, was evacuated, and Parking Garage G was closed. Police entered the scene armed with assault rifles and as investigators reviewed the scene, they found a handgun, an assault weapon and IEDs (improvised explosive devices).
UCF has closed the main campus for classes and normal operations until at least noon, they school said. Essential personnel should report to work, but other employees are asked to stay off campus until noon. All classes scheduled to start before noon today are canceled.
  
Tower 1 from Knight News on Vimeo.
“University police responded immediately when we received a fire alarm call and a subsequent 911 call,” Police Chief Richard Beary said. “The safety of our students in Tower 1 and our entire campus community is our top priority.
The Orange County Sheriff’s Office and the FBI are assisting the UCF Police Department with the investigation. The Sheriff’s Office’s bomb squad is on campus to examine the IEDs found at the scene, UCF said.
Counseling services were set up at the Veteran’s Academic Resource Center at 7 a.m.



