Greek Week 2013 is just around the corner and the Greek Week pairings were just announced.
The theme for this year is Greek Gods and Goddesses, When Zeus is away…The Greeks will play. The event(s) will be held March 16-21. Click to view the pairing below.

Like us to get news like this on your facebook feed!



The Carnival Cruise ship, Triumph, that has been stranded at sea nearly a week is expected to dock tonight after being pulled in by four tug boats.
A fire broke out on the ship days ago, shutting down the engines and most of the electricity. Since then, over 4,000 passengers have been stranded aboard the ship.
“More than 3,000 passengers and 1,000 crew members living in squalid conditions since fire knocked out power on Sunday, CNN reports. “Tugboats towing crippled Carnival Triumph from Gulf of Mexico to Alabama port,” CNN says.
On board, passengers described to MSN news the overflowing toilets, sewage backed up in showers, scarce food and people getting sick, bringing the scene into sharper focus after a week at sea. What began as a four-day voyage in the Gulf of Mexico has turned into a vacation nightmare, not at all the luxury cruise touted in brochures, MSN news reports.
“The crippled Carnival cruise ship was moving again toward shore Thursday afternoon after a towline snapped, setting it adrift for a brief time,” MSN says. 
Check back for more.



Hundreds of people have signed up to appear in a massive UCF recreation of the new viral craze, the Harlem Shake.
A Facebook group was created to publicize the event and over 900 people have said they will be “going” to be in the filming of the video. According to posts within the Facebook group, UCF’s mascot, Knightro, will be kicking off the dance.
The group lists the following message as the plan:
“At 4:00PM [Friday], we will be shooting KNIGHTRO dancing by himself with only a few extra people walking around in the middle of the student union. After we have shot this, we will get everyone in position to do the drop. We are still finding the best angle, but we are planning on getting the entire floor of the union, the stairs, and at least the second floor, if not the third floor as well,” the description says.
For more information, visit the group’s Facebook page HERE.
Like us to get news like this on your facebook feed!
For those unaware of this new viral video sensation, the Harlem Shake involves people creating videos, about 30 seconds long, that are set to “Harlem Shake” by New York deejay Baauer. The first 15 seconds contain just one person dancing while everyone else in the room acts normal. When the beat drops is when the tone changes a bit. Check out the video below to see how it works.




It did not take long for UCF students to join in on the viral craze of making Harlem Shake videos.
The Harlem Shake is a bass-heavy synth song by Baauer, the trick is to spend the first 15 seconds with everyone in the video acting normal, and one person who is usually wearing a strange costume dancing alone. As soon as the beat drops, everyone in the video goes wild for the last 15 seconds.
According to Youtube, there was been over 10,000 Harlem Shake videos uploaded since February 2nd, garnering a total of 44 million views.
Here is a UCF version of the Harlem Shake, done at the Mad Hatter bar close to campus:




UPDATE The suspicious package has been deemed NOT dangerous by the Orange County Sheriff’s Office.
A suspicious package found near UCF, which caused the evacuation of two office buildings, turned out to be a GPS “scavenger hunt” device, school officials said. All buildings have been reopened. 
A suspicious package in an unattended open field at UCF has the Orange County Sheriff’s bomb squad trying to determine if the contents pose a threat, fire authorities said. 
The package was located in the Central Florida Research Park adjacent to campus near the Research Pavilion and Orlando Tech Center on Research Parkway.
Here is the device from the bomb scare @Sean HughesA UCF Alert has been sent out to asking faculty, staff and students to avoid the area.
A hazmat team has also been called to the scene.
UCF police spotted the suspicious package about 7:30 a.m. camouflaged near Research Parkway and alerted local fire and law-enforcement, John Mulhall, an Orange County Fire Rescue spokesman told the Orando Sentinel.
Authorities have shut down traffic on Research Parkway and surrounding roads near the Central Florida Research Park, the Orlando tech and Research Pavilion.
Continue to check back on this breaking news.



