Rush season has begun again for Greek fraternity members across UCF. 
UCF Fraternity recruitment will officially start on Tuesday, August 27 in the Student Union Pegasus Ballroom at 9:00 p.m. 
The Interfraternity Council at UCF is giving away five $100 scholarships to prospective fraternity members just for coming to the event. 
This fall rush may not be as familiar as previous years being that IFC voted to discontinue the traditional tent rush, which was where fraternities had tents set up in Memory Mall or Lake Claire to recruit members. This year, IFC is opting for fraternities to individually recruit members with events organized by the chapters themselves. 
So far, the first run at eliminating tent rush for spring recruitment seemed beneficial for the fraternities, with a 23 percent increase in new members compared to the previous spring according to a press release sent out by IFC. 
KnightNews.com will help continue to make rush events transparent to potential rushees. Send your events to news@knightnews.com and we will post them online. 



As many of you may know, the University of Central Florida has been battling attendance issues in the past with trouble filling not only our student section, but the entire stadium as a whole. 
As a solution to the problem, the University of Central Florida has decided to get rid of the student lottery system and will allow students to enter the home football games on a first come first serve basis. 
The University hopes this will solve the problem of empty sections in our football games and promote all students to have an equal opportunity to attend football games rather than just the student lottery ticket winners.  All you need to do as a student is present your UCF Student ID to the ticket checkers at the turnstiles to gain access the game.
The UCF Knights open their 2013 football season this Thursday, August 29th at 7:00 p.m. against the Akron Zips at Bright House Networks Stadium. 
Students should plan to arrive early to this game in order to be granted entrance into the student section, located in Gates 7-9 on the north end of the stadium directly beneath the scoreboard.



