Monday brought relief to over 40 Greek organizations at the University of Central Florida who, after weeks of being suspended, received permission to resume new member education, initiation and recruitment activities, as well as approved social events 
Both fraternities and sororities were required to hold presentations to address topics such as what steps they will take to prevent hazing and underage drinking, what alcohol education programming they will offer to their members and how members will be held accountable within their organizations and the Greek community.
“Moving forward, we remain focused on the prevention of alcohol misuse and hazing,” Clay Coleman, UCF’s director of Fraternity and Sorority Life, wrote in reinstatement letters to the chapters. “It is important that all of our chapters continue to engage their new and active members in effective educational programs related to the dangers associated with alcohol misuse and hazing. We also will ensure that all of our organizations’ new members are informed of their rights prior to and during the new member process.”
Forty-one of the 47 chapters were reinstated, including 16 that are required to provide follow-up information to the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life about improvements in their plans, according to UCF officials. Those 16 are: Chi Upsilon Sigma, Lambda Theta Alpha, Mu Sigma Upsilon, Sigma Lambda Gamma, Alpha Tau Omega, Delta Upsilon, Lambda Theta Phi, Phi Delta Theta, Tau Kappa Epsilon, Alpha Delta Pi, Chi Omega, Delta Zeta, Kappa Delta, Zeta Tau Alpha, Phi Beta Sigma and Sigma Gamma Rho
UCF also says two chapters, Alpha Kappa Alpha and Omega Psi Phi, at their own request, were given more time to further develop their plans for reinstatement. Three chapters, Alpha Epsilon Pi, Lambda Chi Alpha and Sigma Chi,  were not eligible to seek reinstatement because of active student conduct cases. One chapter is a developing colony, not yet eligible for the reinstatement process.
The school halted social, new member and initiation activities on Feb. 21 in response to concerns of alcohol and hazing issues.  
Just last week, lawyers representing organizations in both fraternities and sororities wrote letters demanding that UCF reinstate the organizations. 



The Mall is usually one of a typical student’s favorite places but at UCF, that’s not necessarily the case.
“If you actually take a look, I think, at the real amount of time that students are spending, they’re spending a lot less time and getting a lot more benefit by spending the three hours in the lab,” said Intermediate Algebra Instructor Luis Negron on why students should have more appreciation of the MALL. “That’s where the instructors are, that’s where the tutors who do the homework are. So it’s the best place to get your questions answered.”
Several UCF Math courses ranging from Intermediate Algebra to Trigonometry require, in addition to regularly scheduled class time, that students log a minimum of three hours a week in the Mathematics Assistance and Learning Lab (MALL). During their time in the MALL, students are not permitted to listen to music, take out their phone, and may only work on material relating to their course.
To aid them in the completion of their assignments, the MALL provides personalized assistance from instructors as well as Graduate Teaching Assistants. Although students may have access to means that could potentially aid them with their course work, some feel that is not valid enough reason to mandate hours for all students.
“I dislike them a lot. It forces you to go in there and I like to have music when I do my math homework and it’s just all closed in and it’s dark and dingy and you’re just like staring at this one computer for hours, it’s just not fun,” said College Algebra student Bria Clemons. “I think we should be able to bring our phones in and use them, cause honestly, like really?
“…I can focus, like I’m not 12-years-old and what if you don’t really want those tutoring sessions? What if I’m a good enough student that doesn’t need to be like forced to sit down and do all of my math homework all at once?” said Clemons.
While it’s not necessarily true that you must complete all of your hours in one sitting, some students find that ends up being the case for them. Given all that a typical week throws at an active UCF student, it can be difficult to find an opening which can be used to complete their weekly MALL requirements.
“When you have a heavy load of school and work and volunteering or whatever you have to do, to make time out of all that stuff when it could be just a constant class time, it’s not fair,” said Trigonometry student Lauren Butler. “What if they have to commute; then they have to come here just for their hours when they could be getting their work done at home.
“And mainly the weekend is the only time I can really do it and I’m also on the executive board of CSA so I have my meetings every Sunday and then I have church. So I can only come for exactly three hours and sometimes I’m cutting it close.”
Negron acknowledged that more weekend MALL hours would be ideal; however, due to the fact that many of their TA’s are students, there is currently insufficient staffing for more weekend hours.
While finding the time to set aside to make it to the MALL is a feat that can be hard to accomplish in its self, managing to actually make significant progress on your work once you’re there can be a struggle of its own.
“At first I thought it was good, especially for incoming students that aren’t used to doing homework online,” said Trigonometry student Tyrie Carter. “And it’s like a way to force them to sit down and do their work. But that’s for like easier classes like Intermediate and College Algebra.
“When it comes to harder ones, like Trig, I don’t think it works too well. I could be in the MALL for two hours and still only get five questions done and it’s frustrating ‘cause I have to hear people talk around me.”
Having the instructors and teaching assistants there in the MALL to help out with students questions can be a great resource, if students are using them. But what’s the point if they’re not?
“I mean it’s good to have the assistants for some questions to help you,” said Butler. “But then again, on the homework there’s the help me solve this and watching the video and like on top of that you have the book.
“So, I feel like just going there to have the assistants there to help you isn’t a good enough reason for you to require every student to take three hours. And if they have two Math classes to take six hours because their hours can’t count for both.”
Even a student who somewhat favors the MALL experience echoes a similar sentiment regarding her experience, or lacks thereof, with help available in the MALL.
“I mean the T A’s are there to help but most people that I talk to don’t utilize them. They just go there, try to get their math done, get their three hours and leave. And I pretty much do the same whenever I’m in there.” said Precalculus student Destiny Privott.
Even though Privott may not utilize the help that is offered to her while in the MALL, she still sees some value in having her mandatory weekly hours.
“I hate it; it’s a hassle to go out of your way. But when you’re in the MALL, it’s nothing but math so you have to get it done.” said Privott.
Although there has been much discussion amongst students over whether or not they benefit from the way math courses are currently set up, Negron truly believes if students utilize the resources made available to them, they can and will succeed.
“Actually doing the work is where the learning’s gonna happen for these thousand level MAC classes, it’s a nice trade-off,” said Negron. “Walking out, having spent three hours in class, imagine any other class where all you have to do is go to class and you walk out and you know everything you need without doing a lot of extra work at home.”
Negron’s words seem to be in sharp contrast to the seemingly strenuous situations students face when trying to secure their weekly hours.
“It feels harsh probably because a lot of people will spend a lot of time all at once. But if you actually think about some of your other classes and how much time you spend outside of class reading, and doing work, writing, you’ll find that you actually end up spending a lot less time for the math class by doing the actual work for the course in lieu of the classroom time spent.”
In addition to spreading out time spent in the MALL, Negron urges students to take advantage of the instructors and assistants available to help them.
“That’s the time to light up the board, ask for that help from the instructors right there,” said Negron. “I’m sure in a regular classroom, you cannot sit with your instructor for three hours and have them answer every single question that you could possibly think of. But you can do that in the lab downstairs.
“The sad part is, not enough students do. I shouldn’t be on my feet; I should be answering questions every moment that I’m down there in that math lab, but I’m not. I count on students to keep me busy down there.”



On Tuesday, Phi Delta Theta fraternity will be hosting their first inaugural Fly With a Phi fundraiser benefiting Knight-thon and the Children’s Miracle Network. 
The event will be held outside of the Student Union from 10am-2pm, and for every dollar donated you can write a message on a balloon and tie it to the brother dressed in the astronaut suit. 
The astronaut suit pays homage to the late Neil Armstrong, who was a brother of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity. 
Mike Irene, who is helping organize the event hopes that with enough support Phi Delta Theta can lift a brother off of the ground. 
“With your help we can raise enough donations to actually lift our brother off the ground causing our standards, expectations, and brother fly.” Irene said in an e-mail to KnightNews.com.  
Knight-thon, UCF’s official student-run philanthropy, will be held April 13th. 



