KnightNews.com has high quality videos for every group from Kappa Delta Shakedown 2013!
We will begin uploading videos soon after the event. Continue to check back as videos upload for your group!
Winners:
Overall winner: Alpha Xi Delta
Most supplies donated: Delta Zeta
Fraternity
1. Phi Delta Theta
2. Kappa Sigma
3. Beta Theta Pi
Sorority
1. Zeta Tau Alpha
2. Alpha Delta Pi
3. Delta Zeta
Please take a second to like this story by clicking the like button up at the top, so your friends see this story on Facebook. Also, make sure you like KnightNews.com on Facebook and Twitter, so you get all the major UCF news you need to know — plus UCF community stories like this!
Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get UCF Greek News like this on your feeds!
Follow @UCFKnightNews
Follow @UCFKnightNews on Instagram for behind the scene pics from our crew in Louisville covering UCF’s huge game!
Kappa Delta

Kappa Delta | Lambda Chi | Kappa Alpha Theta | Delta Lambda Phi | Delta Zeta | Tri Delta | Kappa Kappa Gamma | Zeta Beta Tau | Phi Delta Theta | UCF Rugby | Knight Moves | Pi Beta Phi | Delta Sigma Phi | Beta Theta Pi | FIJI | AEPHI | Zeta Tau Alpha | Alpha Xi Delta | Chi Omega | Kappa Sigma | Alpha Delta Pi | Theta Chi | Dance Co. | Rukus



“This one’s for all the marbles,” UCF linebacker Terrance Plummer tells insiders as the UCF Knights (AAC 1-0, 4-1) get ready to Charge On to battle with the Louisville Cardinals (AAC 2-0, 6-0) this Friday at 8:00PM (ET) on ESPN
“Every week we practice how we play. Louisville is at the top of our conference and we need to take them down.” says Plummer.
The Knights will have their work cut out for them on both sides of the ball as Louisville brings top notch units across the boards.  For starters, their defense ranks No.1 in the nation in scoring, No.2 in total defense and No.1 in points against.  UCF has their weapons, but they will need to be firing on all cylinders to put up points against the Cards.
UCF Quarterback Blake Bortles has completed nearly 65% of his passes for the Knights, Bortles has passed for 1,334 yards and nine touchdowns this season.
UCF’s receiving core, championed by Breshad Perriman and Rannell Hall, has had a 100 yard receiver in all five games this season.  Both Perriman and Hall eclipsed 100 yards against South Carolina.
Sponsored Ad – Story Continues Below
 
Junior running back Storm Johnson has rushed for 455 yards and seven touchdowns this season due to his ability to break tackles and sniff out daylight.
With Louisville’s defense allowing only 7.3 PPG and their offense averaging 41 PPG, it doesn’t take a expert to realize that UCF has very little room for error if they hope to claim a very strategic spot atop Louisville in the automatic qualifying AAC standings.
The stout Louisville’s defense is not the only thing the Knights will be worried about coming into Friday night’s game.  Teddy Bridgewater, Louisville’s star quarterback, is completing 71 percent of his passes and has thrown for 18 TD’s this season compared to just two lonely INT’s.
“We plan on making him move so the only chance he has is to run,” UCF LB Plummer says, “he’s a better passer than runner. In order to get him off his game, that’s what we need to do and its what we are going to do.”
While playing at home, Bridgewater is boasting a staggering 209.3 Passer Rating, which is about as perfect as any mortal quarterback can be.
Blake will need to be in full ‘Bortles Kombat’ mode, finishing moves included, to keep up with Bridgewater’s production.
With that said, UCF is 3-0 on the road, including an upset at Penn State. Sanctions or not, a win in Happy Valley is a win in Happy Valley. If you believe in the transitive property of football wins like any good underdog fan, Penn State beating No.18 Michigan gives some significance to the Knights win.
Critics of the Cardinals weak schedule agree that the Knights pose one of the only true threats to Louisville.  While a threat they may be, vegas odds making the Cards just a 12 point favorite, the Knights will need to produce a near perfect game to take the driver seat in the AAC.



UCF wants dangerous drugs off the street.  
In an effort to prevent pill abuse and theft, UCF Health Services, together with the UCF Police Department, will give the public an opportunity to rid their homes of potentially dangerous expired, unused, and unwanted prescription drugs on Tuesday, October 22.
People wanting to dispose of drugs should bring medications for disposal to the Student Union atrium between 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.  The service is made possible by the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) and is free and anonymous, no questions asked. 
The DEA then incinerates the medications to keep them out of water supplies and landfills.
UCF will also opening a secure Drug Drop-off Box located in the Health Center where the public will be able to dispose drugs.
For more information on proper drug disposal, visit www.dea.gov.



