According to the Orlando Sentinel, UCF Football Head Coach George O’Leary is on the verge of signing a two-year contract extension that would run through the 2017 season. 
O’Leary took over the Knight’s football program in 2004 starting with an 0-11 season. O’Leary turned the Knights around in 2005, leading them to an 8-5 record that landed the Knights their first bowl appearance and O’Leary national coach of the year honors. 
Since then, O’Leary has led the Knights to two bowl victories and two ten win seasons within the past three years. O’Leary has compiled a record of 60-55 over his nine seasons at UCF.
As UCF transitions into the Big East next season, it looks as if the UCF Athletic Department is set on the 66-year old coach for the long haul. O’Leary signing the extension would almost completely shut down any rumors of the coach retiring when his current contract runs up in three years.
UCF Athletic Director Todd Stansbury told the Orlando Sentinel, “Obviously, it brings stability and [helps] in recruiting, and if you look at his record here he is graduating his student athletes and has two 10-win seasons in the last three years,” Stansbury went on, “And with the conference changes, it provides a steady hand at the wheel.”
The Knights will enter the Big East on July 1st as an all sports member. 



In his last home game as a UCF Knight(19-10, 8-6), forward Keith Clanton turned in one of the best performances of the season scoring 29 points despite falling 76-67 to No.19 Memphis(24-5, 14,0). The Knights came out energized, leading for most of the first half, but could not finish off the Tigers to give them their first Conference USA loss of the season.
Clanton, the Knight’s gritty senior who is UCF’s all-time leader in rebounds, blocks, and games played, was very efficient shooting 10-14 from the field while pulling in six rebounds. Prior to the game, Clanton, along with fellow seniors Bobby Horodyski and Robert King III were honored.
“Coach told me to stay aggressive. Memphis is a team that plays man-to-man, so I felt like I would have the opportunity to score.” Clanton told UCFAthletics.com on his last home game as a Knight.
Memphis, coming off of a loss against Xavier, came out slow letting UCF gain a 14-4 lead to start the game. The Tigers capitalized on UCF’s 10 first half turnovers, which allowed the Tigers to get a slight edge going into halftime, 34-29.
The Knights let Memphis get up by nine early in the second half, but strong play by Clanton tied the game up at 38 with 15 minutes remaining in the game.
Poor defensive play by the Knights allowed the Tigers to go on a 12-2 run following the tie, the Knights were not able to get back in the game after that. 
Memphis was highlighted by the play of Chris Crawford, who game off the bench to drill 4-5 from the 3-point line. Crawford finished with 19 total points. 
The Knights end their season with a pair of road games against UAB and Southern Miss starting next Wednesday. 



