KnightNews.com was once again at orientation on Thursday to talk to incoming freshman about their first days as a UCF Knight.
Although a UCF spokesman confirmed that the fall enrollment isn’t final for the 2013-2014 academic school year, UCF will still be near the top for largest universities in the nation.
As usual, hilarity ensued as our reporter, Justin Levy, chatted with the new freshman.




Details about UCF and Penn State’s planned football game in Ireland have just been released by UCF.
The schools will travel to Ireland to open the 2014 football season at Croke Park in Dublin. The game is scheduled for 8:30 a.m. ET Saturday, Aug, 30, 2014, and will air on ESPN2.
Sponsored Ad – Story Continues Below
 
“This is a wonderful opportunity for UCF to continue growing its reputation around the world,” Todd Stansbury, UCF Vice President and Director of Athletics said. “We are educators and this will be a learning experience for these young people. The chance to introduce this group of Knights to another country and another culture will serve them well in the future. Traveling overseas will provide our student-athletes a unique experience they will remember the rest of their lives. We look forward to joining Penn State in this memorable trip to Ireland.”
UCF Head Coach George O’Leary was also present during the announcement made during the GAA Leinster Football Finals at Croke Park. 
“We are very excited about the prospect of playing our 2014 season opener in Dublin,” said Coach O’Leary. “It’s a great opportunity for UCF, and a chance for us to grow the exposure of our football program.
This is the first time both UCF and Penn State will compete in a college football game in another country.
View frequently asked questions below:
Are game tickets included in the travel package?
Game tickets are included in the travel package. All travel packages are sold on a first come, first-serve basis.
Is airfare included?
No, airfare or transportation to and from the airport is not included.
Do infants and children need tickets to get into the game?
At this time, each individual will need a ticket to get into the game.
Are adjoining rooms available?
We will make every effort to accommodate special requests but cannot guarantee adjoining rooms as they are not readily available.
Will you have handicap accessible hotel rooms and tickets?
We will make every effort to accommodate all handicap requests. Any requests for handicap accessible rooms or game tickets should be conveyed at the time of making the reservation.
Do I need a passport to travel to Ireland?
Yes, you do need a passport to travel to Ireland. Passports must be issued by the United States government and they must be valid for six months beyond the trip date.
Can I pay the full balance of my trip at the time of booking?
Yes, but the standard package cancellations fees will still apply.
Can I change the dates on my travel package?
No, our travel packages are for specific dates.
If I choose not to attend this game, can I get my deposit back?
From the time of booking until Jan. 17, 2014, cancellations will incur a non-refundable $250 per package cancellation fee. Cancellations made between Jan. 17, 2014 and May 2, 2014 will incur a non-refundable $500 cancellation fee per package. All cancellations made after final payment date of May 2, 2014, are fully non-refundable.
Can I extend my stay?
Yes, you may add additional nights to your reservation.  This is done on a request basis which can be made with Anthony Travel.  Please contact Anthony Travel to make your request.  A request usually takes 4-5 business days to confirm. The standard room only payment and cancellation policies will apply to nights booked outside the package dates.



