Beginning this Fall, UCF will be one of only five colleges in the nation to offer students undergraduate science degrees in Photonics Science and Engineering, according to the University of Central Florida.
The new degree program is a joint initiative between the UCF College of Optics and Photonics and the College of Engineering and Computer Science. The program is designed to help students prepare for work in specialized field ares that involve optics, photonics and electrical engineering.
According to UCF, “the new bachelor of science degree in Photonics Science and Engineering will enable graduates to work for employers that create photonic or photonic-enabled products for applications in manufacturing, solar energy, smart lighting, medical diagnostics and therapeutics, telecommunications and computer technologies.”
UCF is the only college in the state of Florida to offer the the degree program.
“Optics is a venerable subject that has its roots in physics and astronomy, involving instruments such as telescopes and microscopes,” Bahaa Saleh, dean of CREOL, told UCF. “But photonics has emerged more recently when lasers, opto-electronics and optical fibers became available.”



As one track superstar leaves, a track legend enters.
In the same week Icon Management announced that Octavius Freeman signed with them, thus ending her tenure as a collegiate athlete, UCF announced they would be hiring hall of fame track coach Jeanette Bolden.
Bolden led UCLA to three track NCAA national championships in 20 years and also won a gold medal at the 2008 Beijing Olympic games.
“UCF is a fresh and vibrant university and has a lot of opportunities for young people. I plan to continue the upward arc of the program. Coach Caryl invested a lot in the team, and I just want to continue the successful path that she started to pave…I have been at UCLA all my life and I am grateful for the opportunities I had there,” Bolden said in a press release.
Bolden led the USA women’s track team to 23 medals at the 2008 Beijing Olympic games before she was inducted into the United States Track and Field Hall of Fame in December 2010.
“To hire a Hall of Fame coach, who has won an Olympic gold medal, coached Olympic champions and led teams to multiple NCAA Championships shows the level of commitment we have to women’s track and field here at UCF,” Athletic Director Todd Stansbury said in a press release.



Wednesday marked the first day of the new freshman on-campus taking classes while the upcoming freshman attend orientation.
Although a UCF spokesman confirmed that the fall enrollment isn’t final for the 2013-2014 academic school year, UCF will still be near the top for largest universities in the nation.
KnightNews.com was at orientation again on Wednesday to get the new students thoughts on orientation, there favorite buildings on campus, and what they plan on majoring in.
Check out the video below:

 
Like us on Facebook to get UCF News like this on your feed! 
[myrelposts-related title=”See More Orientation Videos:“]



In a major win for the gay rights movement, the Supreme Court on Wednesday ruled on a key part of a federal law that limits the definition of marriage to opposite-sex couples — deciding that the law violates citizen’s rights.
 
The Supreme Court also ruled against a California gay marriage ban, known as Proposition 8, clearing the way for gay marriage to again be legal in the state. 
In the case Windsor v. United States, the federal 1996 Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), which restricts federal marriage benefits and required inter-state marriage recognition to only opposite-sex marriages in the United States, was challenged after Edith Windsor of New York sued the government to get the federal estate tax deduction available to heterosexuals when their spouses die.
The court’s separate ruling on Proposition 8 clears the way for gay marriage in the state of California, however, does not affect the entire country. 
See the ruling striking down DOMA below.
http://knightnews.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/12-307_g2bh.pdf
See the ruling on Proposition 8 below. 
http://knightnews.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/12-144_8ok0.pdf



