A 24-year-old Orlando police officer and UCF graduate is recovering after being shot Tuesday morning during a traffic stop, according to multiple reports.
Officer Jason Hajek was taken to Orlando Regional Medical Center where he underwent surgery after being shot in the stomach while performing a traffic stop around 2:30 a.m., police said. 

The suspect, Demetrius Patterson, 23, was arrested for attempted first degree murder of a law enforcer and weapons possession, police said. According to Local 6, Patterson has faced 42 previous arrest charges. He was taken to a hospital for treatment after being struck in the foot during Hajek’s returned fire.
A photo taken by Hajek’s father and given to WFTV Channel 9 shows Hajek wearing his UCF cap and gown while holding his diploma. 
Hajek was shot below his bulletproof vest just above his belt. Hajek’s father told Local 6 that Hajek was doing well, although a bullet pierced his bladder.



UCF orientation wrapped up on Tuesday, with almost all of class of 2017 Knights finishing up, with the exception of some out-of-state and transfer students.
This means that this was the last time our reporter, Justin Levy, got a chance to talk with the new freshman and get their thoughts on coming to UCF in a comedic manner.
Check out the video below and also the previous 10 orientation videos:
[myrelposts-related title=”See More Orientation Videos:“]

Like us on Facebook to get UCF News like this on your feed! 



UPDATE UCF Police has completed its investigation and concluded that there was no man with a knife in the Lake Claire residence hall this morning. The report made to police by a student was inaccurate.
A UCF Alert message sent out early Tuesday morning notified students of a man wielding a knife on campus.
A student contacted police after seeing a man with a knife in a hallway at UCF’s on-campus Lake Claire Apartments. UCF Police immediately searched the area but did not find the individual. A police review is ongoing for the man who is described as 6-foot-2 with a slender build, long brown hair, a black shirt and white pants.
An alert message sent out to students early Tuesday morning reported an aggravated assault, but campus officials later said that there was no attack or assault and the report of a man with a knife was inaccurate. 
The UCF Alert message was sent to students at around 2:30 a.m. Tuesday morning.
“*UCF Alert* Aggravated assault, Lake Clair Apartments, White Male, 6’2″ slender build, long bwn hair, blk shirt & wht pants. Fled area w/knife. Report suspicious activity to 911.”
Continue to check back for updates. 



