A UCF professor has been honored with a national award for his leadership roles and his “innovative, creative and inspiring approach to medical student education.”
Dr. Martin Klapheke, professor of psychiatry at the UCF College of Medicine, was the winner of the 2013 Innovations Award from the Association of Directors of Medical Student Education in Psychiatry, UCF said. The award recognized Dr. Klapheke’s leadership of a Clinical Simulation Initiative (CSI) — which provides a free national database of online psychiatric teaching cases.
The online modules utilize innovative training methods that are based off of real-life scenarios. A variety of psychiatric cases, including dementia, bipolar disorder, adolescent depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, and personality disorders are used in the scripts allowing students to see how a psychiatrist interviews and interacts with patients and determines a proper diagnosis and treatment plan. 
Through real-life encounters, students see examples of the important doctor-patient relationship necessary in treating psychiatric disorders and such learning experiences also help de-stigmatize mental health issues, UCF said.
“Education always helps decrease stigma,” Dr. Klapheke told UCF. “And no matter what specialty students go into, they are going to encounter patients that have psychiatric conditions. For that reason, they need an increased level of skill and confidence.”



Red Hot & Boom on July 3, 2013
Red Hot and Boom is Orlando’s most popular Fireworks Show that takes place on July 3 each year in Altamonte Springs at Crane’s Roost Park. 
Live bands sponsored by Top 40 radio station XL 106.7 play at the amphitheater leading up to the 25 minute fireworks show. Over 100,000 people typically attend the event annually. The Fireworks begin at 9:30 p.m.
The bands and artists performing at the 2013 Red Hot and Boom Show include The Jonas Brothers, Hot Chelle Rae, MKTO, Melissa Gorga, and Stefano.
Disney’s Celebrate America
This year, the fireworks spectacular takes place every night July 1-7 at Disnye’s Magic Kingdom!  Fireworks will be at 10:00 p.m., except for the 3rd and 4th, when they will be presented at 9:00 p.m.
You’ll be seeing red, white and blue all over the park, from Cinderella Castle to special-edition merchandise including U.S.A. shirts, ear hats and much more.  A patriotic pre-parade will feature Goofy, Donald and Pluto and take place before the daily Celebrate a Dream Come True parade. Also taking part in the pre-parade will be the Main Street Philharmonic, Citizens of Main Street and a historic horse-drawn calliope.
July 3rd, 2013
9:00 p.m. – “Celebrate America – A Fourth of July Concert in the Sky” Fireworks
July 4th, 2013
9:00 p.m. – “Celebrate America – A Fourth of July Concert in the Sky” Fireworks
Fireworks at the Fountain
Lake Eola Park, Downtown Orlando
195 N Rosalind Avenue
4 – 10 p.m.
Fireworks begin at 9:10 p.m.
Featuring:
Entertainment on two stages:
Amphitheater:
98.9 WMMO Acoustic Cafe from 4-6 p.m.
Orlando Concert Band beginning at 8 p.m.
K92.3 stage at the corner of Robinson Street and Eola Drive:
Local artists all from 4-7 p.m.
7 p.m. National Recording Artist Joel Crouse
2 beer and wine gardens
Fireworks at Avalon Park 
Experience the Fourth of July Celebration in Avalon Park. The event will include fireworks, an apple-pie bake off, hot dog-eating contest, bike parade, a wet and dry bounce house and community performances. 
Festivities start at 5 p.m. Admission is free. Visit www.eventsatavalonpark.com for more information. 
Independence Day at Universal Orlando Resort 
Guests can enjoy a special version of the popular Universal 360: A Cinesphere Spectacular, a cinematic adventure that combines cutting-edge projection technology with lasers and pyrotechnics to bring movies to life like never before.
Red, Brick and Boom at LEGOLAND 
 July 4 – 7
A dazzling way to celebrate the 4th of July, LEGOLAND Florida presents their first Independence Day event. 3D glasses make ordinary fireworks turn into millions of fantastic exploding bricks.
Other 4th of July Celebrations:
– Celebration Town Center is also adding a fun twist to the holiday, as they join forces with MegaCon to celebrate A Sci-Fi 4th of July on July 4 beginning at 5:00 p.m.
– On July 5, the 4th Annual Independence Day Bash at Baldwin Park will be held from 5:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. EST featuring food, fun, music and a fireworks show
Know of other events around Central Florida? Send a tip to news@kngihtnews.com!



