KnightNews.com has live coverage of the UCF game against UCONN.
Follow @UCFKnightNews for instant updates on twitter, and see quarterly recaps below that:
Tweets by @UCFKnightNews

Sponsored Ad – Story Continues Below

 
UCONN has won the toss and elected to defer. The Knights will receive the kick in the first half.
First Quarter
From the first play from scrimmage, UCF meant business. The three initial plays from scrimmage moved the Knights from their own 25 down to the Huskies’ 22 yard line. Riding the back of the running game, UCF moved the ball 52 yards on the ground during the way to their first score, a ten yard scamper by Storm Johnson.
UCF 7 UCONN 0
A 57 yard pickup from the UCONN 10 yard line put the Huskies in great field position on their first possession of the game. The 57 yard rush by tailback Lyle McCants was the longest run of the season for the Huskies’ offense. Capitalizing on the excellent positioning, UCONN was able to maneuver into field goal range, putting one through the uprights for a 40 yard field goal.
UCF 7 UCONN 3
It was through the air that UCF did their damage on the second drive, moving 50 yards down the field on a beautiful pass from Blake Bortles to second year target Breshad Perriman to set themselves up at the nine yard line. On third and goal from the 10 yard line, the UCF signal caller rolled right trying to buy time and found open real estate, taking it in himself for the 10 yard score.
UCF 14 UCONN 3
Looking perfect in his third possession, Blake Bortles completed 4 passes on 4 attempts for 30 yards while moving the team from the 49 yard line into the end zone, finding Storm Johnson for a 7 yard touchdown. The score was Bortles’ 12 passing TD of the year, and Johnson’s 3rd receiving.
UCF 21 UCONN 3
 Second Quarter
The defense was lights out on their first crack at the field in the second quarter, breaking up two passes with near-interceptions to force a 3 and out. However, a muffed punt return by J.J. Worton gave UCONN the ball back at the Knights’ 24 yard line. The same drive gave birth to a 4th and 1 situation from the UCF 15 yard line that was converted by the Huskies to keep the drive alive. Lyle McCombs was able to find room from the 9 yard line, fighting his way into the end zone to close the gap to 11.
UCF 21 UCONN 10
UCF continued their trend of refusing to punt after coming dangerously close with a 3rd and 16 situation halfway through the quarter. A check down pass to Justin Tukes went for 12 yards to get the Knights into the very fringe of field goal range. Shawn Moffitt nailed his 50 yard attempt to add on to the multi-score lead, the first 50 yard field goal for UCF since 2009.
UCF 24 UCONN 10
UCONN could only get off six plays on their next drive before heavy defensive pressure forced the Knight’s first takeaway of the game, with Troy Gray intercepting the ball at the 31 yard line. A quick completion from Bortles set up a 17 yard rushing touchdown by Rannell Hall, his first of the year.
UCF 31 UCONN 10
With excellent field position once again thanks to stellar defense, UCF was able to take over their next drive from the 44 yard line. It took only 4 plays – all complete passes by Bortles – to put the Knights into the end zone on a 10 yard toss to Jeff Godfrey.
UCF 38 UCONN 10
A timely interception gave UCF the ball back almost instantaneously, with 1:14 left in the half. Commanding continued progress, Blake Bortles moved the team with ease down within 10 yards on four plays. With time running out he hit Jeff Godfrey in the back of the end zone for his 3rd passing touchdown of the game. Through the first half Bortles has 225 yards and 3 TDs passing, complemented by his 26 rushing yards and 1 rushing TD.
UCF 45 UCONN 10
 Third Quarter 
It took only two plays for the UCF offense to find the end zone in the second half. On the second play from scrimmage, J.J. Worton split out left and hauled in a screen pass, seemingly good for the first down and maybe a few more. A missed UCONN tackle and valiant second effort from Worton led to a 61 yard sprint down the sideline for UCF.
UCF 52 UCONN 10
On the very next play from scrimmage, UCF linebacker Sean Maag came up with a momentum building fumble recovery. Already seeing the win in their sights, the Knights chose to bench starter Blake Bortles in favor of freshman Justin Holman. Holman was not as effective as the highly-touted Bortles in his first drive, but drove the Knights close enough for Shawn Moffitt to nail another field goal to the scoreboard.
UCF 55 UCONN 10
The offense seemed to stagnate slightly under the number two quarterback in the system,who was given a chance to show the coaches exactly what they are working with. Headed into the 4th quarter, Holman was 2-5 for 24 yards.
Fourth Quarter
Starting from midfield, UCF began the 4th quarter with a win on their mind and a clock to run out. Looking their best since Bortles exited the game, the Knights were able to drive down well within the red zone, to the 19 yard line. Holman’s inexperience was on full display on the next play, as he tried to force a pass to the right side and was intercepted at the 17 yard line.
The ensuing drive would put the Huskies in the end zone. Moving down to the UCF 46, Casey Cochran completed a quick pass over the middle to Brian Lemelle, who took it 46 yards down the field for the score.
UCF 55 UCONN 17
The offense was able to add on to their ample lead late in the 4th quarter, as Holman was able to drive down to the goal line and complete a 5 yard screen pass to Jeff Godfrey that was taken in for the quarterback’s first career passing touchdown. It was Godfrey’s third of the day.
UCF 62 UCONN 17
A fumble recovery with under two minutes to play sealed the game, UCF running out the clock in front of their dedicated fans. With little drama late in the game, the mop up crew was able to close things down with ease.
Final Score: UCF 62 UCONN 17
Final Score: UCF



