Changes associated with a naming deal that changes the UCF Arena to the CFE Arena wll begin to take effect in the fourth quarter of this year.
Images of planned changes to the newly named CFE Arena Just above the basketball court, UCF will lose its name as new signs are posted around the building. 
CFE Federal Credit Union acquired the naming rights in May, giving UCF $3.95 million over seven years as part of the agreement for the Arena.
“We are pleased to strengthen our relationship with an outstanding organization that has served our campus and our community so well,” UCF President Dr. John C. Hitt said after the deal was reached. “We can’t think of a better partner for the naming rights for one of our campus’ most prominent facilities.”
Sponsored Ad – See Photos Below
 
View photo renderings below. 



UCF’s kickoff specialist Sean Galvin has been an integral part to the well-oiled machine that has been UCF football for the past two games.
Recording nine touchbacks on fourteen kickoffs, Galvin has quietly put together a very impressive two games at a position that most never talk about.

Sponsored Ad – Story Continues Below
 
When he came to the states, he continued to play soccer until high school when he started to kick a football and realized that he was pretty good at it. By good, Galvin earned himself a spot as the kickoff specialist for UCF football.
In July, UCF and Penn State came to terms to finalize a deal that would kick off their 2014 season in Ireland. For players and coaches on both squads, that means an all-expense paid trip to Europe to play football in an environment and crowd unlike anything they’ve ever done before.
For Galvin, it means something more.
Besides his parents–none of Gavlin’s family or back home friends have ever been able to see him play American football. Conveniently, Galvin’s hometown of Cork is just about three hours away from Croke Park, where the game will be held.
“It’s awesome because my grandparents can’t come over here because they are getting older so they will be able to come watch along with all my cousins,” Galvin said.
Watch the full video interview above.
[myrelposts-related title=”More Special Coverage of UCF in Dublin:“]



The UCF golf team put together an impressive performance at the Northern Intercollegiate at Rich Harvest Farms golf tournament.
The Knights finished up on Sunday at (-5) finishing the tournament at a total team score of (+2) to give them the tournament victory. The University of Virginia finished second at (+3) and the University of Houston finished third at (+5).
Greg Eason for UCF lead the way with a 68 on Saturday and a 67 on Sunday that catapulted him to being the runner-up individually for the event at (-4). Roman Robiedo of Houston, took the individual title with a 211 (-5).
This is the second time in the past three years that the UCF golf team won the Northern Intercollegiate. The Knights are back in action September 16 and 17 at the Adams Cup in Newport R.I. 



ORLANDO, Fla. – Last week’s win over Charleston Battery, the 2012 USL PRO Champions, sent Orlando City Soccer Club into the 2013 Championship round against the Charlotte Eagles. With record breaking attendance, over 20,000 fans poured into the Florida Citrus Bowl last Saturday to witness the 2013 USL PRO Championship match.
Orlando City overtook the Eagles with a flurry of goals and a stunning 7-4 win. 
The man of the match was indisputably the 2013 co-Golden Boot winner Dom Dwyer. Previously on loan from Major League Soccer’s Kansas City, Dwyer returned to the mighty lions this weekend to snag 4 of the 7 goals with an added assist, helping OCSC obtain their 2nd championship win in 3 seasons.
Halftime left off with a 2-2 draw having Dwyer net his first of four goals in the 33rd minute and blasting a header in the 42nd minute with an assist from defender Eric Ustruck. Attacking relentlessly, the Lions pulled forward in the second half of the game. Dwyer scored his third goal off a penalty kick, and another header in the 69th. Dennis Chin made up for two of the remaining goals, and one from Adama Mbenque. Although the Eagles continued their attack with a solid effort, the Lions held tight to their lead and ended the match 3 goals ahead.
With trophy in hand, the club looks toward approval of the proposed $85 million dollar stadium as well as their hopes of bringing a Major League Soccer team to central Florida.



On Saturday, September 7, approximately 18,000 people gathered in our very own University of Central Florida Memory Mall. Everyone arrived with a common goal in mind: to help win the fight against heart disease and stroke.
The American Heart Association’s Heart Walk was held on the UCF campus for the first time in history. All attendees of the walk arrived bright and early. For walkers it was apparent that their wish to press snooze on their alarm clock was not as great as their will to help support a great cause.
Organizers of the American Heart Association walk set their goal at $1.5 million. This seemingly big goal turned out to be a possibility when at 2 p.m. on Friday, September 6, $1,122,174 had been raised.
The official count after the event was $1,178,952. Although the walk fell short of the $1.5 million goal, it was still a big success! There are high hopes that this will become an annual tradition on campus.
To find out more information about the American Heart Association, to donate or to see where other heart walks our happening, please visit their website at www.heart.org.



