An online media group named a sorority house at the University of Central Florida as one of the best in the nation in a recent story.
Daily Elite named Zeta Tau Alpha’s house as one of the best houses in the country. The Eta Kappa Chapter of Zeta Tau Alpha was founded in 1974. The Zeta house, built in 1985, was the first house on UCF’s campus and has since built additions at the back of the house. 
Zeta Tau Alpha, UCF “It seems that the Florida schools have one thing in common on this list — Zeta Tau Alpha takes the cake in coolest house design. Maybe it’s the palm trees?” the site proclaims.
Zeta Tau Alpha’s chapter at Florida State was also named on the same list. The University of Florida’s Tri-Delta Sorority was also named as one of the country’s best. 
Click here to see the full list by Elite Daily.



BarZapp iPhone App creator Nelson Ludlow says his new app will not stop all fake IDs, but will catch a lot.
BarZapp, which costs $1.99 on the iTunes store, scans the barcode on IDs and verifies encoded information of the card owner. When the ID is scanned it instantly displays the card owner’s name, date of birth, ID expiration, and ID number. The app’s developer says this scanning will primarily target the authenticity of IDs and will be compatible with any ID card from all 50 states.
Ludlow realizes that underage patrons have been able to purchase IDs online from overseas in places such as China. This is exactly what his app is hoping to stop.
“China is making a lot of high-end fake IDs that people pay 200 or 300 dollars for, and we catch a significant amount of them. If someone fiddles with a date or something in the bar code … you better do it exactly the right way,” Ludlow told the Huffington Post.
The app can be downloaded by anyone, but the company release states that bar owners will need to purchase a license if they intend to use the app on a company-wide scale.
If the embarrassment of being rejected on a fake ID isn’t enough, another feautre of the app includes being able to permanately ban an individual from the establishment.



The UCF Knights kicked off preseason camp (and the season, for that matter) inside Nicholson Fieldhouse on Wednesday — with expectations for the team higher than ever.

It was the first time back on the field for the Knights since a spring game on April 13. The Knights know that this year is especially important because of the recent switch into the new conference. 
UCF Athletics “The first day is always intriguing,” Head Coach George O’Leary said. “(The true freshmen) are anxious, they don’t know what to expect. The thing that usually gets them is the speed of the game. Everything is so much quicker, everybody can run. Friday and Saturday that’s when you’ll see the ones that can help you out when you put pads on. Now you add contact speed to what they know, and that’s when you really find out the freshmen that are going to help. It’ll be tough for freshmen to help us out this year with the people back. But you’re always looking, and the skilled area has the best opportunity.”
One area in which a veteran leads the way is at linebacker, where Terrance Plummer enters his junior year after posting 108 tackles at middle linebacker in 2012.
“Everybody was running to the ball, everybody was enthusiastic. It was very exciting,” Plummer said. “We take out (of the first practice) effort and enthusiasm, so when we step on to the field we want to see how everybody’s running to the ball, if everybody is excited and getting their assignments done. You can’t get much out of it from a hitting standpoint because we don’t have shoulder pads on, but you can see who is flying around to the ball and see who is athletic.”
UCF gets back to work with its only morning practice of the preseason Thursday from 9:10-11:30 a.m.
For information on tickets, including season tickets, click here.



