Written by: Lindsey Denton
MidKnight Munchies brings a whole new meaning to the term March Madness. Its grand opening was March 20, and this new UCF business has hungry students going crazy over freshly baked cookies that are delivered right to their door.
Two University of Central Florida students and entrepreneurs, Allan Adzima and Matthew Anderson, founded this business to fulfill students’ late night cravings for sweets.
MidKnight Munchies made about 2,000 cookies on its first night of operation.
“Opening night was great,” Adzima said. “We expected to be busy, and ended up being busier than we even expected. I don’t think I’ve ever worked harder for 6 hours in my life.”
The new business is on many social media websites, such as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Its Facebook page is full of comments from happy customers thanking MidKnight Munchies for their goods, and from anticipated customers eagerly waiting to get their first bite of a cookie.
There are seven different kinds of cookies available for order: Chocolate chip, peanut butter, white chocolate macadamia, triple chocolate, sugar, snickerdoodle and M&M. They are also offering the perfect additions to a delicious cookie–regular 1 percent milk and Yoo-hoo.
Carolina Sewald, UCF freshman, is excited to make her first of many orders from MidKnight Munchies.
“My friends call me the cookie monster, and having them come to my door will be really convenient,” Sewald said.
MidKnight Munchies will operate Wednesday through Sunday, 9 p.m. to 3 a.m. Customers may place orders any time throughout the day, and the cookies will be delivered as soon as they open at night. Deliveries should take about 30 minutes or less, depending on traffic and how busy they are.
Each cookie is 99 cents and a minimum charge of $5, including sales tax, is required to order the cookies. The delivery charge is $1.25 per order as well. Regular 1 percent milk is $1.50 and Yoo-hoo is $1.75.
To have cookies delivered, place an order on the MidKnight Munchies website or by calling 407-590-6624.



The Nicholson School of Communication’s Knightly News hosted the final SGA Presidential debate in full studio production fashion on Thursday.
The debate was broadcasted on SGA Extra, KnightCast and on the TV’s in the Student Union and RWC.
After the debate, KnightNews.com caught up with the candidates one last time before campaign week. See the candidates answer questions on the recent suspension of three large fraternities and how the plan to navigate around the issue of campaign bribery.

 



