A UCF student recently filed a brutality and excessive force complaint against a UCF officer after the officer broke her vehicle window during a traffic stop.
(Window shatters at just over 5 minutes into the video.)

Victoria King was being pulled over by UCF Police Officer Timothy Isaacs  for a routine brake light traffic stop when things began to get out of hand.
“When I reapproached the vehicle to issue the citation, King became upset and refused to roll the window down all the way I subsequently told King multiple times to roll down the window to which she continued her defiance, Isaacs said in the police report. “I asked King to exit the vehicle instead, as she was not complying with my order to roll the window down.”
Isaacs then reached his hand into the car to try and open the door.
“I reached in the vehicle in an attempt to open the door, as I did this, King began to roll the power windows up on my right forearm,” Issacs said in the police report. “I began to feel pressure on my forearm due to the window compressing it against the frame of the window.”
It’s at that time that Isaacs pulled his arm back and shattered the car window. 
King recorded the entire incident on her cell phone and Officer Issacs was also wearing a body camera which recorded the incident as well.
King was arrested and charged with battery on a law enforcement officer, resisting officer with violence and resisting officer without violence.
Click “next page” to view the police report.
[myrelposts-related title=”Read about more UCF Police Controversies:“]



Just a day after UCF landed four-star power forward Alex Owens, the Knights landed another huge class of 2015 prospect in Corey Sanders.
Sanders is a combo guard and like Owens, is also a top 100 prospect in the nation. Sanders hails from IMG Academy in Bradenton, Fla. and made his decision on Twitter official on Wednesday.
“With the dedication we’re going to put in, I feel that we’re going to make history and we can contend for a national title there,” Sanders told 247sports.com.
Check out Sanders mixtape below:




