Why would anyone be willing to pay the hefty out-of-state tuition cost just to come to UCF?
The fact is that out of the almost 60,000 students at the university, only a small percentage comes from places other than Florida. Students like these have personal goals and desires that make UCF a one-of-a-kind home and a first pick for education.
“I really wanted to explore a new state,” said Kristen Nguyen, a student from Virginia. 
For Nguyen, the National Merit Scholarship provided the resources that she needed to leave her hometown for schooling. The UCF/USF accelerated med school program is what drew her in to UCF specifically. The program allows honors students to complete their BS/MD in only seven years. 
The accelerated med school program isn’t the only academic aspect that draws people from across the world to UCF. Najeeb Albulushi and David Dabrow, from Oman and Maryland, respectively, find that UCF’s proximity to major engineering firms like Lockheed Martin and Siemens make it a top pick for those in the field of study.
“Other schools in Florida don’t compare to UCF in regards to the opportunities that are offered by the surrounding companies,” Dabrow said.
Dabrow was also able to win a scholarship that allowed him to make the jump to an out-of-state school.
Aside from academia, there are much simpler reasons that students come to UCF.
“It seemed like a real, Florida school, like with all the palm trees. At the other universities, like FSU, everything was made of brick, and that’s more of a northern style- like what I was already used to,” said Katelyn Miller, a student from Pennsylvania.
Miller says that she’s always wanted to move to Florida, and that UCF appeals to her because of its modern aspects. She likes that the buildings and curriculum are new and that the university strives to move forward in society.
“Like when they implemented the non-smoking campaign to promote good health,” said Miller.
All of these students, no matter what major or background, did share one common reason for choosing UCF- the amazing weather. 
“I love the warm weather and sun in Florida, and the school is so pretty,” said Erikah Bailey from Delaware.
Regardless of the desires, culture, background and needs of the person, UCF has much to offer its students in terms of academic and corporate opportunity, modern campus atmosphere and warm, sunny climate.



The FBI has released photos and video of two suspects believed to be involved in the Boston Marathon Bombing.

The FBI has asked the public to help identify the suspects, being identified by the FBI as suspect 1 and suspect 2. Anyone with information is asked to call 1 800-CALL-FBI.



Initially, UCF was up against 55 colleges across the United States to win the Victoria’s Secret PINK party.
On Thursday, they are competing against the University of Texas in the final social media challenge to win the contest. The final challenge consists of the school that can tweet the their respective school’s hashtag the most. UCF students have rallied to keep “#UCFPinkParty” trending nationally on Twitter for hours.
The previous PINK parties have been hosted by Victoria’s Secret models and have had headlining guests such as Drake and Kid Cudi.
Monica Bedi and Rachel Cole, the UCF Victoria’s Secret PINK Campus Representatives are leading this movement of UCF to win as the ones who are promoting this through Twitter and Facebook.
A champion will be crowned on Friday, April 19th.



A very large explosion at a fertilizer plant in a small Texas town has left left hundreds injured and several feared dead, according to CNN.

The blast took place at the West Fertilizer Plant in West, Texas around 8:50 p.m. Town residents tell CNN there may be at least 50-60 homes completely demolished due to the blast.
Many search and rescue efforts were initially limited due to toxic fumes being emitted from the plant as well as the possibility of a second fertilizer tank exploding. According to KWKT, authorities had informed the citizens of West to evacuate the city immediately, due to fears of a second explosion.
The exact cause of the blast is currently unknown at this time.
“Nothing at this point indicates we have had criminal activity, but we are not ruling that out,” Waco Police Sgt. William Patrick Swanton told CNN.
Continue to check back for updates.



