USF Athletic Director Doug Woolard’s tires were slashed on Friday at the UCF-USF game, according to a Tampa Bay Times report that was later confirmed by UCF officials.
Woolard was parked by the Wayne Densch Sports Center when Tampa Bay Times reporter Jeff Odom tweeted that Woolard told him that his car “his car was vandalized tonight.”
Sponsored Ad – Story Continues Below

“I want to publicly apologize to Doug. I’m disappointed and embarrassed that this happened at our facility. I’m thankful our friends at Carl Black came through with transportation for him to get back home. We always encourage good sportsmanship and responsible behavior and this was neither,” UCF Athletic Director Todd Stansbury said in an issued statement.
UCF Athletics provided Woolard with a car to drive back to Tampa. Stansbury personally drove Woolard’s car back to Tampa on Saturday morning, according to the Orlando Sentinel.



Most of Michelle Bruder’s days are occupied with schoolwork and planning for her upcoming wedding. She would feed her pet parrot and bearded dragon before leaving her home and eat breakfast in her car while trying to make it to class or any appointments on time. Even though Bruder is constantly on the hustle, she still has time to help University of Central Florida students find friends on her blog.
“People say, ‘oh, if you want friends just join a club,’ but there are cliques already within some of those clubs,” said Bruder, a senior majoring in advertising and public relations.
Bruder’s blog, called Make Friends UCF, is dedicated to helping students who are having difficulty making new friends around campus. It is run on Tumblr, a microblogging platform and social networking website. Bruder said she wanted to do something about the number of students on the site saying how lonely they were at the university.
“I go into the UCF tag, and I see so many posts by students saying, ‘I have no friends, I have no friends,’” Bruder said.
Bruder’s idea of creating Make Friends UCF stemmed from another Tumblr blog called Hook Up UCF, which as the name suggests, helps students find relationships on campus. Bruder opened her blog at the beginning of the semester, but she said that she did not see much student activity for some time.
“I got nothing for almost three weeks; I started to think that nobody cared,” Bruder said. “But then suddenly I started getting five or six submissions a day.”
To find a friend on Make Friends UCF, students have to provide their major, age, what they like to do for fun and a short blurb about what their interests are. Students can either choose to be anonymous and pre-screen their potential friends, or if they already have a Tumblr account and are fine with using their usernames, a link will appear to that student’s blog. Bruder will then display submissions on the front page of the blog, and users can show interest in friendships by clicking a heart-shaped symbol below the post.
“It’s something that I’m interested in. I don’t have a lot of friends around campus, so it’s good to find a way to link up,” said Joy Allen, a junior majoring in legal studies.
A good number of students think that Bruder’s blog is inventive and that meeting new people via a website is a positive thing.
“That’s really cool,” said Kevin Strileckis, a junior double-majoring in English literature and computer science. “Sometimes you don’t know how to meet other people in the classroom.”
Bruder said that she is aware of the negative stereotypes of talking to people via the Internet and thinks that they should just be ignored.
“There is still a stigma, but the type of communication that you get online is different; it’s less superficial,” Bruder said.
Andrea Munsell, a sophomore majoring in biomedical sciences, said that students should not feel ashamed about finding a friend online.
“Everyone has their preferences,” Munsell said. “This is not high school where you’re surrounded by a small amount of people.”
Some students still remain uncertain over forming friendships virtually, but they are open to Bruder’s idea.
“I’d prefer making friends in the classroom, where there’s a face-to-face meeting, but I wouldn’t mind as long as it’s secure,” said Zahra Sattaur, a sophomore majoring in psychology.
Bruder’s last days at UCF are quickly approaching with graduation being not too far away, and since she is the only person who runs the blog, she does not have anyone to take over from her. But she does want Make Friends UCF to prosper as the school semesters go by.
“I’m considering giving it to another student after graduation,” Bruder said. “People seem to be benefitting from it, so I would like to see the blog continue to grow.”
Between homework, wedding planning, and now preparing for graduation, the juggling act in Bruder’s everyday life continues, but she makes sure she’s not too far away from a good Wi-Fi connection to help a fellow Knight make a friend or two.
“Something is always happening, especially in the Internet world,” she said. “I can’t sit still.”
By DeJanae Phillips



A new campus convenience store, Provisions on Demand (P.O.D.) Market, opened its doors on Nov. 22 in Neptune building 157. 
The market is open to anyone and sells an array of items including freshly prepared sandwiches, salads and wraps, as well as typical convenience store products.
“There was a demand to open here for all the students living in this area,” said P.O.D. Market supervisor, Alex Feltz. “The mailroom is here, and it’s far from Knightstop.”
 The P.O.D. Market is a chain convenience store that was created by Aramark Higher Education, which provides services to colleges and universities throughout North America. Other P.O.D. Market campus locations include FIU and UF.
“We not only provide food options, but we also focus on providing products for residential needs,” Feltz said.
Freshman Shannon Bradley is a Neptune resident and said it is really nice that the P.O.D. Market thought about opening a store for the kids on this side of campus.
“There are a lot of things that we can buy at the market that are not just food items,” she said. “If I need tissues or something, and don’t have a ride to Walmart, I can easily just walk downstairs and buy some.”
Students can use Knight Cash on any products and, beginning in spring semester, those with an unlimited meal plan can use that to buy meals, which include items such as a sandwich, wrap or salad and comes with chips and a normal sized beverage or water.
“Being a first-year college student, having transportation to go off campus is not always an option, so having a store like this that takes Knight Cash and meal plan is always a plus,” Bradley said.
The P.O.D. Market’s hours are Monday-Thursday from 9 a.m. to 1 a.m., Fridays from 9 a.m. to 10 p.m. and Saturday-Sunday from 11 a.m. to 10 p.m.
“Right now we are testing the hours, but it seems like a lot of students are coming in at night,” Feltz said.



UCF barely held on Friday night in front of a roaring crowd of 45,952 fans, beating the University of South Florida for the first time in program history, 23-20.
It was the coldest night the Knights had seen this year at home, with a game time kickoff temperature of 59 degrees –perfect weather for a rivalry game in the fall.
For UCF (10-1, 7-0) the game was more than a chance of redemption after losing all four previous matchups against USF (2-9, 2-5). It was more than a conference leader fending off the last ranked offense in the conference.
It was the first time these two combatants of the “War on I-4” have met as conference opponents, and a victory for UCF meant locking down a share of the American Athletic Conference title. Even more importantly, it was the first game that the Knights could flaunt their recently achieved powerhouse status against their neighbors to the west.
It was not an easy contest, by any means. UCF kept the game closer than most expected in the 1st half, by committing untimely penalties and turning the ball over three times – once stopping a sure-fire scoring drive in the red zone, and another setting up USF’s first field goal of the day. As a whole, the unit would turn the ball over five times on the day.
Sponsored Ad – Story Continues Below

The offense struggled to consistently move the ball, and the defense gave up far too many chunks of yardage in momentum changing explosive plays. At times Bortles struggled with his reads, and converted only 1 of 9 third down attempts. He was sacked hard a few times throughout the game, fumbling the ball in the third quarter to set up the Bulls’ first touchdown of the game.
The two interceptions were game-killers themselves, deflating the Knights’ offense at times where a charge was dearly needed. Of the two, the 4th quarter pick with under 7 minutes to play was especially devastating, cutting precious time off the clock for a UCF comeback drive.
Coach O’Leary didn’t mince any words after the game, saying that “The offensive line didn’t sustain their blocks, did a poor job pass protecting, Blake Bortles held on to the ball too long, and you just can’t do that.”
Normally a focal point of the offense, and a highly efficient production machine, Bortles struggled in what could be his last game in front of the home crowd, completing 17 of 26 passes for 219 yards, 2 TD’s and 2 INT’s, while taking three sacks and fumbling once.
Storm Johnson put his team in a rough position to start the game, losing two fumbles early. He lost the rock on each of the Knights’ first two possessions- the first leading to a field goal and immediate deficit, and the second coming in the red zone, costing UCF a surefire scoring drive.
There was no decisive distinction between the two teams on different trajectories, as the game was not decided until the final minutes of play. With 4:50 left on the clock and three turnovers to his name for the day, Blake Bortles stepped into a huge throw down the right sideline for a 52 yard touchdown completion to Breshad Perriman.
UCF 23 – USF 20.
Perriman had fooled his defender completely with a double move after seeing him bite hard on routes all day, and beat the safety deep to put UCF on top for the final time. With a sly smile, Perriman revealed after the game that he had counted on the defender biting.
Even after the explosive touchdown, the Bulls’ momentum was not totally depleted. USF was able to drive down to the UCF 39 yard line on their last possession, with under a minute and thirty seconds on the clock. It seemed that the Knights’ torturous ways were in line to catch up with them, as USF had been nailing field goals all day.
But an unexpected interception by Jordan Ozerities sealed the game. Streaking down the sideline, Ozerities had a full head of steam when he snagged the ball and USF’s hopes for an upset  clean out of the air. The redshirt junior was able to cross midfield and leave 1:20 to burn off the clock.
“You never expect it, you never know when your name will be called,” said defensive lineman Thomas Niles after the game. Indeed, this was Ozeritites first interception of the season, and was not on a play that anybody expected a turnover. Yet it could not have come at a better time.
“You know what can I say?” O’Leary said after the game. “You don’t play very well and 5 turnovers … you don’t usually win games like that.”
In a game where 5 turnovers, poor decision making, and a lack of a dominating presence on any part of the field all came into play, the Knights were able to limp to victory, clinching a share of the conference title.
From here on, there are two ways UCF finishes the season with a Conference Title. If Louisville beats Cincinnati this upcoming Thursday, or if UCF wins this upcoming weekend, the Knights will have walked away with the very first American Athletic Conference Title.
The last regular season game will kickoff at 12 p.m. on Saturday, Dec. 7 at Southern Methodist University.



