With two full days to soak in the program defining victory against No.8 Louisville, the Knights are trying to put the win in the rearview mirror and focus on what lies ahead.
Six games–four of them at home–remain on the schedule, and the Knights control their own destiny as they look to secure a BCS bowl bid for the first time in program history. The task is simple, win the next six and head to a BCS bowl game.
On Monday, Louisville head coach Charlie Strong was adamant in saying that Louisville is still a better team than UCF, even after the home defeat.

“I said I have not changed about how I feel about this football team. And even though we lost that game the other night, and you have to give Central Florida credit, but I still say the best football team lost that football game. And we are. And I’ll continue to say that to them,” Strong said during his press conference.
When O’Leary was asked about Strong’s comments, he acted surprised.
“Charlie did that? Really?” O’Leary said before continuing, “..Obviously when you say the best team didn’t win you’ve got to look in the mirror. As far as players and coaches. So I’ll leave it like that. I think it was a great win and all I look at is wins and losses. I don’t get involved in ‘he said, you said, we said.'”
Quarterback Blake Bortles shrugged when he heard about Charlie Strong’s comments and like Coach O’Leary did not seem too bothered over it.
“We went out there and played enthusiastic football with a lot of effort and I don’t know he has his reasons for saying that,” Bortles said.
O’Leary wanted to make it clear that the Knights are not spending too much time relishing in the victory and instead are focusing on their next game against the winless UCONN Huskies.
“I haven’t heard anything about Louisville..they had their two days since Sunday night I went over the recap of the game, the good and the bad, and then we moved onto Connecticutt,” O’Leary said.
The Knights will play the UCONN Huskies in their American Athletic Conference home opener on Saturday at noon at Brighthouse Networks Stadium.
[myrelposts-related title=”See more coverage on UCF’s historic win over Louisville:“]



Theatre UCF’s fall musical “The Drowsy Chaperone” opened Thursday and has continued to enthrall audiences throughout the weekend. The show will continue to run until November 2, and is definitely a show that you do not want to miss.
The musical comedy “The Drowsy Chaperone” begins with the man-in-the-chair, played by Alex Bair, as he invites the audience to join him in listening to his favorite musical. The musical shows a show within a show concept as the audience bounces back and forth between the “old man” in his home into the 1928 supposed wedding of Robert Martin and Janet Van De Graaff. The man-in-the-chair explains to the audience throughout the musical why he is such a fan of the show, adding little bits of commentary during the parts of the recording of the show which he doesn’t like. He brings the audience back-and-forth from the “real world” where he explains the background stories of the characters and the actors playing the characters into the “fantasy world” of the musical.
Though the narrator and “the show” don’t interact with each other for most of the musical, the comedic points throughout the musical were very well timed and well performed. The parts of the musical when “the power went out” or when “the record was suck” was all brilliantly choreographed and placed all together by the whole cast.
The comedic solo songs of the Chaperone (Sandia Ahlers), Robert (Tyler Beaureguard), Adolpho (Fredy Ruiz Jr), and Janet (Caitlin Doak) had the full-house audience laughing at every second of each song. Each actor and actress made their characters completely their own. All of the actors added their own comedic styling to their character, and successfully never broke character when the audience laughed. The more ridiculous some of the scenes got, the more the actors got into their character and their acting still prevailed.
At one time, there were dancing monkeys on stage, an airplane, and a blindfolded man roller-skating on the stage. So much was going on and all of that made the audience believe that something could go wrong, but the characters and the actors prevailed.
Also, throughout the musical there were some extra surprises that were nods to past musicals. “Sideshow”, Theatre UCF’s musical last fall, was mentioned when talking about the timing of a musical. Also, the characters Hucklebee and Bellomy, who were the parents in The Fantasticks, also made a random appearance that was very well appreciated by the audience’s response.
All in all, “The Drowsy Chaperone” was a wonderful show that helped explain why many of us go to the theatre in the first place–to escape the real world for a while and to have a fun.
The next show by Theatre UCF is “Shipwrecked! An Entertainment–The Amazing Adventure of Louis de Rougemont (As Told by Himself)” and will run from November 14 until November 24.



It’s that time of the year again when thousands of people gather at Universal Studios where the park is transformed into the world renown Halloween Horror Nights!
This year’s theme is The Walking Dead and the park is filled with terrifying haunted houses, gruesome walkers, resident attractions, and more.
Annually, Halloween Horror Nights puts on one of the greatest Halloween event of the season and has been ranked Amusement Today’s “Best Halloween Event” for six years running. Fans can expect an incredible and frightening experience.
This year’s event includes eight spine-chilling haunted houses: The Walking Dead, Resident Evil, Evil Dead, Cabin in the Woods, An American Werewolf in London, La Llorona, Havoc: Derailed, and After Life.
The Walking Dead – Based off of the popular T.V. show. This haunted house takes you through the town of Woodbury, which is also a town in the show. Fans are able to experience what it would be like inside the show and fighting to survive the walkers that pop out when you least expect it. Throughout this house there are plenty of twists and turns sure to keep you on your toes but be careful of what may lie around the corner. You may just get trapped!
Cabin in the Woods – This haunted house is based off of the same title film and it does an excellent job of bringing the horror film to life. All through this house you get to experience what lies beneath the cabin as it releases horrifying creatures. With nowhere to hide, fans will get to plunge themselves into the movie and watch as their nightmares spring up all around. Just when you think it’s all over; it’s not.
Evil Dead – Like the Cabin in the Woods, this haunted house takes you through an eerie cabin though this experience is quite different. This cabin is full of gory scenes and beings that would love nothing more than to consume the people that venture through its halls. But be warned, this one isn’t for the faintest of hearts as the bloody floorboards come to life and gruesome demonic presences await you.
These top three houses are worth the waiting time and are definitely something fans would enjoy going to. Other haunted houses are a scream as well and if time allows it I would suggest checking out An American Werewolf in London and Resident Evil also.
For more information on Halloween Horror Nights and to see our crew check out the event, click here.
Been to the event already? Comment below and share you favorite experience!



Following what most fans are considering the biggest win in UCF’s program history, the UCF Student Government Association is challenging students to pack the stadium for the final home games of the season.
If at least 10,000 students attend the remaining home games against UCONN, Houston, Rutgers, and South Florida, then UCF SGA will throw an “awesome concert”. As always, any current UCF student can attend the home football games with a valid student ID.
As of right now, the concert would be tentatively scheduled at the beginning of the Spring 2014 semester, with the dates and performing artists to be announced.
The Knights are controlling their own destiny for the rest of the season if they want a BCS-berth. Winning out the rest of their games would guarantee them a spot in a BCS bowl game, something that has never been done by the program.
Watch the video below:




