A lecturer at UCF’s Rosen College of Hospitality Management has been placed on administrative leave following a reference to “a killing spree” he made during class, according to media outlet Local 6.
According to Local 6, Dr. Hyung-il Jung’s held an optional review session for his Hospitality Industry Financial Accounting class on Thursday and about 25 people showed up. That’s when Dr. Jung is said to have made the comment to his class.
“Dr. Jung’s comment to his class was completely inappropriate,” Chad Binette, UCF Director of News & Information, told Local 6. “Although most of his students interpreted the comment as a joke, we are pleased that one of them came forward and informed the university about it.”
According to Local 6, Dr. Jung has been placed on administrative leave while the university investigates what happened during the review session. The media outlet also reports that UCF officials have spoken to Dr. Jung who said he regrets making the reference. 
UCF police also are investigating, according to Local 6. 



Former U.S. President Bill Clinton will speak at UCF as part of a commencement ceremony and will receive an honorary degree from the university, according to UCF.
Clinton will speak at the 2:30 p.m. ceremony on Thursday, May 2, at the UCF Arena. He will address graduates of UCF’s College of Health and Public Affairs and the College of Medicine’s Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences.
UCF will also award an honorary degree to Arizona State University President Michael Crow, who will address graduates of the College of Education and Rosen College of Hospitality Management at 2:30 p.m. Friday, May 3. 
“Crow will be recognized for his transforming Arizona State into one of the nation’s leading public metropolitan research universities during his 11 years as president. Arizona State is the largest university in the country,” a statement from UCF says. 
Tickets are needed to attend the ceremony. Each graduating student receives five tickets. 
To view commencement speakers for other ceremonies, click here. 



Final exams stressing you out? How about playing with dogs to help reduce the anxiety?
UCF’s Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) is having a “Paws-a-tively Stress Free” event today, April 24, in order to help students cope with the stress associated with final exams.
“We invite students, faculty and staff to take a break during finals week, drop by CAPS, and interact with fun, friendly therapy dogs,” the event description says. “The human-animal bond is said to reduce stress, anxiety and depression, as well as improve mood.”
Participants should stop by CAPS, Room 101 at the Counseling Center, between 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. today. Participants do NOT need to be clients at CAPS.



The first class James Seevakumaran took in college was college algebra in Spring of 2004 — it resulted in a “D” letter grade.
After that first class, Seevakumaran’s college grades ranged widely — with some semesters consisting of only “A’s” and “B’s” and others with “F’s” and withdrawals.
Newly obtained transcripts show UCF gunman James Seevakumaran’s entire academic record spanning seven years worth of grades between Seminole State College and the University of Central Florida.
After graduating from Seminole High School in May of 2001, Seevakumaran didn’t start taking classes until Spring of 2004 and only took a single class that semester. He started again in Fall 2006, this time taking four lower level classes and earning “B’s” and “C’s.”
During his total time at Seminole State College, from 2004 to 2010, Seevakumaran received seven “A’s,” nine “B’s,” nine “C’s,” three “D’s,” seven “F’s” and withdrew from seven classes. Those grades resulted in a 2.311 cumulative GPA and an Associate in Arts degree.
In Fall 2010, Seevakumaran transferred to UCF where he would take classes until Fall 2012. He earned four “A’s,” six “B’s,” ten “C’s,” one “D,” three “F’s” and withdrew from two classes over this span. His final semester enrolled at UCF, Seevakumaran took three upper-level courses, earning a “B-” in one and withdrawing from the other two.
While at UCF, Seevakumaran earned a 2.260 cumulative GPA.
View the full transcripts below.
http://knightnews.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/JOS-SSC-UCF-Transcript.pdf



