The University of Central Florida will be hosting a Greek Life Town Hall on Thursday, March 14, from 5:30 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. in order to discuss the hold on fraternity and sorority activities and issues facing the community as well as the way forward and the reinstatement process.
The town hall meeting will take place in the Student Union and will be hosted by Dr. Maribeth Ehasz, Vice President of Student Development and Enrollment Services, and Clay Coleman, Director of Fraternity and Sorority Life. 
Questions for the Dr. Ehasz and Coleman must be pre-submitted and will be pre-screened. The questions should be sent to ucfgreek@ucf.edu by the end of the day Wednesday.
To view the proposed plan forward, click here.



Lazy Moon is expected to open during the third week of March, pending passing all permit regulations.
The popular pizzeria once located in the now demolished plaza, is reopening on University boulevard next to Catalyst Surf and Skate shop and Burger 21.
KnightNews.com caught up with owner Tim Brown to get a look inside and find out what the new Lazy Moon has to offer. Note that they are still working on the inside:

 



The University of Central Florida Police Department arrested a man on several charges, including an attempt to flee an officer, early Sunday morning after he led them on a short chase in his vehicle and on foot, according to a police report.
Euripides Plana, 45The reports states that Euripides Plana, 45, was driving erratically on Alafaya Trail and running red lights in the process. As an officer attempted to perform a traffic stop, the man got out of his vehicle at the Circle K gas station on Alafaya Trail, leaving the car in reverse, the report says. It then states that before the car rolled into the police cruiser, Plana jumped back in and fled, at which time the officer stopped his pursuit. 
After crashing his vehicle on Research Parkway shortly after, Plana attempted to flee from police on foot, at which time an officer shocked him with a stun gun in an attempt to subdue him, the police report says. Plana then placed a small white object into his mouth and swallowed it before police eventually secured him. 
Plana was charged with reckless driving, expired drivers license, attempt to flee/alude an officer with lights and sirens activated, resisting an officer without violence, destruction of evidence and an out-of-county warrant.




Blackstone Charitable Foundation is expanding the Blackstone LaunchPad to the University of Central Florida with a three year, 1.4 million dollar grant.
The Blackstone LaunchPad helps students with entrepreneurial ambitions connect with volunteer business leaders who will mentor the students.
The Launchpad comes to the University of Central Florida after it successfully developed at the University of Miami, where it generated more than 100 business start-up ventures, creating hundreds of new jobs, and drew nearly 2,000 participants.
“Entrepreneurship is the single most effective way to spur economic growth and job creation. We must all play a role in nurturing talent and through Blackstone LaunchPad, we can foster new generations of entrepreneurs who will transform local economies by creating new and innovative companies,” said Blackstone’s CEO Stephen Schwarzman.
The launch ceremony held on Monday morning drew out Florida Senator Marco Rubio who is excited at the possibilities that this program can bring, “Small businesses and entrepreneurs are the engine of our economy, and now more than ever it is critical that we support innovation and investment in startups and new businesses,” Rubio went on, “Our students and young innovators should be empowered and given a chance to succeed so that they can then grow, create jobs, and continue to strengthen our economy.”
The LaunchPad Process can be broken down into four steps. The student entrepreneur starts off by creating an online profile. The student then describes the new business concept, expected market, and competition needs. Once the idea starts to develop, students will have access to meet with the LaunchPad staff, who can provide advice to developing the idea. Finally, the hopeful entrepreneur enters the venture coaching program, where  a network of business leaders will help the student and their venture.
UCF President John C. Hitt sees this opportunity as not only helpful to students, but also the Central Florida area, “This effort will greatly benefit our students and enhance the economic prosperity of our community, which is good news for all of Central Florida.”



