UPDATE In under 45 minutes, the UCF SGA Senate unanimously approved the $18.8 million A&SF committee budget recommendations, which allowed nearly $32,000 for staff retreats and staff meals.
Tens of thousands of dollars of student money is being requested by UCF agencies in order to pay for staff retreats, catering and other “transition” costs.
KnightNews.com obtained several budget request packets that UCF agencies submit each year. The packets detail the amount of money each agency requests from the Activity an Service Fee Budget that Student Government allocates each year — around $20 million of student money.
But over $30,000 from several combined agencies is being requested so staff members –several who are also paid using student money — can attend retreats and have catered meals. 
View the breakdown of these costs below:
Homecoming
$5,000.00 – Concert Knight Catering, feed workers and staff day of.
$700.00 – Skit Knight Catering, feed exec board and judges/day of.
$500.00 – Philanthropy, Food Refreshments for the day.
$1,775.00 – Retreat Supplies.
SGA Executive Branch 
$ 8,000.00 – Passing of the Gavel Event to celebrate SGA administration transitions.
 $ 4,000.00 – College Leadership Florida President & Vice President leadership conference.
$ 5,000.00 – Executive Retreat Expenses for SGA team building retreat.
$ 2,000.00 – Transition Expenses Expenses to help facilitate administration transition.
SGA Legislative Branch
$ 8,000.00 – 46th Senate Retreat To train Senators on their function, roles, and duties. To introduce SGA Statutes, Senate Rules, and Robert’s Rules of Order. To complete team building and get an understanding of Senate composition and operations.
$ 1,000.00 – Senate Leadership Council Account to be used for expenses by the Senate to have a successful Senate Leadership Council.
Nearly $32,000 of student money is being requested between three agencies for either food for staff, retreats for staff or “transition” costs for the Student Government President and Vice President. On top of that, the President and Vice President will attend a leadership conference that costs the students $4,000 for these two people to attend.
KnightNews.com reached out to SGA President Cortez Whatley about the budget requests to fund retreats and food.
“Half of the retreats are held on campus to ensure agency members are familiar with the workings of UCF,” SGA Public Relations Coordinator Funlola Falade said. “The other half is focused on ensuring 180 days worth of events, services and activities are planned for the upcoming school year. The retreats also ensure agency members begin the school year fully capable of fulfilling their roles and serving students.”
The SGA Senate will vote on whether to approve or modify the budget requests this Thursday.
Click “Next Page” to view the full budget request packets from these agencies. 



PINK Nation is hosting a contest to see which school can garner the most votes in order to win the PINK Nation Collegiate showdown.
UCF was up initially against 55 other schools in hopes of advancing to the round of 16. After receiving the third most of any university, UCF earned a strong seed in the Super Sixteen and faces the University of Iowa for a spot in the Amazing Eight. Currently they are leading the University of Texas by less than 100 votes for first overall. See the standings here.
After 4 rounds of voting a champion will win the concert that is hosted in fall. The victor will be named on April 19th. This year PINK Nation decided to make the competition even more exciting by shortening the rounds.
Round Schedule:
Preliminary round- April 1-8.
Super sixteen- April 8-12.
Amazing eight- April 12-16.
Fab four face off-  April 16-19.
The competition works by each person being able to vote once per day per round. The rounds change over at 12 noon EST on the respective change-over dates. For the lucky few that make it to the end, PINK Nation is introducing a new set of social challenges for the Fab Four face off. They haven’t specified exactly what the challenges are yet but it has to do with other social platforms such as Pinterest, Instagram, and Twitter.
Check out last year’s party for lucky winner Virginia Tech.
Click here to vote for UCF!
 



