One of the six female jurors on the George Zimmerman trial is expected to write a book detailing the case — and is also said to be the mother of a UCF student, according to NBC News.
 
The juror, only known by the name B-37, has been described as a middle-aged white woman who is the daughter of an Air Force captain, according to NBC News. The news outlet also reports that the juror has been working for the same company for 16 years and has two children, a 24-year-old pet groomer and a 27-year-old student at the University of Central Florida. 
While identity of the juror remains unknown at this time, she is said to be writing the book with her husband, who is an attorney.
The juror spoke to CNN on Monday night saying that she believed Zimmerman’s “heart was in the right place” the night he killed Martin, but that he didn’t use “good judgment” in confronting the Florida teen.
“I think George Zimmerman is a man whose heart was in the right place, but just got displaced by the vandalism in the neighborhoods and wanting to catch these people so badly that he went above and beyond what he really should have done. But I think his heart was in the right place. It just went terribly wrong,” she told CNN’s “Anderson Cooper 360.”
Zimmerman was found not guilty of second-degree murder and manslaughter in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin. He said he acted in self-defense.



A Monday morning at 9 a.m. during the middle of July did not stop around a hundred UCF students from coming to protest the Westboro Baptist picketers outside the CFE Arena.
Westboro Baptist announced that they would be picketing the University of Central Florida in early July, calling the university “demon-possessed” and that UCF has “dedicated their University’s resources to LGBTQ services to formally and audaciously extended their middle finger in the face of their creator.”
The infamous religious group showed up with six protestors, three of them being minors and two of them looking no older than 10 years old. However, they were still holding graphic signs that most children of that age would not be able to fully comprehend.
KnightNews.com tried to talk to the Westboro members to see why they chose to come to UCF but were ignored for every question we asked.
The Westboro members only lasted about 10-15 minutes before they packed up their signs and bolted for their matching black vehicles parked by the All Knight Study.
Video:

 



The University of Central Florida will be conducting emergency alert tests Wednesday as part of the preparations for potential emergency situations that may happen on or near the campus.
On July 17, several UCF Alert communication tools, which provide critical information to students, staff and faculty members, family members and the public in emergency situations, will be tested — including text alerts, campus sirens and updates to the UCF website. 
Emergency functions connected with the university’s main Web site, www.ucf.edu, will be tested from 11 a.m. to noon. For most of that time, the UCF home page will remain active and fully functional with an alert bar at the top of the page. All messages on the alert bar will be marked as tests.
A portion of the web site test will involve replacing the regular home page with an entirely text-only home page that may be used during some emergencies. To accommodate large numbers of visitors, the text-only website does not include links and search functions that are typically found on the UCF home page.
Outdoor sirens, which emit a tone followed by voice instructions, will be tested at noon.
A test emergency text message and e-mail will be sent at about 1 p.m. Messages should be received by all students and staff and faculty members who have updated cell phone information on file through the MyUCF Web site and who have not opted out of receiving emergency messages.
Visit the UCF Alert Web site for more information on the communication system that helps to keep the campus safe and informed during emergencies.



Hank Williams Jr. and Gregg Allman played into the night at the CFE Arena (formerly known as the UCF Arena) at UCF on Saturday.
See photos from the concert below!



