The University of Central Florida will play its first 2013 football game against Akron next Thursday at BrightHouse Stadium and below is information on classes, parking and tailgating for the weekday game.
The game is at 7 p.m. on Thursday, Aug. 29. In order to accommodate several hundred additional classes and labs, UCF has established a later start time for game day activities on weekdays compared with prior seasons.
On Thursday, Aug. 29, UCF will have classes until 3 p.m. Faculty members who teach classes that are in progress at 3 p.m. may choose to conduct the portion of their classes that occurs before 3 p.m.
The main campus and university offices in the Research Park will close for normal operations at 3 p.m. in order to allow adequate time for a smooth transition to game day activities. Classes and normal operations at the Rosen College of Hospitality Management and UCF’s regional campuses will also end at 3 p.m.
Regular university parking policies will be in effect until 3 p.m. Students who will be staying on campus after 3 p.m. should park in one of the following areas: garages A, B and I and lots B5, B9, B12, B13, H3 and H4. Parking is permitted in those areas throughout the day and overnight.
Students with permits for parking lots or garages reserved for Lake Claire, Academic Village and Towers at Knights Plaza residents are permitted to remain in those areas throughout game day, as well as overnight.
Tailgating for weekday games begins at 4 p.m. 
Daily student shuttles on the Orlando main campus will operate on their regular schedules from 6:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. The on-campus shuttle routes (Black and Gold routes) will not run after 3 p.m. Shuttles will continue running to and from all normally serviced apartment complexes, except Tivoli and Northgate (Route #6) and NorthView (Route #13) due to their close proximity to the stadium.
UCF will follow the same weekday game policies for the Rutgers game on Thursday, Nov. 21.
Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get news like this on your feeds!



If you’re thinking of joining a UCF fraternity — or just looking for free food — here are the events we found this week!
Check back for a list of next week’s events as the become available. 
Wednesday (8/21)
Phi Delta Theta Rush Kickoff BBQ
Location: Phi Delt’s fraternity house, behind Sterling Apartments across from UCF
Time: 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. 
Thursday (8/22)
Kappa Sigma Open House BBQ
Location: Kappa Sig’s fraternity house, by Lake Claire on UCF’s north end 
Time: 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. 
Tau Kappa Epsilon
Location: TKE Open House, TKE House (2912 Blue Whistler Lane)
Time: 7 p.m.
Friday (8/23)
Lambda Chi Back to School Pool Party
Location: UCF Leisure Pool, next to the UCF gym
Time: 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday (8/24) 
Beta Theta Pi
Location: Beta House then Orlando Watersports Complex. 
Time: 7 a.m. 
Zeta Beta Tau
Location: Rush BBQ at ZBT House (12108 Darwin Drive. Right next to Sterling Apartments)
Time: 2 p.m. – 5 p.m.
Tau Kappa Epsilon
Location:  Sports BBQ, Leisure Pool Lawn
Time: 12 p.m. – 4 p.m.
Also, if you are planning on rushing, be sure to attend IFC’s official Fall kickoff event will be Tuesday, August 27 at 9:00 p.m. in the Pegasus Ballroom.
Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get news like this on your feeds!



The theme for this year’s homecoming at the University of Central Florida has just been revealed.
This year’s theme is “The Golden Homecoming: The Pride of Every Knight”
 
 “As the University of Central Florida is wrapping up a campus wide celebration of 50 amazing years and embarking on countless more, we felt it was only fitting to celebrate with The Golden Homecoming,” Homecoming Student Director Jarrod Fucci said. “Homecoming 2013 is undoubtedly going to be the biggest Homecoming this university has ever seen. This year we are not focusing on individual events, while those too will be better than ever, we are rather focusing on creating a movement on campus that evokes the pride out of every Knight. It’s my goal that every student will walk our campus (whether the Orlando Campus or any of our other UCF Regional or satellite Campuses) November 2-9 and know without question that it is UCF Homecoming.”
Continue to check back for the release of homecoming events and concert performers!
Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get news like this on your feeds!



