UPDATE The agency’s suspension was lifted Thursday afternoon after meeting with members of SGA.
An agency within UCF’s Student Government Association was suspended from the Activity and Service Fee budget last month after it was found in violation of spending policy, SGA President Melissa Westbrook confirmed. 
Westbrook confirmed that she suspended Pride Coalition on Oct. 28 after it was found that the agency purchased lunch for members of the Pride Coalition executive board while meeting with LGBTQ Services coordinator candidates in the UCF Marketplace earlier last month. 
While the purchase only totaled just over $71, Westbrook believes that it violated proviso language of the 2013-2014 ASF budget — which states, “No portion of the funds allocated to the Pride Coalition Agency shall be used on, or transferred to, LGBTQ Services or any other entity not funded directly in the A&SF Budget.”
“We are letter of the law with our student organizations,” Westbrook said. “I think it’s only right to hold our agencies to the same standard. I know that it’s most likely never happened before (suspension of an agency) but I can’t be afraid to do what’s right. I owe it to our students.”
Pride Coalition was created on January 9, 2013, after SDES Vice-President Dr. Maribeth Ehasz signed SGA Student Body Senate Special Act 45-02 approving the formation SGA agency. While Pride Coalition and LGBTQ Services often work together, they have separate budgets between them.
Under the suspension, Pride Coalition will not be able to request any A&SF funds until the suspension is lifted. SGA and Pride Coalition will meet on Nov. 13 to discuss the suspension. 
“We have rules in place for a reason,” Westbrook said. “This year in student government I’m working to have a more transparent and consistent administration. This suspension is only to come to a mutual understanding so that we can move forward.”



UCF students will have another nightlife option as the ‘Next Door Bar’ opened for business on Thursday night.
Next Door Bar is opening where Sage Leaves (El Corral before that) was previously located, and is next to the Knight’s Pub. The bar is looking to bring a more relaxed atmosphere to a turbulent UCF nightlife scene.
The owner of both Knight’s Pub and Next Door Bar, Pete Zachman, has transformed the corner of Alafaya Trail and University Boulevard into a popular nightlife destination for UCF students.
Next Door Bar features three pool tables, two dartboards, a Golden Tee-style arcade game, and a jukebox dominated style of music.
“We really want to make it jukebox-centric. It’s kind of what whatever everyone wants to hear when they come here,” Zachman said.
For UCF students on a budget, cover for Knight’s Pub and Next Door Bar will work to get into both bars.
Check out the video below:




The Knights took control of the American Athletic Conference and its automatic qualifying BCS-berth bid as they stopped a late Houston rally on Saturday to win 19-14.

The Knights kicked off against the Houston Cougars in Bright House Networks Stadium in a game that was aired on ESPN2 and was promoted as a ‘blackout’ in the first night game of the season. As a team that has relied on its offense to win big games at Penn State and Louisville, the Knights showed resilience in their defense, which came up huge late in the game.
Sponsored Ad – Story Continues Below

The Cougars drove the ball all the way downfield to the UCF 10-yard line in the final minute, but Houston quarterback John O’Korn came up empty on back-to-back incomplete passes to solidify the UCF win in front of a packed stadium.
“I thought defensively, to hold that team to 14 points, and [to have] a great play at the end of the game to save the win, that was a big-time team win,” said UCF Coach George O’Leary.
The Knights struggled in the first half, with two red zone turnovers, including a rare Bortles interception that deflated a UCF eight play drive. It wasn’t until the third quarter when the Knights caught an offensive spark from true freshman Will Stanback, after Breshad Perriman was taken off the field following a targeting call against Houston.
“That’s a brother,” Bortles said in the post game conference. “That was on me a little bit for throwing that ball and kind of setting him up. We finished the game out for him. That gave us a little fire and a little extra motivation to win the game.”
After the Knights were up 19-7, a blocked field goal gave the Cougars life, and a 12-yard pass from O’Korn to Wayne Beadle closed the UCF lead to 19-14.
The Knights struggled to get anything going on the next drive, going three-and-out, giving the Cougars the ball back with 3:02 to play in the game. They moved the ball 55 yards down the field on 11 plays, in which was seemingly with ease. However, the Knights didn’t falter when Houston got into the red zone.
The Knights held the Cougars, and along with that held their spot atop of the American Athletic Conference.



The University of Central Florida Knights are ranked 17 in the BCS poll and 15 in the nation in the Associated Press Top 25 Poll — both firsts for UCF.
The Knights were able to move ahead of Louisville in the BCS standings, however, they remain behind the Cardinals in the USA Today Coaches Poll at 19.
Sponsored Ad – Story Continues Below

The No. 15/19 Knights held off the Houston Cougars in the final seconds in a 19-14 win at Bright House Networks Stadium on Saturday night.
The Black and Gold will now look ahead to its second trip of the season to Pennsylvania where it will face off with Temple Saturday at noon. Its next home game will be a Thursday-night clash with Rutgers on ESPN Nov. 21 at 7:30 p.m.
To view the full ranking report, click here.



