UCF (3-3) was hoping that FAU (2-6), who came into the game at the bottom of Conference USA, would not be such a tough test.
The UCF men’s basketball team couldn’t overcome the FAU Owls on Tuesday, falling 75-64 on the road. Isaiah Sykes had a season-high 23 points, but it wasn’t enough to overcome the poor shooting from deep and the free throw line for the Knights.
The Knights shot a dismal 11-of-28 (39.3 percent) from the free throw line and only made 3-of-19 (15.8 percent) of their 3-point attempts.
“When you shoot 3-for-19 against zone, you are going to have a hard time winning, whether it is at home or on the road. Give FAU credit. They’ve had some tough road games. They came back in focused tonight,” UCF Head Coach Donnie Jones told UCF athletics after the game.
The Owls pulled away with 8:46 remaining in the game, stretching their lead to 13, but the Knights came charging back to cut the lead to six with less than five minutes remaining. However, the Owls held their ground and kept the Knights from cutting the lead any closer.
The Knights will look to get back on track as they start a seven game home stand on Saturday when they take on Stetson at the CFE Arena.



UPDATE The Orange County Sheriff’s Office has cleared the scene, and the Engineering II building has reopened. All operations are normal.
An alert message from the University of Central Florida has notified students to stay clear of the Engineering II building due to a police investigation.
“UCF ALERT: Avoid the area of Engineering II regarding ongoing police investigation. Updates to follow.”
UCF spokesman Grant Heston told us it is likely a geo caching game — an outdoor recreational activity, in which the participants use a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver or mobile device to hide and seek containers, called “geocaches” or “caches”, anywhere in the world.
“Out of an abundance of caution we are checking it out,” Heston said.
No other information was immediately available.
Continue to check back for more information on this developing situation.



A professor at the University of Central Florida has earned national recognition for his work developing techniques that may one day cure cancer. 
Professor Kevin Belfield, a chemistry and optics professor at UCF, was recently named a national AAAS Fellow for his work using lasers to track down cancerous cells.
The honor is given to individuals by their peers for efforts to advance science or its application.
According to UCF, Belfield was selected for his contributions to the field of photonic materials and processes, particularly two-photon based bioimaging and optical data storage. He was also recognized for “exceptional administration as department chair” while continuing to produce innovative research.
Belfield’s promising work involves using non-invasive techniques, such as lasers, to image cancerous cells within deep tissue. One day, the imaging technique might complement or replace traditional biopsies and may also lend itself to delivering cancer-fighting drugs that perhaps could someday be used to treat breast, lung, ovarian, brain, kidney, colon and endometrial cancers without surgery.
“It is a tremendous honor to be recognized by the premier professional society in the U.S,” Belfield said. “Knowing that highly respected, high-caliber scientists expressed such high regard for my research and administrative accomplishments is truly humbling and reflects well on the university and everyone I’ve had the pleasure of working with.”
This year’s AAAS Fellows were formally announced in the AAAS News & Notes section of the journal Science on Nov. 29.
A total of 338 fellows (11 from Florida) were named this year. 



Of the four largest universities in Florida, the University of Central Florida stands alone in its method of distributing Scantrons.
While Florida State University, the University of Florida, and the University of South Florida all have their professors provide Scantrons for the students on test days, UCF requires students to acquire Scantrons on their own accord. UCF students have the choice to either receive one free Scantron per day from the Student Government Association’s office, or they may choose to buy a pack of Scantrons from either the bookstore or from certain vending machines around campus. 
Many students at UCF take advantage of the one free Scantron per day that SGA offers. To avoid the inevitable long line of students outside of the SGA office on test day, some students, like William Harding, a freshman at UCF majoring in Aerospace Engineering, choose to stock up on Scantrons in the upcoming weeks before the tests hit.
“I like going once a day and being able to get a Scantron. I have a stockpile of them so it works fine for me,” Harding said. 
While these students are able to plan ahead, some students with less time on their hands find that going to the Student Union to pick up a Scantron before a test can be more inconvenient than not. 
These students, like freshman Nursing major Quatia Jenkins, would prefer the distribution methods of the other major universities in Florida. 
“It would be a lot easier than people forgetting or having to wait in these lines,” Jenkins said.
Both Jenkins and Harding pointed out how some students who stockpile Scantrons turn around and sell these Scantrons to students who do not want to wait in the line at the SGA office. This strategy may have been the reason for Scantron shortages at UCF in 2009. However, with the method used at these other universities, each student would receive one Scantron per test, assuring that no extra Scantrons were wasted. 
SGA at UCF currently spends about $25,000 annually on Scantrons. Students who take advantage of just one free scantron have already received the amount that they paid for in tuition. Alex Perna, the Director of Communications for the Student Government Association, says that SGA’s goal is to make the Scantron distribution process more convenient for students . 
“SGA took the initiative to get these Scantrons for the students and give them to them,” Perna said.
While the current method of Scantron distribution at UCF is not the most economical method, Perna says that SGA is trying their best to make sure that students do not take advantage of the free Scantron benefit that SGA offers. 
“We’re trying to be as fiscally responsible as we can with the Scantrons,” Perna said. “We don’t want a student coming in and getting as many as the can in one day.” 
Most students, like Sophomore Psychology major Kayla Kelley, say that they have no issue with the current method of distributing Scantrons at UCF, but they would be open to a change that would mimic the methods of other schools. 
“It would be a lot more convenient if they handed it out to us,” Kelly said. 
She referred to how her biology professor requires them to turn in seven Scantrons at the beginning of the semester so that they won’t have to worry about going to get one on test day. She would be open to more professors doing this as well. 
Camila Cymring, a Junior majoring in Advertising and Public Relations, said that she had no idea there were other methods of distributing Scantrons at other schools, but now that she knows about them she would love for UCF to have a similar process. 
“I would obviously love it because it would be easier and cheaper,” Cymring said. “But I have faith in the school that they’re doing what needs to be done.” 
UCF students who need Scantrons for their finals this week can expect to wait in lines outside of the SGA office to receive their free Scantron.



