What began as a simple idea by one UCF Knight soon turned out to be a full fledged dance party for hundreds of students at the University of Central Florida.

Students of UCF met at the UCF student union Friday afternoon to take part in the filming of a UCF version of the viral dance craze, the Harlem Shake. Students came out dressed in wacky attire and costumes for a chance to show the world just how much spirit UCF has to offer.
Check out a short video of the event below and check back soon for the official Harlem Shake UCF Edition Video!
Like us to get news like this on your facebook feed!




Steve Miller Band will be performing this Saturday night at 8:30 p.m. as part of Universal Orlando’s Mardi Gras concert series 
“Call him the Gangster of Love. Call him Maurice. You can even call him the Space Cowboy. Steve Miller has been an American treasure for over four decades with classic rock hits like “The Joker,” “Fly Like An Eagle,” “Jet Airliner,” “Rock’n Me,” “Jungle Love,” “Abracadabra,” and many more,” Universal Orlando says.
Boys Like Girls will be performing on Sunday, February 17 at 8:30pm followed by Trey Songz Saturday, February 23 at 8:30pm.
Click below for info on tickets, packages and annual passes to see the shows!



An asteroid the size of a football field will zoom past Earth on Friday and the Uniersity of Central Florida will be hosting a watch party to experience the historic moment.
The large asteroid will buzz by Earth at a mere 17,200 miles away, the closesy flyby on record. While there is no chance asteroid 2012 DA14 will hit the planet this time, it’s a great opportunity to learn about these mysterious rocks and to help the public understand scientists’ fascination with them, UCF says. Speakers will even explain the relationship between asteroids and meteors like the one that hit Russia today.
That’s why UCF Professor and asteroid expert Humberto Campins got together a few of his friends to host a free viewing party for the public, UCF says. Those friends will help attendees learn all they ever wanted to know about asteroids. Those present also will be able to see the asteroid buzz the planet via live feeds from international partners as well as animation of what is happening – assuming weather cooperates.
UCF is working with partners in Spain and with JPL to bring various perspectives of the flyby. Asteroid researchers will give short talks on the reality and myths of asteroids.
The Asteroid Encounter at UCF is free for anyone and runs from 1 to 3 p.m. in the Pegasus Ballroom at the Student Union on the main campus.



