In a letter sent out to all public universities in Florida, Gov. Scott stood on his ground on fighting any tuition increase for the 2013-2014 school year.
Scott recently blocked a 3% tuition increase that was passed by state lawmakers. However, there could still be a 1.7% tuition increase due to a provision that allows tuition to increase automatically to keep up with inflation if the legislators don’t increase the tuition themselves.
Gov. Scott was very clear in his e-mail to the universities that even though there are several legal opinions on who would be implementing the tuition increase, Scott will be committed to fighting any type of tuition increase.
At the most recent Board of Trustees meeting, the trustees passed a motion to discuss the increase further if it is deemed discretionary by state lawmakers. Trustees had mixed opinions on the increase, with Trustee Marcos Marchena saying that if the increase is discretionary he would vote against it. New trustee member Reid Oetjen said he would be in favor of the increase.
All of the trustees agreed that none of them would vote in favor of any type of tuition increase aside from the possible 1.7% increase.
Check back to KnightNews.com for all updates on the possible tuition increase. Click here to read the full letter that Gov. Scott sent out to the universities.



Just over 50 years ago, Florida Technological University opened its doors to 2,000 students. Today, the University has grown to 60,000 students with 212 degree programs, and most recently named a “Next Generation University” by the New America Foundation.
The New America Foundation lauds itself as non-profit public policy institute that invests in new ideas and the new generation of America. Jeff Seligo, the lead author of the “Next Generation University”, praised UCF for initiatives such as DirectConnect and their availability of mixed-mode courses.
DirectConnect has guaranteed admission to the university if the student completes a two-year associates degree at a UCF partnered community college. The mixed-mode courses have accommodated the need for classes in the growing Orlando area. Over 60 percent of UCF students currently choose to take the online or mixed mode courses.
UCF was one of six public universities praised in the report which you can read here.



