UCF has issued an interim suspension to the Sigma Chi fraternity chapter following a preliminary review of hazing and alcohol-related allegations, according to UCF. 
Picture posted on TFM’s Facebook page. UCF says this photo helped start the investigation.The photo posted on Total Frat Move’s Facebook page (shown left) indicates the alleged hazing incident. The picture was accompanied with the following caption: “Forcing a pledge to chug while two others puke in misery. Total Frat Move.” The photo started the review, UCF says. The decision to issue an interim suspension was made based on the photo plus additional information provided to the university.
At this time, however, it is not clear what the additional information might be.
UCF says they will conduct a thorough, timely and fair review of the allegations. A review has been scheduled to address the continuation of this action on Friday, February 22, 2013 at 11:00 a.m. at the Student Rights and Responsibilities Conference Room, Ferrell Commons, rm. 227.
Until the suspension is lifted, all fraternity activities have been canceled.
View the letter Sigma Chi was sent regarding the allegations by clicking next page. Continue to check back on this breaking news.



UPDATE Click here to see what KnightNews.com uncovered as the reason this event was cancelled last minute. 
The Sigma Chi Fraternity’s Philanthropy event has been unexpectedly cancelled for reasons unknown.
Derby Days, Sigma Chi’s Philanthropy, raises money for the Huntsman Cancer Foundation in Salt Lake City Utah. After a week of events, however, the final derby and BBQ event was cancelled unexpectedly.
“Due to circumstances out of our control the BBQ and Derby Chase scheduled for tomorrow the 9th has been cancelled. We are extremely saddened that it has come to this, but this had to be done.,” a message said on the event’s Facebook page.

This mysterious cancellation comes days after a photo alleging hazing surfaced on Total Frat Move, but UCF has not confirmed whether this cancellation has anything to do with that.
Any tickets purchased for the event can be refunded or donated to the cause.
KnightNews.com is working to find out just why the event was cancelled. Continue to check back for more information.



