The $1.45 million shortfall in UCF’s Activity and Service Fee Budget KnightNews.com exposed last week could be just the surface to a much more widespread budget issue across the entire university.
KnightNews.com is working to find out how big of an impact the credit hour shortage is having on other fee revenue that is used in many of UCF’s departments. 
We asked UCF on Monday afternoon several key questions regarding the over-projected A&SF budget — including whether all of UCF’s entities, such as the health center and UCF athletics, used the same projections. If they did, it would mean that their budgets would be impacted by the same shortfall.
We also asked UCF who made these initial projections and how they came to be grossly incorrect as well as who discovered these projections to be wrong. Our crews discovered that SGA advisors knew about the shortfall before the student senators did and failed to report the information during the last Senate meeting.
We are expecting to have more answers from the UCF administration and from SGA President Melissa Westbrook this week. Continue to check back for updates. 



Dr. Matusitz (Ph.D., University of Oklahoma, 2006) is planning on giving a presentation on terrorism and communication on Friday, September 27 at 6:00 p.m. in the Health and Public Affairs building room 112.
Dr. Matusitz has an extensive history studying terrorism which stems from the events that took place on 9/11. He has authored the book “Terrorism and Communication” which is a 500-page, 16-chapter in depth look into terrorism, and he uses that book in his COM4416 class.
“9/11 was the catalyst, 9/11 basically changed my life. I did not have any relatives who died but basically I was deeply shocked and saddened by what happened,” Matusitz said in an interview with KnightNews.com.
The presentation will look to address issues such as how terrorists have created their own sort of branding using social noise, or how terrorist groups try to be attention grabbing.
“Every terrorist group has its own signature method. Al-Queda would use beheadings and suicide bombings, FARK in Colombia would use kidnapping and rapture, we call that a signature method because every terrorist group has a look and feel,” Matusitz said.
Finally, the presentation will end with Dr.Matusitz explaining Terrorism and New Media as well as the symbolism in terrorism. Dr. Matusitz explained that all of his presentations end with a question and answer session.
Check out the full video interview below:




The UCF vs. South Carolina game is officially a sellout, according to UCF athletics.
The game is set to kickoff at noon at Brighthouse Networks Stadium on September 28. The Knights(3-0) are coming off of what Coach O’Leary called his biggest win as head coach of the program. The South Carolina Gamecocks(2-1), ranked 12th in the nation by the AP poll, will look to keep their national championship hopes alive when they travel to Orlando on Saturday.
UCF and Brighthouse Networks Stadium will be nationally televised on ABC, making it the Knights first appearance on network television.
The Knights will have their work cut out for them, the program has only one win against a ranked program which coincidentally was against a 12/13 ranked Houston team in 2009. 
Keep checking back to KnightNews.com for full coverage leading up to the game on Saturday. 



