Could this be the start of a new rivalry?
Did UConn purposely disrespect UCF by not putting them in their new American Athletic Conference photo posted on their official athletics site? Or maybe so many schools have been flip-flopping through conferences the past few years that it is quite difficult to account for every single team, especially on the first day of joining the conference.
The second is more viable and realistic as to what happened, but the first could be more fun from a fan’s perspective.
CBSsports.com’s Brett McMurphy noticed the mistake early on Monday and UConn corrected themselves just a couple of hours later tweeting, “Website has now been corrected and again our apologies to the the good folks at UCF and for Brett’s proofing.”
Connecticut will not have to stay in the conference long to actually build a rivalry, however, because they are leaving for the ACC(not to be confused with the AAC) in 2014.
The updated photo added UCF at the top of an upside-down pyramid.



Roxy is looking to be the go-to nightclub for EDM music on Saturday nights for UCF students.
With busses leaving from in front of UCF Gym at 10pm, UCF students had to the chance to the attend the first KONTROL Saturday of the Summer B term. KONTROL is held every Saturday night and is hosted by Orlando promoting company, Evolve Group.
The growing EDM scene in Orlando had lines out the door and wrapped around the building at 11pm and a full house by midnight. Not surprisingly, David Tort, the headlining artist is pretty popular, boasting 43 thousand Facebook ‘likes’.
“We built this night around music and we stick to it. We took the ego out of the equation in nightlife here,” said Mike Grinberg, a head promoter for Evolve group.
One UCF student, Linsey Paddock, who attended the event was surprised about what the event had to offer.
“I’m used to the UCF nightlife scene and Downtown Orlando. Roxy is neither of those, but still great time and something new and exciting to go to,” Paddock said.
Roxy is promoting Electronic Dance Music style events every Saturday including popular artist TJR on Saturday, July 6 and Flosstradamus on Saturday, July 13.



The first of July doesn’t just mean a month closer to football season, it means that UCF is officially out of Conference USA and into the American Athletic Conference.
The members of “The American” include Cincinnati, Connecticut, Houston, Louisville, Memphis, Rutgers, SMU, Temple, UCF, and USF. The exodus of teams to other conferences and the ones joining AAC also means that Big East football is gone.
“Armed with a good name, an attractive graphic identity and top-of-the-line institutions, The American will be able to carve its niche in a crowded field from Day 1. Our teams will be nationally competitive in every sport. We will be the embodiment of character, scholarship, citizenship and success. We will be a fixture on television and an innovator in digital media,” said a press release welcoming the teams to their new conference.
UCF will be eligible for all post-season play this season and will be exposed on national television on multiple occasions.
 



