Twitter is on fire with Sen. Marco Rubio after he grabbed an awkward swig of bottled water while giving his State of the Union response to President Barack Obama.

Like us to get news like this on your facebook feed!
Speak out below about what you think about the water break. Also watch KnightNews.com’s last interview with Rubio, where we asked him about Student Government officials hiding how they spend public money.



KnightNews.com has just learned that UCF has shared the information from Sigma Chi’s hazing investigation with the Orange County Sheriff’s Office. It is not clear at this time if OCSO has officially opened a criminal investigation, however.
Picture posted on TFM’s Facebook page. UCF says this photo helped start the investigation. A newly released UCF incident report says that UCF’s Office of Fraternity and Sorority life was sent a link on Feb. 5 to the Total Frat Move Facebook page which contained the photo that alleges hazing. UCF also says that the Interfraternity Countil (IFC) received the same information and upon further investigation, through speaking with multiple people present at the bar during the time as well as individuals who knew the person consuming the drink, have confirmed the identity of the person being fed a drink in the photo and it is, in fact, a Sigma Chi new member.
UCF also confirms that the incident took place at On Tap, a bar near UCF. They are uncertain of the exact date the incident occurred but say it took place during the first couple of weeks during the spring semester.
A witness, who says he was at the bar during the incident, met with the Director of OFSL on Feb. 8. The witness claims he observed a group of people, identified as Sigma Chi members, surrounding 3 individuals, 2 of whom looked sick from consuming too much alcohol, the report states. He also says he witnessed one individual holding a cup while another person drank liquid quickly. When the witness asked his friends what the group was doing, they told him Sigma Chi pledges seemed to be involved in a drinking event with chapter members, the report says.
Click next page to view the full reports.



It seems that a new type of dance craze may soon overtake the web. Could it be the next Gangnam Stlye?
The Harlem Shake is easy: People create videos, about 30 seconds long, that are set to “Harlem Shake” by New York deejay Baauer. The first 15 seconds contain just one person dancing (or oddly humping the air) while everyone else in the room acts normal. When the beat drops is when things begin to happen. Check out the videos below to see just what might be the next viral craze.

UCF students have grouped together to try and recreate a dance version of their own. A Facebook planning page has been created to try and film a UCF version of the video. Currently 180 people have said they plan on attending.

Several versions, spanning from colleges to workplace, have popped up on YouTube. Below are just a select few.


Click next page to view more.



