Spring Break has been going on in Panama City for generations, and the local businesses like Harpon Harry’s have thrived for that specific reason.
According to one bartender, an average Spring Break night for Harpon Harry’s brings maximum capacity of 4500 hundred every night, as well as bartenders taking home an upward of $600 dollars in tips per night.
Sponsored Advertisement – Story Continues Below
However, it’s not just the bars that receive massive amounts of business during spring break and Spring Weekend. KnightNews.com went into a local mom and pop style diner who were so busy that they did not have time to talk.
The merchandise stores like ‘Beaches’ also depend on the spring break season to keep their business alive. They diversify their clothing merchandise by putting popular pop culture references such as “YOLO”, and “Started from the bottom” in order to boost t-shirt sales.
“It’s important to keep up on pop culture references when you own a store like this. If we have the newest, most popular sayings on our shirts, we will end up getting the most business.” Jason, an employee of the Beaches t-shirt shop told KnightNews.com.
Most recently, popular spring break destinations have been shying away from embracing the title of a “Spring Break Party” city. Jason from Beaches told us that Panama City has stopped advertising for Spring Break. A bartender at Harpon Harry’s said that this doesn’t matter.

Video by: Sam Switkes 
“Spring Break is notorious here, it’s been going on for 80 years. My parents came here for spring break, there is no need to advertise for it.”
Saturday is the final night of Spring Weekend, with Laidback Luke headlining.



NASA has just awarded the University of Central Florida the largest single grant in the history of the school in order to study space weather. 
UCF was awarded a $55 million NASA grant to build and launch into space an instrument the size of a microwave oven that will provide unprecedented imaging of the Earth’s upper atmosphere –making UCF the first Florida university to lead a NASA mission.
The project mission is designed to collect information to better understand space weather, such as solar winds  as well as its impact on communication and navigation satellites.
“It’s great to see something that my team and I have worked on for years selected for funding,” said Richard Eastes, a research scientist with UCF’s Florida Space Institute. “It shows that other scientists think what we’re planning to do is some of the most important science in the world. And for UCF, it’s a chance to demonstrate that the university can play a more significant role in space research. “
The project is a collaboration between UCF, the Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) at the University of Colorado, and the commercial satellite company SES Government Solutions. UCF will oversee the project and build the data center that will collect, process and distribute the data for the mission. LASP will build the compact instrument, which will operate in a geostationary orbit, and SES is scheduled to launch it on one of its communication satellites in 2017.
“It’s clear that NASA is interested in flying more instruments on commercial satellites,” Eastes said. “With today’s budgets, most science missions that need a geostationary orbit aren’t affordable unless they fly on a commercial satellite.”
The five-year project will begin immediately, UCF says. Once the design is finished and checked, rechecked and rechecked again, LASP will begin construction. After launch in 2017 the instruments will provide data to the team, and other scientists throughout the world, for at least two years. Eastes says the instruments will likely continue to function for an additional three to five years.
Other members of the GOLD team that will be supporting the mission include the National Center for Atmospheric Research, the University of California at Berkeley, Computational Physics Inc. and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.



UCF will hold its annual spring football game Saturday at 2 p.m. at Bright House Networks Stadium.
The game will be a first look for most fans at the Knights’ current starters as the team looks to build upon a second place finish within Conference-USA and a strong showing at the Beef O’Brady Bowl in December.
This will be the first year for UCF within their new conference, the American Athletic Conference, which took the place of the Big East. UCF will join Louisville, Rutgers, Temple, Houston, Memphis, SMU, Cincinnati, UConn and South Florida in their new conference.
The offense will be led by second year starter Blake Bortles, who passed for 3,059 yards, 25 touchdowns and 7 interceptions in his first year under center. Bortles is going to be operating with a familiar stable of talented wide receivers as only wideout Quincy McDuffie will be leaving the team, returning team leaders Rannell Hall and J.J. Worton.
The powerful rushing attack that attributed to much of the UCF offensive success last year will have to step it up as a unit this year, being that both Latavius Murray and Brynn Harvey will no longer be with the team. The duo combined for over 1,350 of UCF’s total rushing yards in 2012.
As things appear right now, Storm Johnson will carry the load in place of the loss. Johnson showed flashes of greatness last year with a 4.5 yard per carry average and five scores.
UCF’s defense was undoubtedly the strongest aspect of their game headed into the offseason, finishing first in Conference USA with their scoring and pass defense, ranking in theTop-5 for rushing defense and second overall.
Strong safety Clayton Geathers and linebacker Terrance Plummer both managed to record over a hundred tackles last season, returning an aggressive aura to the defense’s core. Thomas Niles and E.J. Dunston will anchor the defensive line this season after combining for nine sacks, attempting replacing the disruptive pass rush of Troy Davis.
Kickoff will be at 2:00 p.m. on Saturday, and the gate will open at 1:00 p.m. Students will be admitted for free, and tickets for adults will cost only $5.



