The UCF Student Government Elections Commission held the first debate for Presidential and Vice Presidential Candidates, focusing on campus involvement issues like the Greek community, registered student organizations, and campus life.

Candidates spoke on key topics involving UCF decision to ban Greek Life activities at the school to focus on hazing and alcohol related issues. Andy Green and Zac Lee opposed the ban, saying that it wasn’t fair to punish the entire community for the actions of a few.
“I think that the ban was wrong and I think that we need is to stand up for the Greek community and say, you know what they are only social Greeks, only 1/20 of the UCF community but the UCF students just like everyone else,” Andy Green said.
Melissa Westbrook and Jacob Kahn, however, had a differing viewpoint that initially seemed to have their opinions in favor of the Greek Ban.
“Chico State has actually finished their Greek Life because they’ve had several deaths on their campus. We don’t want to see that happen–we haven’t had that happen here but, lets do prior proper planning and that’s exactly what the administration is trying to do here,” Melissa Westbrook said.
Watch raw video of many of the key topics from the debate.

KnightNews.com will be interview Melissa and Jacob at their platform release party tonight at The Moat Sports Grille.
Be sure to check back with KnightNews.com for full coverage of this year’s SGA elections.



The Orlando Police Department has just released a new report to KnightNews.com regarding an incident in downtown Orlando that involved a UCF student being choked and slammed to the ground.
The report says that based on the permanent injuries to the victim and the defendants contributing factors that led to her injuries, probable cause exists to charge the defendant with Aggravated Battery.
At large charges will be filed with the State Attorneys Office, the report states.
The defendant’s name has not been released by police.
Monai Willett was in downtown Orlando with a fellow UCF student on Tuesday and at the end of the night they stopped at a pizza restaurant. That’s when it is reported that Willett got into an argument with a man over a minor accident with her car.
A video posted online shows a man grabbing Willett by the neck and choking her until she passes out. He then throws her to the ground, breaking several of her teeth.
Police initially had spoke with the man in the video but did not arrest him. They did not know video evidence existed at the time.
Click here to view more on the story.
http://knightnews.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/03/13_965760001.pdf



Sean Kingston and Matchbox Twenty will be performing in Orlando this weekend as part of Universal Orlando’s Mardi Gras concert series.

Sean Kingston will be at Universal Studios on Friday, March 15 at 8:15 p.m. followed by Matchbox Twenty on Saturday, March 16 at 8:15 p.m.
“Jamiacan-American rapper/singer Sean Kingston has been recording his own music since he was 11 years old. His infectious combination of reggae, hip-hop, R&B, and electro can be heard in melody-soaked pop hits like “Fire Burning,” “Beautiful Girls,” and “Rum & Raybans,” Universal Orlando says about the singer.
Matchbox Twenty formed in Florida 17 years ago, entering the world with their blockbuster 1996 album Yourself Or Someone Like You.
Austin Mahone will perform at the event on Friday, March 22 with singer Phillip Phillips the following Saturday, March 23.
See photos from the Mardi Gras event!
Click below for info on tickets, packages and annual passes to see the shows!



The president of the League of Women Voters in Orange County calls for more early voting sites for students on campus.
Ann Hellmuth is the current president of the League of Women Voters in Orange County. This national organization is dedicated to promoting fair election practices among both candidates and voters all over the country. One issue that stands unresolved is the lack of early voting sites on college campuses in Florida.
“What the legislature essentially has done… is make it really hard for students to access early voting locations,” said Deirdre Macnab, president of the Florida chapter of the League of Women Voters.
As of right now, the only way for students to make it to these locations, outside of driving there by themselves, is a student-run carpool system that uses vans to transport students from UCF to the early voting location.
“It seemed like the system was working a little, but there has to be a better way to do it,” said one student.
Many people can’t make time to go to the polls on Election Day because of conflicting schedules and prior commitments.
“There was no way I could make it on [Election Day] because I work,” said another student.
Students like these rely on early voting to cast their ballot, but even students who do make it out to these locations may face difficulties that prevent them from taking advantage of early voting. Hellmuth described an incident involving a bomb scare in Orlando that halted nearby early voting locations during the last election.
The incident made it impossible for anyone to cast his or her ballot on that day. The lack of voting locations on campus also creates another serious problem for students hoping to cast their vote- incredibly long lines.
“Students at UCF wait in line for hours and, in many cases, are waiting to vote even after the election has been called. That’s disgraceful. That’s unacceptable,” said Macnab.
Some students, like Jennifer Jochman, see waiting in line as a hassle and are even dissuaded from voting because of this. Students like this see only one solution to the problem.
“Early voting areas on campus could reduce the size of lines and make the voting process easier, and maybe make people more inclined to vote,” said Jochman.
There are currently no early voting areas on college campuses in Florida despite the fact that supervisors of elections have been asking for more of these locations. Although there is much support from these supervisors and organizations like the League of Women Voters, provisions for more early voting sites are not being made.
“You can’t just sit on your hands and expect change to happen,” said Hellmuth.
Students are called to be involved in the political community by getting out to the polls to vote and give voice to their needs and opinions.
“If there’s one hope that I have… it’s that [students] put their hands on the steering wheel and get involved. One of the best ways that they can do that is through voting,” said Macnab.



