A brutal-looking leg injury suffered during the Duke and Louisville’s Final Four battle left teammates on the bench cringing and distraught after witnessing the scene take place. 
Louisville guard Kevin Ware was taken off the court on a stretcher after suffering a gruesome leg injury in the first half of the game. The injury caused a huge stoppage in play and caused emotional responses from his Louisville teammates and Cardinals coach Rick Pitinom who appeared visibly shaken during the game, according to ESPN.
Ware broke a bone in his lower right leg when he landed awkwardly with 6:33 remaining in the first half, ESPN is reporting. The sophomore was writhing in pain while lying on the ground in front of Louisville’s bench, where team trainers rushed to cover the gruesome injury with towels.
“Multiple Louisville players, including starters Russ Smith, Gorgui Dieng and Chane Behanan, were crying while Ware was being lifted onto a stretcher,” ESPN reports. “Even Pitino appeared to wipe away tears during the nine-minute delay.”
Warning: Graphic Content below — viewer discretion advised




Local officials carried out an undercover sting at “On Tap,” a bar near the University of Central Florida, on Friday night, nabbing three bartenders who were accused of selling alcoholic beverages to a person under 21.
The operations sting, known as the Orange County Drug Free Coalition underage drinking enforcement detail, uses a Confidential Informant, according to the police report. The report states that the informant, who must be under the age of 21, have no facial hair if male, and not be “dressed up” or “wearing revealing attire” for females, enters a bar and tries to buy alcohol underage.
Similar operations were conducted by police several years ago at bars near UCF. In that case, four bartenders were arrested on underage sale charges including one bartender, Nicole Maduros, who had her charges dropped, according to her attorney Allison Edwards. The others arrested also had their charges dropped, according to court records.
Since records show these details have had significant challenges convincing the prosecutors to file charges, KnightNews.com is withholding last names and mugshots until it is more clear how the state will move forward with the charges.
According to the first arrest report, the informant paid $10 in cover using investigative currency to enter the bar, however, did not receive a wristband. The informant soon ordered a Rum and Coke from a bartender, later identified as a woman named Britany, 22, who sold the alcoholic drink to the informant without checking for an ID or wristband, according to the report. 
After the hand-to-hand transaction, Officer Eduard Turso — the Sheriff’s deputy involved in the operation detail, took possession of the shot from the informant, verified its content through smell and took an evidence sample before arresting Britany on charges of Selling, Giving or Serving alcoholic beverages to persons under 21. 
Two other bartenders were arrested at the bar in similar situations — a police informant, who is under 21, purchases an alcoholic beverages using investigative currency without being prompted for identification. After verifying the contents of the beverage, police arrest the bartender who served the drink on charges of Selling, Giving or Serving alcoholic beverages to persons under 21. 
Olivia, 18, was one of the bartenders caught in the detail who is accused of selling a drink to the informant without checking for identification. Another bartender named Anthony, 21, was arrested in a similar situation as well. 
Click next page to see police reports from the sting.



The University of Central Florida will be celebrating the opening of its new Recreation and Wellness Center facility by hosting a block party on Friday April 5, alongside President John C. Hitt and SGA President Cortez Whatley.
The facility, located at Knights Plaza, has had more than 15,000 visitors since its opening in January. The 8,700 square foot facility has approximately 5,700 square feet of workout space and includes a variety of workouts and equipment, including free weights, cardiovascular and weight machine, group exercise studios, a custom climbing wall with 20 different routes, tennis courts, sand volleyball courts, a disc golf course, numerous intramural sports fields, a leisure pool, an outdoor lap pool and year-round programming in intramural sports, fitness, aquatics and outdoor adventure.
“The Recreation and Wellness Center is dedicated to providing programs and facilities that foster healthy lifestyles,” said James Wilkening the Recreation and Wellness Center Director. “Students have made it extremely clear that RWC @ Knights Plaza is a worthwhile addition to campus and their lives.”
The block party will begin with a formal ceremony and remarks from President Hitt and others from 3:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. Music and other festivities and giveaways will last from 4:00 p.m. to 5:30 p.m.
Check out KnightNews.com’s inside look at the gym before it opened in January!



