Blake Bortles will not be the only player on offense under the national spotlight this upcoming season. The guy he is handing the ball off to will be as well. 
On Thursday, PwC SMU Athletic Forum announced that UCF running back Storm Johnson is on the Doak Walker Award watch list, given to the nation’s top running back. 
Storm Johnson, a transfer from the University of Miami, was the no.22 recruit in the country coming out of high school and averaged 13.2 yards per carry for the Hurricanes in his true freshman season. 
Last season, Johnson played behind star running back Latavius Murray who was eventually selected by the Oakland Raiders in the NFL draft. However, when Murray dealt with injuries, Johnson shined amassing over 500 yards in his first season taking carries for the Knights.
Johnson is aiming to be the primary back for the Knights in 2013. When the news was announced on Thursday Johnson(@StormJohnson8) tweeted, “It WILL hurt. It WILL take time. It WILL require dedication and sacrifice. But it WILL be worth it.” 
The winner of the 2013 Doak Walker Award will be announced live on The Home Depot College Football Awards on Dec. 12 on ESPN.



Everyone has heard the popular satirical acronym for UCF standing for “U Can’t Finish”, due to the difficulty of completing a four-year degree in that amount of time. 
Well, that may not be the case anymore. According to the 2013-2014 University Annual Workplan released in June 2013, UCF has the third highest four-year graduation rate among major public Florida universities with over 5,000 students. 
UCF has a 40% four year graduation rate, trailing the University of Florida at 67% and Florida State University at 61%. Notably, the University of South Florida has a combined 31% graduation rate between the Tampa and St.Pete campus. After the four aforementioned Florida universities, the closest four year graduation rate is the University of West Florida with a 26% four-year graduation rate.
The New College of Florida has a 57% four-year graduation rate, but their enrollment does not exceed 5,000 undergraduate students. 
The report, also shows that UCF’s rapid pace is growth is not set to slow down. In the 2011-2012 academic school year, UCF awarded over 2,900 more bachelor degrees than any University in Florida. The workplan shows that UCF hopes to award 13,000 bachelor degrees in the 2015-2016 school year, which would exceed any University in Florida by over 4,000 bachelor degrees.



A University of Central Florida graduate and Hollywood producer has just been nominated for an Emmy award.
Clay Newbill is a producer on ABC’s hit TV show “Shark Tank”. The show was one of five nominated for an Emmy for best reality series.
“I’m really good,” Newbill told the Orlando Sentinel on Thursday from Los Angeles. “Very excited here. As a boy who grew up in Ormond Beach and went to the University of Central Florida, to be nominated for this show is an incredible feeling.”
The show will be up against other top series for the award, including PBS’ “Antiques Roadshow,” Discovery Channel’s “Deadliest Catch,” Food Network’s “Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives,” Discovery Channel’s “MythBusters” and CBS’ “Undercover Boss.”
Like us to get news like this on your facebook feed!
“I can’t believe it, I’m very humbled by it,” Newbill said to the Orlando Sentienl. “It’s fantastic to know our peers recognize ‘Shark Tank’ as a show they admire. I tell everybody that producing ‘Shark Tank’ is the best job in the world. It’s so rewarding to work on a show that has social value and is helping people when they need it the most.”
Newbill graduated from UCF in 1982. He has worked on many other hit TV shows such as MTV’s “The Real World” and “Road Rules” and ABC’s “The Bachelor” and “The Bachelorette.”
The awards are presented on September 22.



