National Pancake day at IHOP returns for an eighth year, bringing free pancakes to thousands of people in support of charities within the community.
Patrons can get a free short-stack of pancakes at IHOP on Tuesday, February 5, 2013, 7 a.m. – 10 p.m.
The National Pancake Day celebration began in 2006 and since then, IHOP has raised more than $10 million to support charities in the communities in which it operates. In return for the free pancakes, guests will be asked to consider leaving a donation for Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals or other designated local charities. The company’s goal is to raise $3 million for Shriners Hospitals.
Visitwww.ihoppancakeday.com for more information



The UCF Men’s Rugby team demolished USF, 66-5, to start the Spring season. The win gives the team plenty to be excited about as they continue their dominance in the state of Florida.

The rugby team will play again at home this Saturday at the grass practice field adjacent to the IM fields.  Come out and see some big time hits and plenty of excitement as you cheer on the national championship contending UCF Rugby team.
Rugby from KnightNews.com on Vimeo.



Tijuana Flats, famous for its made to order tex-mex food, will be opening Monday in the International Plaza on University boulevard.
Originally founded in Winter Park by UCF graduate Brian Wheeler, Tijuana Flats has grown to 70 locations across the United States since 1995. The opening by UCF as the first one in the area.
If you are not familiar with Tijuana Flats and their brightly colored wall murals, this particular one has an eclectic group of partying college students with a golden knight approaching them in a restaurant that will hold up to 130 guests. Tijuana Flats will be offering special grand opening deals all week which you can see below.
The International Plaza is becoming a haven for popular food restaurants as Lazy Moon, which was originally located in the University Shoppes Plaza is opening up with no set opening date as of yet. Along with Lazy Moon and Tijuana Flats, Burger 21 will also be opening soon in the same plaza.
Tijuana Flats Grand Opening Specials:



The UCF arena has just announced the band FUN will be performing at the arena in September.
FUN will bring their “Most Nights” summer headline tour to UCF Arena on Thursday, September 19 at 8 p.m. Special guests Tegan and Sara will open for the group.
A portion of the ticket sales from the tour will benefit The Ally Coalition, a partnership created by the band and designer Rachel Antonoff devoted to encouraging and inspiring the music, fashion, and entertainment communities to take action in support of LGBTQ equality.
FUN will perform live at the upcoming 55th Annual Grammy Awards, to be held this Sunday, February 10th, 2013 at Staples Center in Los Angeles. The NYC-based band is among this year’s most-nominated artists, having earned six total nominations, including a prestigious “Best New Artist” nod. “SOME NIGHTS,” their RIAA platinum-certified debut, was nominated as “Album of the Year” and “Best Pop Vocal Album,” while the worldwide #1 single, “We Are Young (Feat. Janelle Monáe),” was named in the “Record of the Year,” “Song of the Year,” and “Best Pop Duo/Group Performance” categories. 
Tickets go on sale Saturday, February 16 at 12 p.m. All tickets start at $37.50, plus applicable fees. Tickets are available at the UCF Arena Box Office, charge by phone at 800-745-3000, online at www.ticketmaster.com, and all Ticketmaster outlets.



One UCF department will receive $75,000 to help some UCF students pay for college.
UCF’s Multicultural Academic and Support Services (MASS) office announced the department will receive $75,000 from the Orlando Magic Youth Fund to assist first generation UCF students.
 
UCF MASS Director Wayne Jackson says the money will be used to enhance current and implement new student programming, as well as provide scholarships to UCF first generation students, UCF said.
The MASS program was one of 17 community agencies in the Central Florida region who received funding from the Magic. MASS will be using its funds to provide $25,000 in scholarship money to students during the 2012-2013 and part of the 2013-2014 academic years. The money will also be used to further develop the MASS Lunch and Learn Program, The First Generation Speaker Series and the MASS College Prep Day, which is a day designed to help multicultural and first generation high school and middle school students prepare for college.
MASS will also implement two new programs, the First Generation Success Retreat and the First Generation Institute.
“This is a great opportunity for our students,” Jackson says. “Many of them struggle financially and the money received from the Orlando Magic will help defray some of their college costs and better prepare UCF students for success.”
MASS is an office in the Division of Student Development and Enrollment Services.



