On Monday afternoon, the City of Orlando board of commissioners held a vote on the first hindrance of Orlando City Soccer Club’s entry into the Major League Soccer division –- a new stadium. 
In a unanimous 7-0 vote, City of Orlando approved the funding to build a soccer stadium specific to Orlando soccer. The stadium is to be built by 2015 and is the first step in ensuring the club a spot in Major League Soccer, the highest professional soccer league throughout the United States and Canada. The vote for the pending approval of the Orange Country Commissioners will take place on Tuesday, October 22.
The Stadium will cost approximately $84 million, $20 million of which will be granted by the City of Orlando. Don Garber, the MLS commissioner, stated clearly that in order to be granted approval for entry into the league, Orlando would need to have its own soccer-specific stadium. Garber stated that Orlando City would likely be among 3 of the 4 teams he intends to add to the league by the end of the decade.
Orlando City have won two USL Pro titles, the latest in 2013 against the Charlotte Eagles in a thrilling 7-4 victory in which a record 20,886 people came to witness. 



UPDATE A suspect has been arrested in this case. Click here for more information. 
The incident happened on October 2, 2013 around 6:40 p.m., the white male was caught on surveillance video walking around the Target Store and wearing a UCF hat upon walking in the store.
In the video you can see him tuck his cell phone under a large bag of dog food at the bottom of his shopping cart. He then closely follows a female wearing a dress, presumably trying to record images under her skirt.
The Orange County Sheriff’s Office is currently trying to identify who this hands-free video voyeur is, as well as the unsuspecting females victim who appears in the video. If you have any tips call Crimeline at 800-423-TIPS.
Watch the video below:




The Board of Governors today authorized the release of $20 million tied to specific goals for Florida’s public universities in a new performance funding system being used for the State University System.
This year, universities will receive a portion of that total based on scores for three metrics listed in statute: average wages of employed baccalaureate graduates, percent of baccalaureate graduates employed and/or continuing their education further, and cost per undergraduate degree. 
UCF will receive an allocation of $2,608,696 — tied with USF for the most amount to be received — out of the $20 million being given. 
On average, UCF graduates make more money coming out of college and working in Florida than do graduates from schools like the University of Florida and Florida State University, according to the Board of Governors. 
This marks the first step toward a larger, more comprehensive performance-funding model being developed by the board with a total of 10 metrics, which is tied to a $50 million legislative budget request for the upcoming legislative session. 
“The Board of Governors is committed to providing access to high-quality, affordable higher education in Florida,” said Board Chairman Dean Colson. “We’re confident this new funding model, and the performance gains it will inspire, will help us make good on that promise.” 
This funding from the state also comes at a time when UCF is facing a budget crisis after over-projecting the number of credit hours it expected students to take. 
It wasn’t immediately clear when universities were expected to receive this funding. 
http://knightnews.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/0183_0727_5462_Performance-Funding-model_Governors-3-metrics_2013-9-12-APPROVED.pdf



