Candidates for UCF SGA President and Vice President are planning to begin their campaign trails as soon as Spring Break ends–working to reach students at the University with their message and persuade them to vote.
Andy Green and Zac Lee will be one of two tickets running for SGA President an Vice President at UCF.  Green currently serves as Director of Governmental Affairs under the Whatley/Brill administration while Lee holds the Project Coordinator position.
“Our fundamental goal is to put students first,” Green said to KnightNews.com. “Our belief is that we should stand up for our fellow students at all cost, whether that means fighting against tuition increases, protecting student groups which are the life-blood of this campus, or defending Greeks against an over-broad and punitive ban. We believe that SGA has become disconnected from the student body, and we want to fix that by rebuilding open lines of communication that emphasize that SGA is here to serve the student body, and not the other way around.”
The duo will be hosting a platform release party on Tuesday, Mar. 12, at 9 p.m. at the Moat Sports Bar. Green and Lee have released two major platform points to far.
– We will use vacant retail space on campus to host student-run small businesses
– We will vote no on any tuition and fee increase. Students come first!
Melissa Westbrook and Jacob Kahn are the second ticket for SGA President an Vice President at UCF. Westbrook is the current Community Affairs Specialist under the Whatley/Brill administration and Kahn currently serves as a Senator in the College of Science.
“Melissa and Jacob are two passionate UCF Knights who have the experience and dedication to lead our University to new heights, an event Facebook page says. “Our purpose is to maximize every dollar in the Activity & Service Fee in order to expand services for the student body.”
The pair will be holding their own platform release party on Wednesday, Mar. 13, at 8 p.m., also at the Moat Sports Bar. 
KnightNews.com is working to set up personal interviews with each of the candidates. 
Be sure to check back for full coverage of this year’s SGA Presidential elections.



West Palm Beach’s music festival, Sunfest, has just announced their 2013 music lineup, with Train and The Smashing Pumpkins among the headliners. 

The full music lineup for the five-day festival also includes: Ed Sheeran, Phillip Phillips, Gavin Degraw, Cheap Trick, Barenaked Ladies and The Black Crowes, Life In Color, Kendrick Lamar, Mac Miller, Slightly Stoopid, Big Sean, Boz Scaggs, Jimmy Cliff, Edward Sharpe & The Magnetic Zeros, Dickey Betts & Great Southern, The Airborne Toxic Event, Reel Big Fish, Less Than Jake, The Lone Bellow, Yellowcard, Molly Hatchet, Tribal Seeds, Gary Clark Jr., Rich Caccaro, UNRB, The Chevin, AAN, Set The Score, Kaleigh Baker & The Nem, The Duppies, Roadkill Ghost Choir, Breeze Davinci, SJ, Stiletto Red, Shatterglass, Chris McCarty and The Underground Movement, Future Prezidents, The Curve, Dharmata, Community Property and Jahguar.
“SunFest is Florida’s largest waterfront music and art festival,” the event website says. “Held annually in downtown West Palm Beach, Florida the first week in May, SunFest attracts more than 165,000 visitors. The festival and the patrons that it attracts have a very positive impact on the community.”
The festival takes place May 1-5 on Flagler Drive in Downtown West Palm Beach. For more details and ticket information, visit the SunFest website.



