The UCF Knights beefed up their schedule for 2013, dropping the home game against Bethune-Cookman and adding the trip to Happy Valley to play the Nittany Lions on Sept. 14.
In addition to playing at Penn State this upcoming season, the Knights will also host Penn State at Brighthouse Networks stadium in 2014, replacing the home game against Jacksonville State.
The 2013 game will be the third overall meeting between the schools, but this will be the first without late head coach Joe Paterno. Penn State won both previous meetings in 2002 (27-24) and 2004 (37-13).
The addition of Penn State completes UCF’s out of conference play schedule and also their schedule for the 2013 football season.
You can see the rest of the UCF football schedule here:
08/29/13: vs Akron Zips Bright House Network Stadium – Orlando, Florida
09/07/13: at FIU Panthers FIU Stadium – Miami, Florida
09/14/13 :at Penn State Nittany Lions Beaver Stadium – College Station, Pennsylvania
09/28/13 :vs South Carolina Gamecocks Bright House Network Stadium – Orlando, Florida
TBD vs Connecticut Huskies Bright House Network Stadium – Orlando, Florida
TBD vs Houston Cougars Bright House Network Stadium – Orlando, Florida
TBD at Louisville Cardinals Papa John’s Cardinal Stadium – Lousiville, Kentucky
TBD at Memphis Tigers Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium – Memphis, Tennessee
TBD vs Rutgers Scarlet Knights Bright House Network Stadium – Orlando, Florida
TBD at SMU Mustangs Gerald J Ford Stadium – Dallas, Texas
TBD at Temple Owls Lincoln Financial Field – Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
TBD vs USF Bulls Bright House Network Stadium – Orlando, Florida



Monster Jam is back in Orlando and according to Ryan Anderson, son of legendary monster truck driver Gravedigger, Orlando is the place to be for Monster Trucks
KnightNews.com was granted exclusive access to get a preview of Monster Jam before the event on Saturday. We were able to get up close and personal with some of the most popular trucks in the circuit including Son Uva Digger and Spiderman.
Evan Charles, a UCF student and lifelong Monster Jam fan told KnightNews.com, “I’m from Colorado where I don’t get to see Monster Jam, but being in Florida for this one has me extremely excited.”
The event will be held Saturday night at the Citrus Bowl in Orlando at 7:00p.m. 
Check out the video below to see a preview of Monster Jam:

Video by Sam Switkes 



