SGA Senators have moved to send a resolution which fights against an impending student loan rate increase back down to a committee — delaying any action against the increases.

With loan rates set to double July 1, the UCF College Democrats introduced a resolution during Thursday night’s SGA Senate meeting demanding action. The group planned to move the resolution through two readings in the same night since the deadline for Congress to act is only days away. If action isn’t taken by Congress, rates will double from 3.4% to 6.8%.
The resolution sparked debate among the senators with some arguing that they had not had sufficient time to review the resolution and that rushing it through three readings was not necessary, despite the body doing so earlier during the same meeting on a different bill.
“It’s not really a surprise that Congress failed us as students,” Chelsea Aldrich, Vice President of the College Democrats at UCF, said. “We just didn’t expect SGA to.”
The College Democrats conducted the research for the resolution and not the responsible SGA Senate committee, which was another issue brought up during debate. Some senators argued that the committee responsible for this type of action should have monitored an important student issue such as the spike in subsidized student loan interest rates, and praised the College Democrats for taking the initiative.
The resolution was ultimately passed back to the Governmental Affairs Committee, where it will be reviewed and voted on again—ten days after the Congressional deadline.



Just days after the Supreme Court handed a major victory over to those fighting for gay marriage, a gay marriage public records fueled lawsuit filed against UCF is heating up.
A hearing for the lawsuit was cancelled Thursday following an emergency motion after UCF released approximately 15,000 e-mails and accidentally released some that UCF’s lawyer admitted are private, including at least one student’s confidential education record protected by the FERPA privacy law. UCF is now backtracking, and according to documents uncovered by KnightNews.com, they are asking the plaintiff to destroy all copies of the protected records and hand back the 4GB flash drive of e-mails to UCF.
“Dear all, until we are able to discuss, Work through and hopefully resolve this issue, We respectfully request that you refrain from producing or publishing any of these documents to anyone else. Thank you for your professional courtesy here,” UCF’s counsel, Rick Mitchell of the GrayRobinson law firm, sent to the petitioner’s legal team.

In a response to UCF’s request to return the records, the plaintiff denied any of the records were private and simply asked the court to deny the motion to return the records. Even then, the plaintiff cited Downs v. Austin, “once the State has gone public with information which could have previously been protected from disclosure under the Act’s exemptions, no further purpose is served by preventing full access to the desired documents or information.”
John Becker filed the lawsuit against UCF seeking access to public records relating to a research paper by professor Mark Regnerus. Some are saying that the research paper suggests gay marriage could have negative effects towards children. Becker, who said the paper has been criticized for conflicts of interest, had his public records request denied on April 1, 2013.
UCF declined to comment on the situation because of the ongoing legal action.
 



Five University of Central Florida leaders have been named in Orlando Magazine’s 2013 list of the region’s 50 most powerful people.
The list compiled top leaders in Orlando, ranging from political leaders, university presidents, community activists, business owners, legal minds, philanthropists. 
“They are movers and shakers, who also possess the power to move and inspire others,” the magazine stated. 
President John C. Hitt landed the No. 3 ranking, just behind Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer and Orange County Mayor Teresa Jacobs. Hitt, who manages the helm at the nation’s second largest university, was noted for the school’s success in drawing tons of money for research as well as having a team around him that is able to achieve goals and visions that are set forth.
Others leaders with UCF connections who were named to the list are:
No. 12 – Dr. Deborah German, UCF vice president for medical affairs and dean of the College of Medicine. 
No. 26 – Jim Atchison, CEO and president of SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment, and a member of UCF’s Board of Trustees. 
No. 37 – Helen Donegan, UCF vice president for community relations. 
No. 45 – Marcos Marchena, attorney, general counsel for the Greater Orlando Aviation Authority, and a member of the UCF Board of Trustees. 
To view the full list, click here.



Although he was not selected to the NBA on during Thursday night’s draft, UCF star Keith Clanton landed a spot on the Orlando Magic’s summer league roster, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
Two sources told the Orlando Sentinel that Clanton would be a part of the Magic’s summer league roster which is a chance for rookies and other NBA hopefuls to gain experience in front of scouts and general managers.
The Boston Celtics, Brooklyn Nets, Detroit Pistons, Houston Rockets, Indiana Pacers, Miami Heat, Oklahoma City Thunder, Philadelphia 76ers, and Utah Jazz will join the Magic for the 2013 Summer League. The league runs from July 7-12 and will be hosted by the Orlando Magic.
Clanton, who played for four years at UCF, finished his career as UCF’s all-time leader in rebounds (1,000), blocks (227), games played (129) and starts (121) and sixth in points (1,718). 
“I just want to compete and get a chance,” Clanton told the Orlando Sentinel before the draft.



