In Wednesday’s SGA Campus Involvement debate, an important issue arose over whether the candidates supported the University-wide Greek Life ban. The Green/Lee ticket went on the offensive speaking strongly about how they do not support the ban. The Westbrook/Kahn ticket did not clearly state in the debate if they supported the ban or not, focusing more on working with the administration to get the Greek organizations reinstated.
The Green/Lee ticket sent KnightNews.com the following statement earlier on Thursday regarding their views on how the Westbrook/Kahn ticket handled the question on the suspension of Greek life.
“During the UCF SGA Presidential Debate on Campus Involvement on March 13th, Melissa Westbrook and Jacob Kahn made it clear that they support the ban on UCF Greek Life. We are pro Greek and disappointed that our opponents did not stand behind the Greek community during a campus wide debate. Hours later, after public outcry, Melissa and Jacob flip flopped on the issue. But their true colors have been shown. This is not the time for Melissa and Jacob to flip flop on important issues affecting the lives of several thousand students. It’s time we have effective leadership in the Greek Community.
If elected, we will help students leave a legacy of leadership and success for the Greek community. In fact, one of our platform goals is to create a Greek Student Conduct Board for peer-to-peer review and evaluation of the best practices and core values of the Greek Community. Zac has already made strides for the Greek community during conversations he initiated with Dr. Ehasz and Mr. Coleman that have fast-tracked the return of IM sports to the Greek Community. We are the candidates that will stand for you. With Andy + Zac you can leave your legacy at UCF.”
Melissa Westbrook, running for President on the Westbrook/Kahn ticket released the following statement to KnightNews.com as a rebuttal:
“We are not in support of a Greek Ban. Neither myself or my running mate, Jacob Kahn, have issued such a statement that would confirm this. We are trying to work with the administration to move forward and make sure Greek chapters are reinstated. It hurts to hear that someone would think for a second I knew about or was in favor of such a ban when I am an advocate for Greek Life as a current Greek Council President and I work tirelessly to help create action plans and to speak with students about their concerns.
Anyone is able to publicly request my records to see that I had no idea the Greek ban was coming. I’m sure they can find that out since their own supporter requested my records over Spring Break. If my competition is so concerned about the Greek Community then I would love to see their attendance in all my President’s meetings, which are open to the public, or set up a meeting with my council and my advisor. Not once have they spoken with myself about how they could help. My prerogative is don’t complain about an issue and do nothing, help be a part of a solution.”
Check back to KnightNews.com for full coverage of the 2013 SGA Presidential election.



SGA Presidential Candidates Melissa Westbrook and Jacob Khan held their platform release rally Wednesday night at Moat Sports Grille.

Students packed into Moat Sports Grille to hear the candidates release their platform. You can see the full platform on their website here.
The candidates released their full platform at the event some key points include:
UCF SGA elections will also be holding their own official SGA debate on Tuesday, March 19th in the Cape Cod Ballroom of the Student Union at 7p.m. UCF’s student run news class, Knightly News, will be hosting the final debate on Thursday, March 21st. KnightNews.com will have live updates throughout the debate.



