The Alpha Tau Omega fraternity at UCF will appeals its year-long suspension, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
ATO was suspended through summer 2014 after being found “in-violation” of university policy for alcohol related misconduct following an unregistered party at their on campus home in July. The organization suspended or expelled 31 UCF members even before the university held a disciplinary hearing.
“The punishment does not fit the crime,” Wynn Smiley, ATO’s chief executive officer, told the Orlando Sentinel.
Smiley responded to the suspension in a letter, hoping that suspending or expelling the students involved would be enough to keep UCF from taking action on the entire chapter. 
UCF’s Vice President, Dr. Maribeth Ehasz, will review the appeal and have final word on the punishments handed down by UCF. 
According to the police report obtained by KnightNews.com, the fraternity held a party on the night of July 28 when a UCF police officer noticed a female on Greek Park Drive holding a bottle of alcohol.
To read more about the suspension, click here.



Lambda Chi Alpha at the Unviersity of Central Florida is on probation through the fall 2013 semester. 
According to a letter from the fraternity’s national office, during the fall 2012 Semester, UCF’s Lambda Chi Chapter, Beta-Eta Zeta, violated Lambda Chi Alpha Fraternity, University of Central Florida, and FIPG new member education policies. 
“As a result of these violations, Beta-Eta Zeta has placed itself on Probation, effective immediately,” the letter says. 
During the chapter’s probation, an Alumni Control Board “will take entire control of all chapter aspects,” the letter says.
As part of the probation, “the chapter will host no social events or event with alcohol through the fall 2013 semester,” according to the letter. “While under probationary status, all events must complete both the University of Central Florida and Lambda Chi Alpha’s event planning process.”
The chapter must also seek guest speakers on Bystander Behavior and Intervention, Hazing Awareness and Prevention and Alcohol Education and Awareness.
It was not immediately clear whether a specific action led to the chapter’s probation. 
The Alpha Tau Omega fraternity at UCF was recently suspended following an unregistered party at their on campus house. For more on that story, click here.
Click next page to view the letter from the Lambda Chi Alpha National Office.



By: Anthony Scalco
Fresh off the news that UCF(1-0) and FIU(0-1) have extended their series through the 2016 season, the Panthers will be hosting the Knights in Miami Friday at 8:00 p.m. on CBS Sports Network.
This is the third game in a four-game series in which the home team has won each of the first two.  The Knights look to buck that trend tonight and avenge a 17-10 loss in Miami during the 2011 season that ended their early bid at a perfect season.
Sponsored Ad – Story Continues Below
 
UCF is coming off a strong showing in their home opener against the Akron Zips where Junior Blake Bortles threw for a career high 314 yards and 3 touchdowns.
FIU lost its first game on the road against Maryland where the Terps handled the Panthers 43-10.
This will be the start of a two-game road trip for the Knights concluding in State College, Pennsylvania, for a meeting with the Penn State Nittany Lions next Saturday.



