Unmanned drones have become increasingly popular in the military for carrying out tactical spying missions and air assaults. Here in Orange County, a new type of drone was just purchased by police.
The Orange County Sheriff’s Office has just revealed two new drones that were purchased to be used only in “unique circumstances,” such as when a hostage has been taken, dangerous chemicals spilled, a terrorist is on the loose or when someone is missing in remote woods, Sheriff Jerry Demings told the Orlando Sentinel.

The drone, called the Draganflyer X6, costs $25,000 each and look like nothing more than toy helicopters. While these drones don’t carry any type of weapon, some worry that the drones are just an easier method for police to spy on citizens in an ever diminishing society of privacy. Sheriff Demings, however, insists that individual privacy will not be threatened.
 The University of Central Florida Police Department also has plans to fly drones of their own as part of their partnership with Next-Gen Global Technologies.
“NexGen’s partnership with the newest aerial drone technology company, Hoverfly, will allow for effective patrolling of all areas with a virtual birds eye view of the entire campus while using high resolution imagery to capture, record and transmit events in a 4G LTE and cloud-based wireless environment,” UCFPD Chief Richard Beary said, adding “We are negotiating a contract in order to implement these next generation technologies as soon as possible.”
The Orange County Sheriff’s Office is currently awaiting authorization from the FAA to use their drones and hope to have them operational by this summer.
What do you think–are police drones a threat to personal privacy?



The new recreation and wellness center at UCF’s Knights Plaza has yet to open but, KnightNews.com Anne Shirley Lewis and Alex Perez got an inside look at the new facility.

The facility is meant to appeal to students who dislike going to the large, often over-crowded main center as well as students interested in strength and cardio equipment as well as mind/body based classes like Yoga.
“One of the core reasons to build this also was to try to have a much less intimidating and much more inviting space as opposed to the big rec center that somebody comes to that may be intimidating that doesn’t feel good about working out or doesn’t want to work out in front of a lot of other folks…” Jim Wilkening said, Director of the UCF Recreation and Wellness Center.
Hours for the facility will be:
Monday through Thursday: 10 a.m. to 1 a.m.
Friday and Saturday: 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
Sunday: Closed
While no official open date has been announced, Wilkening expects the new center to open sometime in early February.



He’s back! UCF’s favorite American Idol contestant is back after being eliminated from the show in Season 11.
Johnny Keyser, a one time student at the University of Central Florida is back on the American Idol show after being eliminated last season. It is unclear at this time, however, if still attends the school or not. According to his Facebook page, Johnny still works as a server at Carrabba’s Italian restaurant, out on the water in his Pompano Beach hometown.
Following his elimination from the show in season 11, Keyser began working on a solo career which produced a  seven-track EP called From Where I Stand. It was released on May 16, 2012, to highly positive reviews, and he was asked to perform the title track “From Where I Stand” at the Fox 2 Studios in St. Louis on May 23. It reached #44 on the Billboard Heatseaker Albums charts.

In their American Idol 10th Anniversary recap, Billboard Magazine recognized Keyser among just 69 contestants in the history of the show to hit the Billboard charts, and was the first contestant to ever accomplish this feat with an original album before the end of the season in which he competed.
Keyser, to the surprise of many, has just reappeared on the new season of the American Idol show which features judges Mariah Carey, Nicki Minaj, Kieth Urban and Randy Jackson. Keyser won over the judges yet again, receiving fours “yes” votes, advancing him to the next round.

KnightNews.com will continue to follow Keyser as he, once again, makes his way through the Idol stage.
To see Keyser on Season 11, click here.



