Although Spring Rush 2013 is not completely over, Tuesday was the last inter-IFC recruitment event held at the Pegasus Ballroom in the Student Union.
The event did not draw out many potential new members, but since it’s the first semester where fraternities are responsible for holding individual events it is unknown on how this spring’s numbers compared to previous tent rush years until the official rush numbers are released.
KnightNews.com stopped by with our camera to check out the event and talk to fraternity members trying to recruit new guys for their fraternities.




We’ve all heard the saying, ‘it’s not about what you know but rather who you know’. Today, about 95% of jobs are found through networking, according to Evelyn Lora-Santos one of the Assistant Directors of Career Development at UCF.
Networking is the one of the most important skills to develop when pursuing a potential career. The hidden job market has much more depth the advertised job market. Business is very personal, by having a referral your chances of getting hired are much higher. Networking is all about developing business relationships with people related to your industry rather than just finding contacts. Before beginning networking, a tip is to decide on who you want to meet and what you want to find in your networking.
In “Planting the Seed” it was mentioned that in one of the first steps to becoming a successful networker, you want to use all resources available to you and build networking time into your schedule. In the professional world you never know who you are going to meet at any given moment so its important to always be prepared. Some sources to tap into when first beginning to network is your family and their contacts. After getting comfortable working professionally with family, start using some of your new knowledge with your friends. Friends will be alliances in the future and talk about you the most. Also, start working with volunteer organizations, it’s a relaxed environment and usually run by local professionals in your community which always makes for great contacts. People will also be more likely to help or recommend you if they see you doing good for others. Some other resources to take advantage of are clubs, organizations, professional meetings, Alumni, trade shows, class speakers, professional mentors, professional interviews, and of course social networking sites such as LinkedIn.
When meeting someone first impression is everything. It may be beneficial to develop an ‘infomercial’ for yourself that is about 1 minute to 1 minute 30 seconds long. When in an informational interview ask as many questions as you can about the industry you are interested in, get referrals, ask for an appointment 20-30 minutes long, if any longer person, you want to meet might not have enough available time. When breaking the ice over a phone call or meeting introduce yourself and identify your mutual connection. Compliments are recommended because the person you are talking to will feel obligated living up to those standards. Recite your infomercial and then schedule a meeting. When meeting someone it is important to have business cards, LinkedIn profile, and online portfolio/paper resume that explains your objective, skills, and qualifications. If you want to make your portfolio more personal you can add a video resume, it is something that will help you stand out from the rest.
Once you have done all of this you have only gotten your foot in the door. When you leave 75% of employers will Google you, according to Evelyn Lora-Santos. Always be aware of what you post on the internet, keep it professional because it can never be deleted. Its always good to follow up, it helps you to be remembered. Send a thank you note, send information of interest, provide updates, and if appropriate ask for resume advice. Do not become a pest, fabricate, exaggerate, misrepresent yourself, fail to convey knowledge, or expect immediate results.
On the career UCF website you will be able to find a mentor as well as other resources such as Knightlink, downloadable handout, and career insiders guide to schmoozing. Also feel free to take advantage of employee preparation. For further resources visit: www.career.ucf.edu.
 



