A man who attempted to rob a bank near UCF Thursday afternoon claims he was forced to commit the robbery by a man threatening his family, the Orange County Sheriff’s Office says.
Police arrested a man who attempted to rob the Fairwinds Credit Union located on Alafaya Trail north of Science Drive around 4 p.m. on Thursday.
Deputies told Local 6 news the suspected robber passed a note to the teller and the teller hit the silent alarm, thinking it was a robbery attempt. But deputies said the note said he needed help and needed the bank to call the police.
Investigators then told Local 6 they believe the man was the victim of a scam after the man said someone called him, told him he needed to get the money or his family would be in danger.
“We’ll cover all aspects of this crime and find out who made this phone call to him and what their purpose was in trying to get the money and what their plans were once he took money out, where to take it,” Lt. Spike Hopkins with OCSO told Local 6.
Deputies found the man’s family and they were safe. They said the victim and his family are cooperating with authorities to help find the caller.



Orange County Sheriff’s Office deputies apprehended a man who they say attempted to rob a bank near the University of Central Florida on Thursday, according to the Sheriff’s Office.
 Police said the robbery occurred at the Fairwinds Credit Union located on Alafaya Trail north of Science Drive around 4 p.m. on Thursday.
According to Local 6 news, the suspected robber passed a note to the teller but it’s not clear if he got away with anything before being caught a deputy.
No other details were immediately available. Continue to check back on the news alert.



A University of Central Florida Board of Trustee member has resigned from her position following a recent promotion.
Meg Crofton Meg Crofton is no longer considered a voting member of the Board of Trustees, having decided to resign following to her recent position change at the Walt Disney World Company. Crofton is heading to California as part of her new post as president of operations in the U.S. and France.
Currently, there is no word from UCF or the Board of Governors as to who will replace Crofton. Crofton’s replacement will be appointed by the Board of Governors and confirmed by the State Senate. 
Members currently on the board include Alan Florez, Ida J. Cook, Marcos R. Marchena, Olga Calvet, Michael, J. Grindstaff, Cortez Whatley, Ray Gilley, Harris Rosen, John Sprouls, Jim Atchison, Richard T. Crotty, Robert A. Garvy.
The Board of Governors is currently accepting applications for the position.



The Delta Delta Delta Sorority will host their annual DHOP or, Delta House of Pancakes, Philanthropy on Feb. 19 from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Tri Delta adopted the St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital as its national philanthropic partner in November 1999, providing members the opportunity to unite in support of a children’s cancer charity. St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, located in Memphis, Tennessee, is one of the world’s premier pediatric cancer research centers. Its mission is to find cures for children with cancer and other catastrophic diseases through research and treatment.
Daily operations run around $1.8 million, which is primarily covered by public contributions. Treating up to 260 patients each day with an average of 7,800 patients who visit the hospital each year, St. Jude never turns a child way from treatment due to a family’s inability to pay.
In 2006, Tri Delta took on a commitment to raise $10 million in 10 years. In just four years – by May 2010 – Tri Delta met the $10 million fundraising goal. In July 2010, Tri Delta announced its next commitment, an aggressive challenge to raise $15 million in 5 years.
Throughout the year the Beta Lambda Chapter of Delta Delta Delta at the University of Central Florida holds numerous philanthropic events in the effort to support the Tri Delta national goal. In the past 2011-2012 academic year, the chapter raised over $50,000.
Delta House of Pancakes is an event held every spring semester to raise money for their philanthropy, St.Jude Children’s Hospital. The event takes place at the Delta Delta Delta house located at 4220 Greek Park Drive Orlando Fl, 32816 and will feature a photo booth, pancake eating contest and DJ to entertain the hundreds of people that come to the house to participate throughout the UCF community. 
Tickets to the event can be purchased at the door.



