UCF head coach Donnie Jones has released the schedule for the men’s basketball team’s inaugural campaign in the American Athletic Conference.
The Knights will make their debut in The American on New Year’s Eve when they host defending national champion Louisville. 
Home games include:

Louisville (12/31) @ 5:00 p.m.
Temple (01/04) @ 4:00 p.m.
SMU (01/18) 12:00 @ 4 p.m.
Memphis (01/29)	@ 7:00 p.m.
USF (02/05) @ 7:00 p.m.
Connecticut (02/09) @ 6:00 p.m.
Cincinnati (02/19) @ 7:00 p.m.
Rutgers (02/26) @ 7:00 p.m.
Houston (03/07) @ 7:30 p.m. 
UCF will play 17 total contests on the new blacktop floor at CFE Arena, including a Nov. 13 game against Florida State which will mark the Seminoles’ first visit to campus. 
“We are so excited about the new conference and our schedule. The talent level of the teams that we will face night in and night out in The American is exceptional,” Jones said. “We have played great teams in the past, but now each night we will have to compete on a consistent level.”
Each of UCF’s 18 conference games will be nationally televised, with ESPN2 airing the league opener against Louisville and the game in Orlando against UConn. The Knights will have at least 20 contests broadcast nationally during the season.
UCF will open the season on Nov. 8, hosting Tampa. The Knights’ first conference road game is set for Jan. 11 at UConn. Jones’ team will visit Louisville on Feb. 1 and head to Tampa to meet USF on Feb. 15.
Visit the UCF Basketball website for the full schedule and more information. 
Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get news like this on your feeds!



Flo Rida and The White Panda will be coming to UCF as part of the Victoria’s Secret Pink Party.

On September 12, Victoria’s Secret will “take over” the UCF campus — bringing the music performers as well as Elsa Hosk, a Victoria Secret PINK model.
In April, UCF won a social media challenge to win the school a concert hosted by Victoria’s Secret models. UCF eventually beat out the University of Texas in the final round by tweeting out more than 40,000 tweets.
“Aside from the concert, we’re having an entire PINK experience at #UCF! Get excited for more details headed your way!” the UCF PINK representatives posted on Twitter.
Stay tuned for more event updates as they become available. 
Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get news like this on your feeds!



UPDATE 10:45 A.M.  Evacuated staff has been allowed back inside the building. Officials said they searched the building but were unable to find the reported odor.
The Orange County Fire Department is investigating a hazmat odor near the UCF campus.

The Orange County Fire Department responded to a call of an odor at a building down Research Parkway at 8:47 a.m. Thursday morning. Fire officials evacuated workers in order to investigate the suspicious odor. 
The cause of the odor is currently unknown at this time.
Continue to check back for more details on the situation.  



