A new Trustee member has will join the University of Central Florida’s Board following an official appointment by The Florida Board of Governors Thursday afternoon.
Beverly SeayBeverly J. Seay, vice president and general manager of the CAE modeling and simulation company, was appointed to the UCF Board of Trustees for a term beginning March 28, 2013, and ending January 6, 2018, according to a press release. 
Seay has a bachelor’s degree in mathematics and a master’s degree in computers, information and control engineering from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. She is also a board member of the Florida High Tech Corridor Council, a press statement said. 
The universities’ 13-member boards of trustees are responsible for implementing and maintaining cost-effective policy and high quality educational programs. They also work to adhere to state policy, budgeting and education standards.
“We are fortunate to have boards of trustees across the state made up of well-qualified and dedicated individuals, with broad ranges of experience and expertise,” Mori Hosseini, chair of the Board of Governors Trustee Nominating Committee, said in a statement. “We are proud to welcome these new members to our ranks. Their contributions will no doubt make the whole system stronger.”
The appointment is still subject to confirmation by the Florida Senate and to the members attending a Board of Governors orientation session.  



Pat Benatar and Neil Giraldo will be performing in Orlando this weekend as part of Universal Orlando’s Mardi Gras concert series.
“With powerhouse hits like “Heartbreaker,” “Hit Me with Your Best Shot” and “We Belong,” Pat Benatar is a bonafide living legend,” the Universal event description says. “Along with her husband/guitarist/musical collaborator Neil Giraldo, she’s created some of rock’s most iconic songs that sound better and better every time you hear them.”.
The pair will hit the stage on Saturday, March 30 at 8:30 p.m.  
Kool & The Gang will perform at the Mardi Gras event the following week on Saturday, April 6 at 8:30 p.m.
See photos from the Mardi Gras event!
Click below for info on tickets, packages and annual passes to see the shows!



It is 2:45 a.m., and UCF freshman Corey Ellison is on his eighth episode of South Park. 
Laughing hysterically at the satiric humor, he’s thoroughly enjoying himself after his hum-drum day of classes. Ellison, among many others, has also declined to partake in the new feature available to Netflix users, which allows your Facebook friends to see your viewing habits.
“I think that a lot of people want others to think that they’re out socializing,” Ellison said, “even while they’re up to the late hours of the morning watching marathons of T.V. show and movies.”
Ellison is not alone.
Joining with the social media giant Facebook, Netflix is now offering registered users the chance to allow what they watch to be shared with their Facebook friends. Similar to Spotify, the online program that allows Facebook friends to share music they are listening to, this new application would give your friends a play by play of your viewing habits.
Unlike Spotify, however, this new service doesn’t seem to be going over too well with student users.
“Frankly, it’s a bit embarrassing.” Ellison said, when asked about whether or not he would use the new feature. “It seems to me as if they are crossing a privacy line that shouldn’t be crossed.”
However, even if what he’s watching isn’t embarrassing, UCF student Brandon Durr said he still wouldn’t want people to know what he’s watching and doesn’t care to know what others are watching.
Others certainly agree. UCF student Cody Pinti said he would “most certainly not” use the new feature.
On the other hand, it’s a great way to promote the movies we watch with our friends, UCF student Marcela Restrepo said.
“If you’re not watching something you’re not supposed to, it doesn’t matter,” Restrepo said.
The new sharing tool was made possible by the amendment of the Video Privacy Protection Act of 1988, which made it illegal for a company to distribute video rental information.
“I don’t think it’s necessary,” another UCF student, Anthony Ballmas, said.
Whether the new application is merely annoying or downright intrusive is amongst debate, but the consensus seems pretty clear. Fortunately for Ellison and other Netflix users, the service is completely optional.
By going to the social settings on their Netflix account, users can activate this feature and share the movies and shows they wish on their Facebook.
The effects the feature will have on the company remains to be seen. 
Ellison notes that his South Park marathon was not initiated by any prompts by his Facebook friends, and that’s the way he’d like to keep it.
“There are some things that students want to keep private,” Ellison said, “and their Instant Queues are included in that list.“



