Some of Hollywood’s biggest box office busters will be released this summer, including an all new Iron Man and several sequels. 
See some of the big movies debuting this summer below.
Friday, May 3 – Iron Man 3
When Tony Stark’s world is torn apart by a formidable terrorist called the Mandarin, he starts an odyssey of rebuilding and retribution.
Friday, May 10 – The Great Gatsby
A Midwestern war veteran finds himself drawn to the past and lifestyle of his millionaire neighbor.
Friday, May 17 – Star Trek Into Darkness
After the crew of the Enterprise find an unstoppable force of terror from within their own organization, Captain Kirk leads a manhunt to a war-zone world to capture a one man weapon of mass destruction.
Friday, May 24 – Fast and Furious 6
Agent Hobbs enlists the aid of Dom and team to help bring a rival gang, led by Owen Shaw, to justice. In exchange for clear records, they must put an end to their schemes, no matter how personal the cost.
The Hangover: Part III
This time, there’s no wedding. No bachelor party. What could go wrong, right? But when the Wolfpack hits the road, all bets are off.
Friday, May 31 – After Earth 
A crash landing leaves Kitai Raige and his father Cypher stranded on Earth, 1,000 years after events forced humanity’s escape. With Cypher injured, Kitai must embark on a perilous journey to signal for help.
Friday, June 7 – The Internship 
Two salesmen whose careers have been torpedoed by the digital age find their way into a coveted internship at Google, where they must compete with a group of young, tech-savvy geniuses for a shot at employment.
Wednesday, June 12 – This is the End 
While attending a party at James Franco’s house, Seth Rogen, Jay Baruchel and many other celebrities are faced with the apocalypse.
Friday, June 21 – Monsters University
A look at the relationship between Mike and Sulley during their days at Monsters University — when they weren’t necessarily the best of friends.
World War Z
United Nations employee Gerry Lane traverses the world in a race against time to stop the Zombie pandemic that is toppling armies and governments, and threatening to decimate humanity itself.
Friday, June 28 – White House Down 
While on a tour of the White House with his young daughter, a Capitol policeman springs into action to save his child and protect the president from a heavily armed group of paramilitary invaders.
Friday, July 12 – Grown Ups 2 
After moving his family back to his hometown to be with his friends and their kids, Lenny (Adam Sandler), finds out that between old bullies, new bullies, schizo bus drivers, drunk cops on skis, and 400 costumed party crashers sometimes crazy follows you.
Friday, July 26 – The Wolverine 
Wolverine makes a voyage to modern-day Japan, where he encounters an enemy from his past that will impact on his future.
Friday, August 23 – The World’s End 
Five friends who reunite in an attempt to top their epic pub crawl from 20 years earlier unwittingly become humankind’s only hope for survival.



