VPEtalent, located in New York City, is looking to cast couples between the ages of 18-22 for an MTV international series.
The company is targeting college-aged students in Florida whose parents have a problem with their significant other. In participating in the show, they hope they can prove to their parents that their boyfriend/girlfriend is the right fit for them.
The series is looking to find its cast as soon as possible. Any questions can be sent to the Casting Associate Producer’s e-mail at Hayley@vpetalent.com.



Students at UCF are uneasy that the interest rates on their loans are set to double this July.
“I’ll need a lot of loans to finish my bachelor’s degree and go on to med school, so an increase in interest rates would have a huge impact on me. With higher interest rates, I’ll eventually be paying back much, much more than I received and I think that’s unfair,” UCF Student Monica Arroyave said.
According to the current plan, interest rates on subsidized student loans taken out in the upcoming academic year will double from 3.4% to 6.8% on July 1st. Interest rates are high already, so why are students continuing to take out loans for education?
“I lost bright futures and financial aid didn’t cover the cost of tuition, so taking out loans was one of the only viable ways to pay for my education,” said Keith Gonzalez, a former UCF student.
For a number of students, loans are the only option they have if they want to further their education and get a college degree. However, Gonzalez thinks an increase in interest rates would even discourage people from going to school.
Those who do use loans to go to school, despite rising interest rates, are wary of their decision.
“If they increase interest rates it would make me not want to take out any loans at all. It’s stressful to think that if I need more help with school that I’m going to have to make sacrifices in the long run; hopefully it’ll all be worth it,” UCF student Solange Hernandez said.
President Obama has put forth a budget plan that would keep student loan interest rates low in the nation’s current economy. However, opposition from Congress has halted the plan, and interest rates will double on new loans if Obama’s budget plan is not put into action.
Regardless, students continue to use whatever means necessary to invest in their education in hopes that times will improve.
“I don’t know if it was a good or bad choice to take out loans, but I needed them to pay for classes so I guess it was the right choice. I hope I can pay them off once I graduate and get a decent-paying job,” said UCF student Ericka Moore.



The University of Central Florida’s athletics will transition to the American Athletic Conference next year.
With this conference change, UCF will have an opportunity to increase their brand nationally. The school’s athletic department has projected increases in nationally televised sporting events and revenue.
In an email sent to UCF students, Athletic Director Todd Stansbury said, “It is vitally important to continue increasing nationwide recognition for the UCF brand.”
This brand expansion may pay off for UCF in the long run. The university expects an increase in revenue in years to come, which in turn will provide the athletics department with increased funds. Much of the increase in revenue could stem from television deals with CBS and ESPN.
“Being affiliated with ESPN and CBS will also allow sports fans from all over the country to quickly get acquainted with our new conference name and brand,” Stansbury said. “The multimedia rights with the American Athletic Conference will net us more than it did in Conference USA,” said UCF’s Assistant Athletic Director for Communications Andy Seeley.
Although UCF’s move to the American Athletic Conference is still considered an upgrade from their years spent in Conference USA, the move is not as impactful as it was when it was first made.
When UCF accepted an invitation to join the then Big East in all sports, aspirations were high for the Knights and their fans. Nearly two years later and the conference has been gutted of its most prominent programs such as Notre Dame, Syracuse, Pittsburgh and Rutgers.
At the time that UCF accepted the invitation, the Big East was arguably the strongest basketball conference in the nation. Since that time, the Big East schools known as the Catholic 7—DePaul, Georgetown, Marquette, Providence, Seton Hall, St. John’s and Villanova—have left the conference and have decided to take the conference name with them.
Each team that left the conference formerly known as the Big East will have to pay an exit fee to the conference, while those teams that are joining will pay an entrance fee. These revenues streams leave the conference with a large amount of money that they must figure out how to divide amongst its current members.
It was announced on Wednesday that the new conference will be named the American Athletic Conference, a name that has gotten mixed reviews.
“It sounds weird because their plan was to join the Big East, not the American Athletic Conference,” said UCF student and aspiring sports radio personality Wendell Muller.
Fellow student Michael Braga said the name change was a downgrade because “the name itself had history to it.”
Despite these exits and changes, UCF fans are still looking forward to the change in conferences and view it as an upgrade.
“I do feel excited, the American Athletic Conference is more of a respectable name than Conference USA,” junior Edward Sims said.
Other fans are excited to see how UCF’s brand will grow nationally. With the increase in nationally televised games, students are envisioning how it will grow the university.
“They will get exposure and money from TV deals,” Greg Scarlata said. 
The overall success of the program will ultimately rely on their play on the field. Revenue, conference and brand growth will only take place if a winning product is placed on the field.
“Merchandise sales are more related to success in competition,” Seeley said.



Conflicting reports about an arrest being made in the Boston Marathon bombing case are arising and now leading to believe that a suspect has not been arrested as originally reported by CNN.
CNN previously reported that a federal law enforcement source told CNN’s Fran Townsend that an arrest has been made in the Boston Marathon bombings case based off on two videos showing images of the suspect.
The Boston Police Department, however, says that despite reports to the contrary there has not been an arrest in the Marathon attack.
According to CNN, the breakthrough came from analysis of videos from a department store near the site of the second explosion. A news briefing is scheduled for 5 p.m. Wednesday, according to CNN.
Continue to check back for constant updates.
Like us to get news like this on your facebook feed!
For more information and to see how UCF students reacted to the bombings  click here.



The New Smyrna Beach Balloon and Sky Fest 2013 took place on April 5-7. 
The event features many different shows by airplanes and balloons as well as rides, vendors and more! Check out photos from the event!
Photos by Jennifer Mitchell
Click here for more on the event. 



The UCF Library was recently ranked as one of the top social media friendly libraries in the nation. 
The staff of LibraryScienceList.com, a social community for new and current librarians around the world, selected the University of Central Florida Library as a Top 100 Most Social Media Friendly College & University Library for 2013. Out of the 442 college and university libraries, UCF ranked 70 on the list.
Each year, the staff at LibraryScienceList.com search the most popular social media platforms, looking for libraries that are actively using their accounts to promote library events, notify students of new materials, or interact with patrons in other ways. 
“We’re thrilled,” said Meg Scharf, a spokeswoman for the library.  “We recognize social media as a very important way to reach our audience, and we’ve tried to make the best use of it. It’s nice to be recognized.”
The UCF Library also ranked in third place for its presence on Facebook, 16 for its use of Google Plus and 41 for Twitter. The library came in at 100 for YouTube.
To view the full list, click here.



An LGBT activist, writer and blogger on Tuesday filed a public records lawsuit against the University of Central Florida’s Board of Trustees and President Dr. John C. Hitt, according to a press release. 
John Becker filed the lawsuit against UCF seeking access to public records relating to a research paper by Mark Regnerus. The research paper, which was cited in briefs and at oral arguments before the Supreme Court last month, suggests gay marriage could have negative effects towards children. Becker said the paper has been criticized as having possible conflicts of interest.
“My interest in filing this Sunshine Law Request is to discover the truth about the peer review and publishing of the Regnerus paper, which is unknown at this point,” said Becker. “Finding the truth is additionally important because the paper was prominently cited last month by opponents of same-sex marriage in briefs and arguments before the Supreme Court.”
UCF Professor James Wright is the editor of Social Science Research journal which published the research paper at issue. Many of the records relating to the matter are being held on servers at UCF, according to a press release. 
Becker claims his request for public records was denied by UCF on April 1, 2013. The lawsuit was filed in the Ninth Judicial Circuit, Orange County, Orlando, Florida.
“Our policy is to comply with Florida’s important open records laws,” Grant Heston, Associate Vice President, Communications & Public Affairs, said. “In this instance, these emails are not related to university business and therefore are not public documents subject to disclosure. At this time, UCF has not been served with a lawsuit.”
This public records lawsuit comes just after an unrelated recent Knight News lawsuit which seeks to remedy public records request violations as well as Sunshine Law violations involving UCF. That case is still pending. 
A copy of Becker’s lawsuit against UCF is below:
http://knightnews.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/Emergency_Petition_Writ_Mandamus.pdf



