If Congress doesn’t act swiftly, student loan interest rates face the possibility of doubling and at UCF, students are taking action against the looming deadline.
The College Democrats at the University of Central Florida are fighting to keep student student loan interest rates from doubling by pushing to pass an SGA Senate resolution and by taking the issue directly to UCF’s Congressman. 
Within a few days, nearly 300 postcards were collected from students demanding that Congress keep student loan interest rates from rising to 6.8% from its current rate of 3.4%. A group of 10 UCF students visited Congressman John Mica’s office on June 26, 2013 and spoke about the importance of keeping student loan rates low and to remind Congressman Mica that his constituency is comprised of 60,000 students who will be voting in the next election. 
“We need our government to realize that by placing a tax on students—which is what this increase will essentially amount to—they are creating an environment where the fear of debt is great enough to keep students from pursuing a degree. We are not a source of income for the government. We are students trying to get an education, find a successful job, and contribute to the economy,” College Democrats Vice President Chelsea Aldrich said.
On Thursday, the College Democrats will attempt to push a resolution to be approved through the Governmental Affairs Committee in an effort to urge Congress to block the automatic increase of interest rates on subsidized Stafford loans. The body invites students to participate by speaking in favor of the resolution during the open forum session of the SGA Senate meeting.
The mission of College Democrats at UCF is to promote the ideals and principles of the Democratic Party by educating students and encouraging participation in the democratic process, according to a press release.



A hearing will be held on a public records lawsuit filed against UCF on Thursday regarding access to email and other records related to a research paper suggesting that gay marriage could have negative effects on children.
In April, LGBT activist John Becker filed the lawsuit against the UCF Board of Trustees and President John C. Hitt when he was not granted access to the research paper. Becker claims that his request for public records was denied by UCF on April 1, 2013.
“My interest in filing this Sunshine Law Request is to discover the truth about the peer review and publishing of the Regnerus paper, which is unknown at this point,” said Becker. “Finding the truth is additionally important because the paper was prominently cited last month by opponents of same-sex marriage in briefs and arguments before the Supreme Court.”
This public records lawsuit hearing comes just two weeks after KnightNews.com had their first hearing in their fight to remedy public record request violations. The judge in that hearing threw away UCF’s request to dismiss the case and take President Hitt’s name off of the lawsuit.



Florida A&M University will be lifting the ban on its Marching 100 band which has been suspended since a fatal hazing incident in 2011, Local 6 reports.

The famed Marching 100 band was suspended following the hazing death of band drum major Robert Champion where Champion was beaten aboard a bus after the Florida Classic football game in Orlando. The hazing incident led to the retirement of band director Julian White and contributed to the resignation of president James Ammons, according to Local 6.
Sylvester Young, a FAMU graduate and former member of the Marching 100, was hired by the University to direct the band. 
The band will be allowed to perform this fall. 



Live video stream coverage from Sanford, Fla. of the State vs. George Zimmerman trial for the murder of Trayvon Martin.

Witness 8, Rachel Jeantel who was on the phone with Trayvon Martin before he was shot, resumes testimony today. 



