As fall semester starts to get into full swing, things start to get a little chaotic.
Homework piles up, tests begin and students start to long for the comfort of their own home. At the same time, their family misses them and wants to be at the school their Knight can’t stop talking about. That’s why UCF Family Weekend is the perfect weekend for many Knight families.
Family Weekend 2014 will run September 19 through the 21.
Official registration for family weekend is closed. However, this does not mean that the events are closed. There are free events that anyone who is not registered can attend. For any questions on what events unregistered families can or cannot attend, contact First Year Experience through their website.
Even though registration is over, tickets for the UCF vs. Bethune-Cookman football game can still be purchased at Family Weekend prices here. Make sure to enter the code ‘2014FAMILY’ for the discounted price.
There are various events going on family weekend:
September 19th
Family Weekend 2014 General Check-In (registered families only)
12:00 PM – 4:00 PM, Student Union
Locations: Student Union: noon-4 p.m and The Venue: 5-8:30 p.m.
Recreation and Wellness Center Tour
1:00 PM – 2:00 PM, Recreation & Wellness Center
Friday Knight Welcome (registered families only)
5:00 PM – 8:30 PM, The Venue
Late Knights – Knights in Wonderland
10:00 PM – 1:00 AM, Student Union
September 20th 
UCF College Showcase
12:00 PM – 2:00 PM, Student Union Pegasus Ballroom
VARC Tailgate
2:00 PM – 5:00 PM, Veterans Academic Resource Center
First Year Experience Meet and Greet
2:00 PM – 5:00 PM, Student Union
UCF Football – UCF vs. Bethune-Cookman
6:00 PM – 12:00 AM, Bright House Networks Stadium
September 21st
Theatre UCF Presents “Baltimore Waltz”
2:00 PM, Theater
Tickets can be purchased two hours before showtime at the Theater Box Office or online here
UCF Women’s Soccer vs. Ole Miss
6:00 PM – 8:00 PM, Track & Soccer Field
Tickets can be purchased through the Official UCF Knights Website
For more information and a full list of events visit the official website of Family Weekend here.



UCF was ranked the No. 3 “up-and-comer” university by U.S. News & World Report’s Best Colleges, which ranked over 1,300 higher-education institutes.
The ranking is part of the publication’s annual college rankings that rank the schools in a dozen categories. This is the seventh year in a row that the magazine compiled the rankings.
The University of Maryland was named the top “up-and-comer” followed by Arizona State University.
U.S. News complies the rankings by asking experts who respond to their annual peer assessment survey to identify institutions that are making the most promising and innovative changes in the areas of academics, faculty and student life.
Overall, UCF was ranked the 99th in public universities.



A woman in Longwood has been charged with child neglect for giving her 7-year old son a shot of Fireball whiskey, according to Local 6.
According to Local 6, Patricia Denault poured a shot of Fireball whiskey and posted a photo of her 7-year old son taking a sip of it on Facebook.
video platformvideo managementvideo solutionsvideo player
After someone noticed the photo and called police, Denault had cops knocking at her door. Denault was arrested on Wednesday, charged with child neglect.
“Just embarrassing, for me and for my children. They are obviously not abused nor neglected,” Denault told Local 6. 



In a double header late Friday night, September 5, the men’s soccer team regrouped after two games on the road, claiming their first home victory against FAU (0-3) by scoring off a penalty kick, just short of 90 minutes into the game.
Although slow to start, having faced a three hour lightning delay, UCF (1-2) avoided overtime by making the most of the penalty made on junior forward Romario Willliams, leaving the Knights in a pivotal situation. 
“With nine seconds on the clock it is a pretty tough situation knowing that, ‘hey, if you miss this one the game is going into overtime,’” Williams said. “I have been in situations like that on numerous occasions, so I just wanted to hold my composure and that’s what I did and I was able to convert and lead my team to victory.”
UCF earned the penalty after the Owl’s goalkeeper, Theo Jamilloux, took away a scoring opportunity from Williams, replacing nine seconds on the clock, just enough for the forward to make the goal.
Midfielder Javier Clavijo had no doubt in his mind that Williams would make the kick with only seconds on the clock. 
“Romario knew what had to be done given the weight that the PK really was carrying, I knew he was definitely more than capable of stepping up and completing something of that magnitude,” said Clavijo.
Both the Knights and Owls had a slow first half but it was the Knights who put the pressure on after halftime, dishing out ten shots toward Jamilloux.
“For us to score like we did late I think it is going to be massive for our players, we preach them to play for ninety minutes and to stick things out and it wasn’t easy out there, I was just really proud of our effort until the very end and to get the goal and steal the game at the end is massive moving forward,” said head coach Bryan Cunningham in a post-game interview.
The Knights will not see another game until Friday, September 12, which will be played on the road against Akron at 7:00pm ET.



UCF continued their longstanding home-field advantage against FAU with an early morning goal made by senior midfielder Alex Piercy.
A lightning delay pushed the women’s game two and a half hours past the original starting time, leaving both teams anxious for victory.
“I didn’t want to play another overtime. It was late, I thought ‘No matter what I do, I am going to get my foot on the ball,’” Piercy said. “I am so happy, so excited that we could come out with the win… We just wanted to treat this as the best game we could play.”
The women’s team picked up their game immediately after the men’s game ended, with Romario Williams’ last minute goal.
The 1-0 victory now gives UCF (3-1) a 13-0 advantage when playing FAU (2-2-1) at home, continuing the perfect record against the Owls.
Florida Atlantic put up a fight but could not claim victory, being outshot 17-4 by the Knight’s offense. Assisted by Hannah Debose and Jennifer Martin, Alex scored her first goal of the season in the 99th minute, handing the Knights their third win of the year in the non-conference match.
The Knights will play their next game against the Georgia Bulldogs (2-1-1) Sunday, September 7, which will be broadcasted on the SEC Network+ digital platform and WatchESPN.com at 1:00 ET. Kevin Copp (play-by-play) and Lisa Boyd (color commentary) will be on the call.



