UCF is giving students a chance to see the first lunar eclipse visible in Florida in over three years.
Volunteers from the UCF Robinson Observatory will provide several telescopes at Memory Mall on Tuesday morning from 2:30 to 5:00 a.m. as part of the “Knights Under the Stars” events.
“This is the kind of eclipse where the Moon passes through Earth’s shadow,” said Yan Fernandez, an associate professor of physics and astronomy and the director of the observatory on campus. “It’s the opposite of the solar eclipse, where parts of Earth pass through the Moon’s shadow.”
The phenomenon is known as tetrad, in which the moon is covered by the earth’s umbral shadow for four eclipses in a row. Rather than the moon being completely dark, the moon will glow red as it receives light from Earth’s circumference.
“So instead of the Moon turning totally black when it moves into our shadow, itwill turn red, since the other colors of light are absorbed by our atmosphere,” Fernandez said.
Along with the eclipse, Mars and Saturn will also be high enough in the night sky to be visible during the eclipse.
The cost of the event is free for everyone.



UCF bounced back from a tough Friday night loss at Memphis to take the series with wins on both Saturday and Sunday, including a 10-0 run rule massacre on Sunday night.
Eric Skoglund was handed his first loss of the season Friday night in a 2-1 pitcher’s duel. After characteristically pitching into the ninth inning with only one run against him to show for it, Skoglund walked the leadoff batter with just three outs to go to force extra innings.
Head Coach Terry Rooney immediately replaced his starter after the free pass, and Zac Favre came in to stop the momentum. A sacrifice bunt and single in consecutive at bats would drive in Skoglund’s runner in walk-off fashion.
Skoglund got the loss after 8.0 innings pitched, two earned runs, three walks and six strikeouts. He received very little support however – UCF only put up one run, in the top of the ninth at that.
The offense stepped up to the plate on Saturday, topping the Tigers 9-8.
Tanner Olson started Saturday’s game, and ate up four innings before six different Knights’ pitchers would relieve him. Favre earned redemption and was issued the win in under an inning of work.
Tommy Williams had himself another great night at the dish, ending the day 3-4 with four RBIs. James Vasquez was deadly as well, topping his 3-4 day with three runs.
Sunday looked nothing like either of the first two games. UCF exploded on offense while completely shutting down the Memphis hitters. Four Knights pitchers combined for zero earned runs and an astonishing two hits.
Ryan Meyer improved to 3-0 with his six inning effort, giving up the only two hits of the game, striking out six and walking two.
Williams drove in three more runs with his team-leading tenth long ball, though Dylan Moore, Derrick Salberg, James Vasquez, Kam Gellinger, and Jordan Savinon all got a piece in a total team effort.
By ending the eighth inning on a 10-0 note, the run rule was called and UCF walked away with their tenth conference victory.
The Knights, now 10-2 in the American and 22-15 overall, hold a firm grasp on first place over the 7-2 USF and the 7-5 Louisville Cardinals.
Florida A&M will visit Orlando on Tuesday in UCF’s next appearance. It is scheduled for a 6:30 pm first pitch.



