The Knight’s quarterback competition may have another possible QB in the mix.
The former Dr. Phillips and Boise State quarterback Nick Patti has officially transferred and enrolled at UCF, according to the Orlando Sentinel. Patti will not be a student until this summer, which could affect his eligibility status for 2014 unless he seeks a hardship waiver from the NCAA.
If Patti is granted the hardship waiver, he may be immediately tossed into the mix as one of the four potential starting quarterbacks for 2014 along with Tyler Harris, Pete DiNovo and Justin Holman. Patti could not find his niche within the Boise State offense, completing  8 of 11 passes for 63 yards and no touchdowns this past season. 
UCF Head Coach offered Patti a scholarship his senior season at Dr. Phillips, but Patti had already committed to Boise State. It is unclear on whether Patti will receive a scholarship from UCF or if he will be a walk-on. 



KnightNews.com sat down with SGA Senator Clifford Rice, who filed the impeachment affidavit against Student Government President Melissa Westbrook. 
Rice spoke with KnightNews.com about why he filed the affidavit, if it was possible campaign “mudslinging” and the next step in the impeachment process. Senator Rice added that he speaks on behalf of himself and as a student, not as a Senator.

All three charges in the affidavit filed against SGA President Westbrook were found to have merit by Senate. The Senate found merit in the first charge of neglect of duties with a vote of 37-2-1, violation of Sunshine Law with a vote of 25-15-1 and misuse of funds with a vote of 38-2-1. 
Even though Westbrook is impeached, it does not mean that she is out of office yet. According to SGA Statutes, the impeachment hearing was simply to find out if the charges had merit and should be investigated more. According to the SGA Statutes, a removal hearing is scheduled to occur within 2-4 weeks of the impeachment.
During the course of the next couple of weeks, LJR Chair Jonathan Cannon will begin the Discovery Process in preparation for the Removal Hearing. Cannon will compile the any tangible evidence followed by witness interviews before the Senate has their Removal Hearing.
In order for President Westbrook to be removed from office, Senate must concur by a 2/3 vote on at least one of the charges. If the charges do not meet the 2/3 vote, Westbrook will be considered not in violation with no sanctions. 



