The UCF offense is now in Pete DiNovo’s hands.
After practice on Sunday, UCF head coach George O’Leary informed the media that if the Penn State game were to take place tomorrow, DiNovo would start.
Sponsored Advertisement – Story Continues Below

DiNovo, a redshirt freshman from Tarpon Springs (Fla.) East Lake was named the Offensive Scout Team Player of the Year this past season for the Knights. DiNovo is also Pinellas County’s all-time leader passer with 6,733 yards during his high school career.
He is a little bit smaller than his predecessor, Blake Bortles, at 6’2″ 205 pounds.
DiNovo is now ahead on the depth chart of Justin Holman, the sophomore and only UCF quarterback with in-game experience, true freshman Tyler Harris and transfer Nick Patti.



If you’ve been on Facebook or other popular social media sites recently, you may have seen a friend dumping a bucket of ice on their head.
The ice bucket challenges have gone viral, creating awareness and raising money for the ALS Association, otherwise known as Lou Gehrig’s Disease.
The concept behind the challenge is simple. Dump a bucket of ice water on your head, nominate three others to do the same or donate $100 to ALS research within 24 hours.
Even Today Show anchor Matt Lauer participated in the chilly stunt after being challenged by professional golfer Greg Norman. Lauer went on to dare Brian Williams, Martha Stewart and Howard Stern to do the same.

Visit NBCNews.com for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy
The ALS ice bucket challenge can be traced to Boston College, where former baseball star Pete Frates is suffering from the debilitating disease. His family started the challenge in hopes to raise awareness for the neurodegenerative disease that still has no cure.
Frates, 29, was diagnosed with the disease in 2012. He is now unable to talk and must eat through a feeding tube.
The awareness through the ice bucket campaign has sent donations to the ALS Association surging. According to KARK news, the office received $160,000 during a recent 10-day period and that doesn’t even include the money that has been sent to chapter offices.
“It’s just been wonderful visibility for the ALS community,” ALS Association’s national president Barbara Newhouse told NBC Sports. “It is absolutely awesome. It’s crazy, but it’s awesome, and it’s working.”
Phi Delt Challenges Sigma Chi, ATO to Ice Bucket Challenge

See Responses from Sigma Chi | ATO | Tri Delta 



Late Saturday night, FOX Sports reporter Bruce Feldman reported that sources told him that UCF head coach George O’Leary could be stepping down as coach this season as early as after the Penn State game in Ireland. Current assistant head coach Brent Key would be taking over for him.
O’Leary shot down the report.
Sponsored Advertisement – Story Continues Below

“I don’t know anything about that stuff and where that came from,” O’Leary told the Orlando Sentinel. “I never spoke to anybody from Fox or anybody. I don’t have any idea what that’s about.”
O’Leary, who will turn 68 on Aug. 17, is entering his 11th season as the head coach of the Knights. In May, he agreed to a four-year contract extension with UCF that will keep him in place until the end of the 2017-2018 season.
Currently, the Knights are in the middle of training camp to get prepared for the opening game of the season against Penn State in Ireland on August 30.



