A UCF student landed behind bars on Tuesday after allegedly pulling a Glock pistol on his roommate following an argument over borrowing a bicycle.
Abraham Avi Scott Peschitz, 22, was arrested by the Orange County Sheriff’s Office by the Suncrest housing development off of University Boulevard, a few miles from UCF main campus.
UCF spokesman Chad Binette confirmed that Peschitz is a marketing major who started at UCF in summer 2010.
According to the police report, it started when Peschitz and his roommate got into an argument when he tried borrowing Peschitz’s bicycle, but the argument got heated and Peschitz went into his room.
When he returned, his roommate said Peschitz had a Glock pistol pointed in his face, according to the report. The roommate also said in the report that Peschitz then went back into his room and the roommate heard “clicking” sounds.
That is when the roommate left and immediately called OSCO, saying that he was “in fear for his life.”
When police arrived at the residence, they could not locate Peschitz, but found a Glock 19 pistol inside of his room. The police gave the roommate a card with a case number containing contact information.
A little bit over an hour later, the roommate called OSCO and stated that Peschitz returned to the house, grabbed a backpack and left again.
OSCO located Peschitz in the area of Rouse Road and University Boulevard with $1,117 in cash, a backpack and cellphone.
Peschitz was booked in the Orange County jail on charges of aggravated assault with a firearm.



Tuesday marked another round of orientations for the incoming class of 2018.
Reporter Justin Levy caught up with some of the incoming freshmen and their parents to ask how orientation was going. As always, hilarity ensued and our reporter even got his hands in on an arranged marriage.
Check out the video below:
Like us on Facebook & follow @UCFKnightNews on twitter for UCF news on your feeds!
Follow @UCFKnightNews




Imagine looking in your rearview mirror and seeing a bear peering back at you from your trunk.
That’s exactly what happened to one UCF student when he visited Rock Springs in Apopka. Jonathan Jenkins, a sophomore majoring in aerospace engineering, was visiting the park to go tubing with his girlfriend when a black bear hopped into the open trunk of his car.
Jenkins and his girlfriend had rented tubes from down the road but couldn’t fit them in their car, so they shoved them in the trunk and left it ajar.
They parked and heard residents yelling about what they thought was a deer, but later found out was a bear.
“The bear was about 30 feet away going through the trash,” Jenkins said. “It was starting to draw a crowd.”
He said that all the guests seemed to be really curious about the bear and not the least bit afraid until a child screamed and startled the bear, which attracted the animal’s attention and scared onlookers.
“A couple kids started screaming and it really caught the bear’s attention,” Jenkins said. “The bear started to walk over and that’s when I thought ‘uh that’s not good’ and he kept getting closer so we jumped in the car.”
That’s when Jenkins says the real curious part of this interaction happened.
“I’m looking in my mirror saying, ‘where’s the bear, where’s the bear,’ and I can’t see it, but my girlfriend does and says ‘It’s right behind your car! It’s right behind your car! It’s in your car!’” Jenkins said. “I look in my rearview mirror and see the face of this bear, and see him jump in my trunk with the tube.”
Bear moves towards the vehicle.
Jenkins then put the car in reverse and braked in an effort to get the bear out of his trunk. He said the bear got scared from the braking and ran off.
“I literally drove with a bear in my car,” Jenkins said.
Jenkins said that he finds the situation humorous now but at the time, he was extremely frightened. His girlfriend, Taylor Avery, said it was the first time she’d seen a bear and it was terrifying.
“When we got out a people were saying ‘That was funny’ and ‘That was awesome’ and I was like ‘Yeah, awesome and scary as hell,’” Jenkins said. “It’s funny cause I remember that bear looking 10 times larger than the photo shows,” Jenkins said.
The near-miss didn’t detour Jenkins and his girlfriend from having a great time at the park.
“We ended up having a great day,” Jenkins said. “I’d definitely still go back there today.”
Jenkins took the majority of the photos of the bear but had an onlooker send the photo of the bear jumping into his trunk to his phone.
 



