How can someone vote on an impeachment, if they don’t know what an impeachment is?
KnightNews.com has discovered multiple senators are doing just that.
One apparent example is UCF SGA Sen. Stephen Campbell. In texts with an individual obtained by KnightNews.com, Campbell expressed that Melissa Westbrook was not impeached — however, that was just moments after the senate did in fact vote to impeach her.
“You vote to impeach?” the individual asked Sen. Campbell.
Campbell responded, “No votes were cast to impeach. We only voted today as to if the accusations did have merit.”
But, according to UCF SGA statutes, “Should the Senate conclude by majority vote that the Affidavit(s) does warrant further investigation and does fall within the jurisdiction of being an impeachable offense, the accused is considered impeached.”
Later in the conversation, after being corrected with the information that KnightNews.com had reported that she had in fact been impeached, Campbell stated, “And actually nevermind I guess Westbrook was ‘impeached’ in the denotative sense. I generally think impeach as the actual removal from office.”
When asked about texts received by KnightNews.com, Campbell had no comment.
KnightNews.com is currently going through several pages of texts, emails, and Facebook messages involving SGA business from Senators that we requested under Florida’s Public Record Law.
Check back for more stories as we continue to investigate the public records.



A fire broke out at The Glenn apartments near UCF on Heather Ridge Circle on Tuesday. According to the Orange County Fire Rescue, the fire broke out on a three story building construction site.  
According to Local 6, the fire broke out at 12:20 p.m.
Video of flames courtesy of The Glenn resident, Max Levy:

The Orange County Fire Rescue tweeted that an apartment building was evacuated due to the fire.
“2nd Alarm BLD, Heather Ridge Ci, smoke & fire from apt bld, being evac’d,” OCFR tweeted. 
UPDATE: The Orange County Fire Rescue deemed that all residents of the building were safe. 



Speculation on whether Blake Bortles could be the No. 1 overall pick in the 2014 NFL Draft grew when the Houston Texans announced that they hired former UCF quarterbacks coach George Godsey.
Godsey played quarterback under George O’Leary when he was the head coach at Georgia Tech and was the quarterbacks coach(05-08) for O’Leary at UCF.
Godsey is now coaching alongside Bill O’Brien, also a former O’Leary assistant. Bill O’Brien hired Godsey from the New England Patriots where he was an assistant coach. 
Multiple reports have said that O’Brien is not sold on Johnny Manziel’s work ethic, another No. 1 pick prospect. With all of the Houston Texan’s ties to the UCF Knights, it could pave the way for UCF’s Blake Bortles to be the first Knight ever drafted No. 1 overall.  



The pep rally and tailgate party have officially been announced for the UCF vs. Penn State game in Ireland billed as the “Croke Park Classic”. 
The stadium confirmed that a joint pep rally will take place at Dublin Castle on Friday, August 29, the day before the game. The Croke Park Classic Pep Rally will feature players, coaches and cheerleaders from both teams as well as a taste of the history that comes with the 800-year old city center. 
The tailgate will take place at Temple Bar on the morning of the game on Saturday, August 30. The bar one of the oldest parts of Dublin and has a Viking and medieval themed style. 
The game will not be the original matchup of Irish head coaches in O’Leary vs. O’Brien, since Penn State Head Coach Bill O’Brien left for the NFL. However, UCF will still be represented by O’Leary’s Irish roots and placekicker Sean Galvin, who is originally from Ireland.
The Croke Park Classic will be the first time UCF and Penn State have played outside the U.S. and will kick off UCF’s season coming off the biggest win in school history against Baylor in the Fiesta Bowl. 



