Verge Campus tour came through for their first night and 2nd year anniversary right here at UCF! A night full of different genres including indie, hiphop, and EDM certainly did not disappoint.
Rain was pouring for a lot of the day but luckily it only drizzled later on and it did not affect people from coming in line. Some were listening to these artists for their first time while other fans were proudly sporting ‘bandmerch’ from favorite artists they were about to see.
Doors finally opened and an empty arena quickly filled up with students eager to see their favorite band.
 The first performers were right here from UCF: DJ Sheen Boogie and Kyle Edwards. Their performance wasn’t one of their best and although I was in the front row, you can still not hear most of their music because the bass was too loud and overpowering. They were a bit repetitive at times but knew how to mix between different electronic genres well.
After this performance, foam lights were thrown out and an MC got the crowd pumped for what was to come next. Three bands of different genres but all were sure to please everybody no matter what music they mostly enjoy.
Radical Something (an indie hip-hop band with a Californian vibe) came out and set a chill mood for the crowd. Their performance got the crowd singing things like “we were just kids” along with them and all of their friends. They had a great mix of songs that were fun to dance or sing along to.
Next came a performance like no other: Logic. This young rapper amazed everyone around me and knew how to flow one song with another so eloquently. He spit fluid raps on top of famous hip hop melodies and mastered them. His performance was great and was the best mood setter for what was to come.
After all the anticipation, the main event of the night came out. Krewella definitely knew what they were doing although they were not joined by Rain Man that night. These sisters blessed with great voices went between their greatest hits and other songs which they would sing along to. 
The whole crowd never stopped singing, headbanging, or dancing along the whole night. Mid-performance, the sisters did a ballad called “human” which was dedicated to all of their fans and got all students swaying their lit up phones or foam lights. Building up from that seemed like a hard task but they managed it well and got the crowd all turned up again to even better mixes and more dancing. They interacted extremely well with the entire arena and it shows why this group is so high up in the EDM world.



KnightNews.com has high quality videos for every group from Cheers for Charity 2014!
Each year, Alpha Delta Pi sorority hosts its annual Cheers for Charity event — a cheer competition with all donations benefiting the Ronald McDonald Houses of Central Florida. 
Winners:
Fraternity
1. Lambda Chi
2. Rugby Team
3. Sigma Pi
Sorority
1. Tri Delta
2. Kappa Delta
3. Alpha Xi Delta 
Please take a second to like this story by clicking the like button up at the top, so your friends see this story on Facebook. Also, make sure you like KnightNews.com on Facebook and Twitter, so you get all the major UCF news you need to know — plus UCF community stories like this!
Alpha Delta Pi

Alpha Delta Pi | Theta Chi | Kappa Delta | Lambda Chi | Pi Beta Phi | Zeta Tau Alpha  | Tri Delta | Beta Theta Pi | Sigma Pi | Kappa Kappa Gamma  | Rugby  |  Delta Sigma Phi  |  Phi Delta Theta  |  Alpha Xi Delta  |  Kappa Sigma  |  



Saturday marks the 2014 UCF Spring Game at Brighthouse Networks Stadium.
The game is free for all fans and free parking in the E6-E7-E8 lots adjacent to Bright House Networks Stadium will open at 8 a.m. Saturday for fan parking and tailgating. The parking lot at the UCF Softball Complex will also be open for parking and tailgating.
Tailgating will be permitted in those specific lots only. Anywhere outside of those lots will not be permitted for tailgating.
The game starts at 2 p.m. and the gates will open at 1 p.m.



By: Bridgette Matter
Education is anything but cheap these days, and those looking to attend the University of Central Florida could see over $1,400 added to their tuition bill each year. If this passes it would go into effect fall 2015.

Health insurance may become a University enrollment requirement. Right now 21% of UCF students do not have insurance. SGA president Melissa Westbrook made universal health care part of her platform. Westbrook wants insurance accessible to all. Students we spoke to had mixed feelings.
“I can understand how it can be important to have health care…Now in terms of mandating it, I think that’s confrontational for a student because it takes away your right,” said Todd Girdley.
This leaves us asking, would this negatively affect enrollment numbers and lead to a greater financial burden to those who already struggle to cover the cost of education? 
“I don’t think it will affect enrollment too much because kids still have the option of being on their parent’s plans,” said Dustin Holmes.
If this passes roughly $1,460 each year would be added to tuition, and financial aid can be used to help cover the cost. 
Florida governor Rick Scott is not backing this proposal. 
“Governor Scott is concerned with the increase in tuition and fees that is burdening families. Ultimately individual health choices should be left up to the students,” said Scott’s spokesman John Tupps.
The University of Florida already mandates heath insurance, and they say it has not effected their enrollment numbers. 
The financial committee has not voted on this topic yet, needing additional time to weigh the pros and the cons. Once a decision is made, the Board of Trustees will review it and make the final decision.



A prescribed burn scheduled at UCF for Wednesday, April 9, has been canceled due to weather conditions.
 Prescribed burns are conducted regularly to remove dead, decaying or low-lying plants on the forest floor. The process helps maintain healthy ecosystems and prevent unplanned fires.
UCF’s prescribed burn team was preparing to burn unit 8 of the UCF Arboretum, according to a UCF Landscaping and Natural Resources website. 
Since 2005 when UCF’s Prescribed Burn Plan was developed, there have been 6 wildfires on campus totaling 33.43 acres. The UCF Certified Burn Crew, who conducts prescribed burns on campus, is also responsible for wildfire response. From 2005 through 2010, UCF has successfully burned 84 acres (35% of burnable lands) in the campus natural areas, and mechanically treated 76 acres as wildfire mitigation. 
Information about UCF’s next prescribed burn attempt was not immediately available. 



