The medical marijuana petition drive has officially reached the number of signatures to make the 2014 ballot, pending Supreme Court approval.
Elections supervisors certified that the medical marijuana petition reached 710,508 signatures more than the 683,149 needed for it to reach the ballot.
The Supreme Court has not yet ruled on Pam Bondi’s challenge of the bill summary, which argues that the language in the 74-word summary will mislead voters into allowing a widespread use of marijuana in Florida.
KnightNews.com interviewed attorney John Morgan, one of the biggest supporters of the medical marijuana petition to get his views on why he believes medical marijuana in Florida would be beneficial:

 



UCF graduate Jennifer Kesse has been missing for 8 years as of Jan. 24, 2014.
Kesse went missing on Jan. 24, 2006 when the Kesse family received a phone call that their daughter did not report to work and did not call in sick, something co-workers said was completely out of character. 
The Kesse family called the Orlando police and by 4 p.m. that day, a full-scale hunt was on to find Jennifer Kesse. Since that day, Jennifer Kesse has not been heard from, seen and there have been no major leads aside from a surveillance video of an unidentified person parking Kesse’s car.

In the video, the unknown person can be seen parking the car and waiting in the car before exiting the vehicle and walking away. There have been over 1,400 leads for the suspect, but none leading to help finding Jennifer Kesse.
Jennifer Kesse was 5 feet 8 and 135 pounds. She had shoulder-length sandy blonde hair and green eyes. Anyone with information or who would like to donate to search efforts may do so at Findjenniferkesse.com. Tipsters may also call the crime line anonymously at 800-423-8477. 



Raises for faculty members at the University of Central Florida have been approved. 
On January 22, the UCF Faculty Union, United Faculty of Florida, and the Board of Trustees reached a settlement of a 2% raise for all faculty. 
“Thank you to everyone who has supported our campaign to secure a raise for the bargaining unit of “more than 1%,” a statement from the Faculty Union said.
On Thursday, the Board of Trustees voted to ratify the agreement — meaning across-the-board raises for all UCF faculty.



