KnightNews.com has high quality videos for every group from Zeta Lip Sync 2014!
We will begin uploading videos soon after the event. Continue to check back as videos upload for your group!

Sponsored Advertisement (Story Continues Below)
Zeta Tau Alpha & Lambda Chi

Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get UCF Greek News like this on your feeds!
Follow @UCFKnightNews
Zeta Tau Alpha & Lambda Chi | Tau Kappa Epsilon | Delta Upsilon | Pi Beta Phi | Sigma Nu | Alpha Tau Omega | Theta Chi | Delta Zeta | Kappa Delta | Rukus | Phi Gamma Delta | Delta Delta Delta | Delta Sigma Phi | Phi Delta Theta | Kappa Alpha Theta | Pi Kappa Phi | Gamma Phi Beta | Sigma Chi | Alpha Epsilon Phi | Sigma Pi | Alpha Delta Pi | Beta Theta Pi



The Orange County Sheriffs Office has released a person of interest in the Sterling armed robbery that occurred on Oct. 1.
The person of interest is described as a 5’7″ black male with a muscular build in his early 20’s. This person was captured on video coming out of the stairwell shortly after the incident occurred.
On Wednesday morning, a resident of Sterling was robbed inside the apartment complex, which is located across the street from UCF main campus on Alafaya Trail. The victim was unharmed.
OSCO is still investigating the case.
Anyone with information regarding this incident or the identity of the person is asked to contact Crimeline at 1-800-423-8477.



The Knights kick off conference play under the national spotlight Thursday at 7 p.m. on ESPN against the Houston Cougars.
Although UCF fans in Orlando won’t be able to see the action live, plenty of places in the UCF-area are holding watch parties for the game.
UCF Leisure Pool: The UCF Recreation and Wellness Center along with UCF Athletics are hosting “Dive-In Football” for the game. UCF students will be able to watch the Houston game on large inflatable projector in the Leisure Pool.  Pizza and limited edition shirts for the first 100 students through the gate will be provided. Any UCF student can attend as long as they have a valid student ID. 
Knight Library: Popular local UCF-bar Knight Library is opening up early with free cover for the action. Clothing company Chubbies will be there giving away free merchandise. Following the game, the bar is having their usual free call Thursday special with DJ ZEE & DJ Dizzy D in house.
Knight’s Pub:  Knight’s Pub is opening up at 6 p.m. for the game with free cover all night. Following the game, the usual Thursday special of dollar drafts, $2 drinks and $2 bottled beer will be available.
Saddle Up: Saddle Up in downtown Orlando is also hosting a watch party for the game. The bar will be offering dollar drafts, $2 bottled beers and $3 drinks for the AAC match-up.



UCF volleyball will be playing Temple and Connecticut for a pair of conference matches this Friday and Sunday in their own territory at The Venue at UCF.
The Knights (9-5, 2-0 AAC) opened the American Athletic Conference season on the road with major wins against SMU and Tulsa last weekend. UCF took the win over Tulsa with a 3-1 (25-23, 19-25, 25-20, 25-17) victory. The Knights take their win to a new record for defeating both programs for the first time on the road in the same season.
Up first, UCF will take on the Temple Owls (10-4, 1-1 AAC) Friday, October 3 at 7:00 p.m. ET. It won’t be an easy task for the Knights, as Temple is coming into this matchup with a strong defensive unit and a team that comes into the competition aggressively. UCF will then go on to play UConn (9-4, 2-0, AAC) early Sunday afternoon at 2:30 p.m. ET.
The Knight’s will face tough competition in these weekends’ match-ups. Temple swept ECU for their first American conference wins last week by scores of 25-19, 25-22 and 25-13, not once allowing their opponents to tie the score throughout the match. The Owls brought the heat in the third set, with 14 kills and zero errors for a hitting percentage of .519. UCF will need to stay aggressive and attack opponents throughout the entire match this Friday if they plan on coming out with the win.
UCF can also expect to give it their all this weekend to take the title from UConn, but the Huskies won’t give it up too easily. UConn will be searching for its third-straight American Athletic Conference win after downing Temple and East Carolina in last weeks’ match-ups. Last season, UCF brought home the win against UConn, 3-1, on Nov. 10 with a killer performance from the Knights offensive and defensive teams.
Despite the tough competition UCF faces in this weekends challenges, the Knights still pose a huge threat with great players leading the team. Sophomore outside hitter, Jale Harvey led the Knights with 17 kills while hitting .500 in the match against Tulsa. Junior Dana Faught racked up 28 assists, bringing out true power to the teams momentum. Senior Libero Jade Hayes recorded a match-high 19 digs and served up an ace as Kaye-Alese Green trailed with 7 blocks.
UCF will come into this Friday’s game with 62 kills, 60 assists, 54 digs, and 12-5 blocks. The Knights finished last weekends’ matches with a .371 hitting percentage as a team and plan on bringing that heat back into their home territory, this Friday night against Temple, for some major throw downs.



