Police are investigating what is an apparent case of criminal mischief that happened at the Kappa Sigma fraternity house on UCF campus.
Windshield wipers lifted on every car, stolen fraternity letters, six lawn chairs, bicycle tires, two kiddie pools and a window screen all slashed was what police found when they received a call from the Kappa Sigma house about someone vandalizing their property.
On the night of July 12, the police report says two males vandalized property at the Kappa Sigma house. On July 14 it was reported to police who were dispatched to the house and noticed the damage–which they estimate is around $2,270 Sponsored Advertisement – Story Continues Below
A Kappa Sigma representative told police that criminal mischief also occurred at the Alpha Tau Omega house, where all the windshield wipers also were lifted up off the cars. Since no police report was filed at Alpha Tau Omega, there was no investigation.
When KnightNews.com originally requested the police report, the report was almost entirely blacked out. After formally objecting and asking for a legal explanation, UCF decided to release the un-redacted report.
“In speaking with the detective on the case, he determined that providing additional details of the incident to the public would be helpful in solving the case,” UCF Spokesman Chad Binette said.

The representative for the Kappa Sigma fraternity told police they would like to prosecute if the unknown subject is found.
Kappa Sigma does not have surveillance cameras outside their house. People with knowledge or tips about the crime are urged to call UCF Police at 407-823-5555.



UCF Health Services was ranked the no. 2 “Best Health Services” university in the nation by the Princeton Review’s annual college rankings.
The survey included 130,000 students from 379 different colleges in Princeton’s “The Best 379 Colleges”, which included a question on their satisfaction with the campus health services.
Sponsored Advertisement – Story Continues Below
“UCF Health Services has grown tremendously over the 50 years that we have been in operation,” said Michael Deichen, UCF Health Services director. “We pride ourselves on continually improving through research and understanding our patients’ needs so that we can be their healthcare resource of choice.”
UCF’s health care center includes a pharmacy, lab and radiology services all in one location on campus.
Currently, UCF health services is in the early stages of an expansion project. The 12,000-square foot expansion, which is expected to be complete by fall 2015, will add space for international student health, a travel health clinic, and programming space for alcohol and other drug-intervention services.



