A video apparently released by ISIS appears to show the beheading of U.S. journalist James Foley and threaten the life of another American that is presumed to be a former UCF student.
In the video posted on Tuesday, the man believed to be Steven Sotloff is a former UCF student who grew up in Miami, according to the Miami New Times. In the video, ISIS is threatening to take his life next depending on decisions by Obama.
Even though the identity of the man in the video hasn’t been confirmed, UCF spokesperson Zenaida Gonzalez Kotala said that UCF records show a Steven Sotloff enrolled at UCF between Fall 2002 and Fall 2004 and left the university in December 2004 as a Journalism pending major. 
“The life of this American citizen, Obama, depends on your next decision,” the man says.
The man in the video holding a knife threatens to kill Sotloff unless Obama calls off American airstrikes against ISIS.
“Steven Sotloff was kidnapped near Aleppo on August 4th 2013. Family been following advice not to go public – believed held in Raqqa. #Syria,” Williams tweeted.
On Sotloff’s unverified Twitter account, he was last active on August 3, the day before being kidnapped.
[myrelposts-related title=”More Knight Held Hostage Special Coverage:“]



An Orlando Police officer accidentally shot and killed an innocent woman in a downtown Orlando bar on Tuesday morning, Orlando Police Chief John Mina said during a press conference.
It happened at Vixen nightclub on Pine Street and Orange Avenue.
Officers first responded to a call early Tuesday morning that a man fired a gun inside the bar. When police arrived, an officer got in an altercation with a man, which resulted in fired shots.
One police officer was struck, but the injuries are not considered life-threatening. The suspect was also injured in the confrontation and was transported to the hospital in critical condition.
It is not clear what caused the confrontation to occur.
The Florida Department of Law Enforcement is investigating. The officer involved in the shooting is currently on administrative leave pending the outcome of the investigation. 
Click next page, below, to read the OPD chief’s full statement. 



On Monday, USF head coach Willie Taggart told reporters that instead of having player names on the back of their football jerseys it would instead say “THE TEAM” on every jersey.
However, a USF spokesman confirmed to the Tampa Bay Times on Tuesday that placing “THE TEAM” on the back of the jerseys violates NCAA Rule 1-4-5. The USF football team will instead join UCF in going without player names on their jerseys in 2014.
The team did not get NCAA approval before coach Willie Taggart confirmed that USF would be wearing the jerseys.
Check out a photo of the proposed USF uniforms below, courtesy of ESPN’s Brett McMurphy.
USF @CoachTaggart going w/”The Team” on back of Bulls’ jerseys this year pic.twitter.com/5SmMz6c1pK
— Brett McMurphy (@McMurphyESPN) August 18, 2014
 



