Friday marked the fifth day of orientations for the new UCF students.
KnightNews.com was there to talk to freshmens’ parents, ask students about their orientation experience and even help a student who wanted his O-teamer’s jacket.
As always, hilarity ensued when Justin Levy interviewed the freshman.

Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get UCF News like this on your feeds!



Former UCF football and current NFL players Latavius Murray, Josh Robinson and Kemal Ishmael are hosting a charity bowling event to benefit the Golden Knights Club.
The event will take place on June 21 at Boardwalk Bowling in Orlando from 6 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. Registration is $35 per bowler or $150 per lane for up to five bowlers. VIP lanes can also be bought for $225, which will include a former UCF player bowling on the lane for four frames.
The proceeds, benefiting the Golden Knights Club, will help provide scholarship opportunities for young people looking to pursue the student-athlete experience at UCF.
Entry into the event will include three games of bowling, event shirt, event goody bag, one pizza per lane and a pitcher of soda.
The event is coordinated by Strikes for Kids, a nonprofit organization that helps professional athletes benefit the youth organizations in their community.
For more information on the event click here.



Police have arrested a man and woman for the armed robbery of a UCF-area Hess gas station located on University Boulevard near Rouse Road, according to News 13.
The suspect, Joshua Bennett, 29, entered the Hess gas station on Saturday wielding a fireman and demanded cash from the store attendant, law enforcement told News 13. His accomplice, Rachel Councell, was driving the getaway car as Bennett fled the store with $271, deputies told News 13.
Law Enforcement told News 13 that the incident happened with multiple witnesses in the store, who helped deputies provide accurate descriptions to deputies of the alleged robbers and their vehicle. Deputies caught the duo a couple hours later, roughly 500 yards away from the Hess at Crestwood Suites. 
Nobody was injured in the robbery. 



