Imagine if Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer blacked out who was getting paid what from the city budget before releasing it to the public — keeping how much of your money certain people make private, even though it is still considered a “public record.”
That’s exactly the situation at the University of Central Florida, which is hiding names from public records involving nearly $20 million in state funds, by claiming the budgetary documents are confidential “education records.”
“The identity would have been removed because this is linked up to non-directory information about the student, the non-directory information being the salary,” said UCF attorney Youndy Cook, when referencing salaries paid to students by student government, with a nearly 20 million dollar pool of state money.
If Mayor Dyer ever hid that kind of information from the public, chances are the Orlando Sentinel would sue to enforce the public’s right to oversee its government.
So after UCF blacked out names showing who was spending what from an $18.9 million budget of public funds — as well as who was being paid — KnightNews.com filed a lawsuit to fight for the public’s right to know.
One year later, with one hour left in trial set for Wednesday at 2:15 p.m., the public’s right to know will lie in the hands of Circuit Court Judge Patricia Doherty.
THE DEVIL IS IN THE DETAILS
The conflict comes down to each sides’ definition of an “education record.”
Florida Law makes education records confidential by adopting the definition from a federal privacy law, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, known as FERPA.
FERPA defines an education record as a record that directly relates to a student and is maintained by an educational institution.
UCF holds that same definition, and keeps it as broad as possible so it can cover almost any record containing a student name, no matter how public that record can be considered.
On the other hand, KnightNews.com believes that the definition of a confidential educational record is limited and includes things of a more private nature such as SAT scores and academic transcripts.
Because the definition of an education record is ambiguous and up to interpretation, discrepancies easily arise. KnightNews.com discovered another example of this discrepancy after asking UCF for some examples of what it considers an education record, including the case of parking tickets.
“As to the question for parking, yes, a parking ticket issued to a student directly relates to the student and is maintained by the institution,” UCF said. “Therefore, it is an obvious education record.”
KnightNews.com shared UCF’s statement with attorney Frank LoMonte, executive director of the Student Press Law Center, who strongly disagreed.
“This is a ridiculous position,” LoMonte said. “Judges in Maryland and North Carolina have ruled that parking tickets are not FERPA records because they have nothing to do with a student’s role as a student. A 50-year-old visitor can get a parking ticket just as a 20-year-old student can, so incurring a parking ticket has nothing to do with being a student.”
He also pointed out the risk of UCF taking such a position.
“The university’s position is frivolous and without legal grounding. A lawyer who advanced that position in court in the face of zero legal support and several court rulings to the contrary would be in danger of being sanctioned,” LoMonte said. “You have to wonder what UCF must know is in those parking tickets. In Maryland, the university was concealing a ticket-fixing scandal within the athletic department. Inquiring minds would wonder what UCF believes those parking tickets will show if they are disclosed, as the law requires.”
U.S. SUPREME COURT SHEDS LIGHT ON FERPA
Relying on the U.S. Supreme Court case Owasso v. Falvo, KnightNews.com argued in a court filing that “records maintained or created by student governments are not ‘education records’ covered by FERPA. They do not become part of a student’s institutional record and do not reflect student grades or instances of student discipline. Rather, the redactions are simply of information that identifies the names of individuals elected by the public to allocate an $18.9 million budget of public funds.”
KnightNews.com attorney Justin Hemlepp also underlined the importance the state of Florida puts on the public’s right to know.
“UCF’s assertion that these individuals can control public funds in secrecy by preventing the public from knowing who they are is foreign to Florida law and flies in the face of the common sense reality that these people put their names out there while electioneering and on the ballot. Upon winning an election, their identities do not thereafter become secret,” Hemlepp wrote in a recent court filing.
The end of the trial Wednesday will also mark the public announcement of a new UCF student body president and vice president, and should KnightNews.com win, their identities will stay public once they start spending your money.



Imagine it’s 8 a.m. on Memory Mall and you’re just starting off your tailgate for another early noon Knight’s football game. You have your tent set up and the beer in the cooler, but when you reach through the ice for a can, you realize it’s still lukewarm temperature and you don’t want to wait for hours for the beer to cool off – enter the Spin Chill.
By using the handy Spin Chill device in your cooler of ice, your lukewarm beer will be ice cold in less than a minute. The innovative product hooks onto the top of the can or bottle and spins it around numerous times with the press of a button. Despite what you may think, this doesn’t cause any foam or explosion upon opening, and you’re ready to start tailgating in minutes.
Young inventors and entrepreneurs of Spin Chill, Trevor Abbott and Ty Parker, came up with the idea in the summer of 2013 at a hack-a-thon in Georgia. Since their initial prototype, they have been able to raise funding from a Kickstarter campaign and are now selling and shipping out of Gainesville, Fla.
Parker, who is a recent graduate of the University of Florida with a mechanical engineering degree, left his job with a fast moving company and a steady paycheck in order to take Spin Chill to the next level.
“Going from being able to buy a house to having to buy and sell used textbooks to pay rent adds a lot of stress and uncertainty. I try to keep a positive attitude about it and realize that I am learning much more than I would in a regular job,” said Parker.
Abbott, who is still currently studying mechanical engineering at the University of Florida, loves seeing customers enjoy their product.
“The best part of the journey has been seeing the reactions we get from customers. We have had the opportunity to meet a lot of awesome people along the way and we continue to grow our network,” said Abbott.
Senior, Sean Crane, is one of those happy customers.
“When I first saw it, I thought it was a great idea. It really caters to college students and the tailgating atmosphere,” said Crane.
Parker loves seeing customer’s reactions too, but the most rewarding part of their journey so far has been the opportunity to learn from their experiences.
“I was never a big advocate on going to class or trying to learn by listening to a professor, and I try to live my life the same way: by figuring things out on my own,” said Parker. “I don’t mean that I don’t listen to advice, I just mean that I learn from trying,”
When it comes to having an idea and making it happen, Parker encourages taking a leap and chasing your dream while you’re still in college.
“If you are thinking about starting a company, the best time is now, before you’ve acquired a bunch of bills or an expensive lifestyle. It’s easy to look at a large, successful business and wonder how you could ever create something that complex, but all those companies started with one or two people with a simple idea,” said Parker.
For the future, Parker hopes that Spin Chill will become so successful that people won’t be able to remember what life was like before it came along, and Abbott agrees.
“We would love to spread the fun and excitement we’ve had with Spin Chill to others and keep making products that people can enjoy and relax, or ‘chill’ with,” said Abbott.
Even though the Spin Chill is still in its early stages, it’s sure to be a tailgating staple for future years to come. Spin Chills can be purchased at www.spinchill.com.



Animated films have always struggled to be taken seriously as a medium capable of providing viewers with meaningful and thought provoking work. 
Their target audience was, long ago, established as children and since then it has become increasingly rare to find an animated movie that could boast more than an orgy of bright colors. The Wind Rises, however, is one of the strongest written and most challenging films I have seen in quite some time, that just happens to be animated. It is filled to the brim with motifs, symbolism and rich themes while delivering a mature story. It is not a film I would recommend to everyone, but is one that I wish everyone would see.
The film follows Jiro Horikoshi, a Japanese engineer who wants nothing more than to create beautiful planes which can be appreciated for the art in their design. Unfortunately, Jiro’s story takes place during World War II and he struggles, throughout the entire film, with the idea that his creations will be used to cause suffering. The conflict between an artist and how their art might be exploited, and used, is one of the strongest motifs in the film. The direct and writer, Hayao Miyazaki, originally announced this would be his last movie. Knowing this, you can tell much of the writing was influenced by his view an an artist reflecting on his life and how he spent it. While the plot itself may seem dull or uninteresting, it is the way Miyazaki is able to cause you to sympathize with the protagonist by creating parallels between his philosophical struggles and those of any ordinary person that make this film so astounding.
Everything in the movie is handled with this same level of maturity, from dream sequences and Jiro’s romantic relationship to the beautiful, hand drawn animation which showcases both sequences of destruction and tranquility. Very few films are able to match the quality The Wind Rises provides, let alone animated ones, and while it may not be entertaining enough for some, those willing to give it a chance will not be disappointed.
The Wind Rises is currently playing in select theaters.



Students at UCF will get to enjoy free food, drink and t-shirts on Monday when voting for SGA Presidential Candidates officially begins. 
The Senate passed bill 46-79, but the bill was not signed in time by SGA President Melissa Westbrook and Dr. Ehasz before the start of candidate declaration. This means that the bill will not go into effect until Senate elections if signed by Dr. Ehasz and Westbrook.
The bill bans presidential candidates from providing students with food, drink and prizes during the candidate voting process. Unless these items are approved by the election commission they would be considered a bribe. Candidates would only be allowed to provide students with items for the sole purpose of education, such as pamphlets and stickers.
Voting for SGA President begins on Monday and will run through Wednesday. 



