UCF Kappa Sigma had their re-hearing on Tuesday following an alleged downtown jumping of a member of Lambda Chi Alpha.
Technical difficulties with the video recording of the first hearing was cited by UCF as its reason to not accept the hearing officer’s finding of “in-violation” or “not in-violation” and instead “remand the case for rehearing”.
We have obtained the report of the first hearing, where the original hearing found Kappa Sigma in-violation of harmful behavior 4C, disruptive conduct 3A and not in-violation of disruptive conduct 3D and harmful behavior 4A and 4G.
The hearing officer, Stacey Malaret, recommended disciplinary probation through the end of December, 2015, with the limitation of having only dry social events until August, 2015.
It is unclear if Malaret also presided over the re-hearing.
We asked UCF for the outcome of Tuesday’s hearing, but did not receive a response. Keep checking back to KnightNews.com for an update when we learn Kappa Sigma’s outcome.



UCF Knight-Thon will be hosting a partial proceeds at Tijuana Flats tomorrow, Wednesday October 29 from 11 a.m-1 p.m and from 5 p.m.-close. 
Knight-Thon is UCF’s Dance Marathon in which various student organizations raise funds throughout the year and then stand for 20 hours. According to their website, “Knight-Thon is thousands of UCF students standing for a cause, standing to help their community, standing to help local kids at local hospitals.”
10% of the purchases with a flyer will go towards the UCF Dance Marathon. A flyer is needed for the partial proceeds and members of Knight-Thon will be handing them out at the event. If you don’t get a flyer, make sure to tell your cashier you’re there for the partial proceeds.
Everyone is encouraged to come dressed in a Halloween costume. If you are a part of Greek life, points will be given towards your team if you come in costume.
Knight-Thon raises money to benefit the Greater Orlando Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals.
This school year, Knight-Thon will be held on March 28th, 2015 at the CFE arena.
The goal set is to raise $500,000 dollars for the kids.
“The UCF Dance Marathon raises dollar by dollar though bucketing days and partial proceeds. Stop by, grab a burrito or a taco, and help Knight-Thon reach our goal,” said Brendan Greenwell, Development Director of Knight-Thon.
For more information on this event, visit the Facebook event page.
For more information on Knight-Thon, like them on Facebook or visit their official website.



Electronic dance music, or EDM, is a very popular music genre, especially in the UCF community. Brett Painter, a 21-year old senior studying information technology, has always loved music, especially EDM. He’s been a DJ under the name Steve French for years and has quite a large following.
“I’ve loved music since a young age. When I moved my songwriting platform from physical instruments to a MacBook, my natural love for music took hold,” said Painter. “When I first made the transition from a guitar to turntables, I never looked back.”
Painter produces and mixes under the name Steve French. He plays local clubs around Orlando and enters competitions when he can. He also plays at pool parties at University House and Sterling during the summer seasons.
“I’m part of every competition around Orlando, Discovery Project being the biggest one,” said Painter.
Jasper Hellweg is Steve French’s manager and is the founder of Electric Mix Music.
“Steve French is incredibly creative, his sound is complex and melodic, and he is such a hard worker I would almost call him a perfectionist,” said Hellweg. [sam_ad id=”4″ name=”ATO” codes=”true”]

Hellweg knows that people will like Painter’s music if they hear it.
“I work with Painter because I believe in him as an artist. He has a clear vision of how he wants to differentiate himself and he works really hard to get there. I believe that the Steve French brand will keep growing to the point of major festival status,” said Hellweg.
Painter has a large following on social media platforms, such as Twitter.
“Our mission is to reach fans all over the country, and later across the world. His strongest social media platform right now is Twitter, with his @DJSteveFrench handle having over 16,500 followers,” said Hellweg.
Painter hopes to gain even more of a following at UCF.
“I’ve spun on campus and have played live at local clubs. I produce my own music, in addition to being a DJ, and that’s the only reason I can enter this competition,” said Painter. “Other DJ’s don’t make their own music, and the ones that do don’t go to UCF. So I have a unique opportunity to be the one people can root for.”
Gabby Winkler is an 18-year old freshman studying nursing and is a true fan of the DJ Steve French.
“I’ve been a fan of Steve French for almost two years. We initially met through Twitter, and we clicked right away because he saw the real appreciation and love I have for Electronic Music,” explained Winkler.
Winkler thinks Painter has the whole EDM music thing down and then some.
“Steve French is different because he puts so much love into his music. He truly does care about every single piece he makes and every mix he creates. He always wants to venture out and try new things and become his true self,” said Winkler.
Winkler said the experience seeing Steve French play live was like no other.
“I’ve seen him play at Mad Hatters once before. The energy was very high and very lively, to say the least. It was nice seeing how energized the people were when he was dropping his tracks,” said Winkler.
Painter will continue to produce and DJ in the local area. He hopes to expand his brand and music even more over time. For more information on Steve French, check him out on Twitter, Vine, Instagram, and Facebook, @DJSteveFrench. To hear some of his music, go to http://www.soundcloud.com/DJSteveFrench/.



The UCF basketball team has received a commitment from 7-foot-6 Tacko Fall, the tallest high school basketball player in the nation.
Fall, a three-star recruit on Rivals, committed to UCF over schools such as Georgetown, Georgia Tech and Purdue.

Fall plays basketball in Tavares, Fla. at Liberty Christian Prep. He is still new to basketball, as he only started playing in 2012, according to Rivals.
Fall joins an impressive recruiting class for the Knights’ basketball team, UCF has already landed commitments from three-star recruit Chad Brown and three-star Chance McSpadden.



The most important thing to remember this week as Halloween approaches: be smart, be safe, and don’t drive drunk.
In an effort to keep drunk drivers off the road, the University of Central Florida Police Department will be conducting an intensified wave of DUI enforcement this week tied with Halloween. Additional officers will be out on patrol leading up to the holiday in an effort to ensure the safety of the community. 
“If students’ Halloween plans involve drinking, we want them to do so responsibly, safely and legally,” UCF spokesperson Courtney Gilmartin said. “Don’t leave getting home safely to chance. Elect someone whom you trust to stay sober as your designated driver, or plan on taking a cab.”
A DUI can have a profound effect on your record and wallet. Not only can drunk driving harm or kill others, a DUI is a criminal offense and a violation of UCF’s Golden Rule. It can also cost thousands of dollars on court costs and fines.
“Ultimately, our goal with DUI enforcement is to keep drunk drivers off the road and prevent people from getting hurt. We hope that extra officers out on the street serves as a reminder to think before you drink and to never get behind the wheel if you’re impaired,” Gilmartin said.
Students have a variety of options to choose from regarding transportation around UCF. Students can pick up a free Safe Ride voucher which provides a free cab ride home up to $35, available once every 60 days. Other options include Uber, 10/10 Taxi and of course, a designated driver. 



