Parking is one thing that most if not all students can agree is one of the most annoying parts of going to school. Garages and lots are always packed and chances of finding an open spot are slim to none; but the Libra parking garage is usually not that full. KnightNews.com found out why students don’t use this garage as much as others.
The Libra parking garage is located on Libra Drive right in between housing communities Libra and Academic Village. It is a D parking lot meaning that students, residents and visitors can park there. It is an nearby location for some on-campus residents, but many on and off-campus students agree it is not useful for them.
This garage is the farthest garage to campus and is also far from many classroom buildings. It is close to the Recreation and Wellness Center but students who go the gym would rather park in Parking lot B or Parking garage A.
“I’d much rather park anywhere else than Libra garage because it’s so far. It’s honestly last resort parking,” said sophomore Cody Gaitley.
Libra Garage offers 1,037 parking spots in a 6-story, 345,000 square feet lot and is full of open spots for students and visitors to park in. UCF has 18,374 parking spaces overall in 10 different garages and nearly 32 lots.
“The Libra garage is mixed-use, which means that it’s open to all students, faculty and staff. It’s also an overflow location for football game day parking operations,” said Courtney Gilmartin, the Public Information Officer from UCF News & Information.
There are many complaints from students about its location. They said they would have wanted it to be inside of the school rather than on Libra Drive.
“This garage was built with student housing proximity in mind. In addition, Libra’s location helps to minimize the number of vehicles on the central core of Gemini Blvd. For example, a lot of the vehicles in the Libra garage come in and out through Libra Drive, which helps to reduce traffic on Gemini Blvd,” Gilmartin said.
Brittany Smith, an Academic Village resident is just thankful that UCF has provided more parking.
“Parking is horrendous at UCF so any parking is really helpful,” Smith said.
UCF is a growing campus and its population is also progressing which is why more garages have been added over the years.
“UCF’s campus is a series of concentric circles, and most of our classroom buildings are located in the inner circles. Garages are located on the outer circles to keep traffic flowing. So if you’re coming to UCF, you will likely have to park in the outside circles and walk in to your destination,” said Gilmartin. “UCF, like many other places, has peak times for campus activity (10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Monday-Thursday), so the garage nearest to your class might not be your best option for parking during those times. You should get to campus early and allot extra time for walking.”
Austin Locke, a UCF sophomore, lived nearby the Libra garage during the summer term, and said that he enjoys this garage because it is the best one with good lighting at night.
“For students who live off campus, it’s probably a last option,” said Austin Locke. “I’d get here early and try to find a spot elsewhere even though it’s really risky. I’d rather be driving around other garages until I find a spot.”



Free food is always an appealing message to students. Most of the time, that involves unhealthy options, but UCF is changing that by bringing in vertical gardens around campus which will provide free fruits and vegetables to students.
These organic vertical gardens are a hydroponic garden system called Tower Garden by Juice Plus+®. They have been brought to campus as a chance for students to have more access to fruits and vegetables while maintaining a healthy lifestyle.
These gardens are funded by Student Government Association in collaboration with Student Union, Wellness and Health Promotion Services, Health Services and Arboretum.
“Our goal is to not only bring more fresh fruits and vegetables, but also provide students with an opportunity to learn where their food comes from and hopefully inspiring them to incorporate more produce into their diets and even learn to grow their own food,” said Maureen Hawkins, associate director of Wellness & Health Promotion Services.
She said that after graduation, many students will move to an urban region. They will not have easy access to healthy food as often but can learn to have this option.
Besides providing free produce, it is also teaching students to help with environmental wellness no matter what type of environment surrounds them.
Hawkins said they will be here indefinitely.
Currently, these towers are growing produce such as lettuce, swiss chard, kale, garlic chives, cilantro, garlic chives, basil and lavender. Future towers are planned to grow lettuce, tomatoes, cucumbers, melon, herbs, green beans, squash and collard greens. They can grow produce which are not trees or root vegetables.
Wellness and Health Promotion Services will announce Harvest Days for students to have a chance of harvesting the produce themselves.
There are currently three, one on each floor of the student union. The Student Union is the first location they have been set up. There are three other locations in which the organizations behind them plan to have them in.



Looks like the NFL may not have totally screwed up.
UCF’s Victim Services held its seventh annual Light Up the Night on Monday at 6 p.m. The case of former Ravens running back Ray Rice’s suspension from the NFL for a domestic violence incident was praised for bringing more attention to the issue of domestic violence.
“I’m actually grateful to the NFL for raising awareness through their incompetence and unprofessional handling of this issue. So, thank you Roger Goodell and Ray Rice,” UCF Deputy Chief Carl Metzger said.
The number of dating violence cases on campus reported in 2013 was 20, according to the annual security and fire safety guide courtesy of UCF spokeswoman, Courtney Gilmartin. Two incidents of domestic violence and six incidents of dating violence were reported to UCFPD in September.
Abuse is not just physical. Many times the verbal abuse individuals live through makes them self-destruct and fall into depression. Rebecca Aust, UCF grad and domestic violence survivor, still feels the repercussions today.
“I lost three years of my life, compared to most people applying to grad school, I’m a little behind,” Aust said.
For Emily Whitlock, a survivor of domestic violence, living in an abusive relationship cost her close to her life.
“My grades suffered dearly, and I failed every class of that semester,” Whitlock said of her being placed on academic probation. “Love shouldn’t hurt, and neither should you. You are all survivors.”
Today Whitlock is a successful student working toward a bachelor’s degree in psychology and using her artistic talent to affect social change through a line of anklets and jewelry she has created.
From the students who are survivors of domestic violence to UCFPD’s deputy chiefs, to Seminole County’s Sgt. Shannon Seiple, they all agree on one thing. Domestic violence is a growing issue on college campuses and one that can be prevented starting with the students. Seiple said that usually it is easier for an individual to confide in their friends than to an officer, but that requires students to make it their business and take further action to help a friend out.
“It’s [domestic violence] an epidemic that doesn’t discriminate against race, gender, economic status or education status,” Seiple said. “If you see something, if you hear something, if you even suspect something, please say something.”
Times have changed regarding domestic violence. Director of Outreach Services at Help Now of Osceola, Inc., Evelyn Herrera Jackson, runs a 52-bed shelter that victims of domestic violence who are in imminent danger may use to get back on their feet. Jackson voiced her concerns that technology may not always be an advantage. It can create an added barrier to a topic that many victims already struggle to voice and delay getting help.
“Cellphones are a good resource, but can also be a hindrance. We don’t communicate as often as we used to before face to face,” Jackson said.
This issue is no longer hiding in the back burner; it is back in the forefront, as it should be since every nine seconds a woman is victimized as a result of relationship violence. Seiple brought this home when she asked attendees to look around the room, and said that one in four women will experience domestic violence in their lifetime. At a school of over 60,000 students, the odds are not in their favor. At this rate 7,500 women will experience domestic violence. Metzger emphasized the importance of speaking up if one sees something suspicious.
UCFPD’s Deputy Chief Brett Meade gave hope to students who have been affected by domestic violence.
“As a member of the UCF family, you have a competent police department that will investigate these cases and you have one of the best victim services in the country,” Meade said.
For the remainder of the month, as it is Domestic Violence Awareness Month, students will have the opportunity to decorate a T-shirt and hang it up in the Student Union as part of the Clothesline Project which will serve as a testimony to victims of domestic violence.



