Salsa 2 go no more.
The popular grab and go salsa spot at the UCF Reflection Pond has officially closed its doors as of Halloween, ending years of service to students. 
A notice was posted at the empty restaurant:
“Dear Salsa 2 go customers, our last day of operations will be on October 31, 2014. We thank you for your patronage these past years. Salsa 2 go Management.”
Salsa 2 go was founded in 2006 by Maryann Kilgallon in Orlando, according to their website. The location served a variety of Tex-Mex favorites, including tacos, burritos and of course, chips and salsa.
Knight News is working to find out what will replace the grab and go restaurant. 



UCF Lambda Chi Alpha has been placed on disciplinary probation through the spring 2016 term after being found in-violation on multiple charges stemming from an incident that occurred at Lake Claire, according to UCF records.
The chapter may not host social activities for the rest of fall 2014, and must be alcohol-free during the spring 2015, summer 2015 and fall 2015 terms. The fraternity must also host an alumni/brotherhood retreat facilitated by the International Headquarters to determine the status of each individual member going forward by May, 2015.
During the Bethune-Cookman tailgate on Sept. 20, Nathan Vink, assistant director of UCF’s Outdoor Adventure, witnessed a fist fight between two members of Lambda Chi Alpha at the Little Econ pavilion at Lake Claire that was quickly broken up by police.
Following that, Vink noticed a Lambda Chi Alpha member leaving the Lake Claire boat house and found the doors open, lights on and what appeared to be urine in the corner. 
According to Vink’s report, following the tailgate, the area was a “complete mess” and custodial members were frustrated with the state of the area. After police officers threatened to cite anyone for leaving a beer can on the ground, the fraternity cleaned up and left the pavilion in a satisfactory state, according to Vink’s report.
Lambda Chi Alpha was found in-violation of disruptive conduct, harmful behavior and multiple counts of alcohol related misconduct due to the incident.



