Former President of the United States Bill Clinton is hosting an election rally at UCF for former Fla. Governor Charlie Crist on Monday.
The Nov. 3 event will be at 7:30 p.m. at the Venue on UCF main campus. 
The event will be open to the public, who are allowed to start filing into the Venue at 5:30 p.m.
KnightNews.com will update with more details as we learn them. 



Students came dressed in their Halloween costumes for the Second Annual Spooky Knight 5K run!
Check out photos from the event:
























































































12► 

Things will be getting a bit scary this Thursday night, as UCF hosts the Second Annual Spooky Knight 5K run, October 30 at 6:30 p.m. to support the UCF Live United Campaign. This event is held in conjunction with the United Way, which provides charity for education, healthy families, childhood development, financial stability, dental care, and to combat hunger and homelessness.
The event will be held at the Ferrell Commons on the UCF campus. The 5K will be open to all students, faculty, staff and the general community to come together in raising money for the UCF Live United Campaign. Proceeds from the event will benefit the Central Florida Coalition for the Homeless as part of the UCF Live United Campaign. The University has set a fundraising goal of $150,000 for our neighbors in need.

Pre-race activities will start an hour before the race. Early bird registration will be $20 dollars for students with IDs and $25 for faculty, staff, and alumni. To buy tickets the day of registration, tickets will be $25 for students and $30 for all faculty, staff, and alumni. To register click here.
Participants are encouraged to fashion their best Halloween costumes at the event this coming Thursday. The event will have music and fun games to play before the race. The run path will be decked out in Halloween décor along with zombies that will be lurking all throughout the race to jump out at the Halloween runners. There will be food after the race along with prizes for the top male and female runners. There will also be a prize for the best Halloween costume, so come dressed to impress this Thursday night.
The UCF Live United Campaign runs every year in October and has raised over $2 million for those in greatest need around the Central Florida area. UCF Live United Campaign has been hosting various events, fundraisers and volunteer opportunities for their employees and students to stand together to make a positive impact.
Come out this Thursday for a fun run, Halloween festivities, and a chance to make a difference for people in need in Central Florida. For more information about how you can contribute to the UCF Live United Campaign, visit www.liveunited.ucf.edu. So come participate and celebrate in your most ghoulish costume and your running shoes, and bring an appetite and thirst to help those who need us most.



The Knights are graduating at a higher rate than any other NCAA Division I public institution in the nation. 
The Graduation Success Rate rankings released by the NCAA Tuesday,  stated that 95 percent of UCF athletes who enrolled in 2007 have earned degrees, which ties the Knights with Boston College for fifth-best in NCAA Division I (FBS), trailing only private institutions Notre Dame, Stanford, Duke and Northwestern. 
“I’m incredibly proud of our Everyday Champion student-athletes, our coaches and the culture of academic excellence they’ve created here at UCF,” UCF Vice President and Director of Athletics Todd Stansbury said in a release. “This is obviously the result of a lot of hard work and a great support system. When you look at the institutions around us in the rankings, that’s a great neighborhood to live in.”
UCF’s GSR is 11 points above the national average and is also a school record.
The UCF football program tied for No. 10 nationally with a 90 percent GSR, placing third among public schools. The national average for other football programs was 75 percent.
“The level of achievement our student-athletes have been able to accomplish academically is truly extraordinary,” said Kimya Massey, UCF Associate Athletics Director for Academic Services in a release. “We are competing at the highest level nationally, both on the field and in the classroom. These latest NCAA metrics bear out that reality. Our student-athletes are graduating at an extremely high rate and also developing skills necessary for success in life, which is always the most important goal. We are extremely proud of this milestone. Kudos to the ASSA staff members, who work extremely hard to assist our student-athletes in their endeavors.”
Thirteen of UCF’s 14 programs  such as women’s cross country, indoor and outdoor track and field are combined as one by the NCAA,  are above the national average. Seven Knights programs – men’s golf, men’s tennis, rowing, women’s golf, women’s soccer, women’s tennis and volleyball – had perfect scores of 100 percent. 
Nine UCF squads – football, men’s soccer and the seven mentioned above – were ranked No. 1 in the American Athletic Conference. 
“This is just another example of the evolution and power of the UCF Athletics program and our move to national prominence, not just in competition but in the classroom as well,” Stansbury said in a release. “We believe that graduation is not the end, but the beginning for our Everyday Champions. Our program will be defined by the success of our graduates.”
Within the State of Florida, UCF is tops among all NCAA Division I institutions. Florida State ranks second at 84 percent, while Florida and USF are both at 83 percent. In the American Athletic Conference, UCF’s overall rate is also the top mark.



