Hundreds of new UCF sorority members ran down Greek Park Saturday afternoon and were greeted by their new sisters and hundreds of fraternity members as well.
Knightnews.com’s Justin Levy went out to Greek Park to capture the annual tradition, and got a chance to talk with some of the spectators there. Check out the video below.



For Starbucks lovers, there is nothing like the pumpkin spice latte to set the mood on a cool fall day. But this year, customers will get to enjoy that fall-goodness a little bit earlier.
The popular seasonal pumpkin spice latte is making an early return–August 25 to be exact, according to the official pumpkin spice latte Twitter account.
Even though fall officially starts Sept. 23, the PSL as the real Starbucks experts call it, will get a chance to see summer.
“18 days until I’m back from vacay. Get ready to ‘fall’ in love all over again. #seewhatididthere,” the Pumpkin Spice Latte account tweeted out on August 7.
The pumpkin spice latte is a mix of espresso, pumpkin-flavored syrup – consisting of cinnamon, nutmeg and clove – and steamed milk, topped off with whipped cream.



UCF is instituting a new policy starting this fall that will jeopardize students’ aid if they aren’t academically engaged in each of their classes during the first week, which ends Aug. 27.
“Without verification of this engagement, students will be in jeopardy of not receiving all of their aid,” Brian Boyd, university registrar, and Alicia Keaton, director of student financial aid, said in the email to students.
UCF said that students and faculty will be using Webcourses to confirm all academic activity. Students are advised to check for assignments from each of their courses and submit them no later than Aug. 27.
“I think that [the policy] it’s good and bad. I understand the need for the school to be informed about the status of students receiving aid,” Kailyn Baker, a senior majoring in psychology, said.
“On the other hand, I think that at this point in time we’re adults,” Baker said. “Personally, if I’ve paid for a class, then I don’t feel my attendance should matter. I’ve paid you, and now I can decide what classes I feel are important to attend. A lot of students don’t need to attend every class to get a good grade in a class.”
Students can prevent any disruption in financial aid by:
UCF cited federal regulations as the reason for this change, but Knight News will be contacting UCF officials for details. ​



