The Wayne Densch Center for Student-Athlete Leadership has officially received its final approval from the Florida Board of Governors.
On Nov. 6, UCF Vice President and Director of Athletics Todd Stansbury released a letter on UCFKnights.com confirming that the Wayne Densch Center for Student-Athlete Leadership will have a groundbreaking ceremony later this month, before construction begins at Bright House Networks Stadium in early 2015.
The student-athlete center received the largest donation in UCF athletics history–$4 million from the Wayne Densch Charitable Trust to help fund the $6.5 million structure.
The center is planned to be 24,000 square feet and serve as a headquarters for UCF student-athletes. The center is expected to be equipped with a multi-purpose classroom which will hold 200 students, a computer lab, tutoring and mentoring rooms, study space and conference and resource rooms. 
“The Leadership Center will be the first athletics building constructed during my time at UCF. I’m very proud it’s a facility that will serve as the headquarters for UCF student-athletes’ personal, professional and academic development, as we produce tomorrow’s leaders,” Stansbury said in his letter.
KnightNews.com will update you when we find out the exact date of the groundbreaking ceremony. 



Have you ever wanted to try double fudge bacon? 
Beer and bacon: two of the main staples of a college student’s diet are joining forces for one big festival on Saturday, Nov. 8 from 3 p.m. to 7.p.m. 
The 2nd annual Beer and Bacon Fest will be held at Cranes Roost Park in Altamonte Springs and will have over 30 craft beers from places such as Sweet Water, Goose Island, Magic Hat, Blue Point, Florida Beer Company, Kona Brewing Company, Red Hook, Shock Top, Victory and Woodchuck.
To compliment the craft beers, a variety of bacon will also be available to taste.
Honey maple bacon, salted maple bacon, double fudge bacon, chocolate covered bacon, pulled pork with bacon and French fries with a beer and cheese sauce and bacon bits are just some of the delicious bacon items you will be able to purchase from 4 Rivers Smokehouse, Cupcake Crazy, Little Lamb Catering & Events, Omaha Steakhouse, The Hammered Lamb, Miller’s Ale House, Whole Foods Market and Catering’s Best.
The event and restaurants will open at 3:00 p.m. and the beer sampling will start at 4:00 p.m. General admission is free, however, the tickets that include the unlimited beer sampling are $25 pre sale or $35 at gate. While supplies last, a complimentary koozie with your ticket purchase.
After the Beer and Bacon Fest, the Miller’s Alehouse in Altamonte Springs (477 E. Altamonte Dr. in front of the Altamonte Mall) will have many of the same beers served at the festival for $1 off each beer at the official “After Party.”
You can buy tickets for the event here.



An alert message sent out to UCF students and faculty Thursday morning warned of an assault with a firearm that occurred at Walgreens near the school’s main campus.
Police are searching for the suspect, believed to be a black male in a black shirt, driving a blue Nissan Altima.
“*UCF ALERT*Assault with firearm occurred at Walgreens at Alafaya/Science suspect b/m black shirt in Blue Nissan Altima stay clear of area and report any suspicious activity to police.”
This is a breaking news story. Continue to check back for updates.



