Two residents of the Retreat, a new student housing complex near UCF, were arrested after police broke up a large party at the complex, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
Twanee Kaitlyn Ryan
According to the Orlando Sentinel, Twanee Kaitlyn Ryan, 20, and Tatyana Jenae Johnson, 19, were arrested at The Retreat at Orlando after police broke up a party with over 200 people in attendance early Sunday morning. 
“The back door was wide open and people were walking in and out of the residence,” Sgt. Brett Parnell said in a report obtained by the Orlando Sentinel. “I also observed numerous people holding various open containers of alcohol. Upon seeing me several of them dropped the alcohol beverage and ran, leading me to believe they were underage.”
Tatyana Jenae Johnson,
One of the suspects tried to run at one point, according to the report obtained by the Orlando Sentinel. She then gave incorrect spelling of her name and a fake date of birth, the report alleges. 
They were charged with holding an open house party, according to a police report obtained by the Orlando Sentinel. 
The Retreat, located on Colonial Drive, opened this fall. 
Continue to check back for more information.



Saturday shuttles are here. 
Students at off-campus apartments near the University of Central Florida’s main campus will now have transportation to campus on Saturdays. 
UCF has started offering Saturday shuttles in addition to the normal weekday bus schedule, which runs Monday – Thursday from 6:30 a.m. to 10 p.m. and Friday until 8 p.m. 
Weekend shuttles will run most Saturdays, beginning Aug. 23 through Dec. 6. Shuttles will not run Aug. 30 and Nov. 29 due to holidays. 
On top of that, students will also be able to take a shuttle from campus to a local Publix. 
The grocery shuttle will pick up and drop off students at Lake Claire, CFE Arena/The Towers, Nike/Hercules/Neptune communities and Marketplace. 
The Saturday routes are below: 
Route 1 – Knights Circle
Routes 2 and 12 – Campus Crossings at College Station, Boardwalk at Alafaya Trail, University House Central
Routes 3 and 11 – Sterling University Central, Arbour Apartments, The Edge
Routes 4, 5 and 9 – Village at Alafaya Club, Campus Crossings Alafaya, Village at Science Drive, Knights Landing
Routes 6 and 8 – Riverwind at Alafaya Trail, Tivoli
Routes 4A and 10 – The Pointe at Central, Orion on Orpington, The Lofts
Routes 6 and 13 – Northgate, Tivoli, NorthView
Routes 7 and 14 – Collegiate Village Inn, Plaza on University
Saturday shuttles will drop students off at the Student Union on campus, located on Aquarius Agora Drive. The Saturday shuttles will operate from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.



UCF students will soon have a new local option when looking to hit the town.
Knight News has learned that Stagger Inn UCF is scheduled to open in about four weeks next to the CB&S Bookstore located on Collegiate Way just off of the corner of University and Alafaya.
Stagger Inn UCF, marketed by City2Nite, is a country-themed bar that may have a familiar name. It will be the sister bar of the Stagger Inn located in downtown Orlando.
Josiah Tripp, the marketing manager for Stagger Inn thinks that Stagger Inn is just what the nightlife scene around UCF needs.
Like us on Facebook & follow @UCFKnightNews on twitter for UCF news on your feeds!
Follow @UCFKnightNews
“UCF has some great bars but what it is missing is a country bar,” Tripp said.
For those who aren’t entirely sold on the country scene, he stresses it’s not specifically catered to the cowboys and cowgirls of UCF.
“The Stagger brand isn’t just a country bar, the crowd is very diverse and there is something for everyone there. Its exactly what UCF is missing,” Tripp said.
The exact opening date is still pending, Knight News will keep you updated with the date when we learn it.



