Former UCF baseball player Jon Griffin went on a record-tying hot streak this past week.
Griffin, an Arizona Diamondback farm team player, hit four consecutive home runs against the Tennessee Smokies on Wednesday night. On his first at-bat on Thursday, Griffin homered again before walking and grounding out in his next appearances.
His four home runs tied a Southern League record for most home runs in a single game.
Griffin is a 6-foot-6 power hitting 25-year old first baseman who now has 10 home runs on the season.



UCF football season is less than 100 days away, and as kickoff in Ireland nears, the UCF football schedule is coming together.
So far, the Knights will be seeing lots of national exposure once again, coming off of a 12-1 season in which they beat the Baylor Bears in the BCS Fiesta Bowl.
Six of the Knights 12 regular season games have already received slots on national television. A nationally televised bowl game would make more than half the Knights’ schedule on national TV.
Most recently, kickoff time against East Carolina was announced at 7:30 p.m. on Dec. 4 and will be televised on ESPN. Game times for certain games are still yet to be determined.
2014 UCF Football Schedule
Saturday, Aug. 30 – vs. Penn State – 8:30 a.m. – ESPN2 – Dublin, Ireland
Saturday, Sept. 13 – at Missouri – 12 p.m. – SEC Network
Saturday, Sept. 20 – Bethune-Cookman – TBA
Thursday, Oct. 2 – at Houston – TBA – ESPN
Thursday, Oct. 9 – BYU – TBA – ESPN
Saturday, Oct. 18 – Tulane  – TBA
Saturday, Oct. 25 – Temple – TBA
Saturday, Nov. 1 – at UConn – TBA
Friday, Nov. 14 – Tulsa – TBA – ESPN2
Saturday, Nov. 22 – SMU – TBA
Friday, Nov. 28 – at USF – TBA – National Network TBA
Thursday, Dec. 4 – at East Carolina – 7:30 p.m. – ESPN



UCF’s Business Incubation Program is garnering national attention after being named Incubator of the Year by The National Business Incubation Association.
The program has been around for 15 years and aims to help students with innovative ideas get these ideas off the ground.
Students interested in the program must first submit an application where they go through a screening process to see if their business idea is a good fit for the program. After being accepted to the program, they go through stages of orientation, growth, maturation and graduation over an 18-36 month period.
The students are also given office space and tactical sessions with Central Florida business leaders. A student is graduated from the program once they have achieved a level of financial and corporate growth that enables them to leave the incubator.



Friday marked the second round of orientations for the class of 2018, and KnightNews.com was there to interview the incoming freshman.
We caught up with students who told us about their favorite parts of campus, their majors and even one parent who said his daughter will be “one of the best on the campus”.
Justin Levy had a little fun with the freshman getting one to even show off his “model face”. Check out the video below:
Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get UCF News like this on your feeds!
Follow @UCFKnightNews

Click here to watch Part 1: The first UCF Orientation Video
Click here to watch Part 2: The second UCF Orientation Video
Click here to watch Part 3: The third UCF Orientation Video
Click here to watch Part 4: The fourth UCF Orientation Video
Click here to watch Part 5: The fifth UCF Orientation Video



