UCF baseball started off the American Championship on a high note, handling the UCONN Huskies 7-1 on the first day of play.
The Knights relied on the pitching of Zach Rodgers, who pitched a complete game and only allowed five hits over a nine inning stretch. Rodgers (7-1) does not normally start on the first day of a series, but Head Coach Terry Rooney wanted to give ACC Pitcher of the Year Eric Skoglund an extra day of rest.
“First of all it was a good win today,” Head Coach Terry Rooney said after the game. “I’m very excited about the way the guys played and to start off the tournament 1-0, but certainly one of the big stories of the game was Zach Rodgers.”
Rodgers has been a jack-of-all-trades for the Knights this season, as a closer, relief pitcher and starter.
“I want to give my best for this team. It was a good way to get the week started, coming out and swinging the bats really well. It makes my job a lot easier to go out and pound the zone,” Rodgers said.
Offensively, the Knights had a huge six-run second inning to give them a big enough cushion to prevent UCONN from coming back.
A pair of singles by Matt Diorio and Tommy Williams followed by a walk of  JoMarcos Woods loaded the bases for Knights before Dylan Moore getting hit by a pitch drove in the first run. After that, the Knights exploded with Derrick Salberg driving in two runs.
The second-seeded Knights will continue pool play on Thursday, taking on Temple at 7 p.m. They need two more wins in order to clinch a spot in Sunday’s American Athletic Conference championship.
 



The Huey Magoo’s restaurant located off of Alafaya Trail near UCF has been damaged by fire, according to Local 6.
On early Wednesday morning, a shopper at the 7/11 next to Huey Magoo’s noticed smoke coming out of the popular restaurant, a fire official told Local 6.
Firefighters put out the blaze, but roughly 25 percent of the restaurant was charred, the official said. The fire was mostly contained within the kitchen area.
The cause of the fire is unknown as of right now.



