UCF has its sights set on another American Athletic Conference championship, but first they will need to beat the winless SMU Mustangs.
The Knights (6-3 overall, 4-1 AAC) are facing a must-win game on Saturday, as they currently in a three-way tie for first place in the conference. Saturday’s noon game at Bright House Networks Stadium will not only help determine the AAC pecking order, but also serve as the final home game for the senior class.
UCF has had its problems staying consistent this season, losing their only conference game to a UCONN team that is 2-7 on the season and only ahead of SMU in the AAC standings.
SMU Rundown:
SMU’s head coach June Jones quit coaching the team two games into the season and it usually doesn’t bode for a team’s success when they lose their coach mid-season. SMU still hasn’t been able to win a game this season, sitting at a dismal 0-9.
Sponsored Advertisement (Story Continues Below)
However, SMU has seen improvement over the past two games, losing to USF 14-13 in a game where they were shutting out USF until the 4th quarter before the Bulls scored two touchdowns to win the game.
SMU’s offense has been troublesome all season, but since inserting Matt Davis as the starting quarterback, the offense has seen noticeable improvement. Davis is a prototypical dual-threat quarterback, and the UCF defense will be on its heels to contain his rush. 
If SMU wants any shot to win this game, they will have to a career game from Davis.
UCF Rundown:
How will Holman play?
That is the biggest question going into this game. Holman has shown flashes of brilliance throughout this season, but has also had games where O’Leary started to warm-up the back-up quarterback.
SMU has given up at least 38 points in eight of their nine games this season, so UCF will have plenty of opportunities to put points up on the board. Look for UCF to try and spread the ball around to their plethora of receivers in the first quarter.
The UCF defense shouldn’t have any issues containing SMU’s offense, as they virtually shutdown Tulane’s prolific passing offense last week. As long as UCF is aware of a dual-threat quarterback in the pocket, the Knights shouldn’t allow many scores from this team.
Final Thoughts:
The Knights shouldn’t have any problems with SMU this Saturday. The seniors will look to finish their final game at Bright House Networks Stadium with a perfect home record on the season and SMU does not pose a major threat. 
Final score prediction: UCF 38, SMU 10. 



What better way to get in the holiday spirit then going for a walk down Ivanhoe Village Main Street where you can watch the Christmas tree lighting, take part in a wine stroll, stop by a beer garden, and indulge in some food from your favorite food trucks?
On Saturday, November 22 from 6 p.m to 11p.m. Jingle Eve is the place to be. Jingle Eve will be held about 20 minutes away from UCF main campus at 1605 Alden Road , Orlando, FL 32803.
The event list is as follows:
Christmas Tree Lighting 6:30 p.m.:
The Christmas Tree Lighting will take place at Gaston Edwards Park, which is just south of Ivanhoe Village.
The Wine Stroll 6-11 p.m.:
For just $20, the Wine Stroll will take you to fifteen different stops in Ivanhoe Village where you can sample a variety of wines.
Tickets for the Wine Stroll can be purchased here.
Beer Garden 6-11 p.m.:
The Beer Garden, sponsored by The Hammered Lamb and The Thirsty Topher, will be located next to The Venue on the corner of Virginia Dr. and New York Ave, where there will be a DJ and several different beers being served by the bars in Ivanhoe Village.
Food Truck Bazaar 6-11 p.m.:
On Virginia Dr. and North Orange Ave. the food trucks will be parked and ready to serve up every type of food you could think of.



UCF relied on the hot shooting of true freshman swingman Adonys Henriquez to overcome visiting Eckerd 76-59 and improve to 2-0 on the season.
Henriquez, a 4-star ESPN recruit from Orlando Christian Prep, finished the game with a team high 21 points on 5-of-7 shooting from beyond the arc. He paced the Knights sharp-shooting on Thursday night, as the team finished shooting 26-of-44 (59.1%) from the floor and connected on 10-of-20 three-pointers.
“Obviously I’m happy with the win,” UCF head coach Donnie Jones said. “We are a team that is still in transition and learning how to play together. I have to give it to Eckerd. They really competed. We knew coming in that they were tough. Tom [Ryan] does a great job with his team. They’re very physical and have a great feel for how to play. I knew we’d be in for a battle.”
The Knights came out strong, rushing out to a 20-8 lead in the first half, but turnovers allowed Eckerd to get back into the game and they cut the lead to just two points with 11:49 to play in the first half. Eckerd took their first lead with 7:16 remaining in the first half after a pair of free throws gave Eckerd a 29-27 advantage. 
The rest of the first half was a dogfight, with Eckerd never leading by more than three and went into the half leading UCF 37-35. 
UCF buckled down in the second half, after Eckerd scored the first four points, UCF went on a 9-0 run and never looked back. UCF took their first double-digit lead when Henriquez scored on back-to-back buckets off of the wing.
“It felt good. I felt like I had a good warm-up. My teammates felt like I was hot so they kept getting me the ball and I kept shooting it. If I was open I shot it, if I wasn’t I moved the ball. I give my teammates the credit for getting me open shots,” Henriquez said after the game.
Next up for the Knights will be USC Upstate on Sunday at 6 p.m. in the CFE Arena. 



