This Wednesday April 9 at 7:00 p.m., Alpha Delta Pi sorority will be hosting their 9th annual Cheers for Charity event — a cheer competition with all donations benefiting the Ronald McDonald Houses of Central Florida.
The event will take place at the UCF Venue with the doors opening at 6:00 p.m. and will consist of competitors from various fraternities, sororities, and numerous clubs on campus such as the UCF rugby team. 
Along with the competition, there will be raffles consisting of prizes from The Fraternity Collection, Southern Proper, Nava New York, Ideal Image and many more, with all proceeds from these raffles benefiting the Ronald McDonald Houses as well.
Cheers for Charity was preceded by a pizza dinner at the Alpha Delta Pi house earlier this week, which was catered by Lazy Moon and raised over $4,000. The sorority also tabled outside the union and collected donations over $1,000. 
“We are so excited for tomorrow’s event and are hoping to raise more than we have ever raised before,” said Alpha Delta Pi’s Philanthropy Chair Mary Clark.
KnightNews.com will be at the event tomorrow. Check back tomorrow night for videos of each performance! 



The University of Central Florida will honor 12 Knights who recently passed away during an annual memorial service the school holds.
“Few situations have the ability to impact a campus community as much as the death of a student. Family, friends, classmates, and campus community members are left with unresolved emotions and a need to connect with others,” the Eternal Knights website says. 
The Eternal Knights Memorial Service honors students who have passed away during recent academic terms and provides surviving campus community members and family members with an opportunity to celebrate the life of a student. During this annual ceremony, families and friends join with campus leaders and members of the University of Central Florida community to recognize those who will always be remembered as Eternal Knights.
The following individuals will be remembered at this year’s ceremony:
Brooke Dawkins
Bachelor of Arts in Advertising and Public Relations, College of Sciences
David Richard Fulton
Bachelor of Science in Information Technology, College of Engineering and Computer Science
Jesus Martinez
Bachelor of Arts in Spanish, College of Arts and Humanities
Jorge Vicens Jimenez
Bachelor of Science in Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering and Computer Science
Kaleb Holcombe
Bachelor of Science in Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering and Computer Science
Kaliegh Ottis
Bachelor of Arts in Interpersonal and Organizational Communication, College of Sciences
Kanishia Grimsley
Bachelor of Applied Science, Office of Undergraduate Studies
LeAnna Middleton
Bachelor of Science in Biology, College of Sciences
Li Chen
Bachelor of Science in Molecular Biology and Microbiology, College of Medicine – Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences
Savannah Worrall
Bachelor of Arts in Political Science, College of Sciences
Tiara Mack
Bachelor of Arts in English, College of Arts and Humanities
Troy Thompson
Bachelor of Science in Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering and Computer Science
The Eternal Knights Memorial Service is open to the entire campus community and is held during each spring semester by the Office of Student Involvement.
The ceremony will be held April 9 at 3:00 p.m. in the Pegasus Ballroom.



