This Saint Patrick’s Day, Tyler, the Creator fans can rejoice.
The ringleader of the notorious and controversial music collective, Odd Future, will be performing at the Plaza Theater in Orlando on March 17th in what is sure to be a concert that does not lack excitement. Tyler, The Creator is one of the more popular members of the indie rap scene, having garnered huge mainstream success in 2011 with the release of his music video for the song “Yonkers”.
In the song “Yonkers” Tyler raps about his own suicidal and violent tendencies along with proclaiming his hatred for numerous members of the conventional music scene. The music video, known for its bizarre and abstract visuals has garnered over 65,000,000 views and made Tyler, The Creator a well known name in the indie rap scene.
While being initially known for his his deliberate, offensive and antagonistic attitude, his work showed major maturity with the release of his most recent album, “Wolf”. The album showed a large amount of emotionally honestly, delving into the trappings of his new found fame, his struggle over his relationship with his father, and the grief he felt over the recent loss of his grandmother.
While he may not be for everyone, he is certainly a voice for the disgruntled youth to cling to in hip-hop, simultaneously providing an outlet for aggression and suffering.
Tickets can be found here for approximately $32 with additional fees.
If unfamiliar with his work, listen to some of his popular songs:
Yonkers
French!
Sandwhitches
Domo 23
Rusty
Bastard
Goblin
Cowboy
Nightmare



From a young age, many people find a hobby that they are very passionate and enthusiastic about. For many students, that hobby is gaming. Whether it is PC or console games, one thing is for sure and that is that video games can bring people together.
Gaming Knights is a student run organization that was a result of Console Knights and LANKnights coming together as one. They host multiple events throughout the year including bi-weekly tournaments in the Student Union. People come together there and share Gamertags or Gamer handles and start lifelong friendships with fellow gamers.
Top 5 Games played:
1. Super Smash Brothers
2. League of Legends
3. Dota 2
4. Marvel Vs. Capcom
5. Pokémon X & Y
Besides playing video games, the club also has many social events that they participate in outside of school including going bowling, watching movies, and even going to conventions together such as Megacon which is coming up this March. 
“I have made many amazing friends. They’re probably the best people I’ve met my whole life and they feel like family to me,” Lindsey Gonshak, a transfer student from FSU, said.
Gaming Knights is one of the largest paying clubs at UCF and has over 1000 members on their Facebook page. There is always a different event going on in this club which keeps members wanting to come back for more. Among the events that are coming up is a charity event on March 2 where they will host another tournament. Anyone is allowed to come and donate $5 which will go towards the American Red Cross Association. They are also trying to break a Guinness World Record for playing Super Smash Bros. for 72 hours straight beating out the current record of 48 hours.
No matter what games you play, there will always be something for you. 
“Our club wants to get bigger and beyond UCF and even the city of Orlando,” Alicia White, Treasurer of Gaming Knights said. “We want to bring our giant gaming community to a whole new level.” 



