Women’s Soccer
Edged by UConn on Sunday, the Knights had their ten game winning streak and historic twenty-five conference game winning streak broken in the one goal game.
After a scoreless first half, UConn’s (10-4-4, 3-2-3 AAC) Julia Hubbard recorded her third goal of the season in the 65th minute, the only goal in the 1-0 game-winner for the Connecticut team. From nearly twenty-five yards out, Hubbard connected a pass from Huskies’ Megan Hunsberger and struck the ball across the net into the left corner, putting her team up 1-0.
The Knights (13-3-0, 6-1-0 AAC) attempted fourteen shots through the game – seven on goal – with senior Tatiana Coleman coming close to a goal in the first half, where her shot was saved after bouncing off of the crossbar, and senior Alex Piercy coming close in the second half, with her shot reaching far left. Goalkeeper Connie Organ would make a career high in saves against the Huskies, tallying up seven saves total.
The women’s soccer team claimed two years of unbeaten conference play before Sunday’s match, but the Knights refuse to let the loss deter them.
“I thought we fought to the end,” said head coach Tiffany Roberts Sahaydak after the game. “I just think some days things don’t always go your way, and today was one of those days. I’d rather it happen today than later on. We can keep this feeling fresh for when we go into the conference and NCAA Tournaments… I am an optimist, so I think we’ll learn from this and be a better team for it.”
UCF will have its final two regular season matches played at home before beginning tournament play. This Friday the women’s soccer team will host their senior night match against East Carolina, which will kick off at 7 p.m.
Men’s soccer
The men’s soccer team would also fall to UConn Saturday knight in a 1-0 decision made early in the game.
A goal made by University of Connecticut sophomore Ethan Vanacore-Decker in the 9th minute put the Huskies ahead through the end of the match. Senior Romario Williams made one of two shots on goal for the Knights in the 90th minute, coming close to equalizing the game, but would be denied the win.
“[We played] a tough team in UConn,” said head coach Bryan Cunningham in a post-game interview. “They scored that goal against the run of play and I thought we pretty much had control of the game until that point… In the second half we tried our best to get it going and to create some chances and in the end they were able to stave off the game and, you know, we couldn’t get the result.”
Saturday night’s loss moved the Huskies to 5-6-2 overall and 3-1-1 in conference play, and dropped the Knights to 1-8-4 overall and 0-2-3 in conference play.
“I told the players after the game that I feel for them,” added Cunningham. “We’re on the wrong side of these one goal games. We’re thirteen games deep into the season and twelve have been one goal games.”
The Knights will meet rival USF next, where they will hope to follow up on their 1-0 win made last season.
“It’s going to be good, it’s going to be very fast paced… It will probably be very much like the game tonight were both teams want to kind of control the game and control the tempo. Hopefully it’s not a high scoring affair, it’s usually a pretty tight game that we play with them. We have a lot of respect for what they do over there and we’re happy to have them come play at our place and see what happens,” ended Cunningham.
UCF will continue conference play with a home game against rival USF on Tuesday, October 22 at 7 p.m.



If you don’t know how to listen to the perfect beat drop with the right amount of bass, EDM is not for you. Safe in Sound Festival, held downtown in the back lot of Firestone Live, produced a show that withstood wind, rain, mud and more than likely the ear drums of its attendees. Here’s what you missed at the festival’s first show in Orlando on Oct. 4:
The Mix of EDM, Dubstep and Trap
While only five artists performed at the festival, its lineup was just enough for what the night had in store.
Terravita and UZ produced the bulk of the trap and bass music for the night with UZ’s set producing much more elements of southern hip hop (think Ying Yang Twins meets Waka Flocka and T.I). During Destroid’s intense and fast-paced get up, the metal and dubstep infused quartet had some technical difficulties with the rain, but that didn’t stop the band nor the audience from postponing their performance.
Crowd favorites Flux Pavillion and Austrialian duo Adventure Club closed out the show in a two hour block with just short of drizzling rain and a non stop craze of hip hop and EDM.
The Sound
The highlight of Safe in Sound was its sound system powered by PK Sound. While live music can be enjoyed by the masses, it’s extremely important to have the right amount of bass, treble and audio when mixing live sounds; you don’t want to listen to straight music and no vocals or vise versa. With PK’s sound system, everything was completely clear and audible from any standpoint in the field thanks to over 150,000 watts of bass. If you happened to be up close and personal to the stage, you could feel the beat pumping through your chest at each pump of bass. The intensity, matched with intricate LED visuals as a backdrop for the 5 artist lineup could not be matched anywhere else.
The concept around the festival is one that should be more of a standard for other EDM festivals. I couldn’t help reminiscing about festivals over the summer that made it hard to recognize who and what was playing from long distances, to the point that it almost became unappealing to walk up to a new stage. Perhaps it should be standard for festivals to give audience what they want most out of a festival- crisp, clear sound.
For a new festival, Safe in Sound put its imprint on the map of up and coming touring EDM Festivals. Safe in Sound has already made stops in Tallahassee and Pompano Beach in Florida and will wrap up it’s first year in Seattle, Wa. October 25.



An arrest was made Monday in connection to the string of robberies at Sterling Apartments, according to the Orange County Sheriff’s Office.
Darrious Pettress, 22, was arrested by OCSO’s Robbery Unit and is being held on two charges of armed robbery, officials said.
Jane Watrel, Public Information Officer for OCSO, said the suspect, who is not a UCF student, is being brought in for questioning and will then be transported to the Booking and Release Center.
Watrel told Knight News that Pettress’ alleged girlfriend, who is a Valencia College student, lives in the complex.
Watrel said Pettress is denying the charges but has a criminal history in North Carolina and Tampa.
Watrel said the two victims of the robberies came in at different times to identify the suspect in a lineup in two separate rooms. She said both victims positively identified Pettress as the armed robber.
“They feel confident they have their guy,” Watrel said. “I hope this can bring some peace of mind back for students.”
Students who live at the complex said they feel better knowing someone has been arrested for the attacks. Sam Mazzia, a sophomore majoring in business management, said he feels safer walking around the complex.
“I think this will make people feel a lot better,” Mazzia said. “I’m sure a lot of people have been walking around on edge.”
Mazzia commended Sterling for helping catch the suspect and trying to make the complex safer. He said the complex sent out fliers to residents notifying them that Sterling would be offering self-defense classes to help keep residents alert and safe. Other residents aren’t so impressed with Sterling and still feel unsafe.
“I feel like they still need to step up security. I have seen a change in the amount of cops and the fact that the security guards have actually been doing their job, but they need to step it up,” John Nix, a junior majoring in finance, said. “I still don’t feel safe because it could happen again. It could happen tomorrow.”
The first armed robbery was on Oct. 1 in the morning. The victim reported to police that the armed male stole the victim’s personal affects and phone.
The second robbery took place on Oct. 13 nearing midnight. This victim reported that the armed male stole the victim’s phone.
This is a breaking news story. Check back for updates



It’s homecoming week at UCF and free events for students will be held all week across campus.
Below is a full schedule of the events going on for 2014 homecoming week:
Monday, October 20
Concert Knight, 8 p.m.
B.O.B. and Icona Pop will be performing at the CFE Arena, the event is free for students with a valid student ID.
Royalty Voting for Homecoming King/Queen
Voting for Homecoming King and Queen begin at 9 a.m. The list of candidates is below:
Queen:
Shannon Payne – Honors Congress
Shanzay Pervaiz – Kappa Delta Sorority
Shelby Birch – Alpha Kappa Psi Professional Business Fraternity
Olivia White – KnightMoves Dance Team
Sheridan Kushner – Student Government Association
King
Phillip Bent – Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc.
Gerald Richardson – Student Undergraduate Research Council
Eric M Patz – Graduate Student Association
James Briggs – Alpha Pi Mu Industrial Engineering Honor Fraternity
Joseph Manglardi – Sigma Pi Fraternity
Tuesday, October 21
Skit Knight, 9 p.m.
Organizations across UCF will be competing to have the best homecoming skit in the CFE Arena. The winner will be decided by donations given to Knight-Thon.
Wednesday, October 22
Comedy Knight, 9 p.m.
UCF’s Comedy Knight will be starring Chris D’Elia and Ben Bailey at the CFE Arena. The event is free to students with a valid ID.
Thursday, October 23
Coin Wars, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Coin wars will be occurring in the Student Union, where pennies are given to your favorite organizations and dollars are given to teams you want to beat. All proceeds go towards Knight-Thon.
Friday, October 24
Spirit Splash, 2 p.m.
Spirit Splash, rated the Best Campus Tradition in 2011 by the National Association for Campus Activities, will be at 2 p.m. at the Reflecting Pond. Students will have a chance to jump into the pond and get a free duck along with listen to guest speakers.
Fireworks show, 9 p.m.
UCF will be having their first ever on-campus fireworks display at 9 p.m. at Memory Mall. The display will last approximately 10 minutes and the fireworks will be shot off of Garage D, which will be closed for the event.
Saturday, October 25
Homecoming game against Temple, 5 p.m.
To cap off an event-packed week, UCF football will take on the Temple Owls at 5 p.m. at Bright House Networks Stadium. As always, admission to the game is free for students with a valid student ID.



