The UCF Student Government Association (SGA) is hosting its “Kram for the Exam” event tomorrow, which is put on every semester for the UCF student body during finals week.
“Kram for the Exam” aims to benefit students and enhance their need for extra help or time studying for upcoming final exams.
Joseph Piazza, academic affairs specialist for SGA, helped put together the event that provides students with essential study materials such as pens, pencils, notecards and post-its, along with snacks to keep the mind focused.
With the event being held during every week before finals, things will be slightly different for the fall term.
“Rather than have a specific time and location for items to be handed out, SGA will pass out the items at anytime between 7 p.m. and midnight to the students studying throughout the library, and on every floor,” Piazza said.
Kram for the Exam will be held in the John C. Hitt library tomorrow, Dec. 2, at 7 p.m.
**In addition, if students are looking to take their mind off studying for a short period of time or need a quick break, the Campus Activities Board (CAB) will be presenting a screening of “The Hunger Games” in the Cape Florida Ballroom on Thursday, Dec. 4 at 9 p.m.



UCF fraternities Sigma Chi and Alpha Tau Omega teamed up to host a Greek flag football tournament in conjunction with Florida Abolitionist to raise awareness for human trafficking this past week.
The event, which had over 15 Greek organizations participate at the IM fields on Nov. 23, raised over $1,200 and brought in 750 toiletry items which will go directly to help victims in Orlando.
After being partnered together for UCF Homecoming, Sigma Chi’s Tyler Wight and ATO’s Chandler Walp teamed up with the backing of their organizations to plan a new philanthropy that would fight human sex trafficking in the Orlando area.
Orlando has the third highest rate of human sex trafficking in Florida and the state of Florida has the third highest rate in the country. When Wright did more research into human sex trafficking in Florida, he realized that raising awareness for it is something that resonates with him.
“I have seen testimonies from girls around the age of 13 who have been kidnapped and put in these environments or either grew up in these environments. Some of the girls have said they have been forced into sexual relations at a rate as high as eight to 10 times a day and even forced to take drugs until they are hooked on a substance,” said Wright. “It is truly sickening and raising awareness for this cause is something both Sigma Chi and ATO have committed to doing.”
Aside from the flag football tournament, the fraternities held a toiletry drive from Nov. 17-23, which raised items to help the rescued victims transition back into normal life.
Florida Abolitionist is a non-profit organization that is responsible for helping raise awareness for human sex trafficking. Florida Abolitionist also works with the Orlando Police Department and SWAT team to rescue victims and give them a safe haven.



UCF sophomore Justin McBride could not be stopped, scoring a career-best 31 points as the Knights beat Bethune-Cookman 75-67 to improve to 4-1 on the season on Sunday.
After a bit of a slow start with the score at 7-7, the Knights took the lead and never looked back the rest of the game.
McBride’s career night helped the Knights keep the lead hovering around 10 points through much of the second half. 
“My teammates just found me. That’s all it was. I was posting hard and my teammates just really made an effort to throw me the ball. They just found me. I started scoring a little bit and the basket got bigger and bigger. I was knocking down free throws, and it just felt good,” McBride said after the game.
UCF head coach Donnie Jones had played McBride sparingly through the first four games of the season, only 28 minutes total. His hard work prompted Jones to work McBride into the game plan for Sunday’s contest.
“I wanted to get him in early because I thought he had worked hard the last few days. I wanted to try and get him established and get him going. He just really, really played well. I was happy for him,” Jones said.
Overall, the Knights shot 52.2 percent from the floor and only turned the ball over nine times. The Knights will need to use the momentum as they host Georgia Southern on Tuesday and Florida State on Saturday.



Finals week is here once again and we want you to be ready.
We’ve compiled some important information about exam week — including places to get extra help, best places to study and ways to get food and study materials for free!
During a ten day period before and during exams, the UCF Student Union is transformed into the “Study Union” — offering extended hours and over 80 review sessions before and during finals week, all in the Student Union. The Student Union will be open 24 hours a day during the entire week of finals, leaving the computer labs and work areas open to anyone who wishes to take advantage of them.
UCF’s Student Government will hold “Kram for the Exam” on Dec. 2 — an event where studying students can get free food and study materials for final exams. Snacks will be given out from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. at All Knight Study I and II. SGA also offers free scantrons and bluebooks at its office inside the Union.
Looking for a good place to study? Check out this article on some of the best places to study and chill at UCF!
See the review session schedule below!
http://knightnews.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/12/news-attachment-study-union.pdf



