Police at the University of Central Florida are investigating the Psi Mu Chapter of Chi Omega after allegations of hazing pledges surfaced.
A report obtained by KnightNews.com alleges that on April 4, two pledges of Chi Omega were blindfolded and led into the UCF Arboretum on campus where they were then told to finish an entire bottle of rum before they could leave.
According to to the report, several sisters then dropped the pledges off at a campus parking garage where they wandered around drunk with no way home. Eventually one of the pledge’s boyfriend picked up the pair and took them home. 
“Both were intoxicated and unable to find their way back to their apartments on foot,” the report says.
Chi Omega’s national headquarters is reported to have found out about the incident the following day after executive members of the chapter reported it. 
“Upon learning of the incident, the Chi Omega national organization immediately informed university officials and the chapter began its internal disciplinary process,” Whitney Heckathorne, a spokeswoman for the national organization told Local 6. “Through this process all three members involved have voluntarily resigned their Chi Omega membership.”
UCF placed the sorority under an emergency suspension with charges of violating UCF’s hazing, alcohol and disruptive conduct rules on top of the police investigation. 
The sorority will meet with university officials to review the suspension later this month.



UPDATE Lt. Paul Pratt of the Seminole County Sheriff’s Office told us that there was a suicide subject at the apartment complex and it took police some time to locate the individual.
The individual has been taken into custody and is now at the hospital being treated. The individual did not have a gun. 
Residents were being denied entrance into the property but it has since reopened. 
Seminole County Sheriff’s Office is investigating a major incident at Northgate Lakes Apartment complex near the University of Central Florida.
News tips initially reported a possible gunman near the complex but those reports have not yet been confirmed. An Orange County Fire Department website confirmed that there was some type of incident with a joint response at the apartments. 
Continue to check back for more information as it becomes available.  



Isaiah Sykes’ post-UCF career is already looking promising.
The standout guard has accepted his invitation to play in the prestigious Portsmouth Invitational Tournament later this week. 
The Portsmouth Invitational Tournament features 64 select seniors across the nation in a four-day, 12 game tournament in front of scouts and representatives from every NBA team.
Sykes was named All-American Athletic Conference Second Team honors this past season with 17.2 points, 7.2 rebounds and 3.5 assists a game. He is also eighth all-time in UCF in scoring, fourth in rebounds, third in steals and fifth in assists. 
Former UCF players Keith Clanton and Jermaine Taylor both participated in the Portsmouth Invitational Tournament following their senior year. 



