Ever had aspirations of becoming the next person inside the Knightro costume?
UCF is holding auditions for the next Knightro where you can earn a scholarship, travel with the team and get all the perks of walking around campus as Knightro. The tryout meeting will be held on Friday, April 11 from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the Burnett Honors College Lobby. The actual tryouts will be held on Saturday, April 12 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. where you must be available the entire time and is also in the Burnett Honors College Lobby.
“We will guide/ teach/ coach you thru each section of the audition. Knightro is cool, fun loving, tough, very dependable but a little bit crazy too. We are looking for someone that can put the costume on and ‘become’ the Knightro,” said the audition sheet.
Each prospective mascot will be evaluated projection, showmanship, character development, skit idea and an interview.
For more information contact Mike Callahan at  Michael.Callahan@UCF.edu.



Josh Radnor, known for his role as Ted Mosby on How I Met Your Mother, visited UCF Tuesday, March 18 thanks to the Campus Activities Board. He not only delivered a fun night like expected, but connected with the students in the Pegasus Ballroom. From ducky ties, funny on set stories and inspiration, Radnor opened up to the student body and allowed us to get to know him as more than just “Ted.”
The evening first began with a line from the Pegasus Ballroom doors, out the student union, all the way to the end of Classroom Building 1. Students eager to see Josh Radnor waited outside for as much as eight hours. During this time, questions were collected by CAB members for his Q&A.
Before the event began, two contests where held for students to get a second chance at meeting Radnor. A yellow umbrella contest was held with some of the participants from the previous Twitter contest. This contest was audience judged and Michelle LaFave and Amy Newton won. The second one was “Have You Met Ted” where contestants with blue French horns under their seats answered a question about a famous Ted to score VIP passes.
When Radnor walked out, the uproar was massive.
“I wandered out here for a second and I heard the guy going like ‘no phones, no pictures, his publicist said no pictures!’ and I was like ‘that guy sounds like a Hollywood jerk, that Josh Radnor…’”
He made a deal with the crowd and said the first five minutes were allowed for photos and using social media.
“I do a lot of these college speaking things and I just find that this is going to be a weirder night than you’re thinking… Sometimes it ends up being really personal and really interesting. Like, deep questions get asked and I just don’t want everyone live tweeting all. I just want you all to be here,” Radnor said.
Radnor began by telling us that he doesn’t plan what he’s going to talk about beforehand. He said the evening was up to us and that it always finds its way.  Based off of the audience energy and 2 ½ hours of talking, Radnor was completely right.
“It’s weird because I’m really from a family in Ohio… I wasn’t a kid actor you know? I wasn’t out doing pilot season in high school. I was on the swim team… And it’s weird, I mean it’s great that you guys are all here, but there’s a kind of feeling like when I hear ‘his publicist doesn’t want photos’ and I’m like ‘who is that?’ because that doesn’t really feel like me,” Radnor said.
Radnor continued to tell us how he hoped we weren’t thinking “oh no, he’s trying to convince us that he’s normal…” However, there was a really humble quality about him that the audience thoroughly enjoyed.
Radnor was born in Columbus, Ohio. As a kid, he was into visual art. His acting began in 8th grade when a woman came into his school and practiced Shakespeare with the students. One day sophomore year his friend wanted to audition for Oklahoma and due to nerves asked him to sit in on the audition. As he was sitting there, he was asked if he wanted to audition. He ended up landing a lead role and that struck his love of performing.
His high school guidance counselor told him “You are never to stop acting.”
He landed the pilot to How I Met Your Mother after doing Off-Broadway shows and a few small TV jobs here and there.
Regarding the How I Met Your Mother pilot, he said he could tell the writing was good because it stuck with him after reading it once because it was “emotionally truthful.” He was actually the very first audition for the role. Cobie Smulders, also known as Robin Scherbatsky, and him auditioned together.
“We just had this feeling that it was really something,” Radnor said.
Radnor stated that what made How I Met Your Mother special was that they were “playing at reality in a way other wall mounted camera shows don’t do.”
Unfortunately, Radnor revealed that the loved show, after nine years of work, was officially over and that the famous MacLaren’s bar set was torn down.
Radnor really wanted the audience to know that there was more to him that just Ted. In fact, when asked how he felt about architecture he said “I have no feelings about it.” His favorite thing to do is direct and he described directing as an “unchartered landscape”.
“I know you guys love the show and I love the show, we can talk about the show a lot. But, I also make movies, I really love writing, I really love directing, and I’m making stories for you guys,” Radnor said.
He’s created two movies, Happythankyoumoreplease and Liberal Arts. He urged students to please watch them because there is so much to learn and to discover.
Radnor was incredibly inspirational. He was so relaxed and genuine on stage that he didn’t mind sharing both this successes and tough patches in life. He didn’t seem like a Hollywood big shot, and he wasn’t trying to act like one. There was a true connection between him and the audience that made the night much better than it already asked.
When a student asked for advice on how to follow his dreams, Radnor replied “stop calling it a dream.” There was a moment of silence in the audience of impact and then clapping. “Dreams are something that are far away. Take that word out of your vocabulary because it keeps it far way.”
Radnor spoke about an article he wrote which appeared in LA Times Magazine called Kind Over Matter. He asked the students to look it over when they had a chance. From this article, he quoted “It really shocks me when I encounter people who think kindness doesn’t matter. Because I think it’s pretty much the only thing that matters.”
“Make a habit of humiliation. Make a habit of jumping and leaping into the unknown and that’s where you’ll learn what you’re capable of.”
“A Legendary Night with Josh Radnor” without a doubt lived up to its name. Make sure to watch his movies and catch the show finale of How I Met Your Mother Monday, March 31st at 8 p.m. on CBS



The Muppets: Most Wanted is another very enjoyable film that is crippled by the success of its predecessor. 
It is funny, entertaining, and filled with a few very enjoyable songs but plagued by the heights the previous Muppets film managed to reach. This may come as a disappointment to most, but people need to remember that it would have been almost impossible to recreate the wonderful film that Jason Segel and Nicholas Stoller managed to bring us in 2011. 
What The Muppets had, that this current film does not, going for it was the fact that they could base the majority of the plot around the nostalgia fans would experience by seeing their favorite talking frog, bear, and pig on screen again.
The Muppets: Most Wanted follows the gang attempting to take advantage of their recent comeback success by organizing a worldwide tour. Along the way, they become, unknowingly, embroiled in a heist, perpetuated by one of the most dangerous thieves around the world and shenanigans ensue. 
Most of what you would suspect from a Muppet’s film is on display in their most recent adventure. There are plenty of celebrity cameos, catchy musical numbers, and simple, yet effective, humor along with some inside jokes for those who have some knowledge of film, or followed the production of the movie. Most of the time, this formula works wonderfully.
Where the film suffers most, however, is the limited number of characters who receive the majority of screen time. 
Where the previous film was able to expertly revitalize our attachment to so many different characters, this movie is largely a Kermit, Miss Piggy, Fozzie and Walter affair. There are a few fresh faces featured in the film, but your personal preference is going to dictate how attached you become to them. For me, Tina Fey’s character was one of the least entertaining newcomers, while one of my favorite aspects was the revitalization of Sam The Eagle.
The Muppets: Most Wanted is not a perfect film. It will most likely disappoint anyone going in and expecting to see a repeat of 2011’s masterpiece. If you go in to the film with an open mind, though, I promise you will find the cost of your ticket, well spent. It’s an amusing, family film that manages to entertain without going for cheap laughs or, already, dated cultural references. See it, because, if for no other reason, it’s the Muppets!
Verdict: Two Thumbs Up



This past Sunday, March 30, the second annual ‘I Pink I Can’ carnival was held at the University of Central Florida.
The carnival was held by a registered student organization at UCF, Knights Go Pink and was in affiliation with LEAD Scholars at UCF.
The fundraiser was put on to raise money for an organization called United In Pink to promote breast cancer awareness and increase research funding.
The group was attempting to reach their semester fundraising goal of $1000 during the event, but successfully earned more than that prior to the carnival date. The group as a whole has raised over $2000 to donate to United In Pink over the course of the past two years.
The carnival was composed of multiple sponsors such as Victoria’s Secret PINK, 101.9 Amp Radio, Volunteer UCF, Key Harmony, the RWC, the UCF Student Union and many more.
President of Knights Go Pink and the Campus Activities Director of LEAD Scholars, Alex Carciente, a UCF sophomore, was appreciative of the success from sponsors for the event.
“We are so grateful for their participation, and could not have had the success we had without them,” Carciente said.
Throughout the three hours, a rough estimate of 800 people visited and supported their cause, enjoying games and prizes, music, a live DJ and carnival themed food.
Knights Go Pink is a newer club to the UCF community. The organization was started in a LEAD scholars class during the fall semester of 2012. The groups were assigned to create a project that involved the aspect of social change.
UCF sophomore Ny’a Crum, a founding member of Knights Go Pink, set the foundation for the event.
“I had the idea of a fashion show called, ‘Bras For a Cause’. Men would model bras designed by them or their team. As my group worked to put this show together, we grew a stronger love for this and wanted to make it an organization,” Crum said. “There were no breast cancer organizations on campus at the time so we went through the process and now we are succeeding more than ever.”
The marketing co-director, Lauren Daniel, a freshman at UCF, expressed her love for the organization.
“My favorite part is definitely knowing that we’re actively doing something to help people with breast cancer and their families. It’s a lot of work to put these events on, but everyone does their part,” Daniel said. “Once it’s put together, it’s all worth it. We were all amazed seeing the carnival going on yesterday, saying to ourselves, ‘We did this’.”
Knights Go Pink will continue their two annual fundraisers, the fashion show and carnival, in the years to come hoping to gain more participants, volunteers and funds for United In Pink.
“I have been with this organization since it’s founding, and I have seen it grown from nothing. I have seen this organization struggle through so much, yet continue to grow and charge through those challenges,” Carciente said.



