KnightNews.com has high quality videos for every group from Kappa Delta Shakedown 2014!
We will begin uploading videos soon after the event. Continue to check back as videos upload for your group!
Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get UCF Greek News like this on your feeds!
Follow @UCFKnightNews
Kappa Delta

Kappa Delta | Theta Chi | Zeta Tau Alpha |Sigma Pi |Kappa Kappa Gamma | Zeta Beta Tau | Delta Zeta | Kappa Alpha Theta |Phi Delta Theta | Alpha Delta Pi |Beta Theta Pi |Gamma Phi Beta |Alpha Tau Omega |Delta Delta Delta |Alpha Xi Delta |Sigma Chi |Pi Beta Phi |Lambda Chi Alpha | Knight Moves |Rukus | Knights and Damsels Dance Company |



The Kappa Sigma fraternity at UCF has been placed on organizational interim suspension following an alleged downtown jumping of a brother in the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity, UCF records show.
The fraternity was charged on two counts of disruptive conduct and three counts of harmful behavior.
According to documents obtained by KnightNews.com, on the morning of Sept. 19 officers responded to a battery that occurred in the area of Church St. underneath I-4 around 2:30 a.m.
Two members of Lambda Chi Alpha boarded the wrong bus headed back to UCF when occupants on the bus started to yell at them, according to the report.
When they turned to walk towards the door, a person in the front row confronted one of them and grabbed him by the neck and placed him in a headlock.
It was then that the Lambda Chi brother said he was punched in the face multiple times by members of the Kappa Sigma fraternity. According to the report, the Lambda Chi was able to get out of the headlock and escape from the bus.
The member of Lambda Chi stated in the report that he did not do anything to provoke a fight and wishes to press charges for the battery.
While on organizational interim suspension, Kappa Sigma will not be able to participate in socials, philanthropies or intramural competitions. The fraternity has a hearing on Oct. 1 at 11 a.m. to address the continuation of the interim suspension.



The University of Central Florida has been chosen to compete against nine other schools in the Outdoor Nation Campus Challenge to get more students active and outdoors.
The eight-week campus competition, sponsored by North Face, begins this Saturday, Sept. 27 and runs through Nov. 22. The school that gets the most people outdoors will take home the national outdoor championship title.
“If we win, we will get a school wide outdoor festival,” said Allison Hughes, graduate assistant of Recreational Wellness Center’s Outdoor Adventure program. “Like the Victoria Secret contest, we will get a big party on campus.”
Faculty, students, alumni and community members are allowed to enter but must create an account and join their school’s team. One person from each school will be named the most outdoorsy individual and receive North Face equipment gear and a Colorado internship with Outdoor Nation.
Over 30 schools applied to compete in this challenge. Ten schools have been chosen to compete — Appalachian State University; California State University, Long Beach; The College of Saint Benedict and Saint John’s University; George Mason University; Michigan Technological University; Spelman College; The University of Central Florida; The University of Iowa and The University of Wisconsin-Madison.
“I think UCF competing is great. It’s a big chance for school spirit. People always come out for tailgating and that’s super fun,” said Jacques Werleigh, garden manager and leadership liaison at the UCF Arboretum. “I think it’d be a shame if the second largest university in the nation, tree campus USA, didn’t win something like this.”
So far, the College of St. Benedict and St. John’s University have 400 people signed up. Ninety individuals have signed up with UCF.
Outdoor Nation is partnering with Outdoor Adventure to get students active and outdoors. The first event, Paddle Fest, takes place this Saturday, Sept. 27 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at Lake Claire. Free food, prizes, games and paddle board lessons will be provided.
The second event, Mile High Climb, will be held from Oct. 6 to Nov. 20 at the Rock Tower in the RWC. Individuals who climb are eligible to receive prizes like hammocks or travel mugs. Other RWC events are to be announced. Outdoor Adventure will also get new gear, which means they can potentially offer new trips to students.
“I put in this grant because the community we have here can win,” Hughes said.
Visit oncampuschallenge.org to enter your school for the Outdoor Nation Campus Challenge.



UCF SGA Senate elections were held this week and SGA saw an extreme drop in voter turnout from 2013.
In total, there were 2,948 votes, dropping 2,307 from 2013 at a 43.9% decrease. In spring SGA voted to ban candidates from providing students with food, drink and prizes during the candidate voting process, considering all of those items a bribe.
“SGA is striving to produce a more informed student body about the importance of these elections and their impacts on the student body as a whole,” Supervisor of Elections Eunice Wanjiru said in a release before the elections.
KnightNews.com reached out to Wanjiru after the elections to ask if SGA thought they did a good job informing the student body about the elections, but did not get a response back.
The Black and Gold Ticket, an SGA political party, announced on their Facebook page that 46 of the 47 candidates running for Senate seats won their election.
Full list of the 47th Senate:
College of Arts and Humanities
Seat 1: Kevin Diatezua
Seat 2: Alanna Fulk
Seat 3: Sara Gomez
Seat 4: Irina Pidberejna
College of Buisness Administaration
Seat 1: Michelle Mendez
Seat 2: Thomas Huang
Seat 3: Brandon Weppner
Seat 4: Vanessa Gomez
Seat 5: Rechelle Lambert
Seat 6: Kelly Greenwood
Seat 7: Benjamin DeStefano
Seat 8: Brian Quintero-Pino
College of Education and Human Performance
Seat 1: Audra Greuel
Seat 2: Brian Zagrocki
Seat 3: Christina Stoecker
Seat 4: Jamie Corey
College of Engineering & Computer Science
Seat 1: Crystian Cepeda
Seat 2: Hamilron Ervin
Seat 3: Lashell Lewis
Seat 4: Ashear Saad
Seat 5: Jimmy Briggs
Seat 6: Nick George
Seat 7: Ariane Dicario
College of Graduate Studies
Seat 1: Empty
Seat 2: Joshua Burbridge
Seat 3: Craig Jariz
Seat 4: Anthony Iaquinta
Seat 5: Empty
Seat 6: Empty
Seat 7: Empty
Seat 8: Sia Mohammadalipoor
College of Health and Public Affairs
Seat 1: Kaitlyn McCoy
Seat 2: Rebeca Twardy
Seat 3: Lauren Esposito
Seat 4: Madalyn Hart
Seat 5: Cara Gillaspie
Seat 6: Scott Benton
Seat 7: Victoria Benbow
Rosen College of Hospitality Management
Seat 1: Khari Grant
Seat 2: Rachel Altfield
Seat 3: Hannah Whipple
College of Medicine
Seat 1: Steve Njeru
Seat 2: Daniel Perez
Seat 3: Gerard Lemongello
College of Nursing
Seat 1: Empty
Seat 2: Jae Kook Lim
College of Sciences
Seat 1: Isel Bedgood
Seat 2: Caitlyn Zona
Seat 3: Nick Grandchamps
Seat 4: Jonathan Alexander Remy
Seat 5: Jessica Wolff
Seat 6: Alex Carciente-Moreno
Seat 7: Rodolfo Padilla
Seat 8: Jennifer Bayes
Seat 9: Meghan Kircher
Seat 10: Michelle Artilles
Undeclared Majors
Seat 1: Empty
Seat 2: Thomas Peterson
Regional Campus
Seat 1: Dillon Freeland
Seat 2: Empty



