Dr. Phillips senior Ian Supra was all smiles before his last high school water polo game.
It was the district championship against their bitter rival Olympia, and the stands were packed. They weren’t just rooting for their team, they were rooting for their star player to beat cancer.
Ian Supra, 18, noticed something was wrong a couple of months ago when he started having trouble swallowing his food. After about three or four tests to see what it was, Supra was diagnosed with Stage IV esophageal cancer and the spots spread to his liver.

Even though he has been through three rounds of chemotherapy, with the fourth coming up next week, he felt healthy enough to play for the last time in the district championship before he started his chemotherapy again.
Supra started the game for the Panthers, and once he put on his cap along with the rest of the other players, you almost forget that he is battling severe cancer.
The game started off slow for Dr. Phillips, with Olympia leading by a goal at the end of the first quarter. After that, Dr. Phillips pulled away, scoring seven goals in the second quarter and ultimately winning the game 17-11.
Supra finished with two goals, four assists and two steals, playing mostly the entire game. Afterwards, the referee gave “Supraman” the game ball and a big hug.
The true heart of a champion.
“It feels cool, I feel like a celebrity. It’s overwhelming at first, but I feel like I’m starting to kind of get used to it…it’s like a big family and I’m glad it came together like this,” Ian Supra said beaming from ear to ear after the game.
Since Supra was diagnosed with the cancer at the beginning of the season, he hasn’t been able to practice much with the team, making his stellar performance even more improbable.
“His heart is unreal, it’s the reason he’s going to come out of this and beat what he’s fighting. Meanwhile today it looks like he’s been practicing hard for two months, instead he’s had three rounds of chemo,” said Dr. Phillips Coach Ramirez.
Supra’s father, couldn’t believe what he was seeing.
“It’s amazing, sometimes he doesn’t skip a beat. You almost kind of forget that he hasn’t been in the pool with the team, but the team responds to him and he just loves being out there,” said Ian’s father Chris Supra.
Supra has inspired people across the nation with his fight. More than $86,000 has been raised to help Ian’s family with the medical costs and his friends have been a huge factor in raising the money.
Hundreds of “Supraman” t-shirts have been sold, along with thousands of wrist bands, organized by his best friend Mateo Mayorga.
One of his friends even turned down the opportunity to attend school in California and instead plans to go to UCF so he could be close by Ian.
“As soon as he found out about Ian’s diagnosis he immediately applied to UCF…His girlfriend also applied to UCF, his other best friend Mateo and of course Ian applied there because he wants to stay close to home but we haven’t heard anything yet,” said Ian’s mother Jackie Supra.
Next week when his team is fighting for the regional and state titles in Miami, Ian will be fighting to survive round four of aggressive chemotherapy.
Fortunately for Ian, he is not Clark Kent–“Supraman” has no kryptonite.



The University of Central Florida will not have to disclose records related to the controversial Regnerus study after an Orlando Judge ruled in its favor Thursday.
Judge John Marshall Kest ruled that the records related to the journal Social Science Research, which published the study, are not public records because UCF did not transfer its public function to the private journal and UCF does not control it.
John Becker, an LGBT activist, writer and blogger, filed a lawsuit against UCF back in March 2013 when he was denied emails related to Mark Regnerus’s New Family Structures Study — a now controversial study on gay and lesbian parenting. The research paper suggests gay marriage could have negative effects towards children. Becker said the paper has been criticized as having possible conflicts of interest.
Despite an initial ruling stating that UCF must turn over the records, UCF was ultimately awarded the win.
“Today’s decision unwisely places government secrecy and private corporate interests above the public’s right to transparency and open government,” said plaintiff John Becker. “The public deserves to know the truth behind Regnerus’s dangerous junk-science ‘study,’ and we will vigorously appeal today’s ruling so that the truth can at last come out.”
UCF also sent out a statement following the judge’s ruling.
“This ruling is a victory for public universities throughout Florida and for how faculty members conduct scholarly activities,” UCF spokesperson Grant Heston said. “We appreciate the court’s careful review of this important issue.”
Becker says he plans to appeal the decision.



Being a college student is tough enough with the daily struggles of trying to juggle academics, extracurricular activities and a social life all at the same time. 
As busy students we always feel drained. Well, picture adding on an illness on top of that. Imagine waking up various mornings lightheaded, your muscles weak and maybe even partially paralyzed. Imagine living your everyday life but adding on the possibility of randomly passing out at any moment.
As if college wasn’t already challenging, students with chronic illnesses have to face situations like these, some even worse, on a daily basis.
Chronic Change is a new student organization started by Amanda Hankins’ first year Lead Scholars class with a goal to help students who have chronic illnesses.
The inspiration behind this organization is UCF student Stacy Young.  Stacy battles mitochondrial disease: a defect in how our bodies produce energy.
To put it in a simple way, her cells always run on low energy.
Stacy’s parents homeschooled her because of the fear of her passing out in random places or other similar things occurring to her. When it came to college, Stacy wanted to go out on her own.  She wanted to “gain her independence.”
With this big step came big responsibility, both personally and financially. Stacy realized that she needed a service dog and assistance due to her illness. Unfortunately, the service dog Stacy needs ranged at $20,000. She turned to her university for help only to quickly find out that there was no organization on campus that could help her.  When her Lead class and peers heard about this, they soon jumped at the opportunity and Chronic Change was born.
According to their Facebook page, their mission statement is “to support and provide effective means for students with chronic illness to live and function independently and successfully.”
Stacy’s lead class spoke very highly of her. They described her as the sweetest person ever, an angel, and even an excellent baker (although she cannot eat her own creations due to a strict diet). “She’s an excellent baker. I wish I could eat everything she bakes for the rest of my life,” says Bianca Ungerman.
KnightNews.com asked the class to describe their movement and goal in one word.  The top two were “change” and “inspiration”.
“I think it’s very important that we’re able to do this as students. We’re able to see that here at UCF anything is possible and we don’t have boundaries,” said student Tai-Lyn Porboosingh.
Word about Chronic Change is spreading mostly though social media. Chronic Change has received positive feedback and messages thanking them because of the lack awareness of this illness at UCF.
“Our long term goal is to become a 501c3 non-profit organization, and we want to become a permanent branch of the UCF Disability Services,” said Aylene Knigh, who even chose to do her class speech on Chronic Change.
“Having a disability myself, I feel like this is a very positive action,” says member Juliana Hern.
If you wish to support this up and coming organization, consider attending their partial proceeds night at Burger U on campus tonight from 3-9 p.m. Make sure to bring this flyer with you!
To stay updated with Chronic Change, like their Facebook page or consider making a donation to their movement.



