Knowing all too well that tragedies can and do occur, students at the University of Central Florida understood what was going through the minds of students at Florida State when they first got alert messages of a shooter on campus.

In the early morning of Nov. 20, a lone gunman opened fire at the Strozier library on Florida State University’s main campus — wounding three students before being killed by campus police. 
Here at UCF, Police Chief Richard Beary said that the school had extended an offer to to FSU for help with response and recovery and also said that police presence on UCF’s main campus would be enhanced over the next several days.
“Here at the university, being the situation that unfolded up there, we’ve taken some proactive steps just to make sure that our students feel safe and we have a very visible presence — which we do everyday. We’ve kind of enhanced it a little bit and will continue that over the next few days,” Chief Beary said. 
KnightNews.com has hired a crew in Tallahassee to keep you updated on the latest news. Continue to check back for updates. 



UCF Alpha Tau Omega took their “Rock the Wreath” philanthropy to new heights on Wednesday night, raising over $26,000 for the Children’s Miracle Network and Florida Abolitionist. 
The fraternity, which was unable to hold the concert the past two years due to suspension, came back to bring the Ying Yang Twins and over a thousand students to see the on-campus concert held at their house.

UCF Alpha Tau Omega brother Onni Franco has spent the entire semester helping plan the concert and couldn’t have been more excited with the result. 
“It feels great. I’m honestly honored to do this. It feels great inside to give back to the community and I hope everyone had a great time,” Franco said after the concert.
ATO President Lincoln Devine echoed Franco’s sentiments, proud of his fraternity for being able to bounce back to hold the concert as soon as they were reinstated by UCF.
“Everyone has a piece in this, everyone plays a role in this and that’s the only way we made this a truly successful event. I’m really proud to be apart of this organization, we’ve come together off of this suspension and have done really great things,” Devine said. 



As plans for the new Wayne Densch Center for Student-Athlete Leadership get underway, UCF Athletics has just announced a $1 million gift commitment to the project from the Williams Family Foundation.
The new sports center, named in honor of the Wayne Densch Charitable Trust’s $4 million gift to the project, will serve as the headquarters for personal, professional and academic development of nearly 500 Knights student-athletes. 
Leonard Williams, a trustee of the Wayne Densch Charitable Trust, was a key part of the recent $1 million gift — saying he and his family felt compelled to personally make a large contribution. 
“On behalf of my family and in support of the Wayne Densch Charitable Trust, I felt there was a need to ensure this project became a reality,” Williams said.
The project cost is estimated at $6 million for the three-story, 22,000-square-foot structure — housing a variety of classrooms, labs, study spaces and resource rooms. 
“We are very grateful to the Williams family for this generous gift,” said UCF Vice President and Director of Athletics Todd Stansbury. “Thanks to this commitment from the Williams Family Foundation, our current and future Everyday Champion student-athletes will be able to utilize all the benefits the Wayne Densch Center for Student-Athlete Leadership will provide for years to come.”
The Wayne Densch Center for Student-Athlete Leadership will be located just east of and adjacent to Bright House Networks Stadium. A groundbreaking ceremony is scheduled for Friday at 5 p.m. at the site. Construction is set to begin in January, with the project slated for completion in Fall 2015.



Local leaders convened to celebrate this Wednesday for the re-opening of the 78-year old Orlando Citrus Bowl, adding another state-of-the-art facility to Orlando’s list of recent accomplishments.
The $207 million renovation, which took place over ten months, includes new, plastic backed seats, improved locker rooms, concessions, club and luxury suites, a party deck, over 1,000 toilets and stalls – no troughs, and three advanced video screens instead of one.
Orange County Mayor Theresa Jacobs, among other city officials, cite the endless opportunities that the city’s largest event-holder will bring.
“What a great achievement for our entire community,” Jacobs said to a crowd. “And what an impact this venue will have on our economy, our reputation, and our fun. From college, NFL and bowl games to special events, we will now be able to host families and athletes from around the world in a world-class venue.”
The façades no longer feature the large concrete pillars that loomed over guests, but instead boast colorful panes placed outside of the concourses as well as palm trees and grand staircases that lead from the ground.
“When we had our design we talked about wanting this to be iconic [with] a Florida, Orlando feel to the stadium,” said Orlando mayor Buddy Dyer at the ceremony.
After noting the participation from many sponsors and benefactors, Dyer emphasized the importance of the local community in the completion of this project. Nearly 300 homeless, ex-offenders, and Parramore residents were involved in construction, providing temporary work as well as experience for the local citizens.
“Today a new chapter begins as we create new memories and unforgettable experiences in this iconic venue. This is your house Central Florida,” Dyer finished.
Despite the progress made on the Bowl, construction crews have much to complete in the next two days, with the upper bowl, concession stands, and much of the club lounges unfinished. An estimated 90% of the stadium has been completed, although fans can expect the complex to be game-ready for Saturday’s match between Bethune-Cookman University and Florida A&M.
Citing an MLS soccer stadium, the Dr. Phillips Performing Arts Center, the Amway Center, and a soon to be constructed entertainment complex with the Orlando Magic, Florida Citrus Sports’ Steve Hogan attended the ribbon-cutting, having been an Orlando resident himself.
“I’ve lived here for 27 years and seen a lot of talk and no action, and you did it – I can’t believe this is the same place I played high school football in,” said Hogan. “We are entering the greatest era of arts, sports and entertainment this community has ever seen.”
Saturday’s Florida Blue Florida Classic game game between Bethune-Cookman University and Florida A&M will take place at 2 p.m. and will be the Citrus Bowl’s first event.
A free open house will take place on Saturday, December 14th, where guests can take self-guided tours and enjoy snacks and refreshments. Although the event is free, guests will need to pick up a ticket. Tickets will be provided at the Amway Center Box Office, the Dr. J.B. Callahan Neighborhood Center, and the John H. Jackson Community Center.



University of Central Florida Vice President Maribeth Ehasz and UCF Police Chief Richard Beary issued a statement to students and faculty Thursday afternoon following the shooting at Florida State University.

Read the statement below:
“The news about today’s shooting at Florida State University reminds all of us of the importance of not taking our safety for granted and also of showing compassion for each other.
We ask our entire UCF family to keep Florida State students, faculty, staff and police officers in your thoughts. Our university has extended an offer to assist Florida State with its response and recovery, and we encourage you to support your friends, family members and colleagues in Tallahassee.

Safety is always a team effort. Our officers patrol the campus 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and this morning we began enhanced patrols in the UCF Library area as well as in other campus buildings.
We urge you to help us keep our campus safe by reporting suspicious activity to UCF Police at any time by calling 407-823-5555. In an emergency, or if you see a crime in progress, please dial 911.
Students who wish to talk with a counselor are invited to visit or call Counseling and Psychological Services. You can call 407-823-2811 for assistance or visit http://caps.sdes.ucf.edu to learn more about our counseling services.
The UCF Cares initiative includes many other programs and resources available to support students’ health, safety and well-being. Visit http://cares.sdes.ucf.edu for more information.
Thank you for looking out for your fellow Knights – and Seminoles – to help all of us stay safe.”



Three Florida State students were shot and wounded by a gunman inside the school’s library early Thursday morning, before the gunman reportedly briefly exchanged fire and was killed by campus police. 
FSU sent out an alert, telling students to seek shelter and to stay clear of windows and doors. It was around 12:30 a.m. that the currently unidentified gunman walked into Strozier Library on FSU campus and opened fire.

At a news conference held Thursday morning, police said they are still trying to piece together what happened, but that the gunman acted alone and that all three students are being treated for gunshot wounds.
The shooting leaves the entire state of Florida in a state of shock, echoed by State University System Chancellor Marshall Criser III. 
“The State University System of Florida is deeply saddened by the shooting that occurred early this morning on Florida State University’s campus. Our thoughts and prayers are with the individuals and families who have been impacted,” said State University System Chancellor Marshall Criser III in a release. “The System’s top priority is the safety and well-being of our students, staff and university community. We are proud of our students and Florida State University staff who responded quickly and appropriately to a frightening and dangerous situation.” 
FSU President John Thrasher also released a statement, ensuring students that the threat is no longer imminent.
“Florida State University and Tallahassee police departments have done an extraordinary job taking quick and decisive action to prevent further tragedy, to secure the scene and to keep campus safe. They have assured me that there is no further threat,” Thrasher said in a release.



