Business is business, but how far will a transportation service go with their “surge pricing”? 
Uber, a ride-sharing service that connects riders to drivers through a phone application, was found not to double or triple their rates on Halloween night, but to charge up to nine times the original rate due to “surge pricing”. 
UCF senior and human communication major, Danielle Padron, dealt with Uber’s surge pricing first-hand on Halloween night.
With unbelievable traffic and no way home, Padron and her friend decided to use Uber, as a safe and cheap alternative. The 16-mile ride, which at the normal rate would cost $28.38, totaled a whopping $279.95, well above any college student’s budget.
“Uber is always super cheap. I’ve used it before and they’re very available,” Padron said. 
After her experience on Halloween, Padron said she would never use it again.
However, surge pricing is not new. At busy times, Uber rates increase to get more cars on the road. Once enough are on the road, prices go back down to normal levels. On Uber’s website, it says, “when rates are more than double, the surge confirmation screen also requires you to type in the specific surge multiplier to ensure you understand what rates to expect.”
The fact that customers know that rates will be higher did not justify it for Padron. She said she attempted to contact Uber but could not locate a phone number and had to resort to email. The surge pricing did not catch her off-guard, she said, but her driver did overcharge her. According to Padron, the driver told her he would charge the normal rate.
“The driver actually lied. He was being really coy,” Padron said.
As she waited for her friend to hop in, the driver told her he wasn’t running the meter yet. When Padron checked her bank account the next day, her debit card was overdrawn and she was charged almost a 90% increase of the normal rate for her ride home that took over an hour.
Padron appealed to Uber, looking to be reimbursed, and was notified via email that they would in fact reimburse her to a more reasonable price, that being $209.
Uber’s surge pricing has made headlines across the entire United States. 
According to Business Insider, Gabby Wathen, a 26-year-old in Baltimore, made a costly decision by using Uber as an alternative to drunk driving after partying on Halloween. For Wathen, her bill broke the bank and she was struggling to pay her rent. Her 20-minute ride home was $362.57.
Wathen had little to no luck disputing the transaction, according to Business Insider. She took to crowd-funding through a GoFund.me page and was able to raise $512 in less than 12 hours. For Elliott Asbury, an Uber customer, his horrific bill got semi-refunded, according to New York Daily News. Instead of a shocking $539 to pay, he ended up receiving a 25% discount for getting caught in the surge pricing and being a first-time customer, bringing his total to $404.25.
According to Uber’s website, “surge pricing allows us to remain reliable, even on one of the busiest nights of the year. Our rates will float in real time with fluctuations in supply and demand. Increased rates incentivize more driver partners to get on the roads and ensure those who need a ride won’t be left stranded.” 
The alternative transportation app that came to Orlando in June has yet to gain the legal right to operate in town. Needless to say, this was not the kind of scare thrifty college students were looking for.



The UCF men’s basketball team crushed the Flagler Saints 96-70 in an exhibition match played Tuesday night.
The Knights went into the second half leading 40-35, turning around a 47.1% field goal completion rate with a 75.9% rate in the second half, ending the day at 60.3%. A renewed attitude coming after halftime saw the 1-7 three pointers made turn into 5-9 shots sunk past the arch.
A quarter of the points made against Flagler come from freshman and Orlando native B.J. Taylor, who went looking to build experience in the game before hitting the court in the regular season. Joined by Taylor, freshman Adonys Henriquez made a statement by pulling eight rebounds in his first game in a UCF jersey.
“I thought Adonys played extremely well, he had eight assists tonight, he passed up a lot of shots and he can really shoot the ball. I thought he played a good floor game on two turnovers,” said head coach Donnie Jones in a post-game interview.
Working around different line-ups, head coach Donnie Jones compensated for the loss of junior guard Matt Williams on Tuesday night’s game by shuffling the combination of players on the court. Williams is battling tendinitis in his legs at the moment, and is hoping to make a return soon.
The fifteen man roster includes eight newcomers this season, including five freshman. Having lost their top three scorers in all conference a year ago, Jones will look to make up for this loss now that the slate has been wiped clean.
“A lot of new faces tonight, a lot of new people in different spots. Matt Williams, another important part of our team hasn’t been able to play the last few weeks, he’s fighting severe tendonitis in his legs, but he’s getting better,” Jones said. “I really wanted to start and try some different line-ups tonight, that was my focal point. It was the first time we’ve had exhibition games in two years so it gives us a chance to do something different.”
Although the two teams haven’t played an official game since 1999, the win gives the Knights an 11-0 record when playing the Saints.
UCF will play its second and last exhibition match against Georgia College on November 11th, at 7 p.m. ET.
Regular season play will begin against Stetson University on November 16th at 6 p.m. ET at the CFE Arena.



