Coming off of a win against Stetson on Wednesday night, the Knights take their talent on the road with the satisfaction that they put an end to Stetson’s 13-game winning streak. Head Coach Renne Luers-Gillispie is preparing her team for the rivalry showdown against USF in The American this Saturday, with a doubleheader starting at 1 p.m., followed by a single game Sunday at 1 p.m. to finish off the three-game series.
UCF junior pitcher Mackenzie Audas was unstoppable and difficult for Stetson to solve, as she struck out 11 in a three-hit shutout for the (1-0) win over Stetson University. Striking out five of the last seven batters in the final innings against Stetson, Audas proved to be one big wrecking ball this past Wednesday night as she finished her fifth complete-game shutout so far this season.
And it doesn’t start or stop with Audos.
All players have been stepping up their game both offensive and defensively, bringing out more wins throughout the latter half of the conference season for the Knights (28-12).
While sophomore catcher Kalyn Cenal added another home run to her 13-game hitting streak, the Knights prepare to bring their big bats to the box in the upcoming challenge with the Bulls this weekend.
Jessica Ujvari added two more home runs as she continues to tear the cover off the ball this season with a .322 batting average. It is Kahley Novak who shows how it is done as she has accumulated 49 hits, 10 RBI’s and averages a .398 batting average so far this season. Making sure the ball is put in play every time; Novak brings the heat for her opposing teams.
Brittany Solis is another tough cookie for Coach Leurs-Gillispies as the leadoff hitter with 13 RBI’s and 16 hits so far this season. Linnea Goodman, coming off a knee injury, still manages to put up a brick wall in letting nothing by her in left field. The Knights prepare to bring the heat when getting ready for this weekends challenge against USF.
The Knights travel a short distance down I-4 to lasso the Bulls, knowing they need to keep their momentum and solidify bragging rights from their in-state rival, at least for now.



