On Sunday, UCF’s Panhellenic council and Feeding Children Everywhere teamed up to bring the third annual Pack to Attack Hunger to UCF.
Starting at 11:30 a.m. on Sunday morning, student volunteers gathered at the Venue for a one-hour meal packaging event to help feed hungry children around the Orlando area. This year’s ingredients included lentils, white rice, vegetables and pink Himalayan salt. Volunteers were set up in teams around the building, and with 60 minutes on the clock, the team assembly lines began to package as many meals as possible in an hour.
By the end of the day, with an all-time high of over 600 volunteers participating, 151,200 meals were packaged and over $38,000 was raised for the cause.
Feeding Children Everywhere is a social charity that empowers and mobilizes people to assemble healthy meals for hungry children and UCF did just that on Sunday.
UCF Panhellenic Council Vice President of Community Involvement Adi Graff is proud to have helped bring this event to campus.
“The Panhellenic Council is proud to bring the UCF community together to make a tangible difference by hand-packaging meals and feeding hungry children in the Orlando area,” said Graff. 
Zeta Tau Alpha’s head Pack to Attack coordinator, Stephanie Sobolewski echoed Graff’s sentiments. 
“Participating in Pack to Attack Hunger has been one of the most rewarding experiences I have had in Zeta. I had so much fun working alongside other Panhellenic women to raise money and spread awareness about the Feeding Children Everywhere organization. Being that hands on made me feel like we were really making a difference in our Orlando area,” Sobolewski said.



Many movies and TV shows embellish the college experience with clichés that glorify it to be a place to start over, be whoever you want to be; the nerdy mathlete from high school can now rush a sorority and be the hottest carefree babe at the university.
Unfortunately, cliques and preconceived notions of individuals are a prominent issue in our society. Such stereotypes exist and UCF student Nicklas Bajema aspires to raise thought and awareness in students with his photo campaign about why they exist and hopefully to rid of them altogether.
Bajema, a 20-year old political science major at UCF, is in the process of creating a photo campaign to generate awareness of commonly represented stereotypes. The campaign will consist of anywhere between 10 and 20 photographs that will be in both black and white and color with a single question below each, according to Bajema.
“My goal is not to provide too much thought,” Bajema said. “I want [viewers] to invoke their own reason throughout seeing the photos.”
Each photo will display an individual that is stereotyped for certain reasons, but will be photographed out of their stereotype.
To Bajema, the main objective of the campaign is to not only produce a response. Instead, he wants students to realize that they are not stereotypes and increase acceptance among students.
“These stereotypes don’t have to belong to just one, they can belong to everyone and by belonging to everyone there are no more stereotypes”, said Bajema.
Bajema anticipates to be finished by summer 2015 but hopes to be done sooner. His ultimate goal is to achieve SGA’s support and have the campaign playing on screens across campus and printed in as many publications as possible.
Bajema has also opened invites to anyone who wants to participate and have their voice and story heard.
“We are individuals that make up the community, we’re all UCF Knights, we’re all human,” said Bajema.
If interested in participating, contact Nicklas Bajema on Facebook at Bajema Photography.



