UCF has joined an alliance of 11 public universities focused on helping more low-income and first-generation students earn college degrees.
The goal of the alliance is to form a “national playbook” of programs that will benefit these students. A recent statistic shows that high-income students are seven times more likely to attain a college degree than low-income students.
Currently, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Ford Foundation and four other organizations have contributed $5.7 million to support the University Innovation Alliance’s to help expand the program.
“Through this unprecedented collaboration, we will help more students across the country earn high-quality, four-year degrees and experience the life-changing opportunities that accompany those degrees,” UCF President Hitt said in a release. “My UCF colleagues and I are eager to learn from our partners and share our best ideas and innovations.”
The universities involved in the alliance are all large institutions, with over 378,000 combined undergraduate students.
DirectConnect, one of the big innovations created by UCF, is now being copied by fellow alliance partner Arizona State University. The DirectConnect program guarantees admission for students at one of the four partner state colleges–Valencia College, Seminole State College, Lake-Sumter State College and Eastern Florida State College at UCF after completing their associate’s degree.
Joining UCF as alliance members are Arizona State, Georgia State, Iowa State, Michigan state, Oregon State, Purdue, Ohio State, University of California at Riverside, Kansas, and University of Texas at Austin.



Backed by high student-athlete graduation rates, UCF looks to a new academic center, not only to improve their athlete’s academic achievement but also prepare those students for a successful career after college.
In the 2013 football season the Knights held second among the BCS teams for highest graduation rates, with 83% of its football players earning their diplomas, only behind Stanford University. The rate for all student athletes ran higher, at 89%, tying Alabama for tenth place among all seventy bowl teams.
The decision to build the center comes from an effort to support student athletes in a way that other universities are not looking towards.
“One of the things that I think sets us apart in many ways is our belief that while our industry has been so focused on graduation rates, graduation should really be the beginning and not the end,” UCF vice president and director of athletics Todd Stansbury told Forbes.
Dubbed the Wayne-Densch Student-Athlete Center, the 22,500 square foot facility will be built adjacent to the Bright House Networks Stadium. Funds are still being drawn to support construction of the center but development can be expected before the closing of the 2014 year. The Wayne-Densch Charitable Trust is donating $4 million to support construction and design phases.
Wayne M. Densch has been a longtime contributor to UCF, donating $1 million that went towards athletic scholarships in 1985 and $2.5 million in funds to the Wayne Densch Sport Center in 2003.
“The Wayne Densch Charitable Trust has been a stalwart supporter of UCF Athletics for decades,” said UCF President John C. Hitt in a release. “This generous gift represents another milestone in the outstanding partnership between UCF and the Wayne Densch Charitable Trust to support our student-athletes.”
Athletes who take advantage of the center can expect their chances of success to increase intrinsically as well as attract attention from local businesses and industries partnered with UCF. As the headquarters for the personal, professional, and academic development of the five hundred student-athletes it will serve, the center will include a multi-purpose classroom which will hold 200 students, a computer lab, tutoring and mentoring rooms, study space and conference and resource rooms.
“The whole idea of this leadership center is to expand the horizons of our student-athletes… we want to show them what other options may be available to them and really help them understand the value of the network, and that while you’re a student-athlete people want to know you and you’re interesting,” Stansbury told Forbes. “Not only are we asking corporate partners to help us with developing programming that addresses their specific needs, but also we want them to be engaged in teaching the programming as well.”
UCF has shown an investment in its athletes, not just providing for them during their respective seasons, but preparing and guiding them for a successful future.
“The time to expand your network is while you’re a student-athlete, not after graduation when you’re just another person looking for a job,” Stansbury told Forbes.
The Wayne-Densch Student Athlete Center expects to open its doors in either October or November 2015.



Women’s Soccer
In a match that handed Texas their first loss of the season, UCF women’s soccer disrupted the Longhorn’s undefeated record in a 2-0 victory played last Friday, September 12.
With their third consecutive inclement weather delay, the Knights remained focused as they rode out the storm, picking up where they left off at the 18 minute mark. Texas, having an unblemished record to uphold, put up a fight that held the Knights off until the first goal, made by Jennifer Martin, came through in the second half.
“Texas came out on fire, which we expected,” said head coach Tiffany Roberts Sahaydak. “They were fresh and had nothing to lose. To deal with Texas’ pressure and be able to pull another goal out late by Tati was great. I really felt like we grew tonight, I really feel like tonight everybody put in their best. We played to our standard today and that was really great to see.”
University of Texas put the pressure on UCF (5-2-0) by outshooting them 10-5 in the second half, aiming for the equalizer to stay in the game. The fate of the Longhorns sealed in the 86th minute, where American Athletic Conference Player of the Week Tatiana Coleman put an unassisted goal in the back of the net. Though upset, UT (4-2-2) continued on with their heads held high.
“I’m proud of the way our team responded after the delay,” Texas head coach Angela Kelly said. “I thought we played inspired and the energy was really great after the break, coming up with six of our 10 second-half shots over the last 17 minutes. UCF is a high quality opponent, and I really respect their coaching staff.”
The Knights held Oregon at bay Sunday, the 14th, outshooting the Beavers an astonishing 33-1 in their 4-0 victory.
Junior midfielder Amanda Wilkin made her first two goals of the season in the game while Tatiana Coleman made her fifth goal of the season, and a second game-winner to go along with it. Both Wilkin and Colman, along with Ashley Spivey, brought their team to the second shutout of the weekend.
Handed a fifth straight loss, Oregon (0-6-2) was no match for UCF.
“It was a tough loss to a very good UCF side,” said Oregon head coach Linus Rhode. “I think they will go far this season.”
UCF will face No. 23 Long Beach State Friday, September 19th at 7:00pm ET.
Men’s Soccer
Akron, celebrating their 60th anniversary, claimed victory against the Men’s team, drawing a crowd of 2,785 to the 2-1 match Friday night.
Romario Williams led the team with three out of the five shots made by UCF (1-3-0) on Akron (2-2-1), only one, made by Williams in a penalty shot, connected in the end. Head coach Bryan Cunningham made note of the team’s performance, crediting the one goal game to the goal made by Williams but also the leadership coming from junior midfielder Mason Miller.
“Our plan going in was to start strong and try to score early,” said Cunningham. “Unfortunately, we gave up the first goal and started to chase the game too much… I give our players a lot of credit for battling back and making it a one goal game, but we were unable to manufacture another chance to equalize.”
“Mason was tremendous for us,” Cunningham continued. “He provided leadership and experience in the midfield for us tonight. He has a strong work ethic and that showed. He was a big engine in there and helped to disrupt their possession.”
The men’s team tied the College of Charleston (2-3-1) in the two-day tournament 1-1.
Freshman Matias Pyysalo scored the equalizer in the second half to even the match through overtime and to the end.
“In the second half, we told the players that there is a goal out there for us, but we could not give away the second one. Give our players credit for being resilient and hanging around. We were able to equalize and had a few chances to earn a victory, but unfortunately it did not happen and the match ended in a draw.”
Senior goalkeeper Sebastian Evers made a season-high of 12 saves during the match, two made in a crucial overtime period.
UCF men’s soccer hosts North Florida Wednesday, Sept. 17, at 7 p.m. ET.



Homecoming season for UCF is just over a month away and the candidates for UCF homecoming king and queen have been announced.
Homecoming 2014 will take place October 19-25, starting with the fifth annual “Kidz Carnival” where student organizations will host a kid-friendly carnival. The voting for homecoming king and queen starts on Monday, October 20 at 9 a.m.
The week will end with a home football game against Temple on October 25.
The full list of queen and king candidates, along with the organization they are representing is below:
Queen Candidates:
Shannon Payne – Honors Congress
Shanzay Pervaiz – Kappa Delta Sorority
Shelby Birch – Alpha Kappa Psi Professional Business Fraternity
Olivia White – KnightMoves Dance Team
Sheridan Kushner – Student Government Association
King Candidates:
Phillip Bent – Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc.
Gerald Richardson – Student Undergraduate Research Council
Eric M Patz – Graduate Student Association
James Briggs – Alpha Pi Mu Industrial Engineering Honor Fraternity
Joseph Manglardi – Sigma Pi Fraternity



