The Knights (11-15, 3-12) refused to give up when Rutgers (10-18, 4-11) opened up a 15-point lead midway through the second half.
Sparked by a monster dunk by Tristan Spurlock, the Knights rallied late to stun the Scarlet Knights at the CFE Arena on Wednesday night. Spurlock and Sykes combined for 18 of 28 of the Knight’s final points, with Sykes scoring nine of his 14 points in the final five minutes.
Spurlock had a total of 23 points, including shooting 3-5 from long range to go with five rebounds and two steals. It was only the third win for the Knights in the talented American Athletic Conference, which has four teams ranked in the top 25.
“We’re learning how much toughness you need to win in this league, how to get some stops defensively to finish games and not just hang around. We did that tonight,” Head Coach Donnie Jones said after the game.
Tristan Spurlock is hoping that this comeback win will help the team’s maturity as the season progresses.
“We’ve had a lot of late-game slip ups this season and this was a great way to show our fans that we’ve had enough and learned from our mistakes,” Spurlock said.
Myles Mack led Rutgers with 19 points and Junior Etou scored 14 for the Scarlet Knights in the losing effort. The Knights are back in action on March 1, when they travel to take on fellow AAC member SMU.



Blake Bortles wasn’t only asked about football at his NFL Combine interview.
On the Dan Patrick Show, Bortles told Dan Patrick that NFL teams asked awkward questions about his girlfriend, Lindsey Duke, during the interview. Duke gained internet fame over the  course of UCF’s historic football season.
“Some awkward if we come to town will she be there for dinner stuff like that,” Bortles said.
Bortles acknowledged that NFL teams were trying to see how he reacted when asked about his girlfriend.
“That was kind of their angle, to see how I reacted to it,” Bortles said.
Watch the interview with Bortles from the Dan Patrick Show below:




Knight Library General Manager Cabot Brown wanted to bring the feel of a downtown bar to UCF without the hassle of having to make the drive.
KnightNews.com got a chance to get an exclusive look inside Dungeon before its opening on Wednedsay. Check out the video below:

Dungeon Lounge, which features a $20,000 sound system boasting six LED moving head lights, five lasers and an independently controlled light up bar is hoping to do just that.
Inspired by the lighting system at Attic downtown, the lasers are no joke. Brown told KnightNews.com that they are so strong they can burn a finger if you are too close. Fortunately for UCF bar-goers, the lasers are attached to the ceiling.
The drink special will be the same as Knight Library’s and Brown is bringing back RIOT Wednesday, an electronic dance music night that was popular at the old Dungeon in the plaza.
The dress code for Dungeon with be a little bit more upscale, but shorts will be allowed. Flip-flops and tank tops will not be allowed.



Lauren Berger, founder and CEO of InternQueen.com and UCF alumna, spoke to students Tuesday afternoon about taking risks and putting yourself out there regarding internships and careers.
“Internships are mandatory in 2014. The employer you’re interviewing with isn’t going to ask where you worked, they’re going to ask where you interned,” said Berger.
If anyone would know about internships, it would be Berger herself who had 15 internships during her four years in college. Her ambition and resilience are things that set her apart from other students.
Berger started her college career at Florida State University because of the appeal of football games and partying, but after her mother called to tell her she needed an internship, she sought out FSU’s Career Services for help, where she was told that freshman don’t get internships and that she should come back when she was a senior.
Despite their discouraging advice, Berger went home and did the research herself. After cold calling the internship coordinator at the Zimmerman Agency in Tallahassee, she landed her first internship with no experience at all.
“I felt like I could really relate to her situation because the only experience I currently have is working at Publix,” said Quinea Calloway.
What set Berger apart was her timeliness and perseverance. Instead of waiting to send her resume to the internship coordinator at the Zimmerman Agency, she sent it within 24 hours of the request, which immediately impressed the coordinator.
This was just the first of many times that Berger persevered, took a chance and landed something huge. Some of her other internships include FOX, NBC, MTV, Backstage Magazine and BWR Public Relations. She also did freelance writing for her dream job at US Weekly for her last two years in college.
Her friends gave her the advice to start a website that college students could use to find internships, because they found that other career websites like Monster.com could be intimidating and weren’t narrowed enough for internships.
Berger kept her friend’s advice in the back of her mind, but once it was time for her to graduate from UCF in 2006, she decided to pursue a career in Los Angeles instead.
She referred to getting a job as easy as ordering a burger at McDonalds, due to the experience and the connections she had made throughout her time in college.
She worked for the Creative Artists Agency in Los Angeles for two years, but left and told her parents in 2009 that she was going to become the “Intern Queen.” Shortly after, she started InternQueen.com
Berger gave students lots of great tips that they can use, not only when looking for an internship, but when applying to jobs after college and keeping up with connections.
For example, two things that Berger said you need for an interview are a business suit and thank you cards. Instead of sending an e-mail follow up, buy a pack of thank you cards, hand write a quick note and send it to the employer. This makes you stand out and shows that you really do care about the position.
Berger also used a simple and funny phrase to remember in regards to staying in touch with business connections: Ralph Called Taylor A Flirt. The first letters of each word represent: Recognize, Connect, Track, Add Value and Follow Up, respectively.
She advises that you reach out to your business connections at least three times a year – in spring, summer and fall. Berger utilizes Google Alerts to notify her when her business connections have been promoted or been mentioned in the news. This way, she can bring up those points when she checks in with them throughout the year.
Not only should you be reaching out and connecting with your fellow employers to form connections around you, but also your fellow interns that you work with. These interns are the ambitious people who you can connect with later down the line too.
Finally, don’t be discouraged if you get rejected.
“You are going to get rejected for the rest of your life, whether that be from employers or boyfriends. I really let rejections propel me to the next thing,” said Berger.
Berger defines the overall moral of her story in one simple sentence. You have to go after opportunities.
“She really motivated me, especially because she’s from UCF. I’ll definitely be getting her new book,” said Bianca Dottin.
Berger has had one book published, “All Work, No Pay,” and will be releasing another book “Welcome to the Real World,” on April 22nd.
You can connect with her on LinkedIn.com and she encourages students to reach out to her with any questions at lauren@internqueen.com



UCF Athletics announced Wednesday that the Garvy Family Foundation has made a $1 million gift commitment to UCF Athletics to support the construction of the Wayne Densch Center for Student-Athlete Leadership.
The donation, made by Carol and Bob Garvy, will support the development of “the headquarters for UCF student-athletes’ personal, professional and academic development.” The center will house UCF’s Student-Athlete Leadership Institute, Academic Services for Student-Athletes, Student Services and Compliance departments.
“We are fully supportive of the Wayne Densch Center for Student-Athlete Leadership and are pleased to be part of this exciting project,” Carol and Robert Garvy said. “UCF has become very special to us and we are particularly interested in the development and future of UCF student-athletes.”
The Garvys’ son Kevin was a member of the Knights football team from 2008-12, seeing action in every game of his senior season. Kevin Garvy is a 2012 UCF graduate with a bachelor’s degree in finance. The younger Garvy is currently enrolled at UCF as a graduate student and is scheduled to earn his MBA this spring. In addition, Robert Garvy is a member of the UCF Athletics Association Board of Directors and the UCF Board of Trustees.
“We are very grateful to Carol and Bob Garvy for this wonderful gift,” Stansbury said. “Thanks to this commitment from the Garvy Family Foundation, UCF student-athletes – our Everyday Champions – will continue to benefit from the Wayne Densch Center for Student-Athlete Leadership for years and years to come.”
The Wayne Densch Center for Student-Athlete Leadership will be located just east of and adjacent to Bright House Networks Stadium. Construction is slated to begin before the end of 2014.



UPDATE: UCF has reached out to us and said that the insects are actually mud wasps, not bees.
“We have some mud wasp nests (not bees) in the Visual Arts breezeway that are being removed…It is a black wasp with a long, thin waist, and is not a social wasp. It is not very aggressive and rarely stings people. However, it often builds its mud nests close to human activity,” a spokesperson for UCF said.
A photo posted on Facebook of thousands of tiny bees on the UCF campus is creating quite a stir across social media.
The photo, posted by George Dumont in a UCF Class of 2016 Facebook page, shows thousands of bees tightly packed in an area of UCF’s campus.
“UCF Bears, squirrels, now Bees!?!? What the heck UCF???” the photo’s caption read.
Our news team determined that the photo is of UCF’s Visual Arts Building. When we went to check out the area Thursday morning, we saw hundreds of bees still buzzing and flying around the area.
We’ve sent the photo to UCF and asked what measures they plan on taking to remove the bees. Students should remain vigilant in the area until further notice. 



