After Student Government Association President Melissa Westbrook was impeached, the Senate’s LJR committee members investigating her for allegedly breaking Sunshine Law might just be doing the same thing themselves in SGA’s witness interview process.
According to SGA Statutes, the LJR committee can hold its witness interviews in secrecy because they claim they are “fact-finding” meetings. SGA claims no official business is taking place, because they do not vote during the witness interview process. However, the Florida Attorney General’s Sunshine manual casts major doubt on SGA’s stance that these meetings do not violate the Sunshine Law.
According to the Florida Attorney General’s Sunshine manual, Sunshine Law covered bodies like the LJR committee cannot be eligible for the “fact-finding exception”. Citing the case Finch v. Seminole County School Board, the court held that the “fact-finding exception” did not apply to the school board. In the case, members of the the Sunshine Law covered board could not even take a fact-finding bus tour without violating the Sunshine Law, even though no vote was taken during the trip.
Simply put, members of a Sunshine Law covered board like the LJR committee cannot hold the witness interviews in secrecy, even though they are taking steps by saying they are not doing business or taking official votes during the process. According to the Florida Attorney General’s Sunshine manual, since those who are attending the meeting belong to a Sunshine  Law covered board, the meeting would be required to be open.
This isn’t the first time that the LJR Committee has faced scrutiny for allegedly violating Sunshine Law. In 2010, impeachment charges were levied against an SGA Senator accused of having a drunken romp on a UCF golf cart.
At the time, an attorney representing KnightNews.com wrote a letter to the then SGA President and Speaker explaining why the secret LJR witness interviews violated Sunshine Law. His sentiments echoed that of the Attorney General’s Sunshine manual and cited the case Rhea v. City of Gainesville which says, “any gathering of the members where the members deal with some matter on which foreseeable action will be taken by the board” must be open.
“It is thus a legal impossibility for two or more members of the Student Senate to serve as members of a non-covered ‘fact-finding’ group,” the KnightNews.com attorney said in the 2010 letter over LJR impeachment hearings.
This time around, SGA President Melissa Westbrook is facing removal from office on three charges–including one on breaking Sunshine Law. Based on the information available, the PRIDE meeting which Westbrook faces removal on wasn’t a meeting of a committee that is Sunshine Law covered, such as the SGA LJR committee.
The Florida Attorney General’s Sunshine manual states that the Sunshine Law applies to meetings of elected or appointed boards and it does not ordinarily apply to staff committees or meetings.
Since it was a random group of people meeting to discuss the PRIDE coalition instead of a specific group of people with decision making power who belong to an SGA Senate committee, it appears unlikely that it would be considered a Sunshine Law covered meeting, according to KnightNews.com’s analysis of information in the Attorney General’s manual.
Moreover, according to SGA statutes, Westbrook is empowered to make a decision about whether or not PRIDE coalition should be suspended on her own, unlike the SGA LJR committee and Senate which must make group decisions.
In the case of Knox v. District School Board of Brevard, the court ruled Sunshine Law does not apply to a group of school board employees, who were not elected officials, meeting with an area superintendent.
“[A] sunshine violation does not occur when a governmental executive uses staff for a fact-finding and advisory function in fulfilling his or her duties,” the case states.
Based on that case, it supports the argument that Westbrook, being a governmental executive, would be able to have a meeting with random people in order to gather facts and ultimately make her decision as to whether the organization is suspended or not.
Looking at the most transparent definition of the law, if Westbrook did in fact break Sunshine Law, it is very hard to say that the LJR committee is not breaking Sunshine Law in their secret witness interviews.



ORLANDO, Fla – These are dark days indeed for the Golden Knights, joining Temple at the bottom of the standings after a  crushing defeat at home to the UCONN Huskies, 75-55. It is the eighth consecutive loss for UCF, who has yet to wion a conference game after coming away victorious in their inaguaral AAC game.
In no way did these Knights appear to be as evenly matched as the last time they saw the court, a close overtime loss to top rival USF. The Huskies outplayed UCF all over the court, commanding possession throughout the majority of the game. They took better advantage of their opportunities, sinking 47.6% of their shots in stark comparison to the 39.2% produced by UCF shooters.
Coach Jones had nothing but respect for UCONN after the game, admitting that “they’re a pretty good team.”
“They come in and that’s a good basketball team right now, a top 25 team, and they’ve been at this level for a while,” said Jones.
 
Coming into the game UCF held the statistical advantage when it came to snagging rebounds, averaging 39.2 per game – even after being outrebounded by USF in their last game 41-32. The Knights managed only 31 tonight, not enough to match UCONN’s 42.
What had been a strength is quickly becoming a major issue, as the Huskies’ domination of recording boards put UCF in a constant struggle to keep pace. From the onset of play, the Huskies never let UCF outrebound them, always staying up in the scorer’s column.
Isiah Sykes continues to stand out amongst his peers in this dismal season, leading the team in points (15), and assists (5).
Freshman Justin McBride had the biggest game of his young career, helping UCF work their way into striking range late in the second half. The hulking center (He’s listed at 6 feet 10 inches, 310 lbs) had yet to even attempt a shot in the 2014 season, and was able to amass 13 second half points to being life back to the crowd at CFE Arena.
It was his first real action since returning from an ACL tear prior to the season, an injury that is by no means is easy to recover from, especially in the constant change of acceleration and momentum required to play at a successful level. Even practice has been a torment, but McBride credits his teammates with a major influence on his training.
“It’s just hard work,” he said. “Hard work and perseverance. If it wasn’t for my teammates, I would have given up a long time ago. They literally pushed me. They wouldn’t let me give up. If it wasn’t for my teammates, I wouldn’t be half the player I am now.”
His presence under the net was a huge missing piece for UCF, as he was able to stem the flow by taking away shooting lanes, putting up a block and contributing 3 rebounds. The big man’s play got the crowd heartily back into the game, energizing the whole building at times.
“I think he can bring that on a night in and night out basis, because of his size and skill level,” Kasey Wilson said.
Unfortunately the effort came on a night where the Knights had more needs than even the impressive effort by McBride and Sykes could satisfy.
“For him to come in when we needed a spark and give that to us is huge,” said Wilson. “Now it’s (necessary) to put that together when you’re not down 10 or 12, but to put  us over the hump – when we’re down by 2 or 3 or even up 2 or 3.”
The road will get no easier for the Knights, especially not in this conference. After facing ranked opponents all year and falling in their brief reprieve against USF, the Knights will travel on to face Memphis on February 12. The Tigers are 7-3 within the conference and are riding a two game win streak.
McBride gave hope to the future, stating with utter finality that “It’s not in any of us to quit, ever.”
Tipoff is scheduled for 9:00 pm EST.



J.J. Worton hauled in the ESPN Sport Science Newton Award for Best Catch on Saturday night in Southern California.
Worton’s mesmerizing catch against Temple not only helped secure his team’s eventual run to winning the Fiesta Bowl, but also led him to the bright lights of ESPN’s Sport Science Award Show.
Worton beat out Philadelphia Phillies OF Ben Revere, Detroit Lions WR Calvin Johnson, Stanford WR Kodi Whitfield and Seattle Seahawks WR Golden Tate for the award.

“I never thought something like this would happen because of the catch. It is something you dream about when you’re a kid messing around in the backyard and diving into the pool making a catch. I actually have a picture of a catch like that diving into the pool. But it’s been an unbelievable time with all of the recognition that’s coming to UCF. All I can do is say thank you and be appreciative of everything that’s happening,” Worton said after the show concluded.
Former UCF placekicker Matt Prater also received a Sport Science award, his for Best Projectile Launch. Prater set an NFL record with his 64-yard field goal for the Denver Broncos during this past football season.
The show will air on EPSN Feb. 16 at 5 p.m. and also air on ABC Feb. 22.



