On Thursday, February 20, the theater and music departments premiered their combined production of the musical, The Music Man at the UCF Theater’s main stage. The Music Man brings to life the story of the infamous, bustling salesman Harold Hill who sweeps into the town of River City, Iowa to revive the lifeless city as its new music professor. Hill manages to capture the hearts of most of the townspeople except for unyielding lady librarian Ms. Marian who watches Hill with an acute eye. Set in the summer of 1912 where suspenders are a must for the guys and pompadours along with Victorian dresses characterize the signature style of the ladies, this musical is sure to keep you amused from your seat.
The Music Man seizes the attention of audiences with various enjoyable aspects throughout both acts within the show. The Irish colloquialisms of Mrs. Paroo and distinctive dances from mayoress Mrs. Squires and her lady posse, maintain that audience members reside with laughter. The emotional growth of ginger haired Winthrop and the tone of the elegant voice of Ms. Marian in ballads such as “My White Knight” tug at heartstrings. Finally, the charms of the all male harmonious quartet create consistent swoons from female spectators.
The theater and music departments collaborated together in order to put on the production of the Music Man. Spotlight operator for The Music Man Savanna Sherman tells Knight News that UCF students should come out to see the show because of the “the wonderful partnership formed with the UCF Music Department for the show.” Sherman explains that The Music Man “has a live orchestra onstage with the cast for the entire show.”
Don’t miss out on this pleasurable experience produced by an animated cast and symphonic orchestra! The Music Man runs through UCF’s main stage until March 2nd.



Frank Miller is considered one of the most influential comic book writers of all time because of the gritty and dark nature of his work along with expanding on the origin of Batman in the 1980s.
300: Rise of an Empire is an adaption of Miller’s, upcoming, graphic novel Xerxes, which manages to capture all of the intense style he is known for but not much else. The movie features some of the best fight scenes I have seen in any film recently due to a unique style that is hard to come by. Each action sequence is brutal, bloody and, thankfully, almost always shown in slow motion which only accentuates the visceral violence on screen. 300: Rise of an Empire may not offer much writing wise, but the visuals alone should be enough to entice any action fan.
The film follows Themistocles, General of Athens, taking place around the same time as the original 300 for most of the film. If I had any major complaint, it would that the timeframe of the film leads to the first half of the movie feeling like unnecessary backstory. While this doesn’t detract from the film enough to make it unenjoyable, by any means, it is something to be noted.
Honestly though, you don’t go to a movie like this for the writing, or an endearing story. It may feature an interesting, historical, premise, but you’ll never closely bond with any character or be shocked by any huge revelations. The action segments and visuals, though, will have your eyes glued to the screen. The sky has an artificially smoggy look and every scene appears to be filmed in front of a green screen. While that might sound cheap to some, it creates one of the most interesting looks imaginable. It is a feature that would, usually, only be possible in the comic book medium of its origin.
300: Rise of an Empire features a unique style few others are capable of rivaling. It might do little to distinguish itself from the first film, beyond an added subtitle, but if you’re looking for pure entertainment, not much can beat it.



The sisters of Kappa Delta and brothers of Lambda Chi Alpha are hosting a car wash on March 18 from 11:00 a.m. until 3:00 p.m. at the Kappa Delta house on UCF campus, with all proceeds going to a foundation in honor of Brooke Dawkins, who tragically passed away earlier this year.
The event states that, “The fundraiser is not just for LXA and KD. It’s not just for the Greek community. It’s for all of UCF and anyone else to contribute to a fellow Knight who brightened the world with her smile.”
The car wash just requires a $5 minimum donation, which goes straight to a foundation that the Dawkins family is starting in honor of Brooke.
If you are interested in donating, but can’t make it to the car wash, click here to donate online.



