UCF’s updated master plan, which will cover land use, campus improvements and other topics will be discussed Tuesday, July 15 to gather public comments.
UCF updates its master plan every five years. The new plan will lay out the goals and objectives for the university from 2015 to 2025.
The hearing at 6:30 p.m. on Tuesday will be in room 106 of Classroom Building II, with free parking in Garage H. The hearing will begin with a presentation and end with the public having an opportunity to make verbal comments or written comments.
A draft of the master plan will be available online approximately two weeks after the hearing. Following that, the public will be able to submit suggestions or comments by mail or e-mail for 90 days.
The new plan will replace the 2010 master plan.



Even though the Orlando Magic are not getting him, Chandler Parsons signed his 3-year $45 million dollar contract with the Mavericks last night at Attic in downtown Orlando.
Parsons, a Winter Park native and Lake Howell high school graduate, is a restricted free agent from the Houston Rockets. Early Thursday morning, he signed a deal with Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban, meaning he will play for the Mavericks unless the Houston Rockets decide to match the Mavericks’ offer.
“Extremely humbled! One night of fun and back to work. THANK YOU to everyone who has helped me! I am blessed,” Parsons tweeted out early Thursday morning. 
Parsons played his college ball at the University of Florida and was a bit overlooked in the 2011 NBA Draft, getting selected 38th overall in the second round. As a rookie, he made the All-Rookie Second Team.
Since then, Parsons has flourished in the NBA, averaging 16.6 points a game, 5.5 rebounds and 4 assists this past season for the Rockets.
The Houston Rockets will have three days to match Cuban’s offer, with much of it hinging on whether or not LeBron James decides to leave the Miami Heat. ESPN’s Brian Windhorst reports that if James leaves the Heat, Chris Bosh will reportedly sign a max deal with Houston. 
If Bosh does indeed sign a max deal with Houston, the cap room for the Rockets to match the $45 million dollar offer by the Mavericks to Parsons will likely be insufficient. 



