Students should feel safe knowing that if a situation arises on campus that requires a modified grenade launcher, the UCF Police Department is armed and ready.
​Despite having this heavy weaponry, UCF says the grenade launcher hasn’t been used in years.  
“The department is in possession of a grenade launcher that was retrofitted for tear gas and hasn’t been out of the armory in several years,” UCF spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin said. 
According to a report by the Chronicle of Higher Education, UCFPD houses 23 M-16 assault rifles in addition to the modified grenade launcher in the armory.
The Chronicle reported that the grenade launcher was also used for training purposes in the past. A spokeswoman for UCFPD told the Chronicle the device was acquired for “security and crowd control.”
UCF said the grenade​ launcher has been in UCF’s ownership since about 1994 for the World Cup that was hosted in Orlando. 
“The games took place at the Citrus Bowl, where our football team used to play before the on-campus stadium opened,” Gilmartin said. “UCF Police inherited the modified launcher around that time for security and crowd control purposes, and at one time the launcher was used for training.”
UCFPD Chief Richard Beary told the Chronicle that the M-16 rifles are stored in police vehicles for emergencies such as last year’s near attack on campus by James Seevakumaran.
“What was once the unthinkable has become the inevitable,” Mr. Beary told the Chronicle. “These bad guys have plans and are heavily armed, and law enforcement needs to be able to keep up with them. In order to do that, police officers need to be highly trained, well equipped, and ready to respond to any scenario.”
UCF also keeps prepared and safe from attacks by having military first-aid kits on hand, which hold medical supplies and extra ammunition.
“The idea is that officers responding to an emergency grab their pack and their weapons, enter the space, take down the perpetrator and then provide aid to themselves, other officers or victims,” Gilmartin said. 



Students are preparing to dodge and duck their way through wacky courses during the 5K Hit and Run, taking place Saturday, Sept. 13  from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Central Florida Fairgrounds.
“I’m expecting it to be a lot of fun with a lot of obstacles! I know there’s going to be a lot of water, as well as a lot of falling down,” said Shalini Solomon, a senior majoring in communication sciences sand disorders.
It costs $40 to register as a team or individually. A portion of the proceeds go to BASE Camp Children’s Cancer Foundation, a non-profit organization which serves children and their families who have faced cancer in their childhood.
The obstacle courses include walking over beams, which are above shallow pools, walking over posts in the pole walk, and dodging flying dodge balls. It takes about an hour to finish.
Although The Hit and Run 5k is only a year old, the event has been happening across the nation in major cities.
“We chose our locations based upon demand from social media.  Orlando was very popular on that list,” said Brandon Spevak, a pr representative for Orlando Hit and Run 5k.
Spevak stated that around 3,500 people have registered for the race so far in Orlando.
On race day, the waves, or race times, begin at 9 a.m. with it being continuous every 30 minutes. Wave times are on a first come first serve basis.
Eric Thalin, a UCF fall 2013 alumna who majored in mechanical engineering, heard about the event through his company’s invitation.
“I haven’t done a 5k before, but I’ve done Tough Mudder twice in Tampa in November 2012 and then one about an hour north of Orlando,” Thalin said.
Thalin works for the engineering company Cubic, which creates training simulations for the military. He and a handful of other employees registered as a team.
Philip Mclean, a senior psychology major, is also going in a team.
“I’m going in a team. We are called the Southern Water Tribe. We haven’t gotten any uniforms put together yet but it will be based off of ‘The Last Airbender’ cartoon. So plenty face paint and unique costuming,” Mclean said.
“This will be my first 5k. I chose this one because I really dig obstacles and I’m not a fan of running in mud. This is the first I’ve seen that has cool obstacles without mud.”
Mclean used a Facebook discount to receive $5 off for registering.
Stacey Geisel, who’s a junior majoring in health services administration, is attending the event with her boyfriend.
“I’m excited for the obstacle where you jump from ball to ball- they are these huge blown up balls that will bounce you off right from the start,” Geisel said.
To register for the event visit the Orlando 5k Hit and Run official site.



After weeks of waiting, Bar Louie will finally open up to the public tonight at 8 p.m. 
Ron Barile, General Manager of Bar Louie’s new location on Alafaya and University is looking forward to the opening.

“We expect a big draw of students and professionals,” he said during a recent interview.  
Serving a variety of all American food, including burgers, flatbreads and sandwiches, Bar Louie is catering to the variety of characters that make up the college town. 
To celebrate their grand opening, Bar Louie will be hosting a 4-day blowout bash from Sept. 18 – 21. Every guest will receive their first Appetizer or Flatbread FREE just for stopping by at any point during the four-day span.
Customers can expect a more grown-up feel from this bar, because after 10 p.m., the bar only caters to the 21 and over crowd. 
Their new location will be open seven days a week from 11 in the morning until 2 a.m. with happy hour Monday through Friday from 4-7 p.m.
“We’re going big with our opening celebration,” says Barile. “Our guests are going to be blown away when they see what we have to offer.”
Stay updated on with Bar Louie at facebook.com/BarLouieUCF



