The University of Central Florida placed third in the nation and 21st in the world in the “World Cup” of computer programming. 
UCF landed a trip to the world finals in Ekaterinburg, Russia after taking first place in the Southeast regional contest. The team, comprised of UCF students Travis Meade, Antony Stabile, and Daniel Wasserman were among the 122 teams that competed in the contest from a pool of 8,000 regional teams.
They battled through five-hours of complex problem solving to beat teams such as MIT (#22) and Stanford (#57). 
The contest begins with each three-member team receiving up to 12 problems, they have five hours to share one computer and write a computer program for each solution. This year’s questions included reconfiguring a sensor network and finding the ideal location to place surveillance equipment.
The only schools in the nation that beat UCF were New York University and University of Texas Brownsville, respectively.
This is the 25th time UCF has competed in the World Finals since establishing the team in 1982 – one of the most successful records in the nation.



Police arrested a suspected serial stalker Monday night on UCF main campus.
Eric Cruz, 25, was arrested after trying to run from police by Parking Garage D across from the CFE Arena. It was the third time that dispatchers have been called about Cruz approaching females, according to police.
Cruz allegedly approached the victim, a parking garage attendant, and asked “can I talk to you around the corner” multiple times, according to police. After the victim told him she did not want to go with him, he continued to ask her.
The victim then went into her supervisor’s office and called the UCF Police Department, where Cruz was waiting outside actively looking for her, according to police.
When police arrived, Cruz tried to outrun the police before he was arrested on charges of trespassing, giving people a fake name and stalking.
The victim told police that she wishes to prosecute Cruz in reference to stalking.



