Two arrests have been made and one man will be charged with attempted murder after officials say he shot at police during an undercover drug sting in an area where many UCF students live and visit every day.
Ereka Hill, 40, and Shontell McCauley, 41, were arrested Tuesday following a shootout with police that occurred outside of a Lowe’s in the area of Lake Underhill Road and Alafaya Trail. 
Just before 11 a.m. Tuesday morning, undercover members of the Orange County Street Narcotics Unit were conducting a drug operation and were meeting with two suspects in a pickup truck parked in the Lowe’s parking lot.
As other undercover deputies moved in to make arrests, McCauley, who was seated in the driver’s seat, fired several shots out of an open passenger window at an undercover OCSO deputy, officials say. 
The deputy returned fire and no one was injured. According to the Orange County Sheriff’s Department, McCauley gave himself up and was arrested for Attempted Homicide of a Law Enforcement Officer. Both suspects will be charged with Drug Possession with an Intent to Distribute.
The deputy will be placed on administrative leave.



Take a break from studying and enjoy some free food being offered by UCF.
SGA and the Student Union have paired to provide students with “Midknight Meals” during the Study Union program. During “Study Union,” the Student Union partners with SARC, SGA, and the UCF Foundation to stay open 24 hours and provide students with a space to prepare for exams. 
Below is a schedule for free food being offered. 
Wackadoos 
Location: Student Union
Time: April 22, 9 p.m.
Food: Wackadoo’s sliders
Subway
Location: Student Union
Time: April 24,  9 p.m.
Food: Subway sandwich (either ham, turkey, or veggie) 
Chick-Fil-A
Location: Student Union
Time: April 25, 7 a.m.
Food: Chick-Fil-A breakfast 
Domino’s
Location: Student Union
Time: April 27, 9 p.m.
Food: Domino’s pizza 
Below is a SARC study schedule for finals week.  Click here for the best places to study around UCF and other studying tips! 
http://knightnews.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/04/sarc-review-sessions-schedule.pdf



As the school semester is coming to a close, finals are coming near. 
Students are starting to prepare for the spring semester’s final exams. This can be an extremely stressful time for many students but there are various ways to study and places to go prepare that can help out and reduce the stress.
Many students find that it is easier for them to study when away from their room or dorm. They have too many distractions there and need to find another place to study in order to concentrate. 
“I can zone out and focus more without the distraction of familiar surroundings like my television or video games” says Freshman Jocelyn Burrell.
Some good places to go and study around campus are:
·         Spacious and meditative areas such as the reflection pond, arboretum or memory mall.
·         Quiet areas such as the library
·         All Knights Study I or II
·         Buildings where people do not go in often in a pretty empty floor
·         Other areas to check out: Technology Commons, Lake Claire, Bookstore, Behind the Student Union 
If you are studying in a group, be sure to be courteous to other around you and try to study in an area where other groups are studying and talking. It can break someone’s focus really easily and distract them. When studying in the library, be courteous to those around you. Avoid things like: talking, loud chip or snack bags, too loud of headphone music etc.
Some things to help studying and knowledge retention is to leave in only important notes which are necessary to the topic. Other additives will only distract from what is really important. Using resources other than a textbook to further understand an also help aid you in comprehension. 
The only thing that will help you understand certain things is through much practice.
Besides actually studying, also remember to take small, in-between breaks and allow yourself time to relax so that you don’t drive yourself mad. It is common to study and not remember things several minutes after studying them because you are not taking enough time to let it settle down before going on to something else.
Study hard and good luck on finals Knights!



UCF’s Recreation and Wellness Center main building will be closed for one week beginning at the end of April as it undergoes maintenance. 
The RWC Building will close April 28-May 4 as a week long maintenance project to “add a splash of black and gold” into the facility is performed. Students, faculty and staff members will be able to work out at RWC @ Knights Plaza, located on the corner of West Plaza Drive and Gemini Boulevard adjacent to the CFE Arena, from 11 a.m.-9 p.m.
The RWC leisure pool, tennis and sand volleyball courts located next to the main RWC building will remain open to students. The outdoor basketball courts located behind the main building will also be open at this time. The RWC Lap Pool will be closed while crews repair the tile on the second floor of the RWC lobby. 



