It is election season again at UCF, and this year Jessica Gottsleben and Lucdwin Luck are hoping to become the next SGA President and Vice-President.
Voting for SGA candidates begins on Monday and unless you’ve been to the debates, checked out the candidates’ platforms online, or talked to the candidates personally, there is a good chance you do not know what each candidate stands for.
KnightNews.com sat down with each of the candidates personally to discuss issues such as campaign spending, student safety, Greek affairs, the handling of the currently estimated $17.5 million dollar A&SF Budget and much more.
We will first look into Jessica Gottsleben and Lucdwin Luck who are running under the campaign slogan “Revolutionizing Knighthood”. 
Who are they?
Presidential candidate Jessica Gottsleben is a senior double-majoring in Radio and Television Broadcast and Political Science Pre-Law with a minor in Public Administration. Her list of campus involvement over her tenure at UCF is too long to list, but she’s been the Honors Congress Vice-President, the KnightCast Student Director and part of the University Fee Committee this year just to name a few.
Lucdwin Luck is a Political Science major with minors in Business, Economic Policy and Sociology. He transferred to UCF in Fall 2012 from Seminole State College of Florida and is a proud veteran of the United States Marines, where he served six years. Luck is a brother of the Theta Chi fraternity and was the first runner up for Mr. UCF.

What sets them apart
Jessica Gottsleben will be quick to tell you that this SGA Presidential Campaign hasn’t gotten chippy as it has in years past. When KnightNews.com asked if there is any glaring issue they disagree with on the Weston/Sydney platform, Jessica focused looking at the positivity of her platform. 
“We’re very positive in our outlook, because we’re very positive about what we can accomplish on our platform and what we can do because we’re very passionate,” Gottsleben said.
Lucdwin Luck has undoubtedly had to deal with stressful situations after serving in the United States Marines for six years. As a transfer student who has been so involved since coming to UCF, Luck is the definition of a passionate student. 
The Jessica/Luck campaign is also video savvy, they made this campaign video that has the support of Nate McCoole, the world’s strongest teen:
 
The Issues
Jessica and Luck have a much more specific platform than Weston and Sydney, with specific points such as a convenience tab with issues such as more outlets in the library and more charging stations in the Student Union. Jessica and Luck do not have the huge issue of tackling the lobbying for a pedestrian bridge like Weston and Sydney do on their platform, but instead smaller issues that would be easier to accomplish.
The Jessica/Luck ticket is not afraid to take a stance on transparency issues around UCF. During the official Presidential debate Jessica said that transparency in SGA has been an issue. As a member of the Theta Chi fraternity, Lucdwin Luck supported opening up Greek hazing hearings to the public to increase transparency.
“I believe meetings or hearings such as that should be open to the public, in terms of allowing them to see what’s going on, it’s a concerning issue for the whole community,” Luck said.



Editor’s note: Many students refer to the MALL as “Math Lab.” The Math Lab provides “tutoring for students enrolled in mathematics courses here at UCF” whereas the MALL is the actual location where math students must attend 3 hours per week to fulfill their math requirement. 
As an incoming freshman, one of the first pieces of advice UCF students get is to NOT take math at UCF.
Many students who have taken a math course at UCF could attest to the hassle it is to take math here. As the school year goes on, it becomes more apparent that taking a UCF math course is frowned upon by the student body. Why is math at our university such a terrible thing to take?
Students around campus told KnightNews.com just what makes taking math at UCF so much trouble and the answer to the question soon became clear: the M.A.L.L.
The Mathematics Assistance and Learning Lab, also known as the M.A.L.L., was established at UCF in 2008. The MALL is composed of three rooms with 312 total computers. Students in Algebra, Intermediate Algebra, Trigonometry, and Pre-Calculus must complete a total of three hours a week in the lab for a hefty portion of their grade.
The MALL was created to help students succeed in their math courses and have access to help in addition to classroom time. However, the main complaint about the The MALL is that the mandatory hours are annoying and unnecessary.
“Math lab would be fine and all but the three hour long requirement felt pretty steep. I usually finish all my homework in less than three hours with a 100% and fiddle my thumbs until the three hour mark is reached,” says freshman Jamie Ma.
Danielle Reyes, a junior, views the MALL in the same way as Ma.
“I think the math lab is pointless because it’s a waste of time. If you finish all your homework you still have to meet the requirement of three hours. The people there aren’t helpful because there are too many students and not enough tutors to help,” Reyes said.
Freshmen Robin Kintz and Ashton Lewis have a similar annoyance with the MALL. 
“I would rather be doing homework in my own room, Kintz said. 
Similarly, Lewis commented “I think it’s a waste of time and that we shouldn’t be forced to do homework in an environment we don’t want to be in. I don’t want to have to commute to a place for a grade that I can do on my own at my place.”
Sophomore Leesa Honeywell described the lab as “stifling.”
Another major complaint about the MALL is the restricted operating hours students have to work around to fulfill their weekly requirements. Sophomore Aaron Smith was so aggravated by the limited hours that he began a petition to extend MALL hours.
“I  found myself extremely stressed out trying to get my hours done,” Smith said. “Eventually it began to affect my grade, and eventually, I got angry.”
The MALL is open 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Monday through Thursday, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Friday, and 1-6 p.m. Sunday. Zenaida Gonzalez Kotala, the UCF Senior Communications Coordinator responded that the hours are established based on student use.
“We evaluate the hours and staffing levels each semester,” Kotala said.
Despite this, Smith and many other students do not believe the hours are enough.
“If hours were extended, students would not have the pressure to get the 3 long, arduous hours done. They’d be relieved of a lot of stress and they’d feel more like the Math Lab is an ally rather than a drill sergeant,” Smith stated.
Besides his petition, Smith feels so strongly about extending the Math Lab hours that he said he’d even be willing to operate the lab himself.
“I would be more than happy to personally offer my time to the MALL, to operate the sign in/out services to keep the lab open for students on the weekend. I would work all day to see that happen. The MALL has helped me, but it has also hurt me,” Smith said.
“I think that if it’s required, it should be made available to do at times convenient to students. Otherwise, it doesn’t help students. There’s nothing worse than remembering that you’ve got 3 hours to do, when the MALL is about to close in 1 hour,” Smith said. 
Freshman Kaitlyn Burke agrees that the hours are not enough, especially when tackling a job on top of her school work.
When asked if she believed that extended hours would help resolve the dislike towards the Math Lab, Burke responded “I do believe an extension of MALL hours would help because I work 8:30 to 5 and with classes I have to attend to it is hard to find time to make it to the MALL. I believe the MALL should be open from 9 p.m.-12 a.m. because at this time many students are off of work and are working on homework at this time anyways.”
Burke also brought up the argument that we pay just as much for our math courses as we do for our face to face classes.
“I feel ripped off that we do not have that much class time to enforce concepts that we are supposed to learn in the MALL,” Burke said.
She argues that our credit hour tuition is funding the Math Lab operations whereas the university can fund The Writing Center or other tutoring without taking away the valuable face to face component of the classes.
Freshman Jerilyn Pollock agrees with Burke in the fact that the face to face component of the class is more beneficial than MALL hours.
“I would rather have a 3 hour math class than a 50 minute class and 3 hours in a math lab,” she says.
KnightNews.com reached out to UCF in regards to this issue and retrieved several statistics relating to the lab.
There are a total of 312 computers in the lab. So far this semester, no more than 180 have been in use at the same time, UCF said. Also, the number of students enrolled in the MALL courses has significantly gone down, according to UCF. Currently, there are 2,709 students taking these classes. In the fall of 2012, the Math Lab reached its peak at 6,100.
This issue can be linked to word of mouth getting around about the distaste towards the lab and students taking math at other colleges. Freshman Danielle Moore heard about the Math Lab from her friends and decided to fulfill her math requirement somewhere else. Many are also doing the same.
“To be honest, I plan on taking college algebra at Valencia. As a college student you already have a lot to worry about; other classes and a job. Adding on 3 hours of math lab a week doesn’t fit into everybody’s schedule,” Moore said.
Do you agree that the Math Lab isn’t helpful? Comment below and let us know what you think or of your Math Lab experience.



As I entered the Plaza on Monday, the first thing I noticed was a giant banner, bearing the image of a horrified white male staring down at the crowd. 
Written overtop his face was the word “Wolf” and his presence only served to remind me exactly why I bought my ticket for Tyler, The Creator in the first place. 
I went to a show like this not for the most incredibly skilled musicians, or the best stage set up, or even a performer who would be remembered as the voice of his generation. I went because Tyler, The Creator is one of the funniest and most genuinely passionate performers in music today. 
That man’s face, who stared down upon us as we slammed into each other during almost every song, wasn’t there to create some strange aura, or intimidate the audience. Tyler had that banner hanging there because it was funny, stupid, and made you feel like he wanted to make sure you had as much fun as you possibly could.
The show began with a brief DJ set by fellow Odd Future member, Taco, who played remixed versions of many popular songs which definitely helped set the tone for the night. Among the songs were “Ain’t Worried About Nothin’” by French Montana, and “Can’t Tell Me Nothing” by Kanye West. 
Even though I would have preferred a more formal opening performance from someone like Domo Genesis or MellowHype, it was still a great introduction that served well to pump up the crowd. The audience’s enthusiasm, however, during Taco’s brief set, was nothing compared to the moment Tyler took center stage.
Even if you can’t appreciate his music, Tyler’s stage presence alone is enough to impress. Every aspect of his behavior shows how much he truly cares about putting on a great show. In between songs he would engage in goofy banter with individual audience members and his choice of songs definitely rewarded dedicated fans. 
If there was any negative aspect to the show at all, it would have to be that, sadly, Tyler was sick and during certain songs his performance suffered slightly. Thankfully, accompanying him was also Jasper Dolphin, who would frequently perform certain verses, along with Taco, in order to compensate for Tyler’s weak health. 
By the time the show was over, nothing could take away, however, from what an amazing time I had. From the enthusiasm of the crowd, to the way Tyler really seems to care about his fans, everything added up to one of the best concerts I’ve ever been to.
Verdict: Two Thumbs Up!



Once a year, a few UCF clubs get together under the umbrella of the campus Habitat for Humanity chapter and create some makeshift buildings, all in the name of raising money for charity. 
This event, called Shack-A-Thon, is in its sixth year since being brought to the UCF campus. 
“Different student organizations come out and build shacks, and the goal is just to attract students to come, vote [on the best shack], and hopefully give us donations,” said Mike Davies, the 2014 Shack-A-Thon director. “We are giving those donations to Habit for Humanity of greater Orlando,”
Each year, there are certain clubs in attendance. For 2014, there was the College Democrats, The UCF Quidditch Team called the “Nearly Headless Knights”, The Rock Climbing Club, Honors Congress, Phi Delta Theta, and the I.D.E.A.S. (Intellectual Decisions for Environmental Awareness Solutions) club. All of these different clubs took their own spin on the type of ‘shack’ that they decided to build. 
“We took an invasive species of bamboo and used that instead of plywood,” said Kelly Erhart, member of the UCF I.D.E.A.S club. “Basically the goal of our shack and our club is to show people that we don’t have to use all new materials and be so wasteful.”
President Callye Foster agreed with Erhart, stating that the event wasn’t just for raising money but for promoting environmental awareness.

“We were focused on sustainability when building our shack. We were just trying to go with something out of the box.”
Other than students voting on their favorite shack, there were also events going on such as live music and a rock wall was even brought out onto the Memory Mall area so people could test themselves to see how far they could climb. All of this was in hopes that students would drop some of their loose change into a collection jar.
“They [Habit for Humanity] are building a community of habitat homes called Butler’s Preserve, so the money we raise goes towards that,” said Davies.
According to their website, the Orlando division of Habitat for Humanity has already completed a housing development in the Orlando area called Staghorn Villas. All of the homes have undergone numerous expenses to make sure that they are all environmentally friendly, such as being energy and water efficient.
“The now complete, 3.9 acre neighborhood will provide affordable homes for 58 local families,” The Habitat for Humanity website said. “The community features 10 buildings, each of which includes four to eight town homes surrounded by green spaces and play areas” 
The Honors Congress fashioned their shack to look like the famous banana stand from the hit show Arrested Development. In order to raise some extra money for Habitat for Humanity, they were selling bananas with a myriad of toppings available to put on them, such as Nutella and peanut butter. 
“Instead of simply donating money, you are doing something physical, something tangible,” said Akshita Parupalli, a member of Honors Congress. “It feels like you are helping people out.”
This year’s winners were:
Fan Favorite: I.D.E.A.S.
Top Donations: Honors Congress
Most Motivated: Rock Climbing Club
Most Money Raised: Rock Climbing Club
By Vinny Sottile



When you hear about someone who saved someone’s life, you think about descriptive words such as hero, brave, and courageous. Here at UCF, we are Knights because we fight against cancer and look for its cure. 
On March 22, UCF’s Relay for Life comes again to raise money, awareness, and hope for those with cancer.
The Relay for Life movement is held in more than 5,200 communities and 20 countries in support of the American Cancer Society. All money raised goes towards finding cures for all types of cancers and helping patients on a daily basis. In fact, more than 400 lives are saved on a daily basis.
So how exactly is money raised? 
There are many ways in which 83 of the teams participating have raised money for this event including bake sales, poker game nights, and even partial proceeds given to them through different restaurants like Applebee’s. Another way in which money is received is through donations. They can be given to specific teams or participants.
Each team has a team captain which motivates their team players and keeps them informed on different events to go to so that they can gain “spirit points.” They also get to pick a campsite and country of their choice. The event will be held in Memory Mall from 2 p.m. to 8 a.m. on March 22. 
Each hour there will also be different themed laps such as ‘Summer Lovin’, Disney, and Glow in the Dark. Although there are teams, it is not about the competition because they are all fighting for the same cause. 
If you would like to join, volunteer, or make a donation please click here.




Fingerlickin’ smokey good BBQ is opening near UCF soon!
4 Rivers Smokehouse is geared to open sometime in April, but could even open as early as the end of March, according to the Orlando Sentinel. The huge demand from UCF students for the one-of-a-kind barbecue led 4 Rivers Smokehouse owner John Rivers to build a location closer to the school. 
“I’m happy I won’t have to go all the way down to Winter Park when I’m craving some good BBQ but also have a test the next day,” Jocelyn Burrell said.
From smokey brisket to baked beans, students and 4 Rivers lovers are only weeks away from enjoying the southern comfort. 
“We caught a break on the delivery dates of the Smokers for the UCF Smokehouse,” Rivers told the Orlando Sentinel. “If it holds true, we’re looking at an end of March opening there and a mid-April opening for The COOP!”
This location is expected to look similar to 4 Rivers restaurants in Winter park and include a bigger “Sweets Shop.” The new location is also expected to employ around 70 to 80 people.
“University Boulevard is full of many restaurants but I still feel that it will do well considering it’s so close and delicious!” said Mabel Pichardo. 



