The Alpha Epsilon Pi fraternity’s Nu Delta chapter has be reinstated to UCF after being suspended for a year, according to sources within the organization.
At a hearing in March 2013, the fraternity was found to be “in-violation” of hazing, disruptive conduct and and harmful behavior by a conduct board and was to remain on suspension until Spring 2014.
As part of the reinstatement process, the fraternity was required to redevelop its new member education program as well as a new risk management policy. 
It was not immediately clear if the organization still had some restrictions as part of its reintegration to campus. 
Continue to check back for more information. 



An Icelandic volcano could put a halt to the UCF-Penn State game scheduled to kickoff in Ireland on August 30, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
A volcano called Bárðarbunga erupting has increased in recent days and the Icelandic Meteorological Office has raised the eruption risk level to orange, the second-highest level before eruption being imminent or in progress.
Even though Ireland is not Iceland, the ash from the eruption could spread throughout Northern Europe, canceling all flights in the area. In 2010, ash from an Icelandic volcano cancelled 100,000 flights in Europe at a $1.7 billion cost.
“Presently there are no signs of eruption, but it cannot be excluded that the current activity will result in an explosive subglacial eruption, leading to an outburst flood and ash emission,” the Met Office said in a statement.
According to the Orlando Sentinel, UCF officials are aware of the volcano and are monitoring the situation.
Also, reporter Travis Johnson tweeted that Penn State officials and the Gaelic Athletic Association are aware of the situation and the airline alerts.



U.S. officials confirmed that a gruesome video released on Tuesday showing Islamic State militants beheading an American journalist and threatening to kill another, who is a former UCF student, is authentic.
After the ISIS militant beheaded American journalist James Foley, the militant warned America that former UCF student Steven Sotloff is next. Sotloff was kidnapped near the Syrian-Turkish border in August 2013, he had previously freelanced for TIME and the National Interest.

“I can’t even imagine being in that situation and having such a difficult time. I have a heavy heart about it and my thoughts are with them,” Bayes said.
A White House petition has been made to do everything possible to free Sotloff.
“We, the undersigned call upon you, President Obama, to take immediate action to save Steven’s life by any means necessary,” the petition states.
The petition has gained over 3,000 signatures in less than 12 hours and needs 100,000 to reach its goal.
“This is an unspeakably terrible circumstance. We join so many others who hope for Steven’s safe return,” said Grant J. Heston, UCF Vice President for Communications and Marketing.
[myrelposts-related title=”More Knight Held Hostage Special Coverage:“]



President Obama is expected to issue a live statement on a recent video that appears to show U.S. journalist James Foley being beheaded by ISIS terrorists. 
The brutal video also issues threats to the U.S. and appears to show another U.S. journalist, and one-time UCF student, Steven Sotloff, who ISIS says will face the same fate should President Obama continue to issue air strikes. 
The President is expected to speak at 12:45 p.m.   



