The UCF baseball season ended officially on Monday, when they found out they were not selected for the 64-team NCAA Tournament.
The Knights were a bubble team entering the selection process, but hopes were high with many experts believing the Knights would be on the safe side of the cut.
On the NCAA Selection Show aired on Monday, Clemson (36-23), North Carolina (34-25), Texas A&M (33-24) and UC Irvine (35-22) were listed as the final teams into the tournament.  Mercer (38-17), UCF (36-23), USC (29-24) and West Virginia (28-26) were listed as the first four teams out.
American Athletic Conference pitcher of the year and MLB prospect Eric Skoglund tweeted out his thanks to the UCF fans.
“Hard to say but these have been the best 3 years of my life. Proud to say I’m a @UCFKnights! So thankful to be given the opportunity,” Skoglund said.
UCF (36-23) has had key victories over no. 3 Miami, no. 4 Florida State, no. 5 Louisville (twice), and no. 12 Houston but it wasn’t enough for the Knights to make the cut this year.
Redshirt freshman pitcher Jarrod Petree who allowed just three runs in 13.1 innings this past season, is looking ahead towards the future.
“Today is a hard pill to swallow but we will use today to push us for next year. It’s all about the bigger picture and today starts our push!” Petree said on Twitter.



Dr. Dale Whittaker was named the University of Central Florida’s new provost and vice president for academic affairs starting on Aug. 1.
The provost is one of UCF’s highest ranking officials and is responsible for all educational programming at UCF. Dr. Whittaker has previous experience in multiple faculty and leadership positions at Purdue and Texas A&M universities. He most recently served as the vice provost for undergraduate academic affairs at Purdue.
UCF President John C. Hitt praised Whittaker’s commitment to academic excellence.
“He is a professional who will help us become better in all areas of our operation and help us develop excellent educational programs that will meet the needs of Central Florida, the state and nation,” Hitt said.
During Dr. Whittaker’s two visits to UCF, he was impressed with the diversity of the student body and the energy of the campus.
“Our core mission as a university is knowledge, and the impact is advancing people’s lives economically and socially for generations. What I bring to this job is a passionate commitment to that mission and high levels of energy and engagement,” Dr. Whittaker said.
Hitt and Whittaker has previously worked together at the University Innovation Alliance, a coalition of 11 research universities that works to expand students’ access to higher education.
Diane Chase has served as UCF’s interim provost and vice president for academic affairs since March, she will remain in the position until July 31.



