UCF Police Department issued an indefinite trespass warning to a 45-year-old man Tuesday night after receiving 13 complaints about him approaching women on campus and asking them to be his girlfriend, the report says.
Police said the man, Joshua Schuyler Hanson, was located leaving UCF’s library at approximately 6:08 p.m. by UCFPD after a two-hour search.
“[He] approached multiple women on campus and asked them personal questions,” UCF Police spokeswoman, Courtney Gilmartin, said. “Questions generally pertained to relationship  status and dating availability.”
At approximately 4:18 p.m. a complaint was made to police about a suspicious male. During the search for him, two additional calls were made detailing that the man was wearing gloves and using crutches to walk. [sam_ad id=”3″ codes=”true”]
In the report, police say the complaints sounded similar to a call they received last week about a suspicious male on campus.
During the search, UCFPD talked to numerous women who told them that Hanson approached them asking if they wanted to be his girlfriend, including a woman who said the same incident happened Monday outside of the library.
Police located the suspect’s vehicle, a silver truck with tires in the bed, inside of Parking Garage H. Police noticed a lot of property inside the vehicle, particularly a box of gloves, tape, scissors and a cooler that was pad locked.
Police located the suspect leaving the library, and he was issued an indefinite trespass warning for all UCF property.
If any suspicious activity on campus is seen, call UCF Police at 407-823-5555.



Graduating from UCF this Fall? Get the latest information on Commencement!
The University of Central Florida Commencement Ceremony for Fall 2014 will take place from Friday, December 12, 2014 to Saturday, December 13, 2014. Below is the schedule for each college.
Friday, December 12:
Morning Ceremony 
College of Education and Human Performance
College of Health and Public Affairs
Rosen College of Hospitality Management
Schedule of Events
7:30 AM – Graduates arrive at the CFE Arena. Doors open for guests and graduates
8:00 AM – Graduates begin lining up
8:40 AM – Procession of graduate candidates begins
9:00 AM – Commencement ceremony begins (will last approximately 2 hours)
11:00 AM – Approximate end of ceremony
Afternoon Ceremony
College of Arts and Humanities
College of Graduate Studies
College of Nursing
College of Sciences
Office of Undergraduate Studies
Schedule of Events
1:00 PM – Graduates arrive at the CFE Arena. Doors open for guests and graduates
1:30 PM – Graduates begin lining up
2:10 PM – Procession of graduate candidates begins
2:30 PM – Commencement ceremony begins (will last approximately 2 hours)
4:30 PM – Approximate end of ceremony
Saturday, December 13
Morning Ceremony 
College of Business Administration
College of Engineering and Computer Science
College of Medicine
College of Optics and Photonics
Schedule of Events
7:30 AM – Graduates arrive at the CFE Arena. Doors open for guests and graduates
8:00 AM – Graduates begin lining up
8:40 AM – Procession of graduate candidates begins
9:00 AM – Commencement ceremony begins (will last approximately 2 hours)
11:00 AM – Approximate end of ceremony
Each guest, including children and infants, entering the arena is required to have a ticket for the ceremony.



The Department of Environmental Protection issued a water standard violation to the Univerisity of Centeal Florida earlier this year.
“The University of Central Florida routinely monitors its drinking water for contaminants. We had a drinking water standard violation earlier this year, and we want to let you know what happened and what we are doing to correct it,” a message from UCF said.
According to UCF, the violation was the result of a water flow issue within the pipes that caused a chemical by-product build up above normal levels.
“Florida and many other states require the use of a disinfectant to minimize the possibility of bacterial contamination in the drinking water distribution system,” a message from UCF said. “If water flows at too slow of a pace through the pipes on its way to the tap, that can lead to an increase in the amount of Total Trihalomethanes, or TTHMs. TTHMs are by-products of the reaction of the chlorine disinfectant with the natural organic and inorganic matter in the water.”
The sampling site at the CFE Arena was the location of the violation and since then, UCF has increased the flushing of pipes to make the water move faster.
UCF also has adjusted the amount of chlorine added at the water treatment plant and expanded monitoring and tracking through a computerized maintenance management system.
UCF assures that the water is safe to drink.
When asked why it took so long to report the violation, which happened earlier this year, UCF said the tests are averaged over a year, and had there been an emergency, there would have been immediate notification.
“The federal Environmental Protection Agency sets the guidelines for acceptable levels of TTHM and other contaminants in the water supply and also for the reporting of violations. The EPA guidelines for TTHM are based on the average test results over a one-year period (the four most recent samples collected). If this were an emergency or if it required you to take any corrective actions, you would have been notified immediately,” UCF said.



The University of Central Florida is reminding students to remain vigilant of the Ebola outbreak in several countries when traveling during the the holiday break. 
Dr. A. Dale Whittaker, Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs, sent a message out to students Friday reminding them to keep alert and also providing details about UCF’s preparedness in the event someone on campus contracts Ebola. 
“With the semester break approaching, many of us will be traveling to visit family, friends and loved ones. I would like to remind everyone of the travel warnings in effect for several countries in West Africa due to the Ebola outbreak,” Whittaker said in his message to students. 
A UCF website has been created which provides further information on the disease, travel warnings and UCF preparedness. The site includes information about UCF’s Emergency Response Health Team, which works closely with the Florida Department of Health and follows guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control, as well as news alerts and health tips.
Any official university travel to countries where a Health Travel Notice is in effect now need to be approved by the Office of the Provost.
“The health and safety of our campus community is our highest priority. And many departments across the university continue to work together to ensure we are prepared for the remote possibility that anyone in our campus community contracts Ebola,” Whittaker said.



After yesterday’s failed attempt at a launch, Orion is finally off on its journey.
“Liftoff at dawn! The dawn of Orion, for a new era of American space exploration,” stated Mike Curie, commentator for the launch.
Friday’s launch went off without a hitch, sending the Delta IV Heavy rocket off at 7:05 a.m. This was a welcomed change of events after yesterday’s issues involving high winds, and a malfunctioning fuel and drain valve. Despite efforts to resolve the technical issues, they were not able to launch before the launch window closed at 9:44 a.m.
No humans are on-board for today’s test mission. The purpose of this flight is to ensure that Orion’s systems are fully functional. During the flight, Orion will complete two orbits of Earth, before splashing down in the Pacific Ocean.
According to NASA, the specific tests today focus on high speed re-entry systems, such as avionics, attitude control, parachutes and the heat shield.
Assuming all tests perform well, Orion will eventually carry crews into deep space, support astronauts during their missions, and provide a safe re-entry.
If you missed the launch this morning, NASA has uploaded a recoding here.
bit.ly/1wDOT2c



