Marking its 19th NCAA Championship appearance, the No. 19 UCF women’s soccer team is set to face Georgia this Saturday in the first round of the NCAA tournament.
UCF fell to Connecticut in the semifinals at Tampa last Saturday 0-1, but still saw senior defender Carleigh Williams and junior midfielder Amanda Wilkin be honored to the AAC All-Tournament team and received a bid for the tournament despite the close call game.
The Knights faced Georgia earlier this year, edged out 0-1, in one of the season’s few losses. An opportunity to replay the Athens based team ignites UCF’s women’s soccer.
“It’s definitely a bittersweet moment for that revenge aspect of it and I think we’re all really excited to play them again,” said senior Caleigh Williams. “It was a disappointment that we didn’t go as far as we wanted in the conference tournament but were going to work even harder, were motivated since we didn’t get that chance and I think we’re going to play just as hard.”
This season’s tournament tallies eight times and four consecutive seasons that the Knights have hosted at least one NCAA tournament round.
“We are always excited to host, so were really thrilled about that, being able to be at home with our home crowd and our own facility,” said head coach Tiffany Roberts Sahaydak in front of BurgerU, awaiting the NCAA bids. “With our friends, our family, administration, we couldn’t ask for more. So we’re really excited to get to be home and host and that we deserve it, we positioned ourselves to be home in the first round.”
UCF hopes to make a seventh second round NCAA Tournament appearance from the past eight years, and they will face the winner of the DePaul (18-0-4) and Wisconsin (18-2-2) game should they succeed.
“We’re proud of the staff and the team for grinding it out this season, I’m really proud of this whole program, said Sahaydak. “The way that were supported is unbelievable here so we have big goals but we have to stayed focused on the first game… keeping an eye on ourselves [and] Georgia.”
The first one hundred UCF students with their student ID will receive free admission to Saturday’s 7 p.m. match, followed by $8 tickets for adults and $5 tickets for youth (2-17) and seniors (55+).



A student was rushed to Orlando Regional Medical Center after being run over by a black Ford Edge behind Knight’s Pub on Saturday night, officials said.
Keegan Algate, 19, who was visiting UCF from the University of Florida, was exiting Knight’s Pub when he was stuck by what witnesses described as a black Ford Edge.
“Witnesses told troopers that a black Ford Edge struck him and left the scene,” Kim Montes, Florida Highway Patrol spokeswoman, said. “No tag number was obtained and troopers have not located a suspect vehicle.”
Friends of the victim are asking for help identifying the vehicle and driver during the alleged incident. Frank Trump, a freshman majoring in business, is a friend of the victim and told Knight News he couldn’t believe that this fun night ended at the hospital.
“I was completely shocked. You hear about this kind of stuff sometimes, but you never think it will actually happen to you or to someone close to you,” Trump said. “It was just really scary because the first thing I heard when I found out was that he was run over. I didn’t know the severity of the injuries or anything like that which made the whole situation even scarier.”
Trump said that he was inside the bar when he found out his friend had been struck by the car and was disgusted to find the driver fled the scene.
“I would tell [the driver] that they are a coward and are scum on this Earth,” Trump said. “To just drive off like that and not know if they just killed an 18-year-old kid or not… It’s honestly disgusting.”
Trump said that Algate has since been released from the hospital after receiving non-life threatening injuries.
“He is at home now. He said his back is hurting him really bad, and he dislocated his right ankle,” Trump said. “He also has scrapes and bruises on his upper body.”
If you have any information about this incident call Crimeline at 407-423-8477



A UCF Alert message sent to students and faculty around 12:15 a.m. Tuesday morning warned of a strong- arm robbery in the parking lot of Sterling Central/the Marquee. 
According to the alert, the robbery occurred around 11:30 p.m. Officials are searching for two Hispanic male suspects, one wearing a hoodie. 
“*UCF ALERT* Strong-arm robbery in parking garage of Sterling Central/The Marquee.Suspects are 2 Hispanic males, 1 wearing a hoodie. Happened aCentral/The Marquee.Suspects are 2 Hispanic males, 1 wearing a hoodie. Happened around ound 11:30pm. No other info.Report suspicious activity to police or call 911.”
No other information was immediately available. Continue to check back for more information.



