UCF Students Taylor Cheeley and Nicole Enterlein took home first place in the USF State of Florida Healthcare Innovation Competition, winning themselves $10,000 in cash for their invention of Smartway.
The Smartway cup is a disposable urine funnel that enables women to stand while using the restroom, avoiding contact with potentially contaminated surfaces. It is designed to be mess free, inexpensive and it also won the duo $12,500 in the 2013 UCF Joust Championship.
“We’re working on a nationwide launch with CVS and Walgreens that will place Smartway in over 16,000 stores in the US,” Taylor Cheeley told UCF Today. “We’re also pursuing a federal contract with the military, partnership with the Girl Scouts and placement in hospitals and testing facilities. The future for Smartway is astronomical. We’re saturating the market, one purse at a time.”
Taylor and Nicole competed against seven other healthcare innovation designs including a portable, solar-powered autoclave for sanitizing medical equipment, a product that allows consumers to measure UV sun exposure and a non-invasive device that measures parameters for heart failure.
Check out the Smartway website here for more information on the product.



Police at the University of Central Florida are alerting students to a recent phone scam where callers claim a loved one is in imminent danger.
According to police, the scammers say a family member is in a life or death situation and demand immediate action, generally in the form of a money transfer. The phone calls usually come from an area code outside of the United States.
“If you receive this type of call, resist the urge to panic, and contact your relatives to determine whether the call is legitimate,” UCFPD said in an email to students.
UCFPD warns never to give out credit card information or wire money to someone you don’t know, especially if the request comes in the form of a phone call or email from overseas. Also, always make sure a website is trusted and secure before you make any financial transactions or enter personal information, such as your Social Security number, phone number or home address. 
Any suspicious behavior can be reported to the UCF Police Department at 407-823-5555.



Orlando is one one of 15 cities being asked to submit a bid for the 2016 Democratic National Convention, according to CNN.com.
According to the CNN.com report, hosting the event could cost around $60 million, but the payout could be as much as three times the amount of the investment or more.
Other cities that received bids were: Atlanta, Chicago, Cleveland, Columbus (Ohio), Detroit, Indianapolis, Las Vegas, Miami, Nashville, New York, Orlando, Philadelphia, Phoenix, Pittsburgh and Salt Lake City.
Cities must submit their bids by June 6 and the decision will be made in late 2014 or early 2015. 



UCF baseball has cracked the national rankings for the fourth consecutive year, checking in at No. 22 in the Collegiate Baseball Newspaper rankings.
The Knights(25-16, 12-3 The American) have won 18 out of their last 23 and currently reside at the top of the American Athletic Conference. 
It is the 13th time that UCF has appeared in the Collegiate Baseball Newspaper rankings in program history, with the highest ranking being No. 11 after a road sweep of Tulane in 2012. 
The Knights found themselves in the rankings after topping No. 9 Louisville two out of three times at home last weekend. They will look to stay in the rankings this upcoming weekend when they take on Rutgers for a three game set at home. 
First pitch is set for Friday at 6:30 p.m.  



