A University of Central Florida Board of Trustee committee will meet Thursday to discuss the possibility of an on-campus boutique hotel.  
The University of Central Florida is considering putting a 150-room boutique hotel on campus at the intersection of University Boulevard and Alafaya Trail, according to the Orlando Business Journal. The 11-acre area of land was once the site being considered for an organic grocery store.
According to OBJ, the idea would be for developers to pay for the construction and lease the land from UCF. 
“If the committee supports moving forward, UCF will ask developers to submit proposals to build a hotel on 11 acres fronting Alafaya Trail between University and Centaurus boulevards. An invitation for developers to submit proposals would be forthcoming later this spring,” Chad Binette, spokesman for UCF, told the Orlando Business Journal. 
UCF has been interested in seeking new revenue streams that don’t originate from tuition or taxes in recent years due to budget cuts.
“If the income is substantial, a hotel could provide a service to the university community, families and visitors while generating revenue for the university at the same time.” Binette told OBJ.
Binette also told OBJ that the school wouldn’t provide money for the hotel; the developer would have to pay for construction and operation, and the hotel would have to “blend in well with the look of the UCF campus.” 
The initial plan for an organic grocery store at the site fell through after university officials felt the revenue from leasing the land wouldn’t amount to enough money to make a substantial impact. 
A UCF board of trustees committee will discuss the idea at Thursday meeting. 



The idea of invisibility is moving away from science fiction and closer to reality thanks to a a team of researchers at the University of Central Florida.
For years, scientists have known that artificial nanostructures, known as metamaterials, made from synthetic textiles can be used to to control the propagation of light. In other words, the artificial material bends light around an object, rendering it invisible to certain wavelengths. 
The problem, however, has been that they could only fabricate the material in microscopic sizes.
Debashis Chanda, an assistant professor at UCF, has been working on the light-bending science for the last decade and new research depicted in the March edition of the journal Advanced Optical Materials explains how Chanda and fellow optical and nanotech experts were able to develop a larger swath of multilayer 3-D metamaterial operating in the visible spectral range. 
The team accomplished this feat by using nanotransfer printing, which can potentially be engineered to modify surrounding refractive index needed for controlling propagation of light.
“Such large-area fabrication of metamaterials following a simple printing technique will enable realization of novel devices based on engineered optical responses at the nanoscale,” said Chanda..
By improving the technique, the team hopes to be able to create larger pieces of the material with engineered optical properties, which would make it practical to produce for real-life device applications. For example, the team could develop large-area metamaterial absorbers, which would enable fighter jets to remain invisible from detection systems.
While invisibility cloaks won’t be on shelves anytime soon, Chanda told the Orlando Business Journals he’s already received interest from local companies interested in funding more research and possibly commercializing it, including Lockheed Martin. 
Chanda worked on the project with the following team: Li Gao, Youngmin Kim, Kazuki Shigeta, Steven Hartanto and John Rogers from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign; Abraham Vasquez-Guardado and Daniel Franklin from UCF: Christopher J. Progler from Photronics Inc. and Gregory R. Bogartfrom the Sandia National Laboratories. 



