ESPN’s Brett McMurphy is reporting that UCF defensive coordinator Tyson Summers is leaving UCF for the same job at Colorado State.
“New Colorado State coach Mike Bobo gets UCF DC Tyson Summers to join him as CSU DC source told ESPN,” McMurphy tweeted out Sunday night.
Summers, who was the interim defensive coordinator in spring and was eventually promoted to defensive coordinator, has been on the UCF staff since January 2012. In his first full season as defensive coordinator, he led the Knights to the top defense in the American Athletic Conference.
Summers will serve under newly hired head coach Mike Bobo, who was just hired after Jim McElwain left Colorado State for the head coaching position at the University of Florida.



The Sunshine State became the USA’s third most populous state this year, passing New York with an increase in population valued at 293,000, versus the Big Apple’s 51,000, according to a U.S. Census Bureau report released Tuesday.
Florida has now reached 19.9 million people, only behind California and Texas, who have 38.8 million and 27.0 million, respectively. New York holds fourth place with 19.7 million people.
Both Florida and New York lost residents during the worst of the recession – but the warm weather, lower cost of living and an upswing in the economy has allowed seasonal vacationers to become permanent occupants. Many of Florida’s 800 new, daily additions in the past year are from New York. Retirees and wealthy internationals continue to look to the Sun Belt’s climate and away at the high prices of many northern cities.
“We’re attracting people from South America and Europe and all over the world,” said Norman Edelcup, Mayor of Sunny Isles Beach, South Florida. “We offer the ideal location, the ideal beaches, and the weather is perfect.”
In the ranking of the Census Bureau, Florida stands as the 6th fastest growing state and the 3rd largest in numerical increases across the country. The swing-state holds 29 electoral votes. Cities such as Orlando and Miami saw an increase in population by more than 7% since 2010. Florida Republican Governor Rick Scott notes that the increase in population strengthens its status as a healthy, improving economy.
“Today’s news of Florida officially becoming the third most populous state is exciting,” Scott said Tuesday in a statement. “I look forward to more people and more job creators moving to Florida in the near future.”
Senior citizens now make up 18.7% of the population in Florida, the highest the country. Booming retirement villages, such as The Villages in Sumpter County, create fast-growing metropolitan areas that begin to become focal points for the nation’s aging baby boomers.
The United States as a whole grew by a mere 0.75%, the smallest gain since 1937, which saw the aftermath of the Great Depression. Intrinsic population growth itself has slowed, with a majority of increases owed to immigrating families and individuals.
Puerto Rico has been included in this year’s census, with a population of 3.5 million and a loss of 1.3%, or 47,000, from last year. To escape recent economic turmoil, those that leave the commonwealth head to Central Florida. An estimated 375,000 Puerto Ricans live in Central Florida, only trailing New York, according to the census.
Although Florida passed New York to take third, the nearest state in either direction, with the exception of New York, is 7 million away. At current rates, the Sunshine State will remain in third for the foreseeable future as California and Texas experience the largest numerical increases of any state.



