The UCF Cheerleading team placed second in the nation at the College Cheerleading National Championships on Sunday.
The second place finish marked the second time in program history and the ninth-straight top-five finish for the program. Kentucky won the National Championship for the 20th time in program history while Alabama placed third, Ole Miss fourth and LSU was fifth as they rounded out the top five.
The Knights Cheerleading squad already has two National Championships in 2003 and 2007, with top-10 finishes in 19 of the last 21 years. 



Orlando, Fla.- The Knights’ dismal beginning to in-conference play continued Saturday night with a 58-46 loss to SMU (13-4, 3-2) while playing in front of a home crowd for the first time since a January 4th victory over Temple.
Subpar shooting did UCF (9-7, 1-4) in, as the Knights were only able to convert 31.3% of their shots from the field and 50% of their free-throw attempts. Tristen Spurlock was able to sink three of his three-point shots, leading the team with 11 points – the only Knight to put up double digits.
The lack of production on the opportunities that were presented to them were only magnified by UCF losing the turnover battle, ending the day with a -3 ratio and 19 total turnovers.
“I think we made a lot of mental mistakes down the stretch,” said Spurlock.
Indeed, the Knights held the game firmly in their grasp at halftime. Heading into the intermission tied at 22 before falling to a 35-32 deficit that would never be overcome, escalating to a 13 point difference at its worst and finalizing at 12 points.
It is the fourth loss in five conference games for UCF, who find themselves staring down 9th place in the AAC, only one game ahead of the last place USF Bulls. With only 13 games left in the regular season, the Knights will need to turn around their plummet to the cellar immediately if they wish to be relevant in the future.
UCF will play next on Thursday, January 23, visiting the American Athletic Conference leading Cincinnati Bearcats (17-2, 6-0). Tipoff is scheduled for 9:00 p.m.



