This year has been tough for Florida NFL teams and unfortunately, it’s hard to cast blame on anyone but the teams themselves. 
While the Miami Dolphins have started to gain some momentum, shutting out the San Diego Chargers in yesterday’s game, The Jacksonville Jaguars and Tampa Bay Buccaneers have yet to win more than a single game each and any hope for improvement slips away with each passing game.
When you look at the statistics for the Tampa Bay Buccaneer’s loss against the Cleveland Browns, it becomes evident that the Buccaneers have established a bad habit of letting very winnable games escape them. Losing by only five points with two interceptions by each team and a total time of possession almost split down the middle, it’s clear that the game was in no way a blowout, but only another frustrating example of a disappointing season. This is the fifth game of the season the Buccaneers have lost by less than a single touchdown, having lost with a final score of 22-17, and their failure to remain consistent has become a major issue. Next week, the Buccaneers host the divisional rival Atlanta Falcons at 1:00 P.M.
Shifting focus towards South Florida, the Miami Dolphins provided a dominating showcase when they hosted the San Diego Chargers in a game that ended 37-0. Shining as the Sunshine State’s only team worthy of bragging about, the Dolphins were able to intercept the Chargers’ quarterback 3 times, ending the game in a shutout. This is the first time the Chargers have been shutout since 1999, adding further disappointment to their three game losing streak. The Miami Dolphins head to Detroit to face the Lions next week for a 1:00 P.M. game.
For our last feature, we come to the Jacksonville Jaguars, who haven’t managed to do much apart from their victory against the Cleveland Browns in week 7. They’ve struggled all season, even after they made UCF alumni Blake Bortles their first string quarterback. This past Sunday, it sadly proved to be more of the same as the team travelled to play the Cincinnati Bengals ending in a 33-23 loss. While Bortles managed to demonstrate more consistency during the game, the Jaguars’ defense was unable to contain Bengals’ rusher Jeremy Hill, who scored two touchdowns, as well as ran for 154 yards. Next week, the Jaguars hope to add to the Dallas Cowboys’ losing streak as they host the team for a 1:00 p.m. game.



An annual holiday celebration is returning to UCF for its seventh season this November, offering the community a chance to experience a winter wonderland here in Orlando.
Light Up UCF, a holiday event that includes “50 Nights of Music, Lights and Ice,” is returning Nov. 14 and will continue until Jan. 4 outside the CFE Arena. The event offers an 8,000 square foot outdoor ice skating rink, rides, and holiday attractions. 
Other attractions include the CFE Federal Credit Union Ferris Wheel, Blizzard ride, the Arctic Glide Ice Slide presented by Race Trac and Santa’s Workshop presented by Coca-Cola. There are also several free opportunities for families including the Holiday Film Festival shown on a giant two-story screen and the Holiday Light Show presented by Orlando Sanford International Airport with thousands of lights choreographed to seasonal musical selections and snow, spun by a live DJ.
A charity 5k will also be held, supporting Second Harvest Food Bank and Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals with UCF’s Knight-thon. The Light Up UCF Knight Run is open to people of all ages and activity levels. Participants can wear their most creative holiday costume for the run on Saturday, November 15. Click here to sign up.
Parking is free for the Light Up UCF event and ice skating tickets are $12. Tickets can be purchased at the CFE Arena Box Office or in advance at lightupucf.com



Students and the community can prepare to be amazed and awed by a magician coming to UCF as part of UCFPD’s plan to add a new four-legged critter to the force.
Comedic magician Jimmy Rook will headline a showcase of the UCF Police Department’s services at a fundraiser for the agency’s K-9 fund as it prepares to add a fourth police dog to the force.
The event, being held in the Cape Florida Ballroom of the Student Union Doors starts at 7:30 p.m. Free parking will be available in Garage D.
Rook, who has performed at the Mystic Dunes Resort in Kissimmee, at the Improv Comedy Club and on “America’s Got Talent,” has been entertaining audiences for more than 15 years.
All funds raised through ticket sales, raffles and other donation opportunities will support UCF Police’s K-9 fund — which will help cover the expense of the dog, plus training and equipment and a car for its trainer. The new dog will be able to track suspects, search buildings and areas and sniff for narcotics.
All ticket-buyers also can submit a suggested name for the new dog, and the selected name will be announced during the show.
The new dog will join the department in December.
The general admission tickets cost $5 for UCF students and alumni and $10 for all others. Tickets are available at the police department, which is at 3610 Libra Drive, or online through Eventbrite and http://www.jimmyrookmagic.com/.



UCF’s Delta Delta Delta sorority will host their annual “All You Can Eat Spaghetti Dinner” philanthropy on Tuesday, Nov. 4.
All proceeds will benefit their philanthropic partner, St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital.
More specifically, the charity event will be contributing to the Tri Delta Place, a national effort from the sisters of Tri Delta that will help establish free, short-term housing for visiting patients and their families.
Tickets include all-you-can-eat spaghetti, salad, breadsticks and cookies. There will also be a live DJ, raffles and a spaghetti-eating contest.
“Our previous events have resulted in huge turnouts, raising over $16,000 each. We’re expecting around 700-1000 guests at Tuesday’s event and are very excited to be helping such an important cause,” said Devin Hludzik, Tri Delta philanthropy chair.
The dinner will take place at the Delta Delta Delta house located on 4220 Greek Park Drive from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Tickets can be purchased from a Tri Delta sister for $8 or at the door for $9. 



Student actors and professionals from campus and the community will join together to create a mock trial that will explore the differences between consensual sex and rape and give students a firsthand look at how sexual assault cases are prosecuted.
The mock trial, being held at the University of Central Florida, will feature testimony, cross-examinations, instructions from the judge and a jury decision.
Following the trial will be a panel-held discussion with panelists from UCF Student Legal Services, UCF Women’s Health Clinic, UCF Victim Services and UCF Police Department, as well as a local defense attorney.
The mock trial will take place on Tuesday, Nov. 4 at 3 p.m. in the Pegasus Ballroom of the Student Union.
This free and public event is sponsored by UCF Victim Services and UCF Student Legal Services.



