UCF Reel Knights, the official fishing club of UCF is the first installment in Knight News’ campus spotlight series.
The Reel Knights have been an active organization amongst UCF since 2006, and they are always looking for new members. 
“One of the coolest aspects about the club is getting to know how and where the other members fish in the different areas around Florida.  Many members love taking other members out on their boats and showing you new areas and techniques,” said Ryan Hullihan, President of the Reel Knights.
The club’s vice-president and film editor, Eddie Twyford, spent time this summer putting together a video to capture some the group’s action-packed offshore excursions. 
Watch as some of the club’s enthusiastic anglers take on tackle-busting brutes throughout the coast of Florida:
 
UCF Fishing Club: The Reel Knights 2014 from Eddie Twyford on Vimeo.
The club says they offer a social aspect, custom club t-shirts, in-club tournaments, discount fishing gear from all our sponsors, club kayaks, tackle discounts, and monthly meetings. 
“Whether you fish every day or are interested in learning we have a spot for you in the club and would be happy to have you,” said Hullihan.
The UCF Reel Knights are holding their first meeting August 28 on campus. E-mail  ucf.reelknights@gmail.com for more information. 
If you want your campus organization to be featured on our campus spotlight shoot us an e-mail at news@knightnews.com.



On Sunday, Iceland lowered its aviation alert level from red to orange, and the no-fly zone was lifted around the Bardarbunga volcano.
According to the Associated Press, the Icelandic Meteorological Office said their announcement Saturday that the volcano experienced subglacial eruption was wrong. 
The Iceland Met Office raised the aviation alert level to red on Saturday, the highest alert level possible. If the volcano were to have an ash-emitting eruption, flights across Northern Europe could be cancelled. 
The potential volcano eruption in Iceland has put UCF football’s travel plans in jeopardy, but with departure on Tuesday the team should have no trouble traveling unless the volcano erupts.
“We’re continuing to monitor the situation. We’ve been in touch with our charter/travel partners and our plans have not changed,” said Andy Seely, UCF Athletics Spokesman. 
UCF kicks off the season on Aug. 30 in Ireland at the Croke Park Classic. 



