A former UCF student, who is now a gym instructor, is back home after being hit in the face by a gym-goer with an iron weight during one of his classes.
Fundraising efforts and local gyms have rallied around the 25-year old John Szarszewski, after he suffered a broken nose, multiple face injuries and will need reconstructive surgery.
Over $11,000 has been raised on one fundraising site to help Szarszewski with the medical bills and other gyms are setting up their own fundraisers for him.
“While John is expected to make a full recovery, he will require multiple reconstructive surgeries to fix his cheek, eye, and nose, and will undoubtedly spend multiple months recovering before he is able to work again,” his YouCaring.com page said.
Daniel Amato, 40, is accused of attacking Szarszewski with five-pound plate in the middle of a class at Hard Exercise Works in Wellington, FL. Police say that Amato first picked up an 18-pound kettleball, but then grabbed a five-pound iron weight to attack Szarszewski.
According to the YouCaring.com page set up by Szarszewski’s family, Amato mistakenly thought that Szarszewski was romantically involved with Amato’s estranged wife.
Amato was taken to the Palm Beach County Jail on charges of aggravated battery with a deadly weapon and resisting arrest.

Click here to find out how to donate.



If you notice extra police vehicles and dogs around UCF main campus, don’t be alarmed–UCF is holding bomb dog training this week.
According to a message sent out by UCF Police Chief Richard Beary, Federal training for explosive detection canines and trainers will bring additional police vehicles to the campus this week. 
The daylong training and testing will begin on Tuesday, July 22 through Thursday, July 24 on select locations across the UCF campus. The training is among a partnership of UCF Police, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
UCF urges that students are aware that the training is not part of an active emergency. As always, if you do see suspicious activity, report it to the UCF Police. 



