UCF students interested in hearing the story behind the wildly popular 4Rivers BBQ restaurant will get a chance to this week.
John Rivers, CEO & Founder of 4Rivers Smokehouse, is coming to UCF on Wednesday, Sept. 24 to speak about how he started one of the fastest growing restaurants in Central Florida. Rivers will be speaking in the Student Union room 218B from 12:00 pm to 1:00 pm. 
Rivers originally managed a $1.4 billion pharmaceutical operation before he turned his focus to starting 4Rivers. Since then, he also opened up The Coop, a southern- inspired chicken restaurant.
Rivers has made appearances in FOOD Magazine, Cooking Light Magazine the Paula Deen Magazine and was most recently named as a finalist for the 2014 Ernst and Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award.



Ever had a time that you really wished you had a cuddle buddy?
Look no further–Cuddlr is a real app that helps people find cuddle buddies at any time, any place.
Cuddlr, which promotes itself as 100% platonic, is a location-based app that is designed strictly to help people find a quick snuggle. Users are shown a name and picture of the potential cuddle buddy and the user can approve whether or not they want to cuddle. If both users approve of each other, they can send a message about where to meet up and even see real-time walking directions of where the person is at.

“A cuddle is longer than a hug, but shorter than a date, so you’re not faced with having to sit through a drink or two if you’ve decided someone isn’t for you: you can politely end a cuddle any time,” Founder Charlie Williams told Salon.
When the cuddle is all said and done, the user can rate the performance of the cuddle.



In honor of Hispanic Heritage Month, Sigma Lambda Gamma National Sorority INC. and Sigma Lambda Beta National Fraternity INC. hosted the event Salsa Under The Stars at the CFE Arena. The event, which took place on September 16, was a night full of Salsa and Bachata dance lessons, free food, raffles and guest speakers.
Javon Miller, the vice president of Sigma Lambda Beta National Fraternity INC., says their fraternity is committed to advancing cultural awareness and service amongst the UCF community.
“We chose to host the event because we felt that it could educate the community on Hispanic culture and tradition in a fun and creative way,” Miller said.
Although the atmosphere at the event, which was attended by approximately 60 students, was light and upbeat, two speakers from Teach for America also discussed important topics. Lovelyne Toussaint and Ameila Klung spoke about education inequaltiies in the Latino community.
According to Raquel Perodin, Vice President of Sigma Lambda Gamma National Sorority INC., at the event she learned that 87 percent of Latinos believe that getting an adequate education is essential. However, less than 50 percent of them go on to achieve one. She says students can do their part to help by joining the Corps or voting in good educational leaders into our school systems.
There was also a GRE Kaplan raffle at the event, which was entered by about 50 students. “The winner was a UCF student named Ariana Rivera. She was extremely excited and overjoyed to find out she won this free course, which is usually very expensive,” Perodin said.
Lechonera Latina provided free food; an assortment of Spanish rice, pork, chicken and sweet plantains were available to students. There were also performers from Latin Rhythm, a dance club at UCF, and dance lessons by Professor Carl Free. Professor Free, or as many students call him “El Capitan,” teaches dance classes at UCF and has been dancing professionally for many years, according to Perodin.
Overall the event was a success according to both Perodin and Miller. Miller said the event had an open-minded atmosphere that fostered growth within everyone there.
“I am very happy about how everything went,” says Perodin. “It was great to see everyone having lots of fun dancing and enjoying themselves. It makes us proud to host this event and see smiles on everyone’s faces.”



Open roads, beautiful landscapes and aesthetic unlike any other. Florida has it all.
Whether you are traveling back home or just exploring Florida for the weekend, here are some of the top ways to travel through Florida and even other major cities throughout the U.S!
Not everyone has a car which means they have to find other ways to go about their travels. One top way students travel is through buses! There are many bus companies which go throughout Florida from right here in Orlando. They are practical, have Wi-Fi and are great for last minute decisions for wanting to go home. Most make stops in big cities but others do travel through smaller cities.
–Megabus is good if traveling to big cities (not just in Florida)!
–Gotobus is a great option if you live in a smaller city in Florida
–Florida Express Bus offers various types of bus transportations
–GMG Transport is mostly for South Floridians
Booking your trip ahead of time is always recommended because these buses can fill up! Also remember to wear comfortable clothes and fill your music player or phone with music. If you want a less filled bus, try to book your trip throughout the weekdays.
A fun and unique way which you can travel is through train. This adds a sense of nostalgia and is full of views you could not view in any other form.
If you want to travel through the coast, Tri-Rail is your best option. For as low as $3.75, you can take a trip to the beach or visit other parts of Florida you normally don’t travel through.
If you really want a full train experience, then Amtrak is the way to go! Through their Silver Service/Palmetto travel option you have the opportunity to travel to major cities such as New York and Washington D.C for much cheaper prices than even a cheap flight can offer. They travel through many large cities of Florida as well and depending on how long your travel is, includes accommodations and even meals!
If those options still seem dull then you can resort to one of the funnest ways to explore that will ensure great memories: Carpooling with friends. This way of travelling is much more personal and can also save you money. Splitting the cost of gasoline with all the passengers will make a trip to that small city in Florida or a nearby state you’ve always wanted to go to much cheaper. There are also benefits of getting to choose your own music and sitting next to people you know.
If you don’t own a car, then you can also rent a car through car companies like Thrifty Car Rental or Enterprise! A great way to save money on gas is to use gasbuddy.com which will show you the cheapest gas spots when you insert a zip code.



