A UCF biomedical student has been arrested after police say he might have been using his medical knowledge to produce and sell Ecstasy, according to WFTV.
The investigation into Max Waters, 21, began when police pulled over a car during a routine traffic stop and found drugs inside the vehicle. The vehicle occupants told investigators that they purchased the drugs from Waters’ home, according to WFTV.
According the WFTV, a large amount of Ecstasy, $40,000 cash, materials to manufacture Ecstacy and a handwritten formula for the drug were found inside of Waters’ room.
School officials told WFTV that Waters withdrew from his classes at UCF after his arrest on drug trafficking charges.



UCF volleyball will be heading to Memphis and Ohio this coming weekend to play the Tigers and Bearcats for a pair of conference matches this Friday and Sunday.
The Knights (13-5, 6-0 AAC) are turning up the heat as they move into the 27th in NCAA RPI Rankings, which were released Monday afternoon. The Knights moved up one spot from last week when UCF debuted at 28th. After opening the American Athletic Conference season on the road with major wins against SMU and Tulsa, the Knights have stopped at nothing short of victory as they have continued to stomp competition in league play. UCF went on to beat Temple, UConn and East Carolina, earning a 3-1 come-from-behind wins over in-state rival USF. The Knights have now won 6 consecutive back-to-back wins so far this season and hope to bring that same adrenaline this weekend as they travel to take on the Memphis Tigers and the Cincinnati Bearcats.
Up first, UCF will travel to Memphis to take on the Tigers (15-5, 5-1 AAC) Friday, October 17 at 8:00 p.m. ET. It won’t be an easy task for the Knights, as Memphis is coming into this matchup with aggressiveness. The Tigers team picked up its fourth-straight conference wins with a four-set victory over Temple this past Sunday afternoon. UCF will then go on to play Cincinnati (12-6, 4-2 AAC) early Sunday afternoon at 1:00 p.m. ET.
The Knights will face tough competition in these weekend’s match-ups. Memphis players recorded at least 13 kills in the winning effort over Temple with young players rising from the ashes. Freshman Kate Gibson led the Tigers with 16 kills and dominated play over the Owls this past Sunday. Senior Lauren Wright sets the example for this teams motto as she picked up her 200th-kill of the season in the fourth set with double-digit kills this year. UCF will need to come out on top in this weekend’s matchup against the Tigers if they plan on coming out with the win.
UCF can also expect a good fight against Cincinnati, as the Bearcats defeated UConn this past Sunday. Cincinnati topped UConn in kills (51 to 45), hitting percentage, assists (49 to 38), and digs (75 to 60). Players like Junior Amelia Wegman and Senior Me’Ashah Nicholson pose a threat to UCF, bringing in 10 kills, 19 digs, four blocks and a .362 hitting percentage.
Despite tough competition, the Knights have great players leading this team to victories. Senior Loren Cory brought in 9 kills for UCF this past weekend as Senior DeLaina Sarden hit a team-best .656 for the week and averaged 3.29 kills per set to lead the Knights to a pair of conference road wins. Sarden also became the 10th player in UCF Volleyball history to reach 1,000 career kills with her final kill against Temple.
The Knights finished last weekend’s matches with 46 kills, 44 assists, 42 digs, and 6 blocks and plan on bringing that same heat into the Tigers territory this Friday night.
UCF will then head home to take on Houston, October 24, at The Venue at UCF. ​



ORLANDO, Fla. — After losing its top three scorers, the UCF men’s basketball team emphasized that it will be fine without players such as Isaiah Sykes, Calvin Newell and Tristan Spurlock this upcoming season.
The Knights’ primary focus? To play as a balanced team.
“Losing scorers doesn’t really matter; we have scorers no matter what,” sophomore guard Brandon Goodwin said. “We’re actually a team this year: we pass and play where everyone gets the ball. It’s like a puzzle; everyone fits in where they are supposed to fit in.”
UCF head coach Donnie Jones echoed upon the new-look Knights’ unselfishness.

“I do like our team, I like how we’re coming along, shaping up.” Jones said. “I think this is going to be an exciting team to watch this year. They are a very unselfish group, really everyone seems to play together, early on that’s the biggest thing we try to emphasize and guys will start accepting their roles here as we get closer to the season.”
The Knights underlined their new culture during media day:
“The new culture is hard work, team, we don’t want to be very selfish guys and most importantly we want to have a winning culture and we want to do it the right way,” freshman guard B.J. Taylor said.
Taylor, an Orlando native, has a chance to flaunt his skills in front of his home crowd. The Boone High School graduate was one of 20 across the nation named to Parade All-America team.
“It’s awesome being here at UCF, being from Boone 20 minutes away, it’s awesome,” Taylor said. “I love being here in Orlando, I love the city and I’m just excited to play in front of all the fans.
Coach Jones had a few words to share about Taylor along with freshman guard Adonys Henriquez who was ranked the 17th best wing in the country by ESPN and who is also from the Orlando area.
“B.J. Taylor and Adonys both coming in really highly recruited; both those guys had great senior years being from this area means something for them to come here and play for UCF,” Jones said. “They will have lots of fans and family sitting in the stands, so that’s something I love. Both of those guys have been really good this summer and this fall, they are really trying to find their way to fit in on this team and they are going to bring great basketball experience even though they’re freshman.”
Returning for his fourth and final season at UCF, senior forward Kasey Wilson believes he can lead this team in a distinctive way.
“I’m not a very loud person, I’ve just never been,” Wilson said.
“I can lead in other ways, I was talking to Coach Finny about that and he was telling me about different ways I can lead other than just having to be a vocal guy all the time,” Wilson said.
Wilson also listed his improvements over the summer.
“Ballhandling, being under pressure from a smaller guard getting up in me and just being more comfortable with the ball,” Wilson said. “Being more consistent with shooting and my defense. Coach Jones has really talked to me about defense and how to keep me on the floor. If I can do anything to stay on the floor, I will.”



