The UCF SGA Presidential and Vice-Presidential campaigns kicked off on Tuesday with the first presidential debate taking place in the Student Union.
Jessica Gottsleben is running for President on the “Revolutionizing Knighthood” ticket with her running mate Lucdwin Luck. Weston Bayes is running for President on the “Stand Uknighted” ticket with his running mate Sydney Altfield.
Candidates answered general campaign questions as well as questions from the public that were first screened by election commissioners.

Although both sides differ in background, they each bring different campaign philosophies to the table from their experience in leadership positions among UCF to campaign issues. However, both parties stand firm on the belief that they are running for the ability to better UCF in its entirety.
“I just want to serve back to the University,” VP Candidate Sydney Altfield said when asked why she wanted to run for UCF SGA Vice-President.
“We are not just your leaders in SGA, we are your fellow knights,” Presidential Candidate Jessica Gottsleben said when asked about her all-inclusive platform.
The next presidential debate is going to be held on March 18 at 7 p.m. in the Cape Cod Ballroom Room 316AB.



UCF’s video game graduate school ranks No. 2 in North America, according to a newly released ranking from the Princeton Review. 
The Florida Interactive Entertainment Academy, also known as FIEA, has been ranked among the top five in all four Princeton Review sets of rankings since the school opened in downtown Orlando nine years ago.
Since opening its doors in 2005, FIEA has graduated 359 alumni working at 124 companies around the world, including Google, Electronic Arts, Blizzard, Ubisoft, Disney and Microsoft. The average starting salary for FIEA graduates is $54,581, UCF stated.
“I’m glad to see the Princeton Review recognize the hard work put in by our faculty and staff at FIEA,” said FIEA executive director Ben Noel. “We spend every day ensuring our students are as ready as possible to have valuable careers in the video game, film and simulation industries.”
UCF was beat out by the University of Southern California for the number one spot.



