ORLANDO, Fla. – U.S. Fund for UNICEF is hosting Shutout Trafficking, a week long campaign from Nov. 10-14 bringing awareness to human trafficking.
“We are partnering with the council for UCF Athletics/student-athletes to bring awareness about Human Trafficking,” said Ligia Forbes, president of UKNIGHTED for UNICEF. “Florida is third in the nation for Human Trafficking and every day someone in Orlando is taken out of Human Trafficking.”
UCF DeVos Sport Business Management and UCF Athletics has partnered with U.S. Fund for UNICEF and the National Consortium for Academics and Sports (NCAS).
UCF is one of 10 schools selected by UNICEF to promote this campaign.
Human Trafficking has an estimate of 27 million slaves globally. Many of them are brought to major sporting events.
U.S. Fund for UNICEF has different events planned for the week of Nov. 10-14. During this week, they will be teaching athletes about Human Trafficking. Athletes will also help by informing UCF’s campus of its dangers and promoting efforts made to end it.
“The goal of Shutout Trafficking is to educate people by using the sports platform about the evils of human trafficking. And there is a sports connection. At major sports events such as the Super Bowl, the Major League Baseball All-Star Game, the NBA All-Star Game and the World Cup, traffickers bring in women and girls to sell sex to men who frequently travel without their spouses and consume significant amounts of alcohol for several days to a week. Police and local authorities have finally started to focus on these events in the months leading up to and during the event. But human trafficking is obviously much bigger than just the sports world with an estimated 27 million slaves globally,” according to DeVos Sport Business Management Program events page.
Events Schedule:
Nov. 10 – Introduction to End Trafficking program in College of Science Building 101 at 5:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. with special speakers:
1. Panel moderated by Todd Stansbury, UCF Athletics Director
2. Dr. Richard Lapchick, Director of the DeVos Sport Business Management Program
3. Tiffany Roberts-Sahaydak, UCF Women’s Soccer Coach & Olympic gold medalist
4. Allie Gerry, Women’s Soccer scholar-athlete
Nov. 11 – Emily Pasnak-Lapchick speaking in Business Administration II 210 from 8:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m.
* For DeVos Sport Business Management Graduate Students Only *
Mens Basketball game in the CFE Arena from 11:00 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Nov. 12 – Educational Materials from 11:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. in the Student Union
Screening and Discussion of “Not my Life” in College of Science Building 101 from 5:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m.
Tomas Lares, Founder & Executive Director of Florida Abolitionist
Local survivor of human trafficking
*First 250 people will get event-sponsored t-shirts and snacks*
Nov. 13 – Educational Materials from 11:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. in the Student Union Atrium
Nov. 14 – Women’s basketball game in the CFE Arena from 11:00 a.m. to 1 p.m.
Volleyball Game in The Venue at UCF from 3:00 p.m. to 5:30 p.m.
Football Game in the Bright House Stadium from 8:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m.
Click here for more information on Shutout Trafficking!



Animal lovers rejoice, a new UCF RSO: Don’t Shop, Adopt, is an organization making a difference in the Orlando animal community.
Don’t Shop, Adopt focuses on helping the lives of stray and shelter pets in the Orlando area. Their mission statement is “to provide help to homeless animals in need and raise awareness on domestic animal issues.”
“Don’t Shop, Adopt is a group of students that believe in rescuing and helping animals that no one gives a second chance to,” said President of Don’t Shop, Adopt, Amanda Trompeta.
“The main three things for us are volunteering, fundraising, and education,” explained Trompeta.
This club ultimately does many fundraising activities and gives the money to different animal cases that need support. For example, last semester they saved many death row dogs by paying their “bail out fee” which allowed the dogs to live and find a good home.
“We recently had Orlando Bully Rescue come to our last meeting and we hosted a food drive for them. We ended up raising around 198 pounds of food and a $30 dollar Petco gift card that UCF students donated,” said Vice-President Julie Deslauriers.
Trompeta and Deslauriers both have a passion for helping animals and are pre-veterinary majors.
This semester a lot of their fundraising money has been put towards helping feral cats. The stray cat population increases very quickly due to the high amount of stray/feral cats out there. Don’t Shop, Adopt puts money towards spaying/neutering cats. If you are interested in this cause, they have a gofundme page for donations.
Another big goal this organization has is educating college students on being responsible pet owners.
Don’t Shop, Adopt also focuses on the adoption of animals at kill shelters. Deslauriers explained to KnightNews that volunteers are lacking in kill shelters due to the fact that so many people are against them.
“The way it works is that because it is a government shelter, by law they can’t ever deny any animal,” explained Trompeta. “They have an average of 53 dogs and cats being dropped off every day. Once they reach the cage limit, they have to keep taking in animals so for the ones that have been there the longest, there’s nowhere to take them.”
“People just think that animals that end up in shelters are the bad, misbehaved animals but a lot of times they’re just puppies that were born in the shelters or kittens that people found. It’s a way to save money but also a way to prevent animals from being put to sleep,” said Deslauriers.
Last semester, this organization rescued 28 animals, volunteered a total of 238 hours, and fundraised over $200. They hope to exceed these numbers this semester as it is their first semester as a registered student organization. By the end of fall 2014, they hope to have rescued at least 40 more animals.
The total number of animals they’ve rescued is 54 and counting.
One of their goals this semester is to fund raise for In Harmony With Nature, a 501 c(3) wolf sanctuary. There’s only two in the state of Florida. Don’t Shop, Adopt is working to fundraise for this charity organization to help keep their land.
“I just want to make sure that it’s known that this is not just another club,” said Trompeta. “This is such a real, daily thing. It’s really easy to read it on the newspaper, to see people reading about it and say it’s so sad but it’s such a daily problem.”
If you are interested in joining this organization, make sure to join their Facebook group. On this group, there is a membership application to fill out and submit under the files tab. This organization is not charging dues for the fall semester.
The meetings occur every other Monday from 3-4 in room 220 of the Student Union. Everyone is welcome to join. Deslauriers wants everyone to know that even if they cannot attend the meeting, there are many other events, such as volunteering and tabling, that members can attend to be a part of the club.
For more information on Don’t Shop, Adopt check out their Facebook page.
If you’d like to see your organization on Campus Spotlight, e-mail news@knightnews.com



This holiday season, students can go back home without having to ask their friend or roommate for a ride to the airport.
The Student Government Association has launched Knight Flight, a free shuttle service that will take students from UCF’s main campus to Orlando International Airport (MCO). The shuttles will run during the week of Thanksgiving and before the winter break.
[sam_ad id=”3″ name=”flyhighmsb” codes=”true”]
“SGA is trying to accommodate for students who are not from around here since there are not as many services provided for those people specifically,” said Christopher Hixon, SGA public relations coordinator.
The legislation for Knight Flight was proposed in 2011-2012 term by the Student Body Council.
“There was definitely a need from out-of-state students,” said Hixon. “It was an issue where they had to pay for a taxi to go home on top of students having to pay for their flights.”
And the cost for the shuttles themselves are not cheap. The funding to run Knight Flight is $5,000. Hixon said the service is being  provided online now for students to take advantage of the program.
Students like Kristin Kramer, a junior majoring in environmental studies, are given the option to avoid paying a cab fare. Kramer and her roommates are out-of-state students living off campus. She believes the service is beneficial to people living on campus but it still challenging sometimes finding someone to take her and her roommates to the airport.
“The price to park at the airport is sometimes pretty expensive depending on how long you’re going to be parked there,” Kramer said. “So I think it’s great that UCF provides this service to students.”
Recently, SGA has made gains in proposing and passing legislation on transportation. UCF now offers shuttles to campus on Saturdays and grocery shuttles from campus to the Publix in the University Palms Shopping Center on Tuesdays.
Compared to those shuttle services provided by SGA, Facilities & Transportation Specialist Christopher Clemente said students will need their knights email to sign up for Knight Flight.
“We only want students using this service,” Clemente said.
Shuttles will drive to MCO from Nov. 25 to Nov. 26 for Thanksgiving break.  For the winter break, shuttles will run from Dec. 8 to Dec. 10, bringing students back to the main campus Jan. 8 to Jan. 9, 2015. The shuttles will be at the LYNX terminals between Garage H and I. Pick-up locations at MCO will be at Terminal A-29 and Terminal B-38 for when students are returning back to UCF.
Students can register here but seating is limited. Shuttles seat up to 45 students.



A chili and cornbread cook-off was held Wednesday at the John C. Hitt Library to raise funds for the Heart of Florida United Way Campaign. On behalf of the Information Technologies and Resources division (ITR), the event was hosted by the Center for Distributed Learning and the Office of Instruction Resources.
The UCF campaign runs yearly, and although ITR has always participated, this is the first year they have actually put a fundraising team together.
“UCF has a friendly competition every year where teams compete for the top fundraising team of the campaign for a winning trophy,” said Maritza Pomales, the fundraising team captain for ITR. “ITR decided to organize a fundraising team to have a chance at winning the trophy this year. Raising funds for a good cause is always more fun when the element of competition is thrown in the mix.”  [sam_ad id=”3″ name=”flyhighmsb” codes=”true”]
The United Way Campaign hopes to raise $150,000 this year, and a total of $500 was made at the ITR cook-off event. The event raised these funds through a suggested $5 donation, which included a sample taste of all the chili and cornbread entries, a drink and a bowl so the guest could eat more of their selected favorite.
The friendly competition had two winners, both of which were from the Center for Distributed Learning.
“Attendants at the event had the opportunity to taste 15 different varieties of chili and six different varieties of corn bread,” said Anita Gabbard, the campaign representative for the Center for Distributed Learning. “The chili entries varied from vegetarian, beef, pork, chicken and degrees of spiciness. Once the attendees were done tasting, they had the opportunity to choose a bowl of their favorite chili and cornbread and cast their vote.”
A silent auction was also held at the event, and two items were auctioned off. These included a one-night stay at the Holiday Inn Express on Colonial Drive and a pair of UCF football tickets, which were both donated to the campaign, according to Gabbard.
The event was very successful overall, according to both Gabbard and Pomales.
“The event was well attended, and it brought our employees together through friendly competition. It raised much-needed funds for a local charity, and it raised awareness amongst our employees on the importance of giving back to our community,” Pomales said.



A video of little girls cursing for feminism was posted on Tuesday, and it quickly went viral.
FCKH8, which is a for-profit T-shirt company that supports LGBT equality, anti-racism and anti-sexism, posted the video on Facebook this week, and it has gained 12,455,176 views since. Girls as young as six are seen using the f-word to draw “attention to more offensive words like pay inequality and rape,” according FCKH8’s Facebook.
The feedback this video has received over the past couple of days is mixed. Some people, like Kate Hardwick, a student at the University of Central Florida, think the video is too controversial.
“Although I completely support feminism, I don’t completely agree with the video,” said Hardwick. “I think the message is great, but I also think children that age don’t fully comprehend what they’re being told to say. It goes back and forth.”
Others think the message of the video is more important than the curse words being said. Jillian Ferro, another student at the University of Central Florida, thinks some people are missing the point.
“Pay inequality and rape should be more shocking than a child saying a bad word. The fact that our society has normalized rape more than cursing proves the exact point that the video is trying to make,” Ferro said.
Along with curse words, the video also shows the girls giving sexism statistics. The two main statistics talked about were how “women make 23 percent less than men” and that “one in five women are sexually assaulted or raped.”
For more information about FCKH8 or to watch the video, visit https://www.facebook.com/fckh8com or http://fckh8.myshopify.com.



