UCF freshman biology major Carlos Tapia came to UCF as a self-admitted introvert.
He was tired of it and high school was in the rear-view mirror. It was time for a change.
“I thought why not change things up? I thought of college as a stepping stone for a new outlook and new opportunities,” Tapia said.
He looked to the internet as that starting point by joining the “UCF Class of 2018” Facebook page, sometimes making multiple posts in the group per day about everything from his vast fedora collection to videos of wild animals he found while longboarding around campus.

The profile picture of Carlos donning a red fedora and aviator sunglasses was almost always at the top of the group, which has over 7,000 members. Before long, he was getting recognized around campus.
“Way too much,” Tapia said. “I find it a very neat thing that social media has changed the world so much that you can post a bunch of things and people begin to know you more.”
Like us on Facebook & follow @UCFKnightNews on twitter for UCF news on your feeds!
Follow @UCFKnightNews
The unexpected pseudo-celebrity status Tapia reached within the group did not come without backlash. Some of the users on the page thought his posting was irrelevant to the group and was becoming annoying. Freshman engineering major Josh Patterson was very vocal about Tapia’s postings on the page, often getting into arguments with Tapia on the page.
“Everyone is sick of seeing his posts all the time and that’s why me and many people try to get through to him all the time to stop posting so much,” Patterson said.
While Patterson has just told Tapia to slow down on the postings, some people have tried different ways. A photo of Tapia’s face photoshopped in a toilet bowl and a photoshopped picture of Tapia appearing to be holding a bong were both posted on the page.
The administrator of the “Class of 2018” Facebook page, Hugo Cardona, has seen the backlash Carlos has faced for his frequent posting and subsequently has blocked about 20 people from using the page.
“Ultimately, you can’t please everyone all of the time so you have to make sure to keep the main thing the main thing; which is keeping the page a spam-free resource that all UCF freshmen can leverage to their advantage,” Cardona said.
After seeing the postings, Tapia has kept a positive attitude.
“I really don’t take it personally, most of the time I just go on there, read it, chuckle a few times and post some kind of meme on there,” Tapia said.
KnightNews.com reached out to Samantha Harris at FIRE, the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education, to get an expert’s opinion on whether the negative postings towards Tapia are constituted as cyber-bullying.
“FIRE believes that to pass constitutional muster, policies on bullying/cyberbullying must define those terms as peer harassment, which is conduct so severe, pervasive, and objectively offensive that the victim is essentially denied access to the university’s educational opportunities,” Harris said. “It is difficult to see how a few isolated social network posts would rise to this level, but a harassment determination is very contextual: if the posts happened frequently enough and over a long enough period of time that the targeted student began to avoid going to class, changed his routes to avoid seeing people he knew were engaged in the behavior, etc., then the analysis might look different.”
Tapia said he believes some of these postings are considered cyber-bullying and has sent some of the collected screenshots to Student Conduct, but has not heard anything back.
Despite the controversy, Tapia feels like his posting has brought him out of his shell–and many other UCF freshmen as well.
“It’s incredible how many people I’ve met since I started. I never knew I would be meeting so many people within the first three weeks of the college career,” Tapia said.
Tapia’s personal Facebook page is filled with new friends suggesting to check out new fedoras and multiple photos of him hanging out with other UCF students around campus.
“I plan to continue getting people out there and get people involved on campus. I’ve helped a lot of people meet each other through Facebook and I want to continue to do that,” Tapia said.



To Write Love on Her Arms (TWLOHA) is a non-profit organization which was founded in Florida in 2006.
It was found after a story of the same name was published and helped the author’s friend go through treatment. The UCF chapter began in 2011 and has since made an impact, helping those who need hope and are struggling with depression, addiction, self-injury and suicide. It exists to help those people and to inform and directly invest in treatment that helps with those issues.
This club is for everyone regardless of age, gender, religion, race or sexual orientation.
On Wednesdays, this club tables in front of the Student Union to raise awareness. They also meet every Tuesday at 5:30 p.m. in Room 225 of the Student Union. Each month is centered around a different mental health issue which is discussed during the meetings and in the beginning of each month, a different licensed mental health counselor is brought to discuss the month’s topic.
The club has expanded since its beginning and in the last meeting, more than 30 attended. They also host various activities within the club in which they build community such as an “Open Mic Night” which is coming up this fall semester.
“We are a campus organization that is here with the purpose of educating people on mental health issues and ending the stigmas that surround them, but also we are here to spread a message of hope to anyone who is struggling. Everybody needs to know that there is hope at some point in their lives, and we try our best to share hope with others,” said Shannon Mynheir, vice-president of To Write Love on Her Arms.
This organization is widely spread throughout many universities and here at UCF, it has helped various students since it began. Psychology senior Kyle Mullen said that for him TWLOHA is always a good reminder that other people care. He entered saying he was shy and not open about his past with going to counseling but joining this group really changed him to be more open about helping others.
“It’s good to hear about others stories and experiences,” Mullen said.
The members are not therapists but do know how to direct students who are looking for help to one. They work with local resources and counseling centers and can provide you with all the information you’d need to get to them whether it be with individual counseling, crisis intervention, workshops, etc. They also collaborate with other school services and do many activities within to help discuss the various monthly issues. Many members also complete QPR training which helps them be able to prevent suicide when they see the chance of someone being suicidal or having those thoughts.
If you are interested in finding out more about them or need help do not be hesistant and get the help you need through these resources:
UCF Counseling and Psychological Services
TWHOLA’s Facebook
TWHOLA’s Twitter
TWHOLA’s Wordpress
 



UCF was ranked No. 1 by University Primetime as the top school in the world based on quality of life.
According to the website, the list was “intended to capture how much students want to go to a particular school, how much they want to stay there, and how good the school is at keeping them there once they are in.  It also measures the relative prestige of the school in terms of wealth, as well as the job opportunities available to students once they graduate by the number of companies recruiting on campus (both in terms of absolute numbers and per student).”
To see the full list check out University Primetime’s website.



