On Sunday, Oct. 12 over 20,000 people journeyed to our very own UCF campus to participate in the 18th Annual Race for the Cure, an event put together through the Susan G. Komen foundation for the fight against breast cancer.
With the race beginning at 8:00 a.m., citizens from around the community began flooding to the Bright House Networks Stadium as early as 5:30 a.m. to get ready for the big occasion.
Whether a volunteer or a runner, participants were decked out in as much pink as possible to support those affected by the disease. A stage was put together, tents were decorated in bows and balloons and many local businesses, including Wawa, were there handing out food and refreshments.
People travelled from all over Florida for the affair, including Donna Miller-Dunham.
“I have never been to such a well-coordinated and beautiful event benefiting so many people,” said Miller-Dunham.
Along with the community, UCF’s greek system also participated in the affair and helped donate towards Zeta Tau Alpha’s philanthropy, Breast Cancer Education and Awareness. The sorority alone has already raised over $25,000 towards breast cancer research.
Countless UCF students gathered both Saturday and Sunday to help prepare for the race, staying up all hours to make sure everything went smoothly.
One of Zeta Tau Alpha’s runners, Gabby Schweigart, enjoyed helping out the community with the event.
“I’m not one for waking up early, but seeing the reaction of all the survivors as we crossed the finish line made everything worth it,” Schweigart said.
Family members and friends helped to recognize those affected by the disease throughout the day by adorning their lawns with ribbons and decorating runner’s shirts with the names of those they are running for. Thousands of names were written, and it was without a doubt a community effort to make the event as special as ever.



UCF middle linebacker Terrance Plummer’s career-defining performance in Thursday’s 31-24 victory over BYU earned him national honors this week.
Plummer was named the National Defensive Player of the Week presented by Generation UCAN by the Walter Camp Football Foundation. It was the first time a UCF player has ever received a national weekly award from the foundation.
Plummer was unstoppable in Thursday night’s ESPN-televised win, recording a career-best 17 tackles, 4.5 tackles for loss and recovered his own forced-fumble.
On the year Plummer has 53 tackles and 7.5 tackles for loss, leading the Knights in both categories. 
UCF will be back in action on Saturday for the start of home conference play against Tulane. Kickoff is set for noon. 



