The NCAA is having an online ‘6th fan’ competition, in which the winning school wins $100,000 towards their scholarship fund, as well as other individual and school prizes.
Individuals can vote once a day for their school to win through each of their voting methods, which includes Facebook, Twitter, and the website itself 6thfan.ncaa.com.
The voting is treated like NCAA March Madness. After the first round, the top sixteen schools advance, then the elite eight, final four, and championship.
Other prizes include a $10,000 donation to each school that make it into the sweet sixteen round of voting. 
Individual prizes include chances to win an iPad Air each round, and all submissions enter a grand prize drawing at the end of the competition to receive an all expense paid trip to the 2015 Men’s Final Four in Indianapolis.
The first round of voting is happening now, and the UCF Knights are currently ranked No. 12 in the nation.  
You can vote online at 6thfan.ncaa.com. The first round ends February 16th, 2014 at 11:59 p.m. eastern time. 
Check back for updates as the competition progresses.



An optics researcher at the University of Central FLorida has received the state of Florida’s only equipment award from the Air Force’s Defense University Research Equipment Program (DURIP).
Axel Schülzgen, a professor in the College of Optics and Photonics, and his colleagues were awarded $870,000 to purchase equipment that will create the glass preforms necessary for producing fiber optics, UCF said. With the new equipment Schülzgen and his team will be able to make their own preforms – cylindrical chunks of glass – the raw material for fiber optic cable.
Preforms, which the researchers currently have to buy for as much as $30,000 apiece, are fed into the furnace of a fiber draw tower where the molten glass is ultimately stretched into the fibers integral to fiber optics. Schülzgen and his team specialize in creating fiber optics with the fiber draw tower customized for and installed at UCF shortly after his arrival in 2009.
“With this addition to our tower we will have a one-stop-shop for creating fiber optics here at UCF,” Schülzgen said.
After the fibers are created they are jacketed, wrapped in bundles and are used to carry data across oceans and continents. This is the technology that enables fast optical communications through a globally connected internet. The modified chemical vapor deposition (MCVD) lathe system purchased by the grant will allow the center to produce a wider variety of fibers and participate in more specialty research.
By September CREOL will complete construction of a new facility in the Central Florida Research Park to hold the new lathe system, UCF said.



