UCF’s Theta Chi fraternity launched ΘΧmas, their first ever holiday-themed philanthropy event this past week.
In a multi-day event that raised nearly $3,000, the fraternity teamed with Knight-Thon to benefit the Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals.
The entire event was close to the heart for many of the brothers, including Chris Hixon, who was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia at a young age. Now an advocate for the cause, Hixon helped to personally raise over $1,500 for Knight-Thon over the span of two years.
“As someone who survived cancer at an early age, I think it’s awesome to see my fraternity give back to a cause that impacts so many children every day,” said Chris Hixon, senior at the University of Central Florida.
From Nov. 17 to 20, members of the Greek community had the opportunity to participate in Christmas activities, earning points toward their chapter and spreading the holiday spirit to all of UCF. Each day consisted of a different activity, from decorating the Theta Chi house on Greek Park, to wrapping presents for the Miracle children. Competition soon ensued, with more points being awarded to the organization that best decorated during each exercise.
The brothers of Theta Chi fraternity are continuing to raise money for the Children’s Miracle Network as the academic year progresses. On Monday, they held their 4th Annual Ricky Bobby Thanksgiving Dinner, a play on the popular Talladega Nights movie to raise more money for Knight-Thon.
“I participate in Knight-Thon because it unites college students to not only make an impact in the lives of sick children everywhere, but also because of the opportunities it may give them–to grow up outside of the walls of a hospital, to graduate high school and go to college, and to follow their dreams without worrying about how close they are to a hospital,” Hixon said.



One of the first rules parents teach their kids: don’t talk to strangers — let alone get into their cars.
But a Local 6 special investigation showed that some students at the University of Central Florida hadn’t quite learned that lesson, after nine of 13 students willingly got into an unmarked van, filled out personal information sheets and handed over their cellphones to someone claiming to be a reality TV show talent scout.
video platformvideo managementvideo solutionsvideo player
Luckily for them, it was only Local 6 special projects producer Allison McGinley and not someone with more nefarious plans. However, it was still a concern for UCF Police Chief Richard Beary. 
“The reality is there is always somebody out there trying to scam you, whether you are here at UCF, at the mall or at home,” Beary told Local 6.
McGinley handed students an application form that asked for a name, cellphone number, email address, Instagram and Twitter accounts, home town and even popular hangout spots, according to Local 6. According to Local 6, most of the students that were approached filled out the bogus application before investigative reporter Mike Holfeld came over to tell them what was really happening.
Not all the students were willing comply, however. According to the Local 6 video, one student refused to get into the van and stopped his girlfriend from getting in either. According to Local 6, when they were asked to hand over their cellphones, they said they couldn’t stay and left.
“They have to protect their information at all times and they have to be aware of their surroundings and understand that there’s always somebody out there that’s going to be trying to work a scam,” Beary told Local 6.



After what appeared to be a strong start for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Miami Dolphins, and Jacksonville Jaguars, all three teams found a way to let a win slip out of their hands this past week. 
It may not be surprising for the Jaguars or Buccaneers anymore, but it’s disappointing for the Dolphins, considering how much potential they have shown this season.
The Buccaneers showed a lot of promise in the first two quarters of Sunday’s game, heading into the half with a 10-0 lead over the Chicago Bears, but problems were already clearly present. Once each team reappeared on the field, these problems only appeared more exaggerated. 
After a stellar performance from Josh McCown last week, the Buccaneer’s veteran quarterback managed to do little more than sabotage any of their hopes for victory. Throwing two interceptions and managing to gain little momentum from their three scoring drives, McCown’s performance really called into question Lovie Smith’s offensive strategy, once again. The game ended, with a Bear’s triumph of 21-13. Next week, the Buccaneers host the Cincinnati Bengals for a 1:00 P.M. game.
Turning attention to the one Florida team with playoff hopes, the Miami Dolphins faced the Denver Broncos, in what became a nail-biter of a game, ending with the Bronco’s victory of 36-39. After three quarters of Dolphins domination, their defense seemed to give up altogether, allowing their opponent to score 22 points in the final quarter. While they may remain second in their division, even with this loss, their chances of making it to the playoffs are becoming slimmer and slimmer. They play the New York Jets, next Monday, at 8:30 P.M.
Finally, we have to discuss one of the only teams worse than the Buccaneers, the Jacksonville Jaguars, who have again demonstrated their inability to do anything on either side of the ball, with a 23-3 loss to the Indianapolis Colts. The Colts prevented anything more than a single field goal from being scored against them, as well as intercepting the ball once and recovering a fumble. Blake Bortles has been struggling this season to live up the life of his college career, and his performance this past week was one of his most abysmal, ending the game with a passer rating of 55.5. Hopefully next week he can manage to get something going, as the team hosts the New York Giants for a 1:00 P.M. game.



Sexual assault is a serious matter and no stranger to college campuses. In an effort to educate the student body on what to do when witnessing an assault, UCF has joined the It’s On Us campaign.
The It’s On Us campaign was an initiative started in The White House through President Obama. According to The White House Blog, it is “an awareness campaign to help put an end to sexual assault on college campuses.”
This campaign launched on Sept. 19, 2014.
At the official White House launch, the President said that “an estimated one in five women has been sexually assaulted during her college years. Of those assaults, only twelve percent of those are reported and of those reported assaults, only a fraction of the offenders are punished.”
The official It’s On Us website stated that the goals for this initiative are “to recognize that non-consensual sex is sexual assault, to identify situations in which sexual assault may occur, to intervene in situations where consent has not or cannot be given. and to create an environment in which sexual assault is unacceptable and survivors are supported.”

The campaign centers itself around pledges made by the student body to be active bystanders.
A bystander is a person who is present at an event or incident but does not take part. To be an active bystander, one must not be a mere witness to an assault; they must step in and do all they can to prevent it.
“This pledge is a personal commitment to help keep women and men safe from sexual assault. It is a promise not to be a bystander to the problem, but to be a part of the solution,” says the It’s On Us official website.
UCF has decided to take a stand and join this movement. This semester, It’s On Us has been spotted around campus and in the union asking students to take a picture and sign the pledge.
KnightNews.com spoke to Maureen Hawkins, the UCF Director of Wellness and Health Promotion Services.
According to Hawkins, the main purpose of this campaign is “awareness building and starting the conversation to educate people and our campus/community on what they could do and step in to be an active bystander.”
Hawkins said that this movement is going to impact the UCF community because this movement is an ”umbrella awareness piece of getting students aware of the issue in general.” This campaign educates and “leads into other info on mentors and violence prevention programs. “
Hawkins also wants the student body to know that It’s On Us is not a curriculum but that UCF offers a full on bystander prevention program for those interested.
This campaign has been campus wide. SDES, UCF Health and Wellness, UCF Cares, and many other partners have helped this initiative take off and raise awareness.
6,938 UCF students have signed the pledge since the last count on Nov. 12.
“We are closing out our semester before exams with one final push for students to take the pledge and allow students to come get their photos we took at the first event. We’re trying to continue that message during winter break and into spring; this is an ongoing effort,” said Hawkins. “Taking the pledge isn’t just signing your name and taking the photo, it’s helping someone that may need assistance.”
If you have been a victim of sexual assault, visit notalone.gov for resources or call the National Sexual Assault Hotline at 1-800-656-HOPE.
If you wish to get involved in this campaign, email Maureen Hawkins at Maureen.Hawkins@ucf.edu or contact UCF Cares. Mentor’s In Violence Prevention training is also available for those interested.
For more information on It’s On Us, visit their official website and take the pledge to be more than a bystander and help end sexual assault.
It’s On Us, the Knight community, to take the role of active bystanders. If you haven’t already, sign the pledge and educate yourself to make a difference.



We all know Snapchat lets you send quick photos to your friends, but what if you could be sending or receiving cash instead of selfies?
This is now possible, thanks to Snapchat’s newest update. Users can now send their contacts money, just as they would a typical picture.
Snapcash, the name they have coined for the service, allows users to link their debit cards to their account to send and receive money from other users.
The service was created through a partnership between Snapchat and Square, a payment processing company. Currently, there is no fee to use the service.
UCF Senior accounting major Terence Holiday is not impressed with the new service.
“I wouldn’t use it,” Holiday said. “There are already established apps for transferring money, like Venmo. The majority of larger banks have a way of transferring money via app,” Holiday added.
While convenience is nice, security should be a focus when dealing with bank accounts or debit cards. Considering Snapchat’s recent history of hackers downloading countless photos, many are worried about the safety of their account numbers.
It turns out that Snapchat will not be handling any of the payments, or even account information. While still done through the app, all financial related information is processed by Square.
According to Square, all payment is passed through Square, encrypted and submitted to their servers securely.
Additionally, Snapcash can be set up to prompt the user for a security code for each transaction.
To use Snapcash, users must be at least 18, and register a debit card with the service. Credit cards cannot be used with the service.
Will Snapcash be able to grow? Will security concerns prevent the app from becoming mainstream? Only time will tell.
One thing’s for sure; With this new update, it finally pays to Snap.



UPDATE: Tornado warning cancelled, heavy rain still persists. 
UCF sent out an alert Tuesday morning warning students to be aware of possible tornados in the area and to seek shelter immediately.
“Tornado Warning UCF Main Campus! Seek shelter immediately. Monitor local media for details,” the UCF alert read. The warning will last until 10:30 a.m.
The same alert was also sent out for the Lake Nona Medical City Campus.
According to the National Weather Service, the wet weather is expected to last through Wednesday. 



