The Tau Kappa Epsilon fraternity at UCF is currently on interim suspension following hazing allegations during the fraternity’s “hell week,” KnightNews.com confirmed with a UCF official.
The fraternity was placed on interim suspension after a pledge of the Tau Kappa Epsilon chapter sent an e-mail to College Algebra professor Mr. Plemmons asking if he could have extra time on his homework.
Professor Plemmons sent an e-mail to Director of  Student Affairs Clay Coleman asking if it was normal for a fraternity to not allow a student to go to class during “hell week.”
Coleman then submitted a report to the Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities to investigate the incident further.
Tau Kappa Epsilon had an initial organizational interim suspension hearing on May 5, but remained on organizational interim suspension until another hearing is set to address the alleged violations.
While on organization interim suspension, Tau Kappa Epsilon will only be able to gather at regularly scheduled business meetings.



The Chi Omega women’s fraternity national chapter issued a scathing letter on Wednesday expressing outrage at UCF’s handling of hazing incidents, following news that UCF has placed Chi Omega on organizational suspension effective until spring 2015.
The letter, which accuses UCF of being unfair and breaking its own rules during conduct hearings, came the same day UCF faced Knight News in court to try and prevent the public from monitoring UCF’s controversial hearings. Judge Patricia Doherty has not yet ruled.
The Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities issued the official letter to the Psi Mu Chapter of Chi Omega on Wednesday, stating that they would be placed on suspension due to the alleged hazing incident conducted by three sisters on April 4.
Chi Omega National President Letitia Fulkerson’s letter posted on the fraternity’s website in response to the suspension said that the Chi Omega national organization is working with the Psi Mu chapter to appeal UCF’s decision.
UPDATE: UCF releases rationale from secret panel hearing | Suspension letter
“Despite the fact that Chi Omega reported the incident to UCF officials, and there has been no evidence to date that it was anything more than an event conducted by three individuals on their own accord in direct violation of Chi Omega’s rules and policies, UCF has made it clear the entire chapter is being held accountable,” said Chi Omega National President Letitia Fulkerson.
Fulkerson went on to say that UCF’s handling of the Chi Omega suspension could harm students by discouraging reporting of hazing incidents in the future.
“Our outrage with organizational suspension in this situation spans far beyond our own self-interest; Chi Omega is exceedingly concerned that UCF’s action in suspending an entire student organization for the acts of a few will prevent students from reporting safety-related issues in the future, for fear that their entire group will be penalized,” Fulkerson said.
KnightNews.com reached out to UCF for comment on the suspension, but has not heard back yet.
RELATED STORY YOU MAY BE INTERESTED IN:
Last year, we paid hundreds of dollars for UCF to release this video of ATO’s closed hearing.  



