Newly released documents obtained by KnightNews.com show that a joint-social with the Delta Zeta sorority and the Zeta Beta Tau fraternity ended with allegations of rape made by one sister of the sorority.
According to the UCF conduct report, the alleged rape victim was intoxicated to the point that she could not stand on her own outside of the Rok Room venue while accompanied by another sister. The sisters waited outside of the venue as the alleged rape victim’s boyfriend was contacted to pick her up.
At some point, two members of the Zeta Beta Tau fraternity showed up and started to assist the group. The alleged rape victim had to be carried over one of the brother’s shoulders in order to be placed in the car and was unable to hold herself up in the backseat, the report said. The alleged rape victim vomited on one of the ZBT brothers who subsequently asked for a ride home.
The boyfriend, alleged rape victim and two ZBT brothers all drove away together towards the ZBT house.
According to the UCF conduct report, the car ride back was fine until arrival at the ZBT house. The brothers of the fraternity got out of the vehicle and started to walk away, however, a few seconds later the boyfriend got out of the car and pushed the ZBT brother after he was accused of sexually assaulting the DZ sorority sister.
Katie Loundy, the president of Delta Zeta, did not attend the social, but called and left a voicemail to the alleged rape victim on the night of the social when she found out that she did not return home on the busses. Loundy received a phone call from the alleged rape victim at 9:30 a.m. the next morning after the social saying that she was on her way to the police department to report a sexual assault and she could not discuss more since it was a pending police investigation.
When KnightNews.com gave Zeta Beta Tau president Brian Zagrocki a chance to address the allegations of rape made by one sister of the sorority, he said, “The chapter is working with the University and the international fraternity as the incident is being investigated.”
The Delta Zeta sorority and Zeta Beta Tau fraternity at UCF have both been placed on disciplinary probation through the spring 2015 semester after being found in-violation of university policy for disruptive conduct and alcohol related misconduct. Both organizations may not have alcohol present at events during the summer 2014 and fall 2014 semester.



The National Basketball Association has retained Dr. Richard Lapchick, director of UCF’s Institute of Diversity and Ethics in Sport, as an independent expert for the recent falling out with Clipper’s owner Donald Sterling.
The NBA has hired Lapchick to analyze the effect that Donald Sterling’s words have had on the league and the NBA is using his report in the charges against Sterling. According to ESPN.com, it was based on Lapchick’s report that the league found that Sterling’s words have been  “significantly undermining the NBA’s efforts to promote diversity and inclusion.”
NBA Commissioner Adam Silver banned Sterling from the NBA for life on April 29 and fined him $2.5 million dollars for his racist remarks that were captured on an audio recording.
Sterling has until the end of the day on May 27 to respond to the charges. The NBA board of governors will meet on June 3 and could strip Sterling’s entire ownership group of its rights to control the team.
Dr. Lapchick authors a racial and gender report card for each sports league annually, Lapchick gave the NBA an A+ for its racial hiring practices in 2013.
 



