The University of Central Florida is the top college in the country for students seeking sugar daddies.
According to SeekingArrangement.com, UCF ranked number one on the list of top 20 fastest-growing sugar baby colleges in 2013 with 474 new registrants last year.
 “Co-eds using SeekingArrangement receive about $3,000 a month from their benefactors, whereas Florida students who do not have a sugar daddy graduate with an average debt of $22,873,” Angela Jacob Bermuda, a spokeswoman for SeekingArrangement.com, told WPBF.com in an email.
Other Florida schools on the top 20 list include Florida International University and the University of South Florida. The University of Florida just missed the list, ranking 21st nationally.
A sugar baby is a young female or male who is financially pampered/cared for by a sugar daddy or sugar mama in exchange for companionship. A “sugar daddy” or “sugar momma” is a professional businessman or businesswoman who serves as a “mentor, sponsor or benefactor” to that younger man or woman.
“SeekingArrangement.com is the largest dating website for those seeking mutually beneficial arrangements,” the company’s website boasts. The site also claims to be the only website focused “exclusively on helping the rich and successful meet the young and beautiful!”



The Education building on UCF main campus is currently being evacuated due to smoke inside the facility.
A UCF spokesman said that the smoke came from a malfunctioning air conditioning handle. Grant Heston,  Associate Vice President for Communications and Public Affairs, tweeted that the building is expected to reopen soon.
“#UCF update: Education building expected to re-open soon following smoke from a/c repair,” Heston said.
“Education Building evacuated due to smoke in the building. Police responding.
Stay clear of the area,” UCF said in a campus alert message.
This is a breaking story, check back for updates.



The women of Delta Delta Delta and Kappa Kappa Gamma attended a self awareness familiarization exchange (SAFE) class hosted at the Kappa Kappa Gamma house Monday afternoon. 
The two hour basic self-defense class was led by Officer Peter Stephens of the University of Central Florida Police Department. Stephens taught the women basic moves to defend themselves from an attacker in the case of an emergency.
“If I could tell women only one thing about self defense, it would be to be very vocal and assertive,” said Stephens.
Throughout the class, Stephens gave real-life examples of things that he’s seen on the job and taught the women moves that were simple, yet effective. 
The following is just one way that Stephens showed the women how they could effectively defend themselves in a dangerous situation. These steps will usually make 60 percent of the attackers become scared and back off. 
For all types of attacks, the victim should first blade her stance. This can be done by bending the knees and shifting the body stance slightly at an angle in order to lower her center of gravity. This simple change in stance can make it nearly impossible to be picked up by the attacker.
Next, the victim should raise her non-dominant hand in front of her face. This gives her the opportunity to block herself if needed. She now has her dominant hand available for hitting or scratching. 
Finally, she should yell, “Get back!” loudly to draw attention from bystanders and strike the attacker’s face with the bottom of her open palm. Many have the natural urge to punch with a closed first, but this can be ineffective because of the wrist’s weakness. 
When the victim strikes the face, she should try aiming for the nose. This will hopefully draw blood and will make it harder for the attacker to breathe. 
If yelling is the only thing the victim is capable of doing to defend herself, she should yell “fire” because people are more likely to come to the scene if they hear that as opposed to “stop” or “help.”
Stephens was able to make the class fun, yet still kept the message serious. He directly related tips to women, like utilizing the heel of a stiletto shoe to drive into the attacker’s foot. Stomping the stiletto into the attacker’s foot can cause upwards of 500 pounds of pressure per square inch, which gives the victim a chance to run away.
“I feel like I’m much more capable of defending myself than I was before the class. The instructor made the situations realistic and taught us in a way that would be easier to remember in a threatening situation,” said Jennifer Bayes. 
Stephens gave defense moves names that mimicked its actions in reality. For example, the “lawn mower” is used when the victim is attacked from behind. The victim is to grab behind them to the male’s groin or crotch region, then grab, twist and pull, similar to how you would start an actual lawn mower. 
For more protection on campus, students are legally allowed to carry pepper spray. When selecting a pepper spray, the higher the scoville scale, the better. Try to find one that has around a 2 million scoville rating. 
The Safe Escort Patrol Service (SEPS), blue light phones and UCFPD are also resources that students can rely on when they feel uncomfortable on campus. 
“If your spidey sense is tingling, you’re generally right. It’s better to be safe than sorry,” said Stephens, referring to your gut instincts. 
Students can attend one of the SAFE classes provided by UCFPD at no cost. 



Imagine an active young adult, a country boy who is used to being outside, stuck in a small hotel-like room. Imagine this is an intensive care unit room in the Regional Medical Center Bayonet Point. Now imagine he is paralyzed from the diaphragm down.
This has been life for 21-year-old Aaron Lopez, along with other obstacles he’s had to overcome along the way for the past 46 days.
On Jan. 10 around 3:30 p.m. UCF student Brittany Bolin, Lopez’s girlfriend of almost three years, received a phone call from one of Lopez’s former friends. They were riding their motorcycles southbound on Ehren Cutoff in Land O’ Lakes when something went very wrong. A Mercedes, going the opposite direction of Lopez, made a left-hand turn into a driveway and stopped, completely blocking Lopez’s lane.
“I never imagined a phone call changing my entire life. Hearing those few words was my worst nightmare,” Bolin said.
Lopez hit the car broadside at 50 mph and bounced off, falling to the floor. As he was lying on the ground, unable to move, neither his former friend nor the driver of the Mercedes did much to help him. While the other driver stayed in his vehicle, the other rider moved Lopez out of the street and called Bolin before taking off on his own bike, leaving Lopez by himself. Thankfully an off-duty paramedic witnessed the accident and pulled over to help Lopez.
“I knew I was paralyzed ten minutes after I wrecked. An off duty paramedic stopped and when I couldn’t wiggle my toes or feel anything I pretty much knew,” Lopez said.
Lopez’s accident is one of many that has left families in the wake of tragedy due to the careless driving of a person behind another vehicle. American Bikers Aimed Towards Education of Florida is just one organization that urges non-riders to be conscious of their surroundings.
ABATE of Florida is a non-profit organization dedicated to informing non-riders about motorcycle awareness and teaching them how to share the roads with motorcycles. The organization has 30 chapters throughout Florida, including one in Orange County. Rhonda Griffis, ABATE’s state public relations trustee, explained how they track accidents that involve motorcyclists through the Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles.
“Currently the number one cause of a motorcycle fatality is an illegal left turn,” Griffis said. “Once a person makes a left-hand turn into oncoming traffic, causing an accident, it then becomes an illegal left hand turn, putting that person at fault for the accident, by not yielding the right away.”
Over the past 46 days, Lopez had back surgery and was heavily sedated for his first two weeks in the hospital. He also had pneumonia, blood clots in his lungs and his legs and a pneumothorax. He’s had three chest tubes, one for the left and one for the right lung, which were taken out on Feb. 17. None of this even begins to cover the mental struggles, such as anxiety, that Aaron has dealt with.
“I stay positive because it’s all I know,” Lopez said. “I was a mechanic for several years so I learned getting mad at things you can’t control or change doesn’t make sense. Put all that anger, frustration and everything else into an emotion that helps you get past that bump in the road.”
As strong and positive as Lopez is, he said he could not do it without his support system. Lopez’s parents, Peggy and Bruce Lopez, are at the hospital with Lopez all day, every day. Bolin said that Lopez’s parents have been his biggest support system so far. His brothers, Christian Lopez, 28, and Randy Lopez 39, have also been a big part of his support system. The two brothers bought him an iPad, which, according to his mom, is his most valuable personal possession at this point.
“It’s his lifeline to the outside world,” Peggy said
Lopez also uses his iPad to communicate with Bolin throughout the week while she’s at school. Bolin drives to the hospital every Friday to spend the weekend by Lopez’s side.
“We talk about the latest news and his progress,” Bolin said. “We catch up on things and I try to keep him occupied. Sometimes I even bring him his favorite foods so he can have something to look forward to.”
Along with Lopez’s family and friends being more than just a helpful hand, the hospital staff and the community have also been very supportive.
“My family, friends, community and the staff at this hospital have had a profound effect on us since Jan. 10,” Peggy said. “I have been supported, enveloped and comforted in every way imaginable, and it continues.”
The Stonegrey, a band whose lead singer has been friends with Lopez since middle school, hosted a concert benefit to raise money for the Lopez family. The benefit had multiple raffle prizes, including a tandem skydive with video, and a ten pack of jump tickets for the experienced jumpers. There was plenty of food and drinks, and three band performances.
The Aaron Lopez Recovery Fund, on the Give Forward website, is another way the family is trying to raise money. The funds will all go towards Lopez’s recovery process, which will include a rehabilitation center. Most of the recommended centers are far from the Lopez home and will cost a great deal of money. The family will also have to make modifications to their home for when Lopez returns from rehab.
“Neither of our bathrooms will accommodate him now,” Peggy said. “We can picture what we need to do but it will take money to reconfigure our home to make it functional for him, and we want him as independent as he can be.”
Lopez’s positive attitude and his support system have been the guiding forces paving his way to recovery. Recently he has even begun to have tingles in his legs, which for someone in Lopez’s condition is amazing.
“My mom was playing with my toes one day and caused muscle twitches not only in my legs but all the way up my side to the point where I’m paralyzed,” Lopez said. “It went from my toes, to my legs, to my hips, to my side, to my chest. The rehab guy was so happy when he heard.”
Just like every little step is a huge leap towards recovery for Lopez, every day in that small ICU room is another step closer to a rehabilitation center. Every day that Lopez gets closer to rehab is a reminder that driving is a privilege and doing it safely is something that needs to be taken seriously.
Lopez is more than determined when it comes to his recovery process and if you ask him, he will tell you, “I will walk again.”
To help Lopez during his recovery process, donations can be made at: https://www.giveforward.com/fundraiser/9nv3/aaron-lopez-recovery-fund?utm_source=facebook&utm_medium=fb_share_stream.share&utm_campaign=BA_FBshare&fb_ref=1804152



Studying.
We all have to do it and at times it can be really dreadful. Hours are spent at the library, All Knight Study and you are left feeling washed out. So why not do something so that those hours don’t seem as terrible as they really are? Listen to study music! It is music that keeps you from getting distracted because of boredom and helps you focus on studying and getting work done.
Some people have a hard time focusing in a silent environment and either fall asleep or find another mind-simulating activity to do which keeps them from studying. So what exactly counts as good music that you can study to? Usually, music that does not have lyrics in it and is mostly instrumental classifies as the best music to study with. 
In fact, studies have shown that classical music (such as Mozart’s) can improve mental performance.
However, some people do not enjoy classical music like Beethoven’s or Vivaldi’s. Luckily for them, there are bands that do covers of famous songs like the ones heard on the radio. 
One of the most renowned cover bands in the world that is great to study along to is Vitamin String Quartet. They have a wide spectrum of music that they play including tributes to movies, bands and even music festivals like Coachella. It is music that you already know but with the sung parts replaced by instrumentals. No matter what genre you like, they have it covered.
Besides classical music, there is also another genre of music which is great for studying: Chillwave. It is relaxing indie electronic music that does not distract but will keep you entertained and relaxed enough to study long hours. Some bands that are great to study with for this genre include: Neon Indian, Pretty Lights, Washed Out, and Toro y Moi.
Before you study, make a playlist with the songs you already know and love so that you waste no time picking and choosing. Another tip is to not crank the music all the way or else it will distract you from what your main focus is. Studying is undoubtedly hard but can be made bearable if you make a great playlist to keep you entertained!
Here is a link to a VSQ playlist to help you study and conquer those tests!



