Officials are searching to find out who has been stealing student mail before it hits the UCF mailroom.
The UCF mailroom staff discovered that a piece of mail on Sept. 20 appeared to have been opened prior to arriving at UCF. The mailroom staff notified the student and the Postal Service Office of the Inspector General. Since then, UCF reported that a total of 19 opened letters have been discovered either at the distribution center or at the housing mailroom. Of the 19 opened letters, six students reported items missing, mostly gift cards.
It is a federal offense to tamper with mail. Each time there is an incident, UCF has notified the student and the Office of the Inspector General.
“We are working diligently with the Office of the Inspector General to determine what exactly is going on and to stop whomever is responsible for these incidents. Any details about the office’s investigation would need to come from that agency,” said Zenaida Kotala of UCF News and Information.
The UCF mailroom receives the mail from the Postal Service, where it is distributed to the mail areas on the on-campus housing communities.



Former UCF quarterback Rob Calabrese is back with the Knights, except this time he is now a graduate assistant.
Calabrese, who played quarterback/wide receiver for the Knights from 2008-2012 has been hired by O’Leary and his coaching staff to serve as a graduate assistant for the Knights. Calabrese started at quarterback for the Knights as a true freshman in 2008 and saw action at QB in 2009 and 2010 before suffering an injury. After recovering from injury in 2011, Calabrese returned to the team in 2012 as a wide receiver.
“To be successful in this program you’ve got to be responsible and you’ve got to be accountable. There were times in my years being there, there were players who weren’t and that sometimes hurt the program. … I think coach has finally gotten everyone to buy into the program and it’s really starting to work,” Calabrese told the Orlando Sentinel.
Calabrese will look to build the Knights program even more, coming off of the single most winningest season in UCF history.



A University of Central Florida business law instructor has passed away.
Charles M. Lako, Jr., Esq., J.D., a business law instructor at UCF, died Monday, Jan. 13, a UCF spokesperson confirmed.
 “Charles Lako was a long-serving and highly valued colleague. He was a wonderful teacher, mentor and friend,” said Sean Robb, director of the Kenneth G. Dixon School of Accounting, part of the College of Business Administration.
“He passed away suddenly after a short illness and will be greatly missed by everyone in the Dixon School of Accounting,” Robb said.
Prior to joining UCF in 2004, Lako worked as a trial attorney in Georgia and Florida. He created a teen court that served high schoolers in Martin, Indian River and St. Lucie counties, developing a curriculum that educated students about law and volunteering as a judge for the students’ cases.
He also created and sponsored UCF’s chapter of the Res Ipsa Loquitur Law Society. It was founded in 2005 to instill the values of leadership and charity in business law students.
In a note to College of Business Administration faculty and staff, Dean Paul Jarley wrote: “Charles was a very dedicated teacher and he will be missed. A sad day for all of us.”



