UCF student and executive director of the Crescendudes Kent Miller did not have plans of joining an a cappella group when he first got to UCF.
It was the incessant urging of his friends and penchant for puns that drew him in.
“When I came to college so many of my friends kept on turning to me saying ‘Kent you sing a cappella and you love puns, so what better group than the Crescendudes?'” said Miller.

Since then, the Crescendudes have harmonized their way into participating in the International Collegiate Championship of A Cappella and releasing their first EP You Can Make the Fire.
“The title selection was actually a month-long process and it was several arguments on Facebook until we finally reached a decision,” said Miller. “We get it from the very last line of the very last song which is ‘The Gambler’ by Fun.”
Getting a group of sometimes over a dozen guys who also have college classes to perfectly harmonize is not something that comes easy, music director Michael Smith admits.
“Right now it’s flu and sickness season so there is a lot of bugs going around and it’s very rough on people’s voices,” Smith said. “It’s no big deal, they’re a great group of guys and they work really hard, there’s absolutely no doubt about that.”
This Friday’s show will be at 7 p.m. in the Mathematical Sciences building on campus, room 260 where they will be opening up for the all-female a cappella group Key Harmony.
The event is free to the public, but a $5 donation will be greatly appreciated from those who come to see the concert.
The group has thrived off of donations and performing special events, which led them to being able to record their first EP.
Carson Luter, business director of the Crescendudes said they are always willing to produce special song requests and perform at private events.
“We do a lot of gigs, corporate gigs, local business gigs, but we’re always for hire and do special commission songs so if you know anyone that wants a certain song performed a cappella contact us,” said Luter.



Sangam’s 2014 Diwali Show attracted 450 students to the UCF Pegasus Ballroom on Sunday evening.
Sangam, the Indian Student Association at UCF, hosted the yearly event in celebration of the upcoming holiday, Diwali (The Festival of Lights). The organization expected 230 to 275 students to attend the event, but was surprised with a much larger turnout, according to Snigdha Ila, Sangam’s volunteer director.
“I believe this is the biggest Diwali Show success in Sangam’s history,” said Sangam’s President Shivan Vyas.
The event was held for a total of five hours, included various performances and a traditional Indian dinner. Entry to this event was free for UCF students.
According to Vyas, there were performers from all across the university reflecting the various cultures found within India.
“We had eight performances during the event and more than 50 people performing within these performances. We had classical dances such as Garva Raas, modern Bollywood, fusion dances with a mixture of classical and modern, along with dances in peoples’ specific sublanguages such as Punjabi or Telugu,” said Vyas.
Sangam held two days of auditions prior to the event. They also made auditions available to students online as well. Performers were given the opportunity to send in a short clip of their performance, according to Ila.
After the show a full course Indian meal was provided by Aashirwaad, a local Indian restaurant. According to Vyas, the crowds favorite dishes were Paneer Masala, which is a curry based dish, and Naan. Other traditional dishes included Samosa, Malai Fogta and Daal.
Khusbu Patel, Sangam’s Events Director, helped arrange the decorations for the event. According to Vyas, their goal was to create a simple but yet elegant reflection of Diwali by using vibrant colors.
“The decorations on stage used brightly colored fabric to decorate the backdrop with a Sangam banner in the center of the stage,” Ila said.
Overall Ila thought this year’s event was a huge success.
“It was an amazing turnout from the UCF and Indian community, and it was great to see everyone celebrate the culture and festival together.”



UCF Volleyball will be playing a pair of conference matches this weekend against Houston and Tulane this Friday and Sunday.
The Knights (15-8, 8-0 AAC) jumped four spots in this week’s NCAA rankings after sitting in 27th last week. The RPI standings rank more than 334 teams based upon their winning percentage, strength of schedule as well as opponents’ strength of schedule. The knights took home two more conference wins against Cincinnati and Memphis in last weeks matchups, improving the Knights record to 15-5 overall, and stand unblemished at 8-0 in The American.
UCF will first take on the Houston Cougars (10-10, 2-6 AAC) Friday, October 24 at 7:00 p.m. ET at The Venue at UCF. Although UCF is projected to bring out the win, the Knights will still need to come into this matchup with aggressiveness. The Cougars team snapped its four-game skid with a 3-2 win over UConn this past Sunday afternoon. UCF will then go on to play the Tulane Green Wave (5-15, 3-5 AAC) early Sunday afternoon at 2:00 p.m. ET.
The Knights volleyball team brought in great strength and endurance in matches like Cincinnati and Memphis to bring out the win. UCF improves their offensive performance, hitting .423 as a team, with 50 kills, 48 assists, and 43 digs to sweep the Bearcats in last week’s matchup. The Knights have now won 8 consecutive back-to-back wins so far this season and hope to bring that same adrenaline this weekend as they take on Houston and Tulane in the comfort of their own stadium.
UCF can also expect a good fight against Tulane, as the Green Wave volleyball’s offense performed extraordinarily well on Sunday against Temple, hitting .378 on 82 swings with 40 kills. Tulane, posting a team season-high 20.0 blocks in a win over UConn on Friday night, only managed 3.0 team blocks at the net on Sunday, tying a season low.
Despite tough competition, the knights have great players leading this team to victories. Senior DeLaina Sarden finished with 16 kills on 19 swings. Her .789 hitting percentage is the sixth-best percentage in a match in UCF history. Sophomore Kia Bright joined Sarden with double-figure kills, finishing with 13 while hitting .440 and recorded five blocks. Junior Dana Faught has posted 13 assists and five digs as the starting setter in the season opener against Eastern Kentucky and tallied 23 assists against Middle Tennessee early on in the season.
The Knights finished last weekend’s matches against Cincinnati with 50 kills, 43 digs and 7.0 blocks and plan on bringing that same heat into this Friday night’s game against the Houston Cougars.
UCF will then face rival USF, October 29, at The Venue at UCF.



