ORLANDO, Fla. – Coming off a 4 game losing streak, UCF (9-9, 1-6) was unable to slow down the Memphis Tigers on Wednesday night, falling 69-59. The Tigers (16-4, 6-2) were riding a 3 game win streak of their own, sitting pretty all alone in third place within the American Athletic Conference.
Isiah Sykes had a tremendous individual effort go to waste, putting up 24 points- the most of any player on the court. He also led the Knights in rebounds, recovering the ball 12 times to complete the double-double.
It was another story of a great effort with not enough life to sustain the Knights through the fourth quarter. It was the third consecutive game that UCF held their destiny well within their own grasp at halftime, entering intermission tied at 39, after failing to convert previous halftime scores of 27-30 and 22-22.
Superior rebounding kept the game close all night, as UCF was able to scoop up 35 total rebounds, in comparison to the 30 retained by the Tigers.
As has been the trend, however, the Knights’ offense was by far the least effective of the two units, shooting only 39.7% from the field and accumulating only 4 points from free throw attempts. As a matter of fact, only 3 free throw attempts were even drawn during the second half.
23 times UCF was forced to take shots from the perimeter, only sinking 5 of their outrageous 23 3 point attempts.
In the last eleven minutes of play, UCF was outscored 15-7, sealing their fate with another lackluster finish to a hard fought game.
When asked about the late game fallout, Sykes blamed it on “mental mistakes down the stretch,” and said that he has to “do a better job of getting in the paint, giving my teammates shots towards the end.”
“Down the stretch they made the plays they needed to,” said Sykes.
UCF will next match wits against Louisville on Saturday in Kentucky. The last time a Knights team traveled up to the Cardinals’ home turf, the Knights upset the No. 8 ranked Teddy Bridgewater and company in the midst of a storybook season.
The team can only hope some of that football season magic carries over as they face a unit that is 17-3 and has only lost once at home this season. Tipoff is scheduled for 9:00 pm.



A UCF College of Engineering and Computer Science professor has passed away.
David W. Nicholson, Ph.D., emeritus professor, passed away on Jan. 23, 2014 at the age of 69. Nicholson joined UCF in 1990 as chair of the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering (MAE). He retired after 20 years of service to UCF, during which he served nearly nine years as chair or interim chair of MAE.
Dr. Nicholson is credited with overseeing the creation and realization of Materials Science and Engineering program at UCF, and the Masters in Aerospace Engineering program.
“He always had a forward-looking vision for the department, always promoting the ‘next big thing’ for MAE and ever keeping the department ahead of the game,” said Challapalli Suryanarayana, MAE chair. “He relentlessly promoted the interests of mechanics, aerospace engineering, thermo-fluids, materials, and notably bioengineering well before the latter became a college-wide initiative.”

Sponsored Advertisement - Story Continues Below




He is known for his devotion to the integrity of MAE’s academic programs, particularly in computational engineering.
“It is due to him that MAE students, both undergraduate and graduate, are exposed to a strong and comprehensive modern engineering computational program that features finite element analysis, computational thermo-fluids, solid modeling and CAD-CAM (computer-aided design and computer-aided modeling),” Dr. Suryanarayana said.
Dr. Nicholson’s research focused on non-linear mechanics, the finite element method, and fracture mechanics. He authored 158 journal papers, a successful textbook, Non-linear Finite Element Method, and numerous monographs and conference papers, UCF stated. He also served as technical editor of Applied Mechanics Reviews and associate editor of Tire Science and Technology.
Colleagues of Dr. Nicholson remember him for his likable personality and positive attitude.
“He maintained a most jovial and inspirational attitude,” one colleague wrote. “Professor Nicholson was always upbeat, happy and exhibited the can-do and creative approach to tackling any problem be it administrative, pedagogical or intellectual; and that, along with his infectious and boisterous laugh, was the hallmark of his chairmanship and professorship.
“Professor Nicholson touched many lives at UCF.”



