Let’s be honest, what college student actually likes wearing pants? They’re restrictive, uncomfortable, and the first thing to come off as soon as you close your bedroom door.  Now, UCF students have a way to give back to their community without the hassle of pants: Sigma Nu’s Undie Classic
The Undie Classic is an underwear run to benefit Goodwill Industries of Central Florida. The idea was first brought up by Steven Harowitz and then carried out in 2009 with the help of Joseph Lebowitz.
“The run was designed, and will always be, operated with a philanthropic focus. The run, a classic throwback to old college traditions, is now being presented as a celebration of the generous donations of UCF’s student body,” says senior Zachary Aldrich, the philanthropy chair for the event.
This fun event does not cost any money. Instead, the charge to run is clothing donations.  This year, Sigma Nu has a goal to collect over 2,000 pounds of clothing. Also, sponsors will be donating money to match the amount of clothes donated.  Sigma Nu is expanding their annual event by giving both monetary and clothing donations to Goodwill.
“We chose Goodwill Industries of Central Florida for our donations because they offer services to the Orlando community that other not-for-profit organizations can’t provide. We believe that in helping Goodwill we are not only helping individuals in our community, but around the world.”
The run begins and ends at Lake Claire on Friday, April 18 at 6 p.m.
Although this is an extremely carefree way of giving back to the community, there are a couple of rules:
1)      Undies are required. You cannot be naked; no matter how good looking you think you are
2)      You must present a valid UCF student I.D in order to participate
3)      Wedgies are frowned upon.  Don’t be that person…
Everyone who participates in the Undie Classic has a blast. It’s an opportunity to run around campus in your undies and not have a cop chasing after you!
“The date of the first year that we held the Undie Classic coincided with ACE Day put on by the Burnett Honors College. Before I even knew of the event, I can remember the Honors College staff laughingly telling me of the reaction of the elementary kids as they exited the Pegasus Ballroom to see all of the participants running through the Union in their underwear. Since that day, we have only received positive feedback from the event, both by participants and spectators alike,” says Aldrich.
Sigma Nu would like to encourage anyone to participate! If you wish to not run, you can still donate clothes at the event or at the Breezeway on Wednesday, April 16.
“The Undie Classic offers UCF students an opportunity unlike any other at UCF- the opportunity to run through campus in their underwear! (or anything else they feel comfortable in!) We are so excited to be able to offer the event again, and want to encourage everyone, even if they can’t run, to donate clothes!”
For more information on the Undie Classic, visit the Facebook event or their official website.



UCF’s national championship winning rugby team is on the road once again to the national stage and they need your help to get there. 

The UCF Men’s Rugby Team is on the path to repeat its success of last year by winning a second National Championship. The team will begin its journey in Marietta, GA with the SIRC (Southeast Independent Rugby Conference) Championship on April 11-13. If successful in GA, they will travel to Knoxville, TN for the Round of 16 and the Elite 8 on April 25-27. 
If the team remains undefeated through Tennessee, they will head to Serra Mall, CA for the National Championship being hosted at Stanford University on May 9-11.
“It goes without saying that all of our success would not be possible without our rugby family, friends, and fans constant encouragement and support,” the team posted on their GoFundMe page. “This is why we call upon you once again to help us reach our goal. With your support we are confident that we will be able to repeat our success of last year and bring a second National Championship back to Orlando.”  
Last year, the team took home the DI-AA National Championship in Bowling Green, Ohio following a 27-25 win against Lindenwood. 
Click here to visit the team’s page and make a donation. 



