This past Sunday, Tau Kappa Epsilon invited fellow UCF Greeks to “Joust for Jude” at their house to support the St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital.
“Joust for Jude” included participants from around the Greek community, coming together for some one-on-one jousting (inflatable) competition to raise money towards disease research throughout the nation.
Tau Kappa Epsilon began working with St. Jude Children’s Hospital after late entertainer and brother of the fraternity, Danny Thomas, founded the institution.
During the week leading up to the event, Tau Kappa Epsilon hosted Spirit Night at fan favorites, including Chilis and Chick-fil-a, where you were able to sign-in for your chapter and earn points. The fraternity was also set up outside by the Student Union selling t-shirts and accepting donations.
In the end, nine teams signed up for the event, with three members from each organization facing off against opponents. Zeta Tau Alpha took home the first place trophy, with Alpha Xi Delta and Delta Zeta raising the most money overall throughout the week. All profits went directly toward the St. Jude research center.
Even though they were forced to change locations at the last minute, Joust for Jude was still a success. With a hands-on idea, dunk tanks, and lots of snacks, hundreds of students donated towards the cause and swarmed to the event.
Tau Kappa Epsilon exceeded their fundraising goal of $1,500, totaling to over $2,000 from the week-long activities.



UCF’s Kappa Sigma fraternity hosted their annual holiday event, Chrismukkah, this past Saturday.
Spreading the jolly cheer to all of Greek park, the brothers of the fraternity paired up with the sisters of Delta Delta Delta to arrange a special affair, benefitting the children of Orlando’s local Big Brothers Big Sisters program.

Setting up for the event, the members of both organizations joined together and teamed up into groups of four to purchase holiday gifts for their predetermined buddies. The event was organized with activities including a bounce house, obstacle course, apple smash and corn hole. Chick-fil-a also helped to donate meals toward the day.
“Everyone involved with the event had an amazing time. The main goal was just to to befriend the children, have a good time, and ultimately give back to the community,” said Kappa Sigma brother, Drego Kutil.
With a fun-filled itinerary, forty children attended the event between the hours of 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. Upon arrival, children were checked in and gathered with their buddies for a Saturday to remember. Group pictures were taken and the games began.
During the activities, Santa Claus surprised the children and came to hand out gifts.
Back in August, Kappa Sigma received awards such as Outstanding Single Community Service Event, and Chrismukkah could possibly prove as to why.



Italian delicacies, nutrition supplements, farm-raised beef burgers, blazing hot pizza and very scrumptious, filling bento boxes are all different topics and food choices which do not regularly fit into one conversation.
In the next eight to 12 weeks, it is something that many people driving down Alafaya Trail will be talking about. Plaza on University’s shopping plaza will have businesses Spoleto, GNC, Burger FI, Blaze Pizza and Bento Café opening.
Gina Cowart, Vice President of Marketing and Communications for American Campus Communities, said there are currently seven tenants including Bar Louie, Floyd’s 99 Barbershop and the other five, which are in various stages of construction.
“We are also in negotiations with several other tenants (a great mix of apparel retailers and service providers), and we hope to have several exciting announcements regarding these tenants in the coming weeks,” Cowart said.
Plaza on University can have 25 operating businesses at full occupancy.
Shops in Plaza on University are chosen by American Campus Community working with a local brokerage team “to identify local, regional and national businesses” that they believe compliment the project and local area.
“Once a business has expressed interest in The Plaza, we evaluate the past performance of the business (actual store operating performance as well as company credit history) to make sure we fully understand the probable success of each particular business,” Cowart said.
Customers looking for parking can park in the surface parking provided around the shops and restaurants. The first two floors in the parking garage are also designated for customers to park in.



