Police are searching for two male suspects involved in an armed robbery at an apartment complex near UCF. 
According to an alert sent out by UCF, an armed robbery occurred at the Edge apartments two hours ago. Police are searching for two black males with a gun. 
According to the alert, one suspect has dreadlocks and a trenchcoat and the other is tall. Both left in a dark blue Hyundai. 
Report suspicious persons to police or dial 911.



Before UCF annihilated SMU on the football field, Knights fans made it out for a festive early morning tailgate. 
Being that this tailgate is the last home tailgate of the year, fans decided to celebrate Thanksgiving and Christmas — through their wardrobe.
Sponsored Advertisement (Story Continues Below)
KnightNews.com’s Derek Lowe hosted his first Tailgate Fan Cam, and found tailgate decorations we’ve never seen before!




Gunshots were fired outside the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity house at  approximately 1 a.m. Sunday morning, members of the fraternity told Knight News.
Members of the fraternity, as well as security guards at The Marquee (formerly Sterling Central), told Knight News gunshots were fired into the air outside Lambda Chi Alpha’s fraternity house after a few suspects, who are not affiliated with the fraternity, were denied entry into the house. Orange County Officers at the scene said no injuries were reported in the incident.
“It was a normal night, and kids just came by after pub threatening us with guns because we questioned them when they walked on our property,” CJ Moore, Lamba Chi Alpha fraternity member said. “The suspects ran and fired shots in the air.”
UCF sent out an alert to students stating that gunshots were fired near Central Florida Blvd. and Alafaya Trail, and the Orange County Sheriff’s Office responded to the incident. Lambda Chi Alpha’s fraternity house sits at 3680 Khayyam Avenue and lies right near the intersection. The house is in close proximity to The Marquee and Knights Pub.
“Deputies met with a victim who stated that two black males approached him and wanted to join the party. They were told the party was private and one male proceeded to point the gun at the victims face,” Orange County Sheriff’s Office spokeswoman Lourdes Clayton said. “Several people from the party went outside and the males walked away; the one with the handgun fired several rounds. The victim refused to complete a statement or cooperate with the investigation. Deputies conducted an area check for the males but did not locate them.”
Antonio Concha, president of Lambda Chi Alpha, said the victim did not want to press charges because he didn’t want to be more involved with the situation and rattle the neighborhood so early in the morning.
“After being asked if the brother wanted to press charges, he declined due to the fact that the officer told him that a large part of their department, a helicopter and dogs would be called out,” Concha said.
This is a breaking news story. Be sure to check back for updates.



