UCF Student Government Association hosted the official SGA Presidential debate on Tuesday at the Cape Florida Ballroom.
Jessica Gottsleben is running for President on the “Revolutionizing Knighthood” ticket with her running mate Lucdwin Luck. Weston Bayes is running for President on the “Stand Uknighted” ticket with his running mate Sydney Altfield.
To view each of the candidates full platforms and biographies, the Jessica-Luck website can be found here and the Weston-Sydney website can be found here.
The candidates debated over the potential pedestrian bridge, transparency in the Student Government, providing food in elections and many other topics.
KnightNews.com is working on full candidate breakdowns, for now the entire recorded debate is below:




The Florida Senate unanimously passed a bill on Tuesday to increase the punishment for “revenge porn” where people post sexually explicit images of former partners on social media websites.
The bill, SB 532, would make it a second degree misdemeanor to attempt to harass former partners on social media by posting sexually explicit images of them without their consent. If the revenge-seeker is over 18 years old and the victim is 16 years or younger, it would be a first degree misdemeanor.
Sean Shahid, 20, was arrested on Jan. 29 on charges of stalking and tampering with a witness after posting sexually explicit images of his ex-girlfriend, a student at the University of Central Florida. Shahid posted the images after his ex-girlfriend told UCF Police about an alleged burglary Shahid was involved in. At the time, authorities told WFTV that posting the images isn’t a crime in Florida. Shahid was not charged related to posting the images.
“It’s a crime that is directed largely toward women, and it’s bringing the law up to date with technology,” said Sen. David Simmons, R-Altamonte Springs told the Orlando Sentinel.
Lawmakers in the House now have until May 2 to act on the bill.



Nina Davuluri, Miss America 2014, will visit the University of Central Florida on Tuesday, March 25, to be the keynote speaker for a Month of the Women celebration sponsored by the campus Multicultural Student Center.
Davuluri, the first contestant of Indian descent to win the Miss America competition, will speak on her platform: Celebrating Diversity through Cultural Competency, UCF stated.
Davuluri, who is from Syracuse, N.Y., graduated from the University of Michigan and plans to become a physician. She travels about 20,000 miles each month promoting her platform and the Miss America pageant.
The program is free for anyone who would like to attend and will be held at the Fairwinds Alumni Center. Doors will open at 6 p.m. for the 6:30 p.m. program, and seating is limited. Free parking will be available in Garage F.



By: Bridgette Matter
On March 30, from 4 p.m. to 2 a.m. UCF students will have exclusive access to Universal Orlando’s Islands of Adventure.
Regular distribution of tickets will be on March 17 and March 18 at the CFE Arena starting at 8 a.m. On March 19 and March 20, there will be regular distribution at the Rec and Wellness Center at 1 p.m. Students will also be able to receive tickets March 17 thru March 20 starting at 8 p.m. in the Student Union.
As always, the tickets will be on a first-come, first-serve basis. Students will be able to collect their ticket and wristband with a valid student ID. Both the wristband and ticket, along with UCF ID will be needed to enter the park. The wristband must be worn during the duration of the event.
Annual Universal passes will not be accepted during exclusive UCF hours. One additional guest ticket per student can be purchased at the Universal gates for $40.00. There will be a free shuttle service to and from the main campus to the park running every 30 minuets. Shuttle service starts at 3 p.m. and ends at 2 a.m.
Students who do not wish to ride the shuttle can download and print free parking passes on the SGA website.
Tickets will be offered at other UCF campuses as well:
Rosen – SOS office room 202 B
Valencia West – Building 11 room 104 G
Valencia Osceola – Building 4 room 243
South Lake – Building 2 room 123
Ocala – University center building room 201 E
Sanford/Lake Mary – Partnership center suite 1109
Daytona Beach – Building 140 room 203
Palm Bay – Building 3 room 209
Cocoa Beach – Building 3 room 236
Altamonte – office ALT room 426
For these locations tickets can be picked up with valid ID during regular business hours 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. March 17 – March 20.



