Any new animated film coming out during this generation will always have the difficulty of being compared to Pixar’s best work.
While Walt Disney Animation Studios have started to make some movies capable of rivaling the latter’s best work, DreamWorks are still struggling to capture the spark that makes Pixar’s work not just entertainment for children, but an example of cinema that anyone could enjoy.
With Mr. Peabody & Sherman, DreamWorks might not have crafted a Best Picture film, but they have created a movie they should be proud of.
When Frozen came out, I think what most impressed me was how well the characterization of Elsa captured how it felt to struggle with depression and anxiety disorders. With Mr. Peabody & Sherman, it is clear the filmmakers, similarly, used Mr. Peabody’s struggle as a father, as a metaphor for how much homosexual couples still struggle with societies’ perception of their parental skills. It was a nice touch that made me feel like DreamWorks were making a necessary step towards creating works of meaning rather than only entertainment for children.
The film is also aided by its source material which allowed the film to be composed of a complex plot, never letting parents become bored by a dumbed-down story.
The film is not without its flaws, however. Like most DreamWorks’ films, Mr. Peabody and Sherman contains one too many cultural references which are good for a chuckle today, but will be dated and unamusing years from now. Until they learn to create a movie which relies on genuine, lasting humor, DreamWorks will always be the green eyed monster of animated film production companies.
Although they are learning,thankfully, from their betters and showing progress. In the end, all its flaws can’t diminish everything the film has going for it. It’s a beautifully animated, intelligent movie that rarely stumbles. Coupled with frequent enough jokes to keep even the most disgruntled guardian amused, and Mr. Peabody & Sherman is a movie that will keep anyone entertained.



This weekend the Mardi Gras celebration continues at Universal Studios with live concerts by Cody Simpson and Foreigner.
Sixteen-year-old teen pop-star Cody Simpson, performing on March 14th at 8:30pm, has his second album Surfers Paradise releasing this summer. 
As pointed out by Universal Studios Orlando, Surfers Paradise picks up where Cody’s debut album, Paradise, left off. Telling the story of how this talented teenage singer, songwriter, and musician, now 16, traded the sunny shores of his native Queensland, Australia, for the sunny shores of Los Angeles to pursue his dream of being a performer.
With ten multi-platinum albums, Foreigner is coming to Universal Studios on March 15th to rock the house. Foreigner is behind some of rock and roll’s classic hits including “Juke Box Hero”, “Feels Like The First Time”, and the worldwide #1 “I Want To Know What Love Is”.
Here’s a list of all the remaining concerts going on at Universal Studios Mardi Gras Grand Celebration:
March:
MAR 14: Cody Simpson
MAR 15: Foreigner
MAR 21: A Great Big World
MAR 22: Gavin DeGraw
MAR 28: Kelly Rowland
MAR 29: Weezer
April:
APR 5: Skillet
APR 12: Lynyrd Skynyrd
APR 19: Kool & The Gang
May:
MAY 3: Nelly
MAY 10: The Wanted
MAY 17: The Roots
MAY 24: Cher Lloyd
MAY 31: Huey Lewis and The News
All concerts are free with a Universal Studios admission ticket.
Click the banner below for tickets!



