The American Athletic Conference announced its home and away opponents for the 2014 football season on Wednesday. 
UCF will host SMU, Temple, Tulane and Tulsa at Bright House Networks Stadium, while traveling to UCONN, East Carolina, Houston and USF. 
For the second season in a row, the Knights will not play another conference favorite in the Cincinnati Bearcats. The Bearcats finished third in the conference in 2013, behind Louisville who is no longer in the American Athletic Conference. 
The Knights will kick off their 2014 campaign in Ireland to take on Penn State in the Croke Park Classic on August, 30. 



Over the past couple weeks, several burglaries and robberies have occurred around the UCF area — prompting the university police department to offer tips to help students stay safe.
“UCF Police and surrounding agencies remind you to remain vigilant about safety and to take precautions to protect your home and vehicle. Your safety is our highest priority, and recent burglaries and thefts at homes and cars near campus are reminders that all of us should make every effort to help keep our community safe,” UCF Police chief Richard Beary said in an email to students.
Below are some of the steps students can take to help remain safe:
-Keep your home doors and windows locked at all times, even when you are home.
-Know who is at your door before you open it.
-Never post personal information such as your address or when you will or won’t be home on social networking sites.
-Do not leave belongings in plain sight in your vehicle. Remove them or place them in the trunk.
-Before walking away from your car, double check that all the windows are up and that the doors are locked.
The police department also asks students to consider registering personal property online with the UCF Police Department. Items such as computers, bikes and other valuables can be entered and assigned a serial number, which could be helpful in recovering lost or stolen items. For more information, click here.
Be aware of activity that looks suspicious and report it to UCF Police by calling 407-823-5555. If you believe you are witnessing a crime in progress, dial 911 immediately.
For more personal safety tips, click here.



Two students were jumped walking home from Knight’s Pub, just behind Sterling Central, the victim told KnightNews.com.
The victim said it happened in the middle of Aristotle Avenue, the road right next to Sterling Central, at about 1:50am Wednesday morning. Two students were walking back to the Phi Delta Theta house from Knight’s Pub when they were approached from the right by four individuals.
One of the victims, UCF student Josiah Devine, described the event as he remembered it happening:
He heard the approaching four individuals talking towards himself and his friend, until one of them cocked a pistol while approaching them, and aimed it two feet from his friend’s face. Then the gunman proceeded to hit the student across the face with his pistol, as the other three attacked Devine.
As the students were on the ground, the assaulters took their wallets and one of their cell phones, then ran the opposite direction.
Josiah Devine was driven to the hospital shortly after the incident, requiring stitches.
He described the aggressors as four males, around 6′ 1″ tall, the gunman being white with brown hair, and the other three as african-american males around 6′ 0″ tall.
We’d like to urge our readers to please stay safe and avoid walking home late at night alone or with only one other person.



