The Knights scored a season high 12 runs and won their eighth consecutive game after sweeping Temple 12-5 on Sunday afternoon at Jay Bergman Field.
The Knights (17-12, 6-0) are in good position in the American Athletic Conference standings, holding sole possession of first place as they are currently undefeated in conference play after sweeps of Cincinnati and Temple. 
Juniors Erik Barber and James Vasquez became the first Knights since 2012 to have back-to-back home runs, hitting them to left and right field on the first pitch. 
“The team is playing loose and everything seems to be working,” Barber said. “I’ve been lifting some balls into the outfield recently, but coming up short. In my first at bat, the pitcher got on me, I got jammed and popped it up. He came back in with a fastball up on my next at-bat and I was ready for it and didn’t miss that one.” 
Head Coach Terry Rooney was proud of his team’s consistent play over the past couple of weeks.
“Overall from start to finish, it was a total team effort. Offense, defense and pitching we had lots of different contributions from Friday all the way through the ninth inning today. I thought the guys did a nice job,” Rooney said.
UCF will travel to Jacksonville(8-17) for midweek action on Tuesday, the first pitch is slated for 6 p.m. 



The UCF Student Government Association is holding the annual Universal Knights event on Sunday.
For students attending the event, the ticket and the event wristband will be required for admission into the event and must be worn at all times.
UCF has a free shuttle service running from campus to the event at Universal Studios. The busses will depart from the bus loop by Garage I, the shuttles will run every thirty minutes starting at 3:00 p.m. and running until 2:00 a.m. There is no reservation needed to ride the shuttle service, it will run based on a first-come, first-serve basis.
For students that want to drive to the event, there is free parking available throughout the duration of the event and the parking pass can be downloaded here.
UCF students can also purchase one guest ticket to the event at $40.00. The ticket can be purchased on the day of the event between 4:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. and the student must present their UCF ID to purchase the ticket.
KnightNews.com will be at the event, check back later for full coverage. 



