Top athletes across Central Florida will gather at Jay Bergman Baseball Field on Saturday to raise money and awareness for local charities.
The game, which is touted as the first annual “Chris Duffy’s Hit & Run Celebrity Softball Game for Charity” starts at 5 p.m. and is sponsored by the Above .500 foundation and the Jackie Robinson Program.
The event has former UCF and NFL Quarterback Daunte Culpepper, former Orlando Magic player Nick Anderson, former UCF outfielder Chris Duffy, former UCF and Detroit Lions running back Kevin Smith, 2-time MLB all-star David Eckstein and former Boston Celtic Marquis Daniels all committed to attend the game.
The public will be asked for a $5 donation to enter and a $25 VIP pass guarantees the opportunity for photographs and signatures from celebrities in attendance. 



UPDATE According to officials, the powder was magnesium sulfate, a harmless substance. A total of five people were checked out — three who came into contact with the powder and two who came into contact with those people. None of them required a trip to the hospital. 
According to fire officials, magnesium sulfate is a “very common chemical used in a variety of uses, both medical, personal and for landscaping purposes.”
Officials say the substance came from a container of workout supplement and did not carry and malicious or criminal intent. However, police are continuing to investigate. There were no evacuations and the residence area of the building remained open while the mail room was sealed off. 
Orange County Fire Rescue responded to a report from UCF around 11 a.m. Tuesday of two people feeling itchy after coming into contact with a powder substance.
A hazmat team was able to enter the Neptune apartment building and remove the exposed people before hosing them down to remove the substance
A UCF Alert message notified students Tuesday afternoon of a possible chemical contaminant situation in the Neptune Housing mailroom area.
“UCF Police is working a possible chemical contaminant situation in the Neptune Housing mailroom area.  Please stay clear of this area until further notice,” the alert said.
According to Orange County Fire Rescue, two people came into contact with a powder from a package in the Neptune mailroom and started having itching symptoms. 
Officials are currently investigating the substance of the powder and the origin of the package. The two people declined to be taken to the hospital. 
No other information was immediately available. Continue to check back for more.



A new UCF Health Services clinic at Knights Plaza will have its grand opening on Wednesday.
UCF Health Services’ newest initiative, a boutique clinic focused on treating the mind and body at Knights Plaza, will have its grand opening Wednesday, Jan. 22 at 3 p.m. 
UCF Health Services recently renovated its former Knight Aide pharmacy store located on Knights Plaza to include additional services to help students, faculty and staff live a healthy and well-balanced life. The new services include a medical provider, clinical dietitian, and a counselor staffed by UCF Counseling and Psychological Services. 
“This boutique clinic type of setting will really appeal to our patients looking to make healthy lifestyle changes,” said Michael Deichen, director of UCF Health Services. “Its location also makes it convenient for patients to access care no matter where they are located on campus.”
All students, faculty and staff are invited to the event and will be able to tour the new clinic. Students will also be able to get free flu shots.



