UCF baseball remained at the top of the American Athletic Conference on Sunday, after beating USF 6-3 in Tampa. 
The Knights (20-13, 8-1 The American) relied on the hitting of Tommy Williams, who hit a pair of two-run homers that powered the Knights to the victory. The Knights have now won 11 out of their past 12 games after UCF saw its winning streak come to an end on Saturday as South Florida beat the Knights 4-2. 
Williams is now the leader in home runs for the American Athletic Conference with nine on the season.
“I got a couple of good pitches to hit and was able to put some strong swings on them. I was a little out in front the first at-bat, so I laid back, but I was still out in front. I didn’t know if it was staying fair or not. The second one I knew was gone. I had the green light on 3-0, but took a strike. I knew I’d probably get another fastball and I was ready for it,” Williams said.
UCF baseball now has a two day break before they take on the Miami Hurricanes at home on Wednesday. The last time the Knights played Miami, they beat them 9-2 on the road. 



UCF football will be back in action on Saturday for the 2014 Spring Game. 
The game will take place on April 12 at 2 p.m. at Brighthouse Network Stadium with free admission and a “UCFamily” theme this year. 
Starting at 8 a.m. E6, E7 and E8 parking lots will be open for free parking and the family activities will begin at 11 a.m. Food trucks will be serving on the southeast side of the stadium along with a Kids Fun Zone. Posters and limited edition spring game t-shirts will be given out to the first 200 fans on the concourse inside gates 15-17. 
UCF fans will get a chance to see a new-look offense for the team, which lost quarterback Blake Bortles and running back Storm Johnson this past season. 
KnightNews.com is working to find out the on-campus tailgating policies for the Spring Game. Gates for the game open at 1 p.m. 



On Saturday, roughly 800 UCF students stood for 20 straight hours for the kids who couldn’t.

Knight-Thon is UCF’s annual dance marathon which raises money for the Great Orlando Children’s Miracle Network Hospital, last year the philanthropy raised over $250,000. This year, Knight-Thon exceeded that, raising 392, 831. 65. 
Knight-Thon is comprised of students, student organizations and community members who all raise money through different avenues, including personal donations and fundraising events. 
Aside from the dancing, Knight-Thon has a variety of different activities for the students to participate in. This year, there was bounce houses, ping pong, corn hole and much more.



