If you think you were cramped in your dorm freshman year, imagine being placed in a bathroom or closet.
That’s what happened to at least two incoming freshman who applied to live in Neptune, UCF’s newest housing facility.
“I kept seeing everyone posting on the UCF Class of 2018 Facebook page about roommates and assignments, and I had my community with room number and building, but no roommates,” Ashlyn TenBieg, an incoming freshman planning to major in both Business and Event Management, said.
TenBieg decided to call UCF housing on Friday and figure out exactly why she didn’t appear to have any roommates for this fall. She got transferred around until she got a woman who told her some startling news.
Like us on Facebook & follow @UCFKnightNews on twitter for UCF news on your feeds!
Follow @UCFKnightNews
“[She] told me that they mistakenly placed me in a bathroom and that I will get a new assignment,” TenBieg said.
TenBieg said she was glad she called about the problem, and found the whole situation kind of humorous.
“I thought it was kinda funny,” TenBieg said. “I thought the lady was just joking at first when she told me because she said it so casual.”
Another incoming freshman, Brian Schickman, had something very similar happen to him.
Schickman, an industrial engineering major, already knew his desired roommate. The two were talking constantly about their future at UCF when they noticed their rooming assignment changing almost weekly.
Their room had changed floors and buildings twice before their parents got involved.
“Both of us were starting to get a little bit annoyed and confused so his parents called the school and asked why it kept changing,” Schickman said. “They said they accidentally placed us in a closet.”
Both students were able to resolve the problem because they noticed the problem and were proactive to resolve it.
Courtney Gilmartin, UCF spokeswoman, said that housing didn’t know anything about these students getting placed irregularly for the fall term, but said that one unnamed student did have a problem getting placed in the summer term and ended up in a room that didn’t exist.
After an investigation, housing said that a handful of students were incorrectly assigned in Neptune but said that the problem was promptly corrected.
“This was all kind of caused by a programming glitch just by virtue of Neptune being a new community,” Gilmartin said. “A student was placed in a room that didn’t exist and it was brought to housing’s attention and fixed immediately. That student was given another assignment in an actual room.”
Gilmartin said that it isn’t common to hear about errors like this but said there’s always a possibility of small glitches, especially being that Neptune is a new community.
“The incorrect room assignments would have come up as move-in preparation drew closer, so there wouldn’t have been a chance that students would show up on campus and not have a place to live,” Gilmartin said.
If you notice any irregularities in your housing assignment, or if you aren’t assigned roommates yet contact UCF housing at 407-823-4663.



Following the sale of the Orlando Predators to multi-millionaire  David Siegel, the arena football team will no longer play their home games at the CFE Arena on UCF campus after the 2014 season.
On Tuesday, Siegal announced in a news conference that he has purchased the team and will be moving the franchise back to the Amway Center in downtown Orlando.
The Predators moved to the CFE Arena after Orlando officials declared the team in default of the lease that required them to have an average of 6,000 fans per home game at the Amway Center. The Predators fell just short, averaging 5,878 fans in their last season in downtown Orlando.  The Predators have hovered around attendance of about 5,000 fans per game so far at the CFE Arena.
Since moving to UCF campus, students have got to enjoy discounted tickets to games with a valid UCF student ID. It is unclear if that discount will still be in effect once the team moves back to the Amway Center
“The Orlando Predators is a great football franchise and I look forward to helping them to remain highly competitive for years to come,” Siegal said in a news release.
The final Predators home game on UCF campus is scheduled for July 26 against the Arizona Rattlers.



Identity theft is one of the most prevalent crimes of the 21st century–with more than 16 million American victims, according to a Bureau of Justice Statistics survey done in 2012.
When UCF Chief of Police Richard Beary was a victim of identity theft, he did what most people do not do and tracked the thief down.
Beary told CBS News’ Crimesider that after he bought a new phone from AT&T and submitted a credit check, he noticed someone charged $1,500 on his credit card at a hotel near Disney. Instead of just calling his credit card company, cancelling his card and attempting to get a refund, he tracked down the thief.
“Most people will just let it go,” Beary told CBS News’ Crimesider.
Beary says that by filing a police report, it gives police a chance to investigate and possibly catch the person committing identity theft. When Beary investigated the person who stole his identity, he noticed that she had been previously jailed for a similar crime–but still got a job doing credit checks at an AT&T store.
Beary is set to become the president of the International Association of Chiefs of Police next year and plans to make identity theft a top priority.
“It’s a huge issue that nobody really wants to tackle,” Beary told Crimesider. “We need to get our arms around it — find out how big the problem is. As a country, we’re just leaking like a sieve. We’ve got money being stolen from us and nobody’s paying attention.”



