UCF Police are searching for a man they believe is connected to a recent string of  vending machine thefts across campus.
Steven Marshall, 43, is the primary suspect in these thefts and may be seen walking around with a limp, that is because he typically carries a crowbar in his pant leg to break into the machines.
Marshall was previously arrested in June for trespassing, providing false identification to law enforcement and carrying a concealed weapon(crowbar). Before that, he was also arrested for vandalizing and breaking into vending machines. 
UCFPD wants students to know that he is back on campus and still breaking into the vending machines. If he is seen, he shouldn’t be approached and instead call UCF police at 407-823-5555 immediately. 



The lights are beaming through the crowd, the bass is vibrating through the ground into the tips of your fingers. Flashbacks from a jumping audience run through your brain and it hits you–Electric Daisy Carnival is on the road back to Orlando’s Tinker Field.
It’s time to bring out your flower headbands and bedazzled bras. On Nov. 7 and 8, Insomniac Events will present the Electric Daisy Carnival as it returns for the fourth time to Orlando. The carnival will bring along rides, including a breathtaking view of the park from their air swings, acrobatic performers who wander around the field, creative art showcases and of course, seven stages of electronic dance music. Young adults in the Orlando area, even those who travel from across the country, will flock to EDC for the two days of music and dance.
Since as early as 1993, Insomniac Events and its creator Pasquale Rotella, have brought over 250 festivals and concerts across the globe from California, New York and Florida to Puerto Rico and even to the United Kingdom. Insomniac’s largest event to date was Las Vegas’ Electric Daisy Carnival. In a span of three days, there was a record breaking 400,000 music-loving, dance-crazed, ravers who showed up this past June.
“Compared to Orlando, EDC Vegas is huge. Way more art pieces and there is even three Ferris wheels,” said UCF senior Cristyn King, 21. King’s first EDC was in Orlando in 2013, and she is considering returning to the fairgrounds this November to get a hint of the Vegas atmosphere.
First time attendee and freshman at Rollins College, Esteban Vargas, 18, is anticipating EDC’s arrival.
“It’s my first music festival, and I really don’t know what to expect. I just keep hearing it’s a crazy experience, so hopefully it’s worth it,” Vargas said.
Electronic dance music (EDM) has formed a welcoming community of festival/concert goers who simply go by the acronym P.L.U.R- peace, love, unity and respect. The aspect of “PLUR” is seen amongst the EDM community because these events are for music and dance lovers. They go for the peace, they love one another, they unite with a common interest, and more importantly, they respect one another. No matter what race, gender, orientation, or size, EDM music festivals encourage you to express yourself.
“I live for the love of dance music. It will be my third year in a row going to EDC Orlando,” said junior John Mendez, 20, who goes by “Plur King” on his Twitter account.
With over 17 thousand followers on Twitter, “Plur Mama,” Michelle Casares, 26, who goes by her social media name “Lady Casa,” is highly looked up to in the EDM community, especially amongst young adults ranging from 17-25. Casares was recently featured in LA Weekly and is known for her extravagant festival costumes, spiritual encouraging talks and an overall welcoming demeanor. Casares has been a fan of EDM since the young age of 11, but it was not until the eighth grade that she started attending music festivals and has attended seven EDC’s since then.
“To any first time goers, always take these events with moderation and responsibility. Be aware of your physical, mental, emotional and spiritual being,” said Casares in regards to these weekend festivals that are not only exhausting, but hyper stimulating.
Between the crowds and the taboo of “raver drugs,” Casares encourages those first time EDC ravers to “express yourself, but also take care of yourself and take what you can from the moment. Realize that when the festival ends, there is a reality you need to come back to.”
Headliners this year will include Dash Berlin, Above & Beyond and a familiar face to UCF, Steve Aoki, who performed at the CFE Arena in 2012. General admission two-day tickets are now on sale with a price of $182, not including online service fees. Single-day tickets are pricing at $114.



For some, the rubber ducks at Sprit Splash have sentimental value; for others, they translate to cold, hard cash.
Office of Student Involvement director Michael Preston estimates that 6,000 students tramped into the ice-cold water at Spirit Splash on Oct. 24 to claim one of the 2,400 luau-themed rubber ducks. Soon after the event, ads popped up on eBay, Craigslist and several of the “UCF class of …” pages on Facebook with ducks for sale.
Preston says the ducks cost $1.38 a piece, however, some students made more than 30 times that value. Freshman business major Rebecca Grimpe said people were selling ducks for upwards of $50 while others told bidders to “make an offer.”
“I think selling the ducks ruins the sentiment,” Grimpe said, adding that instead of taking the ducks and selling them, attendees should the let people who really want them have them. “It’s not right to try and profit off of something that is supposed to be special and bring the students together,” she said.
Preston says that OSI has been aware students selling the ducks for the past few years. “However, once a student catches a duck it is a giveaway and it becomes their property so there is not much we can do to intervene,” he said.
For some, buying ducks from other students is like a consolation prize after getting roughed-up at Spirit Splash. Matt Marstaller, a freshman studying finance and accounting, arranged to buy a duck from another student on Facebook for $25.
He says his friend bought him a duck for $20 at the event, and he wanted to buy his roommate one too since they went the event together and he returned empty-handed.
“The excitement of Spirit Splash and catching a duck would be better, but I know people that actually got hurt during the event, so surviving it is an accomplishment in itself even if you wind up duck-less,” Marstaller said.
Marstaller added he wanted to collect a duck for each of his four years at UCF, and would buy last year’s duck too if he could get it for a reasonable price.
While some students struggled and perhaps suffered injuries, collecting rubber ducks was no problem 6-foot-tall wrester, Frank Balaguer. The freshman sports and exercise science major bagged four of them with ease.
Balaguer said he kept one for himself, gave away two to people at the event and then posted one for sale on Facebook. He got a $30 offer from another student, but ended up selling it to his roommate instead — a five-year senior who has gone to Spirit Splash five times and never gotten a duck — for $20.
Balaguer explained that people are willing to pay for them because they’re exclusive, but later added, “The fact that people would buy a rubber duck is pretty damn outrageous.”



