According to the Orlando Sentinel, UCF head coach George O’Leary named Justin Holman the starting quarterback.
Holman replaced DiNovo in the second half of Saturday’s season opener against Penn State and changed the entire dynamic of the offense, completing 9-of-14 passes for 204 yards and three total touchdowns. DiNovo was yanked after struggling to get the offense into a rhythm in the first half, completing 3-of-8 passes for 18 yards.
“We’ve got three kids we’re working with, but Holman’s been elevated to No. 1,” O’Leary told the Orlando Sentinel.
UCF has a bye-week to adjust to Holman as the definitive starter before they head up to the midwest to take on No. 24 Missouri Saturday, September 13.
 



Dimly lit candles lined the steps of the Reflecting Pond Wednesday night during a candlelight vigil where hundreds of UCF students and members of the community came out to honor former UCF journalism student Steven Sotloff.

The vigil comes just one day after the ISIS terrorist group released a video showing Sotloff’s beheading. Sotloff’s mother released an emotional video nearly a week ago pleading to her son’s captors to spare his life.
To remember and celebrate Sotloff’s life, several groups organized and spoke on his behalf at the vigil including UCF’s chapter of the Society of Professional Journalists (SPJ), the Orlando chapter of the Syrian American Council and the UCF Gauntlet.
Chris Nault, who was one of Sotloff’s former rugby teammates at UCF, also spoke at the vigil about Sotloff and told Knight News about Sotloff’s nickname “The Brain.”
“He was just an overall great guy,” Nault said. “He chased his dreams; it’s no surprise at all that he was successful.”
Many of the students described Sotloff’s death as a tragedy that hit home for them.
“It was a mixture of being heartbroken that we lost somebody that was one of our own and also just shock that this happened to somebody that we know,” said Melissa Catalanotto, a senior majoring in journalism at UCF.
Catalanotto also spoke on Sotloff’s behalf at the vigil as president of UCF’s chapter of SPJ, telling students that Sotloff was fearless even in the face of adversity.
“What Steven stood for as a journalist is something we should all stand for: the truth,” Catalanotto said.
Catalanotto hoped this event would help celebrate Sotloff’s life and accomplishments instead of dwelling in the tragedy of his death.
“We can not begin to imagine the grief that his family is going through but we hope they can find comfort in knowing that this community along with many around the world share in their pain and heartbreak. We are keeping their son and family in our thoughts and prayers” Catalanotto said.
Catalanotto wasn’t alone in these thoughts. Elyssa Feinberg thought the vigil was a nice way to bring together the community, and a way to pay respects for a fellow knight.
“I think it’s amazing to bring such a huge population together to honor this one person. I think it’s great that the student body is doing this,” Feinberg, a freshman majoring in Hospitality Management, said.
Sotloff attended UCF from 2002 to 2004, and even though it has been about 10 years since Sotloff was a student at UCF, many feel a connection to him.
“I think it’s fantastic that students were the ones driving it. I think that says a lot about the type of students we have here at UCF, the type of students we have here at the Nicholoson school. I think that’s very important because it shows that sense of connection that students feel.” Dr. Tim Brown, Associate Professor and Area Coordinator for UCF’s journalism department, said.
Political and community leaders have expressed their sadness about the situation. Obama addressed the video at a press conference Tuesday saying “Whatever these murderers think they’ll achieve by killing innocent Americans like Steven, they have already failed,” Obama said. “We will not forget, and our reach is long and justice will be served.”
Photos by Nick Russett
[myrelposts-related title=”See Below for More Special Coverage:“]



