The time of the year is almost here when different Greek-lettered organizations come together to participate in a week long period of events called Greek Week.
Greek Week is a week selected from the spring semester that places Greek organizations into teams in order to celebrate the values of the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life, which includes brotherhood, sisterhood, scholarship, service, and leadership. The goal of Greek Week is to promote unity amongst all fraternity and sorority chapters here at UCF. This year’s theme for Greek Week is designed around the box office hit, “The Hunger Games.”
Fraternities and Sororities are split into twelve districts (or teams) with each team consisting of about three to four organizations. Districts are given team captains to help lead teams during the games. The pairings for Greek Week were revealed on Jan. 18 at the Lake Claire Pavilion.
This year’s Greek Week takes place from Mar. 17 to Mar. 23. May the odds be ever in their favor.



The Plaza on University opened the doors to its clubhouse for the first time Thursday with a special grand opening event.
Students were able to enjoy free food, music and games while touring the clubhouse. KnightNews.com went inside for a look at the new apartment complex.

The Plaza on University, located at the corner of University Boulevard and Alafaya Trail, has 63,000 square feet of commercial space, and will be introducing more than 1,300 new luxurious and designer furnished beds into the market. Some of the top amenities include a two-story, state of the art fitness center, as well as two resort style swimming pools. Interior amenities include fully furnished rooms, utilities (up to a cap), cable and high speed Internet, water, sewer, trash and more. 
BurgerFi and Bento Cafe are two of the tenants signed on to take a spot at the Plaza along with recently announced Floyd’s Barbershop. The Plaza will continue to announce more vendors as deals are locked.
The Plaza on University opens Fall 2014. 



The UCF men’s basketball team hung close with the No. 20 Memphis Tigers on Wednesday night, but couldn’t hang on down the stretch to get the victory.
UCF (9-13, 1-10) was down 54-53 the road to the No. 20 Tigers with 4:50 remaining, and Memphis’ Shaq Goodwin scored to put the Tigers up by one while also drawing a foul on the play. Goodwin couldn’t convert the free throw, but the Tigers grabbed the offensive board and Joe Jackson scored with a foul once again. The story was the same on this possession, Jackson could not convert the free throw, but the Tigers got the rebound and scored again.
The Tigers scored six straight points in a span of 20 seconds to put the Tigers up by 7 and the Knights could not mount a late comeback.
“I think there were 50 second chances that really changed the momentum tonight. We’d miss a layup and they’d hit a three, or we’d give up the second chance layup. You’ve got to take advantage of those things and we didn’t,” UCF Head Coach Donnie Jones said after the game.
Tristan Spurlock led the way for the Knights, scoring 18 point and pulling down 10 rebounds, while Isaiah Sykes added 14 points in the effort.
UCF will look to get some conference revenge on Saturday on the road against USF. The last time the Knights played the Bulls at the CFE Arena, the Bulls beat the Knights in overtime. Tipoff is scheduled for 1:30 p.m. and UCF SGA is providing students interested in attending the game with transportation to the game. For more info click here for the SGA Facebook page.



