It’s SGA Senate election season once again.
Starting at 8 a.m. on Monday, students can log-in to their MyUCF and vote for the students they wish to represent them on the 47th Student Senate. The voting will be open until Sept. 24 at 5 p.m.
The biggest change in this year’s election is the ban on food during the election process. No students running for Student Senate will be allowed to hand out food to prospective voters during the election period.
“This upcoming election period marks considerable changes within the Student Government Association election process,” said Supervisor of Elections Eunice Wanjiru. “It was agreed upon that no food distribution be allowed during the campaigning process. SGA is striving to produce a more informed student body about the importance of these elections and their impacts on the student body as a whole.”
For more information on the election click here.



All right, students! It’s time to put on your culture caps and get ready for a night of the arts as Theatre UCF presents “Baltimore Waltz” from Thursday, Sept. 18 to Sunday, Sept. 28.
According to Theatre UCF, Baltimore Waltz is “an intensely personal journey celebrating love in a moment of great despair. With Baltimore Waltz, playwright Paula Vogel pens a love note to her brother who recently passed away from AIDS-related complications. Anna and her brother embark upon a fantastical trip to Europe in order to flee the diagnosis of Acquired Toilet Disease, a fatal disease contracted by the sister from a school bathroom.”
In this particular play, director Linda Listengarten and assistant director Tara Kromer aim to please audiences not only with the profound storyline but also with the incredible talent here at UCF.
“I really hope audiences give into the emotional roller coaster in this show,” said assistant director Tara Kromer. “And how people cope with grief and loss. It is sad, happy, and funny it all at the same time.”
Costume designer Joanie Ming hopes everyone leaves the theatre celebrating life.
“There are many layers to this production. Instead of participating in the AIDS Memorial Quilt, Paula Vogel wrote this play in honor of her late brother. She never knew how to sew, and this was her quilt. It is a very special story,” said Ming.
The cast features an intimate cast of nine, including leading roles by Shanel Sparr, Alexander Bair and Ryan Sutter.
Bair hopes this show is a “cleansing experience for audiences. It is funny, sad, sexy, and reflects a real human relationship that reminds people to always care about their loved ones.”
So what are you waiting for?
Opening night is sold out, but there are plenty of other nights to catch the show.
Show details:
-Cost: $10.00 students, $20.00 adults, and $18.00 seniors.
-Showtimes are 8:00 PM Thursday through Saturday, and 2:00 PM matinee on Sundays.
-Address is 304 Scorpius St, Orlando FL. 32826 to find the Theatre UCF parking lot. From the far end of the lot, it is a short walk to golf cart ride to the theater.
-For 9/20 performance please park in lot B-4.



The Jacksonville Jaguars offense is now in the hands of Blake Bortles.
After getting the nod in the second half against the Indianapolis Colts, Bortles went 14-of-24 passing for 223 yards with two TDs and two INTs.
It was enough for Jacksonville Jaguars head coach Gus Bradley to name Bortles the definitive starter heading into next week when they travel to take on the San Diego Chargers.
The Jacksonville offense desperately needed to be invigorated after losing 34-17 and 41-10 in Weeks 1 and 2, and facing a 30-0 halftime deficit in Week 3 with QB Chad Henne behind the helm.
Henne was yanked after the first half against the Colts, going 4-7 for 33 yards and zero first downs. Bortles’ first NFL career completed pass ended up going for a first down.
Despite the two interceptions, Bortles ended up posting a solid 82.5 quarterback rating.
Fans can catch Bortles’ first start next Sunday, Sept. 28 at 4:05 p.m. on CBS.



