UCF’s Kappa Sigma fraternity had its re-hearing on Tuesday, presided over by a new hearing officer who recommended a harsher punishment than the first officer.
The re-hearing was conducted by Scott Eberle, who recommended Kappa Sigma receive disciplinary suspension for the rest of fall 2014 and disciplinary probation for spring 2015, while Stacey Malaret recommended just disciplinary probation in the first hearing.
The first hearing officer’s rationale was not accepted by UCF due to alleged technical difficulties with a portion of the video recording. However, it is not clear why UCF chose a new hearing officer to preside over the re-hearing.
There are also discrepancies between the hearing officers’ review of the information in the case.
The first hearing officer found Kappa Sigma not in violation of one of the most serious charges, harmful behavior 4A, which is physical violence towards another person. According the victim, he was unable to recall who had physically harmed him and said the information contained in the police report was incorrect, the first hearing officer found. 
In the re-hearing, the second hearing officer made no mention that the victim was unable to recall who had physically harmed him and that the victim said the information in the police report was inaccurate. Instead, the hearing officer found Kappa Sigma in violation of physical violence towards another person and appeared to take the police report as fact.
UCF closes these hearings to the public, so KnightNews.com does not know if the testimony was identical or similar in both hearings.
If UCF disagrees with a hearing officer’s finding of not in violation, the student conduct director can send it back for re-hearing as many times as she wants until there’s a finding of in violation, UCF lawyers have argued.
If Kappa Sigma’s new recommendation is accepted by the director of student conduct, within seven days it will not be a recognized organization at UCF until spring 2015, unless the organization appeals. If that happens, the suspension won’t take effect until an appeal is decided.
If an organization is not satisfied with the appeal, it would have the option of taking UCF to court to see if a judge would overturn the suspension. 
The director of student conduct is expected to announce her final decision soon.



With the recent uproar over Ebola it is important to remember facts over fear. The fact is that it isn’t likely that anyone at UCF is going to contract Ebola but there is a good chance that you will get the flu this winter.
Ebola first came to the United States in late September when Thomas Duncan traveled to Dallas, Texas from Liberia. He was diagnosed with Ebola, and later died of the sickness, at Texas Presbyterian Hospital. Later, two healthcare workers from the same hospital, who helped care for Duncan, contracted the disease and have since recovered and been released. There has also been another reported case in New York City and that patient is currently receiving treatment at a hospital there. It is clear that the people most at risk of getting Ebola are health care workers who deal directly with someone who has the sickness.
With more people surviving Ebola infections in the U.S. it is becoming clearer that it is not an imminent threat to the health of average Americans. Ebola is transmitted through exposure to the bodily fluids of an infected person while the flu can be caught by simply breathing the same air as someone who is sick.
This doesn’t mean that measures haven’t been taken to protect UCF students from possibly getting Ebola. The campus has gone through the necessary routines to ensure the safety of students.
“Our intention is to keep the campus safe, we’ve contacted international students from the affected countries and made sure they were healthy, we screen our patients when they make appointments at the health center,” explains Dr. Michael Deichen, the Director of UCF Health Services. “The levels of protection are getting greater and greater and the risk to individuals remains relatively small.”
While a handful of people in the United States have gotten Ebola, thousands of people get the flu each year.
30-40% of people who do not receive a flu vaccination will get the flu according to Dr. Deichen.
“It’s airborne so just being in the same room as someone puts you at risk of catching influenza,” said Deichen.
With some classes at UCF having close to 300 students in them, an outbreak of influenza on campus is extremely likely so it is in your benefit to protect yourself, and those around you, from getting this. Vaccination is the key.
Flu shots are available in the UCF Health Center and are free to all UCF students no appointment needed.



The Alpha Tau Omega fraternity will host their annual “Rock the Wreath” philanthropy on Wednesday, Nov. 19 — with a big performer in store.
All of the proceeds will benefit Florida Abolitionist, a nonprofit organization dedicated to end sex trafficking in the U.S. and the Children’s Miracle Network, another nonprofit which is dedicated to improving and saving the lives of sick children in local hospitals. ATO’s annual event has risen close to $100,000 to date for the Children’s Miracle Network.
ATO has not been able to host Rock the Wreath since 2011 due to a suspension, so energy, enthusiasm and expectations are high. [sam_ad id=”4″ codes=”true”]
“Students can expect a concert experience unlike any other at UCF. The causes we support help create a high-energy vibe; with numerous local businesses sponsoring the event and the talent we attract students can expect a great time with friends, and to walk away with a lot of free stuff. Every ticket sold helps a fantastic cause,” says ATO president Lincoln Devine.
ATO has managed to get some high-profile performers in the past for Rock the Wreath and this year is no different. The Ying Yang twins will entertain fellow knights and all who attend.
ATO’s 9th annual Rock the Wreath will take place at the Alpha Tau Omega house located on 4419 Greek Court. Gates open at 7:30 p.m.
Tickets are $15 and can be purchased from Onni Franco at (954) 553-2207 or online here.



