SGA President Melissa Westbrook will keep her position in office as of Feb. 20 after the UCF Senate voted on the three charges against her: Failure in prescribed duties, violating Sunshine Law and Misuse of funds. The vote count came down to 2-36-0, 0-38-0, 0-38-0, respectively.
KnightNews caught up with both Westbrook and Rice after the hearing to hear their thoughts about the night.

The Senate body was provided with evidence packets to review during the Thursday night hearing from both Westbrook and Clifford Rice, the senator who filed the initial impeachment charges.
On top of the evidence provided to the senators, five witnesses also took to the stand to give testimony. These five witnesses were: SGA Comptroller Jason Wojkiewicz, Student Director of Pride Coalition Nicholas Simons, ORC Vice Chair Stefanie Cash, Director of the Office of Student Involvement Dr. Preston and SGA Director of Communications Alex Perna.
The Key West Ballroom in the Student Union was filled with UCF students and faculty watching the hearing, leaving only standing room for those who were unable to get a seat. SGA Speaker of the Senate Jacklyn Graham had to ask the audience members to quiet down multiple times throughout the night.
Cheers and applause rang through the ballroom after the verdict was read. 
“I was so happy to see other people there because I was extremely nervous before this and just to see people in the back, like reassuring that you’re going to be OK, like it’s OK, like calm down, it’s really rewarding,” SGA President Westbrook said. 
By Nicole Moshe and Ingrid Onoriode



The UCF Senate body met Thursday night for the removal hearing of SGA President Melissa Westbrook and voted to keep Westbrook in office.
The senators voted on three impeachment charges against Westbrook: Failure in prescribed duties, violating Sunshine Law and Misuse of funds. With vote counts of 2-36-0, 0-38-0, 0-38-0, respectively, Westbrook will not be removed from her position as President of the Student Government Association.
We caught up with Senator Clifford Rice, who filed impeachment charges against her Westbrook last month, and Westbrook after the hearing. Check back soon for video!



Update: Westbrook is not removed from office. Vote counts of  2-36-0, 0-38-0, 0-38-0 respectively
KnightNews.com is streaming UCF SGA President Melissa Westbrook’s removal hearing, following her impeachment. Check back for full video coverage once it’s over.




SGA Senators are set to decide tonight whether SGA President Melissa Westbrook broke open government laws — but an investigation into the Senate suggests that some of the people deciding may be violating the laws themselves.
After learning SGA Senators impeached Westbrook for violating Sunshine Law, misusing funds and neglecting duties, KnightNews.com began an in-depth investigation into the communication of senators outside official meetings. We asked each senator for any cell phone text messages, Facebook messages/postings and personal emails that met the definition of a public record between the dates of Jan. 23 to Feb. 3. 
“It’s so frustrating to have to sit back and listen to people’s foolish debate,” SGA Speaker Jaclyn Graham said to another senator in a text message when discussing the impeachment.  
But Graham, however, did not turn that record over to UCF; it was only discovered when digging through another senator’s records that were turned over to UCF.
Clifford Rice, the senator who filed the impeachment charges against Westbrook did not turn over any records at all — claiming he didn’t have any. But KnightNews.com’s own reporters were in contact with Rice and spoke to him about SGA’s communication policy and the impeachment hearing. Communications pertaining to SGA business are public records.    
We double checked with UCF several times about the missing records from Graham and Rice but were told they didn’t have anything more.
“Following up on your request, we checked again with the two senators you named. They told us there are no additional records in response to your request,” Chad Binette, Director, UCF News & Information said.
Rice initially declined comment but our reporters were able to talk to him after the removal hearing of SGA President Melissa Westbook. Watch his response below: 




The Golden Rule committee met Tuesday to discuss UCF and the Good Samaritan law.
Florida law states: “A person who seeks medical assistance for an individual experiencing a drug-related overdose may not be charged, prosecuted, or penalized.” This law was passed in memory of Kristen L. Jackson, who died of a prescription drug overdose in January 2012, when friends feared calling 911, and John M. Perkins Jr., who was killed by a heroin overdose in May 2011.
Currently students may refrain from reporting overdoses, worried they will face punishment. Unreported overdoses have many times led to fatalities.
Drug overdoses have become a leading cause of accidental death in the United States. In Florida, UF, FSU, UM, USF, all follow the Good Samaritan laws. Leaving UCF to decide if they are ready to be the next University to jump on board.
Teresa Pugliese the founder of Students for Sensible Drug Policy (SSDP) along with the members of the organization are fighting to bring in a program for drugs that mirrors the Alcohol Emergency Procedure already here at the University.
This program states: “Students who seek medical assistance on behalf of another intoxicated student may be exempt from disciplinary action for violations of the Rules of Conduct Section 11 subsections a, b & c. However, exemption for other Rule of Conduct violations may not be granted.” The program took seven years for UCF to implement.
The committee unanimously voted to back the SSDP, but say they will not be able to pass a program by the end of this semester, and there are still a lot of details to be worked out.
By Bridgette Matter



