UCF Kappa Sigma’s interim suspension status has been lifted and a re-hearing is set to be scheduled, UCF records show.
According to an e-mail sent to Kappa Sigma by UCF, technical difficulties with the video recording cut off part of the hearing and another hearing will be scheduled for a new date.
In the 2014-2015 Golden Rule Student Handbook, the Director of Office of Student Rights and Responsibilities may accept the hearing panel’s finding of “in violation”, “not in violation” or “remand the case for re-hearing”. UCF did not say whether the first hearing panel decided if the fraternity was in violation or not.
According to the e-mail, Kappa Sigma’s interim suspension status has been lifted until a finding is decided. They will be able to participate in campus events, including UCF Homecoming, while their status is lifted.
The fraternity was originally charged on two counts of disruptive conduct and three counts of harmful behavior following an alleged downtown jumping of a member in the Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity. 
The no contact order between Kappa Sigma and Lambda Chi Alpha is still in effect until further notice.



Astrophysicist Karl Battams held a talk about comet ISON and how it was catastrophically destroyed as it approached the Sun last Thanksgiving Day. The speech was held in the UCF Physical Science building on Friday, October 10.
Battams, who has worked in the Space Science Division of the Naval Research Lab in Washington D.C. for over ten years, recapped background information regarding ISON during the first half of the talk. He also highlighted interesting points from the comets final year of approach to the Sun. The second half of the talk focused on how numerous sources of observational and modeling evidence allows us to paint a picture of the destruction of ISON.
According to Dr. Yan Fernandez, an astronomer in the UCF physics department, about 30 people attended the talk.
“Judging by the number of questions, it seemed like the audience was quite interested. It make sense, since the topic had world-wide attention last year, and everyone remembers that,” Fernandez said.
When asked what made ISON so unique and special, Battams said three things, which ultimately became one.
“First it was discovered very far out in the solar system – beyond 6 A.U. – and it was unusually bright for being such a distant object,” says Battams. “Second, it was what we call dynamically new, meaning this was the first time it had been in our solar system. Third, it was what we call a sungrazing comet, which means it was following an orbit through space that would take it ridiculously close to the Sun. Comet ISON was the first dynamically new sungrazing comet that we have on record; we had never seen one of these before.”
At the end of the talk there was a question and answer session, which lasted about fifteen minutes. Students and professors didn’t hesitate to ask questions during the talk as well, according to Fernandez.
All in all, Battams said it was a nice event.
“Comet ISON was a very high-profile object last year, and I think that carried through with people who wanted to know how the story ended. Hopefully I was able to bring a certain degree of closure to a few people,” Battams said.



A man driving erratically on the wrong side of University Boulevard was arrested by UCF Police late Thursday night.
UCF police noticed the driver, who was not intoxicated in initial tests, driving on the wrong side of University Boulevard near Alafaya Trail at 11:34 p.m. Officers turned on their lights and sirens to pull the man over, but the driver of the vehicle did not stop.
UCF police collaborated with the Orange County Sheriff’s Office and Winter Park police by blocking off intersections to keep other drivers safe from a collision.
The driver, who is not a UCF student, was eventually arrested at 11:53 p.m. at Glenwood Drive and St. Andrews Boulevard in Winter Park.
The man is currently being investigated by UCF Police for a condition that caused him to drive erratically, he remains in the Winter Park hospital as a result of that condition. A UCF police officer sustained minor injuries from breaking the window to help the driver out of the vehicle.



The Knights will host their conference home opener against the Tulane Green Wave this Saturday at 12:00 p.m. on ESPU at the Bright House Networks Stadium.
After two tough losses to Duke and Rutgers, the Green Wave (2-4, 1-1 AAC) is headed into this Saturday’s game with momentum, as their program jut picked up its first AAC win of the season against UConn last week. But getting the win isn’t where all the momentum is coming from for Tulane.

Sponsored Advertisement (Story Continues Below)


The Green Wave packs in a strong running attack led by redshirt freshman Sherman Badie. Badie will be coming into this game with over 530 rushing yards, which is 40th best in the country (second in the conference), 74 attempts, and 3 touchdowns. The running back has an explosiveness not seen at Tulane since players like Mewelde Moore and Matt Forte, as evidenced by his three runs of more than 70 yards. He proves to be a needed weapon for Tulane’s offense. The Knights can expect to face tough competition this Saturday as Tulane is averaging more than 200 yards on the ground per game.
With strong opponents packing in Tulane’s offense, the Knights pose a pretty big threat against Tulane, as their improvement along the offensive line is allowing UCF (3-2, 1-0 AAC) to create a strong run game.
The Knights are finally finding their way around the field this season as they pick up momentum and bring home the wins. With strong offensive and defensive teams working their magic for UCF, top players bring on the heat. William Stanback, with 225 yards and 3 touchdowns so far this season, bulldozes his way through opponents to pick up first-and-tens. J.J. Worton will come into Saturday’s game with 341 receiving yards and 2 touchdowns.
UCF Quarterback Justin Holman, who made his fourth career start, found sophomore running back Will Stanback in last weekend’s 31-24 victory, for a 4-yard touchdown pass. Holman has completed 30 of 51 passes for 326 yards, and although still young and very new to his position, Holman learns fast and is quick on his feet. And people are noticing. Holman was named the American Athletic Conference offensive player of the week for his efforts.
This will be UCF’s first Saturday game since their regular-season home opener against Bethune-Cookman. The Knights have won three consecutive games and are hoping to make it four-in-a-row when the Green Wave rolls into Orlando. If UCF plans on taking down Tulane in their home territory, explosiveness in the offense and strong momentum needs to be right out of the gate for the Knights. It should all start this Saturday afternoon in the comfort of their own stadium.



