Victoria King was found guilty of resisting an officer without violence and battery by a jury at a Friday trial. 

On Sept. 4, 2013, King, a UCF student at the time, was pulled over by UCF Police Officer Timothy Isaacs for a routine brake light traffic stop, according to police. After refusing to roll down her window completely, Officer Isaacs shattered King’s window and arrested her. 
Isaacs took the stand on Friday and testified that while King could have taken the ticket and been on her way, her refusal to leave the car after not wanting to roll down her window led to the situation escalating. 
“I’m happy with the outcome,” Isaacs told KnightNews.com while leaving the courtroom immediately following the verdict.
King did not comment after the verdict, however, her attorney Roger Weeden said he was disappointed with the result.
“I think on the campus there the police should be looking out for students,” Weeden said. “Ms. King had some health issues and rather than being concerned about that, he was concerned about his control of the scenario.”
Weeden has not ruled out an appeal and suggested next week’s sentencing could be a factor on the final decision to appeal. 
“We’ll start looking at an appeal. The next step is a sentencing next Friday. We’ll see how that goes,” Weeden said. 
King could face up to two years in jail. The sentencing hearing is scheduled for Sept. 26.



UCF will finally play in its first home football game of the season this Saturday at 6:00 p.m. EST on ESPN3 at the Bright House Networks Stadium. After travelling across the pond and then up to Mizzou country, the Knights will be happy to be home; taking on the undefeated Bethune-Cookman Wildcats this weekend with high hopes of securing their first victory of the season.

Sponsored Advertisement (Story Continues Below)


Home sweet home has probably never been so true for these Knights after a rough 0-2 start. This weekend is also Family Weekend for all UCF students and their families.
UCF (0-2) is looking to avoid repeating the start of 2004, when the Knights went 0-11. Despite the rough start against two prime time teams, the Knights will have their game faces on and plan at stopping at nothing short of a needed win in this weekend’s match-up.
The Knights will have to execute stronger, faster, and tougher and need to execute better and avoid mistakes and turnovers as the win will not come easily – knocking off an undefeated team can be a daunting task. The Wildcats are now ranked No. 12 nationally among FCS schools and bring both offensive and defensive experience and firepower to their opponents. Over the past two games, BCU has amassed 506 total yards of offense, 321 of those yards on the ground, which represents just 39 yards less than UCF.
For UCF, a sense of urgency to perform for Saturday’s showdown will be crucial in bringing home a win. The Knights are still gaining their composure from last year’s great losses to the NFL and graduation, but UCF still brings talent and skill to the gridiron. The key for UCF is execution, playing a full 60 minutes and scoring in the red zone.
Justin Holman has total offense of 413 yards so far this season, in 31 passing attempts, and 50 rushing attempts, and he has scored two touchdowns. He’s young, but has shown flashes of brilliance and has the opportunity to lead these Knights to a winning season.
Stanback comes into his third game this season with 22 carries and 45 rushing yards, a number expected to grow exponentially in his second outing. J.J. Worton brings in 115 receiving yards for the team along with undoubted ability to make plays and spectacular catches, refusing to ever give up on a play.
The defense has stood tall for all but two quarters this season and it has the playmakers to help turn this season around. All is not lost for the Knights. They have the skill and great coaching with George O’Leary. They are just young and one victory under their belt should propel them to bigger and better things this 2014 season.
UCF is taking it one game at a time. So only Bethune-Cookman is on their collective minds. One play, one series, one quarter, one game. That’s the sequence the Knights are targeting. Only then can they look forward to win number two and beyond. It should all start this Saturday night in the comfort of their own stadium.



