A dean and professor at the University of Central Florida has been awarded one of the highest honors in the counseling profession from the American Counseling Association.
Grant Hayes, the executive associate dean for academic affairs and a professor of counselor education, has been named an ACA Fellow — a prestigious award given to those who make significant and unique contributions to the counseling field through professional practice, scientific achievement or teaching. 
Hayes’ research focuses on the use of technological applications in counselor education; counseling children and adolescents; and character education and moral development in schools and youth settings, UCF said.
He is involved in a number of professional organizations at the national and international levels and has presented more than 100 papers at professional conferences, UCF said. He has authored or co-authored more than 50 publications and has been the principal investigator or co-principal investigator for more than $1.3 million in grants and contracts.
The American Counseling Association is the world’s largest nonprofit organization for professional counselors. The organization, founded in 1952, provides leadership training, continuing education and advocacy services for its more than 54,000 members. The award will be presented to Hayes in March at the ACA annual conference in Honolulu.



An alleged home invasion at the Sigma Nu Greek fraternity house early Wednesday evening turned out to be a drug transaction robbery, according to the Orange County Sheriff’s Office.
“Victim Matthew Speer called it in 1.5 hours after the alleged Home Invasion. It turned out to be a drug transaction robbery,” Orange County Deputy Ginette Rodriguez said in an email. “The victim was selling weed to the suspect. They declined to prosecute.”
According to Sigma Nu’s website, a brother named Matthew Speer is an executive board member of the fraternity. Sigma Nu declined to comment to KnightNews.com crew at the scene last night. 
We are working to find out if UCF is planning to investigate the fraternity further.  



