KnightNews.com has high quality videos for every group from Beta’s Best Dance Crew 2014! 
We will begin uploading videos soon. Continue to check back as videos upload for your group! 
Please take a second to like this story by clicking the like button up at the top, so your friends see this story on Facebook. Also, make sure you like KnightNews.com on Facebook and Twitter, so you get all the major UCF news you need to know — plus UCF community stories like this!
BETA THETA PI

Beta Theta Pi | Zeta Tau Alpha | Alpha Delta Pi | Pi Beta Phi | Kappa Alpha Theta | Gamma Phi Beta | Chi Omega | Knight Moves | Alpha Xi Delta | Alpha Epsilon Phi | Delta Zeta | Tri Delta | Kappa Delta | Rukus |



When UCF students vote for their next SGA President this year, they may notice something missing.
Senate passed bill 46-79, which bans presidential candidates from providing students with food, drink and prizes during the candidate voting process. Such items will be considered a bribe to students. 
Candidates will be allowed to provide items for the sole purpose of education including brochures, stickers and pamphlets. Candidates will be required to have all of these items approved by the Election Commission prior to their distribution.
Apparel may still be provided to students as long as it is distributed during the period of Active Campaigning prior to the start of the defined Election Times. Final proofs of the apparel must also be approved by the Election Commission prior to being distributed. 



UCF Assistant Professor Bill Safranek of the Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences died Monday evening in a car accident, according to an e-mail sent out to students by the Interim Director of the Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences.
“We at the UCF College of Medicine are devastated by the news of Bill Safranek’s death,” said Dr. Deborah German, vice president for medical affairs and dean of the medical school. “Bill was an outstanding educator who was passionate about sharing his love of science with undergraduate students. At any one time, he was touching the lives of hundreds of young people. His work ethic, kindness and commitment were infectious and a model for us all.”
Safranek, Ph.D., was an assistant professor of microbiology at the UCF College of Medicine’s Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences. Considered an educational “workhorse” for his teaching load, Dr. Safranek was the winner of multiple teaching awards. He began teaching at UCF as an adjunct professor in 1995 before being named as a fulltime instructor in 2005. He was promoted to assistant professor in 2007. 
Safranek was in an accident near State Road 520 and State Road 524 in Cocoa when he was driving home. The crash remains under investigation.
His classes have been cancelled for the next two days. Faculty members at the Burnett school will be taking over those courses, said Dr. Richard Peppler, acting director of the school.
Grief counseling for the passing of Professor Safranek is available in HPA2 room 345, cards and memories to be sent out to his family can be placed outside of his office, HPA2 118.



