Women’s Soccer
Undeterred by another rain-played game, the Knight’s soccer team closed out the weekend with two wins against nationally ranked Long Beach State and Ole Miss, adding a fourth straight shutout for the women’s team this season.
In a close match against Long Beach (4-3-3) senior forward Tatiana Coleman ended the deadlock by making her sixth goal of the year in the 50th minute. UCF goalkeeper Connie Organ anchored the defense by holding off Long Beach’s attempts for an equalizer, sealing the win.
Unfamiliar with the rainy conditions, the California based team had to come out strong to match up against UCF (7-2-0). The Knights offense outshot The Beach 12-6, giving LBS goalkeeper Ashton McKeown a career high in saves but ultimately letting one slip through for a Knight’s victory.
“I would say fierce is a really good word to describe the team today,” said head coach Tiffany Roberts Sahaydak. “I really think we stepped it up in the physical area, we were winning balls in the air, 50-50 balls even on the ground, we were doing whatever it takes. I thought it was a real inspiring performance from our team.”
In addition to the triumph against Long Beach, UCF delivered a crushing 4-0 win against Ole Miss (6-2-2), putting an end their six match victory streak.
With a second goal coming just minutes after the first, the Knights used their momentum to connect two more goals before closing out the non-conference match.
“I think once we got that goal it kind of changed the momentum of the game, that just kind of ignited us,” said Sahaydak. “We knew that they’d have some momentum, but we talked about playing our style, playing our game, being physical and having a lot of respect. Credit to our team, they really respected Ole Miss tonight. And I think when you respect a team you can have results like this tonight.”
UM fell behind early in the game and could not regroup for a win. The Knight’s defense held tight and limited the opportunities for a goal by the Rebels.
“It was a tough one down here where we didn’t get off to a great start,” said Ole Miss head coach Matthew Mott. “UCF scored a couple of good goals and put us behind. We have to learn from it and be better.”
The focused gameplay by the women’s team earned their players three out of the four league honors Monday, with Tatiana Coleman winning for offense, Connie Organ winning as goalkeeper, and Sophie Howard winning for defense.
UCF will begin conference play at Memphis on Thursday at 8pm ET.
Men’s Soccer
The men’s soccer team fell to North Florida 0-1 last Wednesday, unable to connect any of the five shots made in the first half. A goal opportunity came early in the game for sophomore Javier Clavijo but Osprey’s goalkeeper Kyle Nasta denied the shot as well as one made on a rebound.
A goal in the 75th minute broke the stalemate, giving UNF the win while dropping the Knights to a 1-4-1 record.
UCF owns a 7-3 all-time record when facing UNF (3-3-0) but has lost the past two years to the in-state opponent.
“Our players learned a hard lesson that everybody is going to come into games ready to fight and ready to work hard,” head coach Bryan Cunningham said. “We have to be ready to not only match that, but try and get above it. A pretty low moment in UCF soccer, no discredit to UNF, which did a fantastic job tonight managing the game. This is more an indication that our team has a long way to go.”
The men’s team next faces Indiana at Indiana on Wednesday at 7:30pm ET.



UCF wide receiver Rannell Hall will miss the first half of the Houston game on Oct. 2, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
Hall was ejected for targeting in the fourth quarter during Saturday’s 41-7 win against Bethune-Cookman. Hall made a block for Breshad Perriman, but the officials called a targeting penalty on Hall. Since the penalty came in the second half, Hall will have to miss the first half of the Houston game.
After the game, UCF head coach George O’Leary said he would try to appeal the call. However, NCAA officials ruled that the original call from the game would have to stand.
Hall has been one of the main receivers for UCF this season, tied second in receptions despite missing the entire Penn State game. In total, Hall has recorded eight receptions for 73 yards in two contests.
Targeting penalties have been through a myriad of rule changes over the past two seasons in the NCAA. The penalty was first increased to ejecting a player and penalizing the team 15 yards in 2013. In 2014, the 15-yard penalty was nixed.
The Knights will travel to take on Houston Oct. 2 at 7 p.m. The game will be aired on ESPN.



Together with the help of two major technology companies, the University of Central Florida has opened four new fully-equipped laboratories on its main campus, aimed at helping students turn ideas into innovations.
UCF President John C. Hitt, Texas Instruments Executive Vice President Brian Crutcher and Harris Corporation Senior Vice President Robert Duffy unveiled the Harris Corporation Gathering Lab, Idea Lab, Texas Instruments Innovation Lab and Manufacturing Lab during a special ceremony on.
The new “Maker Space” labs aim at offering students a dedicated space to gather and collaborate, generate creative ideas, vet those ideas, then build and fine-tune working prototypes, all in one convenient place that allows for easy movement between labs.
“We are giving students dedicated creative space and mentoring from professional advisors to build prototypes faster than ever before at UCF,” said Michael Georgiopoulos, dean, UCF College of Engineering and Computer Science. “These four lab spaces send a loud message to our college’s 8,000 students and the world that UCF is serious about the role of creativity in the innovation process, and about providing students as many opportunities as possible to enable professional success.”
UCF is the largest producer of engineers and computer science graduates in Florida, and among the largest in the nation. The ultimate goal of these new spaces is to help student create from their ideas and become prepared for the professional industry.
“Turning an idea into a reality, and even better, a business, will lead to more successes for more students,” Dale Jackson, director of the Texas Instruments Innovation Lab, said.
Texas Instruments employs 61 UCF graduates, most notably Crutcher, and retired TI Principal Fellow Gene Frantz who both hold UCF electrical engineering degrees.
“Great creative ideas are fueled by collaboration and hands-on learning experiences; experiences that bring those ideas to life. This entire space including the TI Innovation lab will do just that. Texas Instruments is excited to be a part of UCF producing great engineers and future leaders that will change the world for the better,” said Crutcher.
About the Maker Space Labs
Harris Corporation Gathering Lab – Groups meet and discuss projects in this space, located in the Engineering II Atrium, equipped with round white-board tables designed by UCF faculty.
Idea Lab – Users enter this glass-enclosed spaced, located in the Engineering II Atrium, to go through hosted brainstorming exercises, sketch out ideas on the walls and tables and use the idea-generating technology provided.
Texas Instruments Innovation Lab – Users bring their ideas to this space, strategically located next to the Idea Lab, to quickly build prototypes with 3D printers, laser cutters, TI components and equipment and other high-tech machines. Materials such as plastic, foam and metal are also available.
Manufacturing Lab – Users can build and refine more late-stage prototypes in this space, which includes heavy manufacturing equipment for cutting, bolting, sanding and more.



Given attractions such as Walt Disney World, Universal Studios and SeaWorld, it’s not surprising that Orlando gained the highest rating for tourism of any major U.S. city.
In a survey conducted by Priceline.com, Orlando received a 94% (A) from tourists and a 96% (A+) from locals on how welcoming locals are to tourists and vice versa.
When asked what their biggest pet peeves were when it came to tourists, 21% of Orlando locals agreed that “They don’t pay attention to their surroundings,” followed by “They speak in foreign languages that I don’t understand,” (12%), and “They’re rude,” (11%).
Although, locals may be part of the problem for their biggest complaint, as one in four tourists say they have received wrong directions from a city native.
According to the report, the “most annoying types or tourists” were the intoxicated youth, second to the family with screaming children, a one in three experience for Orlando residents. Another series of questions included what made a tourist so easy to spot, with “large groups wearing matching t-shirts,” “taking pictures of everything,” and “socks with sandals” making the list.
Despite the overwhelming consensus that a local can almost effortlessly spot a tourist, 94% of vacationers believe they blend in well.
Orlando beat out Las Vegas, who came in at a close second, and Honolulu, who came in third, all three of which claimed they found most tourists more friendly than annoying and appreciated the enthusiasm vacationers had for their city.



President Hitt announced Tuesday to community leaders that UCF is pursuing plans to expand its campus to downtown Orlando.
“In the spirit of progress and subject to obtaining the necessary state funding and approvals, UCF – the most popular student choice in Florida and the second-largest university in America – will expand in downtown Orlando!” Hitt said.
UCF spokesman Chad Binette said the expansion could cost anywhere from $150 million to $200 million over the years of construction, but said the exact amount is not known because this project is in the early stages.
“It depends on how far we go what the overall price tag will be,” Hitt said. “I think we’re looking at $150 million to $200 million, but over a period of years. That’s always speculative. If we were to have another budget problem, an economic downturn, that could delay it.”
UCF is partnering with Valencia College for the new downtown campus, which is planned to be able to teach over 10,000 students.
There is no word on when the expansion will start or what programs will be definitely moving to the downtown campus, but Hitt said some UCF programs would thrive in the downtown atmosphere.
“The Florida Interactive Entertainment Academy and the UCF Center for Emerging Media are downtown, it is logical to look at bringing complementary digital media and visual arts programs to join them,” Hitt said. “And we believe WUCF-TV, with its strong community emphasis as the home of PBS in Central Florida, will thrive with a downtown location.”
Hitt said details are still being worked out, but he is confident that UCF made the right choice to expanding the future of UCF.



