A UCF student was arrested on Thursday night after allegedly beating and disfiguring another student on the steps of Millican Hall, officials said.
Matthew Cody Shehorn, 19, was arrested on felony battery charges after an altercation broke out in front of Millican Hall, the police report says. Witnesses told police that Shehorn and three other males were engaged in a verbal  altercation with the victim that then turned physical, the police report says.
“The incident began when the victim accidentally stepped on one of the other men’s hands,” UCF police spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin said. “It was a mistake that escalated to a fight.”
UCF Police Department Officer Timothy Isaacs responded to the scene where he saw small pools of blood surrounding the victim in front of Millican Hall where the victim was sitting and bleeding profusely from his face, the report says.

Witnesses told Isaacs that the victim was knocked unconscious and beaten while he laid on the stairs, the police report states.
“The witnesses told me that (Shehorn)… continually ‘stomped’ and ‘kicked’ the victim’s head into the stairs multiple times,” Isaacs wrote in the report. “The witnesses indicated in both sworn oral and written statements that they were in fear for the victim’s life and that they thought the amount of force that was used in delivering each kick to the victim’s head was adequate to cause the victim’s death.”
Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter for updates on this UCF news:
Follow @UCFKnightNews
Based on witnesses’ descriptions of the suspects, UCFPD was able to find the four suspects, who fled on foot after the alleged incident. The suspects were questioned and, based on their statements and witness accounts, it was determined that Shehorn and another of the suspects, Ryan Deprisco, 19, were responsible for the physical harm to the victim. Witnesses said Deprisco, who is not a UCF student, was an active participant in the beating but not the primary aggressor of the incident. Both suspects were arrested on the third degree charges.
The victim was transported to the hospital to receive treatment for the severe wounds. The police report states that the victim had multiple face fractures, broken teeth, a broken nose and was spitting up blood hours after the incident took place. The victim told police that he intends on pressing charges for the crimes, the report says.
“The victim is out of the hospital, on the road to recovery and speaking with detectives,” Gilmartin said. “The investigation remains open as UCFPD pursues charges with the state.”
Continue reading on the next page to see what the State Attorney’s Office said when we asked if the charges would be upgraded. 



Orange County Sheriff’s Office detectives believe that a Person of Interest in the first armed robbery at Sterling apartments  may be the same individual that committed Monday night’s robbery.
Around 11:30 p.m. Monday night, a black male suspect approximately 5’8”- 5’9’ tall wearing a dark gray hoodie and blue jeans approached a victim who was in the stairwell of the [Sterling] apartment complex, according to police. 
The suspect produced a firearm and stole the victim’s cell phone. The suspect took off in an unknown direction. It is believed that the suspect may be the same as the robbery on Oct. 1, according to police. 
Police released a photo of the individual, who remains unidentified, and are asking anyone with information about his identity to contact Crimeline at 1-800-423-8477. At this time, he is only a person of interest, not a suspect. 
The victim was not harmed.
Keep checking back for updates. 



Former Orlando Mayor and former Florida Secretary of State Glenda Hood will be speaking at UCF in part of UCF’s Diversity Week.
The event, hosted by a collaboration of UCF Panhellenic, the Multicultural Student Center, the Office of Diversity Initiatives and LGBTQ Services, will be held from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. in the Pegasus Ballroom.
Hood, the first female Orlando Mayor, will be speaking about her road to success in the political world that eventually led her to becoming not only Orlando’s mayor, but also the Florida Secretary of State.
Shanzay Pervaiz, Executive Vice-President of Panhellenic Council, put the event together to increase collaboration among UCF organizations and  to help students improve themselves by hearing from a proven leader in Glenda Hood.
“I met with the director of MSC(Multicultural Student Center) to see if she would be willing to collaborate with UCF Panhellenic and she was more than happy to. MSC has been marketing on their behalf to ensure the success of this event. I also personally met with a few RSOs to invite them and drive participation as well,” Pervaiz said. “Also, we reached out to Greek life and have been marketing this event since school started in August.” 
For students planning to attend the event, Pervaiz ensures that “A Night with the Honorable Glenda Hood” will be one to remember.
“Glenda Hood is a true inspiration and I know everyone who will attend this event will take something invaluable back they can use to improve themselves as a person and leader,” Pervaiz said. 
Students attending the event are encouraged to dress in business casual attire.



An armed robbery was reported at the Sterling apartment complex near the University of Central Florida late Monday night, according to the Orange County Sheriff’s Office.
OCSO responded to a call for an armed robbery at 11:22 p.m. Monday at 12001 Sterling University Lane. No other information was immediately available. 
This is the second armed robbery reported at the apartment complex this month. Click here for more.
This is a breaking news story. Keep checking back for updates.



