The Temple Bar District is known as Ireland’s “cultural quarter”.
About a 20-minute walk away from Croke Park, the Temple Bar District is full of streets with traditional Irish bars and restaurants located on every corner.
The UCF-Penn State game has turned the district, usually filled with Gaelic Football fans, into an American football hot spot. Both UCF and Penn State are using the Temple Bar District as the official fan zone for the Croke Park Classic.

Tom Doone, owner of the Merchant’s Arch Bar and Restaurant, says that the American Football takeover in the Temple Bar District has the locals excited.
“Lots of talk about it, lot of people enjoy it,” Doone said. “It doesn’t really happen here every often..some people seem to enjoy it more,” Doone said.
Of course, the Guinness has been the UCF fan favorite.
“They all love it and want to take it home, they can’t have it. It’s ours,” Doone joked.
The Knights has a final walkthrough on Friday before Saturday’s game at Croke Park.
[myrelposts-related title=”More Special Coverage of UCF in Dublin:“]



DUBLIN — The Knights kickoff at 8:30 AM Eastern Time Saturday morning, and have finished all significant practices before the season opener. With only a walk-through at Croke Park left for on field game prep, let’s take a look at UCF’s biggest focal points this weekend.

1. The Quarterback Situation
It’s inevitable that no matter how Saturday’s game ends, new starter Pete DiNovo will be under more scrutiny than any other Knight. It’s a burden that comes hand-in-hand with both replacing a legend and playing quarterback. DiNovo saw exactly zero minutes on the field last year, meaning this will be his baptism by fire.
2. Offensive Line Cohesion
Only three Knights on the offensive line have substantial game-time experience in Joey Grant, Tarik Cook (who got one of his two starts at right guard last year against Penn State), and Torrian Wilson. New starters Colby Watson and Michael Campbell will have to work in perfect harmony with their more experienced counterparts to give DiNovo a fighting chance to prove his mettle. This unit has the ability to either make it a dream come true for the new signal caller, or a total nightmare.
3. J.J. Worton, the Red Zone Threat
Worton is heading into his fifth year at UCF, and returns as last season’s leader in touchdown receptions. Worton finished behind Rannell Hall in total receiving yards (721 to 886) but averaged the same amount of yards per catch as Hall while hauling in ten touchdowns to Hall’s five.  His 2013 campaign also included four games in which he tallied over 100 yards. Look for DiNovo to look Worton’s way early and often when given the chance to pass.
4. Jordan Akins
Akins is the oldest freshman on the UCF roster at 22 years old. He has followed through on a 2010 commitment to the Knights after spending the last three and a half years in the Texas Rangers’ minor league system, never reaching higher than low level Class A baseball. The 6’3, 237 pound receiver is literally a man among boys. He is loaded with potential, and looks the part of a Brandon Marshall-type receiver.
5. Stanback in featured role
William Stanback flashed plenty of talent in his rookie campaign, rushing for 443 yards on 105 attempts as Storm Johnson’s primary backup. His most memorable moments include a bone-crushing hit against Rutgers at home and two rushing touchdowns in the Louisville upset last year. Since then the back has focused on becoming a more complete running back, watching game film of Kevin Smith and others on his own while bulking up to 228 pounds. O’Leary will use the former high school sprinter as the rock by which the offense steadies itself on; expect Stanback to see major action.
6. Thomas Niles and the Pass Rush
The defense itself looks to be a major strength of the 2014 squad with 9 of 11 starters returning – but the most complete unit will be the defensive line, which will feature every one of its starters from last season. Thomas Niles led the group with four sacks and looks to lead his compatriots again. If Niles and the pass rush are effective as a whole against an extremely inexperienced, but physically gifted Penn State offensive line, the Knights will be in great position to take the game.
7. Experience in the Secondary
Three defensive backs on the No. 1 defense are returning for their final season at UCF – cornerback Jordan Ozerites, and safeties Clayton Geathers and Brandon Alexander. Sophomore Jacoby Glenn is coming off a freshman season in which he was voted All-American Athletic Conference First Team and the Most Outstanding Defensive Back at the UCF Award Banquet. The secondary is in great position to take control of the Penn State air attack with so much talent and experience studded throughout the depth chart.
8. Depth Perception
Gaelic Football is played on a field just under 160 yards long and 98 yards wide, placing it far outside the realm of what American Football is used to. The field at Croke Park will obviously be marked down to regulation NCAA Football measurements, but the expansive space on either sideline has the ability to skew even the best player’s depth perception.
9. Crowd Impact
Bright House Networks Stadium seats a crowd of 45,000. Louisville and Penn State, the most hostile environments the Knights played in last year, seat 55,000 and 106,500 respectively. Croke Park has the ability to hold 82,000 within its depths, far above the normal crowd UCF is used to dealing with. While the Knights will have to make a concentrated effort to manage the noise and atmosphere of such a major environment, Penn State should feel right at home among the massive horde of fans.
10. Travel Effect
The hop across the pond is no small issue for anyone not used to the long journey, bringing with it a major time change, an unfamiliar bed, and a brand new culture to quickly adapt to. O’Leary put in a hard day’s work with the team just hours after touching down and has kept them on a strictly regimented schedule to acclimate them to the change in scenery. Whoever is able to come out and set the tone without looking sluggish will be in great position to take the upper hand in such an evenly-matched game.
[myrelposts-related title=”More Special Coverage of UCF in Dublin:“]



