Three more members of the winningest UCF football team in program history are headed to the NFL.
Former UCF offensive lineman Chris Martin, Jordan McCray and Justin McCray all inked deals to bring them to three different NFL teams. Martin with the Houston Texans, Jordan McCray with the Green Bay Packers and Justin McCray with the Tennessee Titans.
“I am proud to say that I have known these guys from early in their high-school careers,” UCF offensive line coach and assistant head coach of offense Brent Key said. “I am glad to see all the hard work lead to this opportunity to continue playing this game at the highest level.”

Both Chris Martin and Jordan McCray will have a chance to link up with former UCF teams during their time with their new teams.
Chris Martin will join former UCF teammate A.J. Bouye with the Texans and Jordan McCray will have a chance to learn from former UCF lineman Josh Sitton in Green Bay. Sitton was named to the Pro Bowl in 2012 and was named 2010 Offensive Lineman of the Year by the NFL Alumni Association.



UCF Head Coach George O’Leary agreed to a four-year contract extension with UCF that will keep him in place as head coach until the end of the 2017-2018 season, according to multiple media reports.
O’Leary, who has coached the Knights for ten seasons, is expected to make over $2 million annually over the course of the deal, CBSSports.com is reporting. The contract extension would make him one of the highest paid coaches in the American Athletic Conference.
Cincinnati’s Tommy Tuberville is the highest paid coach in the American Athletic Conference, at over $3 million a year. SMU’s head coach June Jones was the second highest paid coach, making around $2 million annually before O’Leary’s contract extension.
O’Leary made a reported $1.5 million during the 2013-2014 season that ended with a BCS victory against Baylor.
O’Leary will look to continue the Knight’s winning ways entering the 2014 season with a big void to fill. Star quarterback and running back Blake Bortles and Storm Johnson were drafted to the Jacksonville Jaguars in the 2014 NFL Draft.



