Students at the University of Central Florida weighed in on the need for safety at intersections around UCF that could help prevent another accident like the one the sent a UCF student to the hospital in critical condition.

Dawkins was involved in an accident on Feb. 23 when she walked out into the path of a Toyota Pickup truck at the intersection of Alafaya Trail and Gemini Blvd. 
“Especially in the college community like this, we have kids crossing Alafaya and University a lot, so I think a pedestrian bridge would actually be very beneficial,” Justin Lemminn said.
An update on Brooke’s condition was posted on her support page Thursday evening: 
“Brooke’s surgery went very well and there were no bleeding problems encountered during…thank you so much for the prayers and support to date. Should Brooke’s condition be stable tomorrow I expect me and the rest of my family to be at the vigil at our parish of Blessed Trinity. Keep praying for our Brooke.”
The community is invited to the prayer vigil for Dawkins that will be held Friday evening at Blessed Trinity Church, located at 4545 Anderson Rd from 7-8 p.m. 



Student Government President Melissa Westbrook announced today that she is endorsing two candidates for the roles of President and Vice President in the upcoming SGA election. 
“I, Melissa Marie Westbrook, the 44th Student Body President of the University of Central Florida, hereby endorse Weston Bayes and Sydney Altfield as candidates for President and Vice President of Student Government Association,” Westbrook said in a post on Facebook. “They have the relevant experience and passion to lead UCF and humbly serve 60,000 of their closest friends. I put my full faith in the capabilities of these candidates. As a UCF Knight I couldn’t think of a better choice to represent our great university and I urge you to support and Stand UKnighted with Weston Sydney!”
We are working to find out more possible candidates for the student government positions. Continue to check back for more.



The community is invited to come together to support and pray for Brooke Dawkins, a UCF student in critical condition after being hit by a truck last weekend.
 A friend of the family told us that a prayer vigil for Dawkins will be held Friday evening at Blessed Trinity Church, located at 4545 Anderson Rd from 7-8 p.m. Anyone interested in attending is encouraged.  
Dawkins was involved in an accident on Feb. 23 when she walked out into the path of a Toyota Pickup truck driven by 35-year-old Reginald Smith from Geneva, according to officials. 
Dawkins, a sister of the Kappa Delta sorority, captured the attention of students and the community who have come together to offer her support during this time.
“We have been so grateful and overwhelmed by all of the flowers being sent to Brooke!!! Our home smells like a florist and we are taking pictures of them to show Brooke when she awakes,” Laura Dawkins posted on a support page.
Brooke remains at the Orlando Regional Medical Center and was in surgery at the last update on her support page. 



