In a split decision on Monday, the Florida Supreme Court ruled that voters can decide this fall on whether to legalize medical marijuana in Florida.
The amendment passed 4-3, where the justices were asked to rule on whether the proposed language of the citizens’ initiative met constitutional standards. Rejecting arguments from political leaders such as Attorney General Pam Bondi, who challenged the bill summary arguing that its language would mislead voters into allowing a widespread use of marijuana in Florida, the court decided it’s legal to put the question to voters.
Justices Barbara Pariente, Fred Lewis, Peggy Quince and James Perry ruled in favor of the medical marijuana amendment.  Chief Justice Ricky Polston, Justices Charles Canady and Jorge Labarga voted in favor of striking the medical marijuana amendment from the ballot.
“I agree with Chief Justice Polston and Justice Labarga that the proposed amendment should be denied placement on the ballot because the ballot summary is clearly and conclusively misleading. One of the most important rights enjoyed by the people of Florida under our constitution is the right to vote on constitutional amendments proposed through the initiative process. That right and the initiative process are subverted when the voters are presented a misleading ballot summary,” Justice Canady said during the hearing.
However, even with dissenting opinions from Canady, Polston and Labarga, the Supreme Court came to the final decision of placing the medical marijuana amendment on the ballot.
“We conclude that the proposed amendment has a logical and natural oneness of purpose—namely, whether Floridians want a provision in the state constitution authorizing the medical use of marijuana, as determined by a licensed Florida physician, under Florida law,” the court majority wrote.
Elections supervisors certified that the medical marijuana petition reached 710,508 signatures more than the 683,149 needed for it to reach the ballot.



The restaurant that former UCF quarterback Daunte Culpepper helped open in August of 2013 has closed its doors, according to Brandon Helwig of UCF.rivals.com.
Culpepper’s, which was located on University Boulevard had a UCF theme. The restaurant was run by Culpepper, former UCF quarterback Kyle Israel and radio host Tony Comas.
TJ Davenport Group, Inc, the majority investors in Culpepper’s Orlando, have decided to sell the location to a Miami based franchise who will be introducing a new concept to the area.
“The support we received from the UCF & East Orlando community was humbling and we are proud to have been a part of so many great memories during this historic football season,” Tony Comas, Managing Partner for HIG, said. “I believe we really have a great formula for success here, and we will be looking to continue our hospitality commitment to the East Orlando & UCF community. You could not ask for a better partner than Daunte. The positive energy and level of commitment to the project was amazing and I know Daunte is excited about keeping the same level of engagement here with the University and Orlando community.”
 



