Students and alumni celebrated the founding of COMM Week by enjoying refreshments and networking at Bob Davis C-Day on Wednesday at Lake Claire.
By 5:30 PM, attendees were already settled in eating free pizza and refreshments while they networked and enjoyed the shade of the Lake Claire gazebo.
Sean Sposato, a radio-television production sophomore, heard about C-Day at a UCF National Broadcasting Society meeting.
“They said we’d have a lot of opportunities to meet professionals,” Sposato said. “Really, that’s what I’m trying to do, understand this whole world of communications.”
The event was attended by a wide range of communication alumni and students, including Brooke Savage, a sophomore radio-television broadcast journalism student, who had to take a “selfie” with her professor, Dr. Tim Brown, for class credit.
History of Bob Davis C-Day
Brown is serving as this year’s co-chair for the COMM Week events, and spoke in front of the diverse group which included representatives from the alumni association.
“[Dr.] Bob Davis was one of the…founding faculty of the school, and started this program called C-Day, which was, as you have right here, just a simple pizza party with some music, just a chance to [sic] for people to get together and relax in a casual environment,” Brown said.
C-Day was COMM Week’s original and only event, and Davis, its founder, passed away last year. He played an integral role in the creation of UCF’s Ad-PR program in the early 90’s.
Florida Public Relations Association C-Day was sponsored by the Florida Public Relations Association, which Davis was a member of, and under which he received his accreditation. The FPRA was represented by Cynthia Lambert, the public relations specialist for MetroPlan Orlando, who received the association’s Bob Davis Award in 2007. The award is given to members whose efforts are particularly “behind the scenes,” and may go unnoticed.
C-Day is an enjoyable opportunity to network and make good connections, said Lambert.
COMM WEEK
Attendees at C-Day also discussed which events they would be attending throughout the rest of COMM Week.
“I also want to see that [Friday night’s keynote speech by Marci Gonzalez from News One] and, I guess, understand how she got to where she was,” Sposato said. “It’s going to be interesting to see how she made her networks.”
COMM Week will continue into the weekend while students attend seminars, workshops, speeches and networking events designed to assist them in their respective communication fields.
COMM Week will host a reception, keynote, and award ceremony on Friday evening at the Fairwinds Alumni Center.
The schedule for Saturday, the busiest day of COMM week, is as follows in the Nicholson School’s building:
• 8:30 am – How to Produce a Project, Mobile Reporting Tools, Social Media ROI
• 9:45 am – Breaking News, Dress for Success, Building a Social Media Brand
• 11:00 am – Networking and Interning
• 12:00 pm – Family 101 Lunch Discussion
• 1:00 pm – Adobe Photoshop, Premier Editing, Personal Finance Workshop, That’s Not My Major
• 2:15 pm – Digging Deep, Standups/Anchoring, Your Website/Portfolio
• 3:30 pm – Digging Deep, Standups/Anchoring, Your Website/Portfolio, Event PR
By Ernest Duffoo



Coming off a 7-2 win against Iona on Tuesday night, UCF Softball Head Coach Renee Luers-Gillispie prepares her team to take on the Memphis Tigers this Saturday at the UCF Softball Complex. 
For the Knights, the Tigers will be traveling to Orlando to open the inaugural season of the American Athletic Conference as they play a doubleheader at 1:00 and 3:00 p.m ET. They play a single game on Sunday. Fans are encouraged to wear their Star Wars themed costumes, as it will be Jedi Knights day on Tuesday at the UCF Softball Complex.
Despite the Knights’ 2-1 loss to Purdue, UCF charged on to pocket the 7-2 victory against Iona as Junior Mackenzie Audas and Sophomore Mackenzie Huhn made history for the first time ever with a combined no-hitter for UCF’s  Softball program. The Knights sported a home run from Sophomore Brittany Gasser, along with nine stolen bases.
Looking forward, Coach Luers-Gillispie seeks a win in Saturday’s doubleheader against the Tigers. While this team is heating up, in no way are the Knights intending on settling for anything less than a sweep of Memphis.
Each team has plenty of offensive and defensive talent. Both Memphis and UCF are packed with top players ready to show off their talent this coming Saturday. For the Knights, they will be coming into Saturday’s game with a 19-9 season record. While UCF holds an 18-4 advantage in wins at home, the Knights have also traveled and won on the road against No. 22 Notre Dame, Yale, and Princeton.
“We’re ready to show off our talent, passion, and drive for the game,” says Head Coach Renee Luers-Gillispie and that’s exactly what they plan on bringing to the field in Saturday’s showdown. “We have a young team, but we in no way intend on looking naïve,” said  Luers-Gillispie as she inspires her players to bring  on the heat in Saturday’s doubleheader.
While Sophomore Shelby Turnier is 11-1 in the circle so far this season, she does not allow hits without a fight. She won the American Athletic Conference Pitcher of the Week award in early March, and Turnier has shown the desire to keeping winning and shutting the batters out while in the circle.
While the Knights keep killin’ it in the circle, they also bring their big bats to the box. Jessica Ujvari has parked two home runs to add to her batting record as she is showing off a  season  .343 batting average. And it doesn’t stop there. Brittany Solis leads the Knights with 11 RBI’s and 13 hits so far this season. Linnea Goodman, coming off a knee injury, still manages to put up a brick wall in letting nothing by her in left field.
“All the young players on the team have really stepped up, practice everything they have and we plan on bringing that drive and intensity to the AAC opener against Memphis,” Says Luers-Gillispie. “There is always a tough team to play, so we’ll have to stay focused and ready if we want the win.”
The AAC opening doubleheader this Saturday will be one for the books as the Knights try to start conference play on top. 



The UCF baseball team will return to Jay Bergman Field on Friday after beating No. 25 Miami this week on the road to take on the Cincinnati Bearcats (8-11) in the start of American Athletic Conference play.
The first pitch for the Knights (10-12) is set at 6:30 p.m. on Friday, 4 p.m. on Saturday and the series wraps up with a 1 p.m. start time on Sunday. Friday night will start off with two pitchers who have played stellar thus far in the season, the Knights will start Eric Skoglund (2-0, 2.19 ERA) Friday against Ryan Atkinson (2-0, 1.93 ERA). Skoglund earned American Athletic Conference pitcher of the week honors after his three-hit shutout victory last week.
This will be the first time the Knights have taken on the Cincinnati Bearcats and will not be the first as both teams are members of the American Athletic Conference. 
If the Knights want to beat the Bearcats, they will rely on the hitting of SS Tommy Williams who is leading the American with five home runs on the season. 



