Not everyone can say they have a pet chimpanzee. And they can certainly not say that their pet chimp just drove to get Dunkin’ for them.
In Trevor, written by Nick Jones, Sandra, a middle-aged widow, played by Maddie Tarbox, cares for her adolescent chimpanzee, Trevor. Trevor is smart, talented, and caring and he can even drive on the highway. He often struggles to communicate with people and comes across as aggressive. Sandra assures her neighbor Ashley, played by Victoria Gluchoski, that Trevor would never intentionally hurt someone so there is no need to lock him up in his kennel. The play is based on the 2009 attack of a woman by her friend’s chimpanzee. Colton Butcher who plays Trevor, said he spent time researching the relationship between the characters.
“Trevor is trying to communicate with people, but he can’t because of the language barrier. And it’s not just that Trevor doesn’t understand what people are saying, but he’s also ignoring any hints that might show him what’s really going on,” Butcher said.
As part of his research, Butcher said he spent time observing the chimpanzees at the Center for Great Apes in Wauchula, Fl.
The Center for Great Apes is a non-profit sanctuary that cares for chimpanzees and orangutans that worked in the entertainment industry at an early age. The center tries to rehabilitate the apes, as many have never lived with other apes before. Diane Beatty, operations manager at the center said that some come from Hollywood, lab tests and private homes.
“Our main goal is to provide them lifelong care, which can be 40 or 50 years. [The entertainment industry] has to retire them as early as 7 years old because they cannot be handled. They’re too strong, and they’re really smart,” Beatty said.
Beatty said that Butcher spent the afternoon with them at the center, and as they took him on a tour of the sanctuary he paid close attention to their mannerisms, their social hierarchy, and how they react to one another.
“They are very social creatures,” Beatty said. “Chimpanzees and orangutans are wild animals; they are not meant to be worked in entertainment or held in private homes.”
A story of friendship, family, fame, and fear, Trevor addresses the effect of captivity on chimpanzees, the use of animals for entertainment, and the special relationship between people and their unique pets.
“Trevor is a pleasurable way to examine a different perspective on animal rights and the way that humans tend to project their values on animals and objectify them,” director Christopher Niess said.
Trevor will benefit the Center for Great Apes. Theatre UCF, the UCF Anthropology Club, and Hominids Anonymous will be collecting donations. The play will be showing Nov. 13, 14,15, 20, 21, 22 at 8 p.m. and Nov. 16, and 23 at 2 p.m. at the UCF Black Box. Tickets are $20 standard, $18 seniors, and $10 for students.



After the third reported robbery this semester at The Marquee(formerly known as Sterling Central), residents say the apartment complex sent out an e-mail to residents claiming that there was no police report filed and instead was just a physical altercation.
The e-mail went on to apologize to students for UCF “prematurely” sending out an alert of a robbery and said that no charges were pressed by either party.
However, the incident report KnightNews.com has obtained from the Orange County Sheriffs Office reveal that it is an active criminal investigation for robbery and the victim is willing to prosecute.
Read the incident report here.
According to the report, the 19-year old victim was in the north parking garage Monday night when he heard someone say “hey.”
As he turned around, he was punched in the face by a hispanic male and was dropped to the ground. Another hispanic male in a dark hoodie picked up his wallet and took $5 while the first male punched him in the face again before they took off in an unknown direction.
The victim then continued to his friend’s apartment to try and clean himself up. About 30 minutes later they found a security guard who then called 911. The victim briefly met with a UCFPD officer before being driven to the Oviedo Emergency room.
The doctors believe that his jaw may be broken, but cannot confirm until all the testing is complete.



UCF’s men’s basketball finished their second and last exhibition game of the year, handling Georgia College 82-65, in a game led by freshman BJ Taylor and Justin McBride.
Leading the state of Florida in high school in points per game, it’s no surprise BJ Taylor has led both exhibition matches in points, scoring 45 total for the Knights. Taylor closed out the first half with a three-pointer to hold the lead for the Knights.
Crowd-favorite Justin McBride filled the stat sheet with a double-double, pulling down 13 rebounds and notching 19 points. McBride’s 6’10″ size advantage also comes into play as he was able to grab nine of those rebounds offensively.
“Honestly, I just need to do whatever my team needs me to do, if its getting rebounds and scoring, whether it’s being a leader, a cheerleader, whatever the case may be I just want to contribute,” said McBride. “Last season taught me a lot, it taught me not to take the game for granted. In whatever fashion I can impact it that’s what I’m trying to do.”
Even as the men’s basketball team has led both Flagler and Georgia College by double digits, points against don’t seem to be a focus for the players nor are they for head coach Donnie Jones.
“I don’t really look at the score, I told those guys we were playing against our self, as a faceless opponent, it’s about how we play the game not necessarily them,” Jones said. “I think we have to be able to dictate tempo and what we do, it caught up in the score I just wanted to see us, offensively and defensively do the things we work on. To really play it the right way, where we guard it and to have what we call ‘perfect possession’, and that means everybody did everything right. It’s about doing everything right that you should do in a possession.”
The Knights will host their first regular season game on Sunday against Stetson at 6 p.m. at the CFE Arena. Students as always will receive free admission with a valid Student ID. Sunday’s match will also be the first of six straight home games to start the season.
Fans can watch the game broadcasted through ESPN3.



