UCFPD has an important message for drivers this Thanksgiving holiday: Click It or Ticket.
UCF Police will join agencies around the country in a Click It or Ticket wave that will go through Nov. 30. Millions of Americans take to the roads during Thanksgiving meaning a greater risk of accidents.
Officers will be cracking down on drivers not wearing a seatbelt. Violators will be subject to a $114 non-moving violation.
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration estimates that wearing a seat belt reduces the risk of fatal injury to front seat passengers by 45 percent and the risk of moderate to serious injury by 50 percent. In 2012 seat belts saved the lives of 12,174 drivers and passengers, the NHTSA said.



UCF senior kickers Shawn Moffitt and Sean Galvin’s final game at Bright House Networks Stadium may be in jeopardy due to an impending hearing with UCF’s Office of Student Conduct.
Although they are now back in practice, Galvin and Moffitt were suspended from the team during the Tulsa game for violating team rules, the reasons being unclear. On Monday, UCF head coach George O’Leary said that their playing status with the team hinges on a student conduct hearing that he believes is to take place this week.
“I said I didn’t have all the information in yet, they still have to deal with the student conduct at the school. I think that’s this week sometime,” O’Leary said in Monday’s press conference. “I think there is rules on the team and people know the rules, obey them.” 
Backup kicker Rodrigo Quirarte replaced Moffitt and Galvin in the 31-7 win against Tulsa. Quirarte is three-for-five on field goal attempts this season.
Student disciplinary actions are FERPA protected, so the details on their suspension and their side of the story are not made available to the public. FERPA is student privacy law that pertains to the release of education records. 
“I’m very disappointed that they can’t do things the right way and young kids make immature mistakes, that’s what goes on, but there is a penalty for that,” O’Leary said. 



Fans of Florida NFL teams were able to take a break from heartbreak this week, as the Tampa Bay Buccaneers achieved their second victory of the season, the Miami Dolphins secured second place in their division and the Jacksonville Jaguars took their bye week.
The Tampa Bay Buccaneers managed to dominate in a game for the first time this season, beating the Washington Redskins for a final score of 27-7. Buccaneers’ wide receiver, Mike Evans, accounted for 73 percent of Josh McCown’s passing yards, as well as both offensive touchdowns. Evans became the first rookie receiver to have three consecutive games of 100 yards and at least one touchdown since Randy Moss in 1998. 
Along with all of the magic that happened offensively, the Buccaneers’ defense managed to force three turnovers, one of which led to a touchdown by cornerback Jonathan Banks. For a team that has looked abysmal all season, this past Sunday proved that some hope still remains. Next week, the Buccaneers head to Chicago to face the Bears for a 1:00 p.m. game.
In a heated match between division rivals this past Thursday, the Miami Dolphins proved they still hope to make the playoffs this season, defeating the Buffalo Bills with a final score of 22-9. Allowing no touchdowns, as well as scoring a safety, the Miami Dolphins’ defense commanded the game, while quarterback Ryan Tannehill ended with a passer rating of 114.8. The Dolphins travel to face the Denver Broncos for a 4:25 p.m. game next Sunday, while the Jacksonville Jaguars return after a week of rest to play the Colts at 4:25 p.m. as well.



