UCF Head Coach George O’Leary is no stranger to speaking his mind.
Last week, SEC commissioner Mike Slive said that if reforms for the “power 5” conferences aren’t passed, then the conferences(SEC, ACC, Big Ten, Big 12 and Pac-12) would split off and form their own division–Division IV.
If this were to happen, UCF would be left in the dust along with many other up-and-coming FBS programs.
O’Leary made an interesting comparison to the Orlando Sentinel’s Mike Bianchi on the possibility of the conferences splitting off to form their own division.
“They sound like the South during the Civil War,” O’Leary told Bianchi. “If they don’t get their way, they’re going to secede and start their own country. … I think college football is in real trouble.”
UCF, coming off of a 12-1 season and BCS-bowl victory, would likely not get the chance to compete and recruit with the other upper echelon programs if the “power 5” does secede.
“The thing that’s disturbing is that college football has been fighting for years to create a level playing field and now they’re trying to go the other way and create an even wider gap between the haves and have-nots,” O’Leary told Bianchi. “I think some of these schools have forgotten where they came from.”



Tuesday marked the fourth round of orientations for the class of 2018, and KnightNews.com was there to interview the incoming freshman.
We caught up with students who told us about their favorite parts of campus, their majors and even found a service dog walking around the Student Union.
As always, hilarity ensued when Justin Levy interviewed the freshman.




The Chi Omega women’s fraternity at UCF has appealed their suspension, which UCF imposed until Spring 2015.
Chi Omega cited irregularities in fairness, discovery of new evidence and the sanctions being disproportionate to the violations as reasons for appealing the suspension.
“This entire rationale simply does not align with any of the facts or evidence presented in the formal hearing nor on any of the documents or videos reviewed by the panel prior to and outside the formal hearing,” Chi Omega wrote in their appeal letter to UCF.
If the suspension is upheld, Chi Omega would be unable to participate in fall 2014 recruitment and will be forced out of their on-campus house which they moved into in fall 2013. They will also face disciplinary probation through spring 2015 and summer 2015. 
The victim provided a statement for the appeal saying that she did not believe participating in the event hinged on her initiation into Chi Omega.
“I understand the hearing panel was concerned with my police interview comment that I thought this was something I had to do. In no way was I under the impression that the event taking place on April 4, 2014 was related to Chi Omega or my upcoming initiation. My participation in the event was not because I thought I might not be initiated into Chi Omega if I didn’t participate, but rather because I trusted Marae and didn’t want to personally disappoint her,” the victim said. 
Chi Omega’s appeal comes as UCF is fighting to prevent the public from monitoring UCF’s controversial hearings in court. Knight News filed a Sunshine Lawsuit against UCF after UCF refused to open organizational conduct hearings to the public. 
The three members of Chi Omega police say were involved in the incident, Marae Genie Watkins-Creel, Lauren Nicole Hartwell and Maribeth Ann Snyder all resigned their membership from Chi Omega. 
The University decision is expected sometime in June. 



Former UCF Student Government Association President and former Orlando Orange County Expressway Authority board member Marco Pena has pleaded guilty to violating Florida’s open meetings law.
Marco Pena did not appear in court on Wednesday, but his attorney entered the plea on his behalf to a misdemeanor count of violating Florida’s Sunshine Law. Pena is avoiding jail time and probation, but will have to pay a $500 fine.
State attorney’s office Executive Director Richard Wallsh declined to provide details of Pena’s exact violations citing an ongoing grand jury on Wednesday, according to the Associated Press. He also did not say if Pena would testify before the grand jury.
“I can’t tell you whether he is or not,” Wallsh told the Associated Press. “Primarily because of grand jury secrecy, but also because I truly do not know … If the grand jury would like to hear from him, he will be available.”
Pena, who was appointed to the board last year by Gov. Rick Scott, resigned from his position last month shortly after fellow board member Scott Batterson was indicted on multiple felony counts.
Pena cited a family illness and that the Expressway Authority could be transformed into a regional agency as his reasons for resigning.



