JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — From the onset of his home debut, it was clear why the Jaguars made Blake Bortles the highest-drafted quarterback in franchise history: he is a presence this team can build around and a competitor who refuses to quit.
Even over the course of a disappointing 17-9 loss to the Pittsburgh Steelers — where he threw two costly interceptions, was unable to find the end zone and finished the the day 22-36 for 191 yards — his resiliency and determination were on full display.
 

Settling in under center for the first time as a starter in front of his home crowd, Bortles’ first pass was inches from being intercepted – it was a ball overthrown and touched up by the Steelers’ secondary, caused in part by pressure that put him on his back foot.
The errant pass did nothing to bolster the confidence of a crowd praying desperately for a glimmer of hope in what is quickly becoming another lost season.
“You just have to have a short memory,” Bortles said about the throw, continuing “The first play didn’t go as we planned. Who cares? Move on. Throw it again.”
As Knights’ fans became so accustomed to during his tenure at UCF, he composed himself with ease and completed his next three passes. He kept the drive alive by moving the chains on fourth and third down with his feet, driving down to the Steelers’ 25 yard line to set up a 43 yard field goal from Josh Scobee. The methodical ball movement took 8:08 minutes off the clock and covered 43 yards.
It was the first time all season that the Jaguars have scored on their opening possession.
The offense under his influence has finally begun to create an identity for itself, something that it was light-years away from with Chad Henne under center. An injection of youth has sparked the unit, but progress will not come without its growing pains.
Former UCF running back Storm Johnson made his debut in this homecoming as well, galloping twenty yards on his first official carry in the NFL. He ended the day as the team’s leading rusher on the strength of four carries for 27 yards.
“We said that we were going to get him some reps and give him some opportunities,” Head Coach Gus Bradley said, continuing “I thought he did a god job… His objective is we’ve got to gain trust in him.”
The former Knights’ duo were not the only rookies making an impact, as seven first year players started on Sunday, six of those seven starting on offense. Beyond that, ten of the eleven starters had ten games of starting experience or less.
“I think it’s cool to go through it as a group, as a unit,” Bortles said.
“We’re learning and getting better each week… I mean you’re playing football, go play football.”
The young quarterback was visibly upset after the game, but it is tough to place all of the blame on his shoulders. Yes, there were missed opportunities and a poor audible call that resulted in a pick-six, but not all of the blame can be placed upon Bortles’ shoulders.
“If the ball comes our way, we’ve got to make those plays. If you’re a rookie, second year, it doesn’t matter,” said receiver Allen Hurns.
This team will continue to develop together while forging a chemistry that no free-agent gathering could create. They are taking their lumps now, of that there can be no doubt. There will be bad calls, turnovers and missed reads. There will be frustrating days and poor results.
Those days will not last forever, or even for very long if Bortles pans out to be the force he was in college.



