It is rush time again for fraternity members in the Interfraternity Council.
The official Interfraternity Council spring rush kickoff event will take place on Jan. 23 at 9 p.m. until 11 p.m. in the Pegasus Ballroom.
Delegates from each of the IFC fraternities will be in attendance where potential members can meet, greet and simply become familiar with each of the fraternities. Each fraternity is responsible for planning and holding their own events to supplement the rush kickoff event on Thursday.
If your chapter has rush events that you would like to be publicized e-mail news@knightnews.com 



UPDATE 1:00 PM Messages via the University of Oklahoma Twitter page say that campus operations resumed except for Gould Hall where additional checking is continuing.
“As of this time, no evidence has been found of any shots being fired. There are no injuries reported at this time.,” a message on the school’s Twitter page said.
Police are investigating a reported shooting at the University of Oklahoma campus in Norman, KWTV Channel 9 reports.
According to KWTV, students were alerted via text about a possible shooting on campus around 11:30 a.m. Wednesday. Norman Police are assisting with response, helping to set up a perimeter.
At 11:17 a.m., police got a report of shots fired on campus. They don’t know if there is a victim or not, KWTV reports.
OU sent this text out to students: “OU Emergency: Shooting on campus. Avoid (Gould Hall). Seek immediate shelter in place.”
Continue to check back as more information becomes available. 



Six academic advisers from UCF’s College of Business Administration will be laid off to make way for new professional development coaches as part of several changes the college is undergoing.
What was known as the Undergraduate Student Services Office will soon become the Office of Professional Development and advising staff will be replaced by professional development coaches who will handle advising duties as well as career planning, resume development and other areas.
The new Professional Development center aims to help students better prepare for professional employment by bridging the gap between academic advising and career services, said Dr. Paul Jarley, dean at the UCF College of Business Administration.
“These new services will focus on getting students to better understand the career and life-style choices they are making, the demands and expectations of their chosen profession within business, and the co-curricular activities and work-related experiences they should get now to position themselves for a great job,” Jarley said.
While the the professional development coaches won’t be in place for another month, Jarley hopes the new services will help students be competitive by improving their skills to navigate and manage their career as it develops over time.
“The new center will also help students better articulate how the skills they have acquired at UCF relate to the specific job they are applying for with a given employer,” Jarley said. “It is our goal to make our students more competitive and career-ready, as well as give them better skills to navigate and manage their career as it develops over time.”
The transition will take place over the next few weeks, and the service is expected to evolve over the next two years. Service to students will not be interrupted,” a spokesperson for UCF said.



The University of Central Florida College of Nursing has received a $1 million grant to establish an endowed chair for healthcare simulation. 
The Florida Hospital Endowed Chair for Healthcare Simulation will support the research and development of enhanced simulation technology to improve health care education, UCF said. Research professor Gregory Welch, Ph.D., a computer scientist and engineer, has been appointed to the chair.
“We are grateful to our partner, Florida Hospital, for its great generosity,” said Mary Lou Sole, Ph.D., interim dean of the College of Nursing. “This new endowed chair underscores the College of Nursing’s commitment to becoming a national leader in developing and testing innovative technologies to enhance nursing and health care education as well as patient care delivery.  Ultimately, patient outcomes will be improved.”
This is the sixth endowed chair established in the College of Nursing, and the second chair that Florida Hospital has endowed at UCF. The first is in the College of Medicine.
“Dr. Welch brings significant education and experience in simulation from a culture outside of health care, and we believe he will challenge our thinking about medical simulation in all the right ways,” said Sheryl Dodds, chief clinical officer at Florida Hospital. “We feel his work will have a positive effect on both health care education and our clinical operations. We are excited to be working with Dr. Welch, UCF and other professionals as we explore new opportunities and expand the Florida Hospital approach to simulation in health care.”
Welch worked on the Voyager Spacecraft Project at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and on airborne electronic countermeasures at Northrop-Grumman’s Defense Systems Division before teaching. His primary focus now is improving the simulated patients that are used in the education of nurses and other health care professionals, as well as other uses of technology for patient care. 
“Computer scientists don’t exist to develop technology and conduct experiments in a vacuum,” he said.  “As one of my mentors, Fred Brooks, says, we are tool smiths who support the work of others. Health care professionals help other people and so supporting them appeals to me personally.”
The tenured chair includes appointments to the UCF nursing faculty, the Institute for Simulation and Training, and the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science.



