UCF graduate and Secret Service Director Julia Pierson has resigned amid two security breaches in the White House.
“Today Julia Pierson, the Director of the United States Secret Service, offered her resignation, and I accepted it. I salute her 30 years of distinguished service to the Secret Service and the Nation,” U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson said in a Wednesday statement.
Pierson first came under fire when an armed man jumped the White House fence and was able to enter the executive mansion on Sept. 19. Following that, another incident came to light that an ex-convict was able to ride an elevator with President Obama during a visit to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention last month.
Lawmakers from both parties urged Pierson to resign after Congressional support for her declined following her testimony on the White House break-in.
Pierson is a native of Orlando and attended the University of Central Florida prior to serving as a police officer in Orlando.



UPDATE: The UCF Police Department (UCFPD) sent out a campus alert to student and faculty Wednesday afternoon.
According to UCFPD, the victim was approached at about 10:30 a.m. in a stairwell by a man armed with a weapon who demanded the victim’s property. 
The suspect was described as a black male who appeared to be about 20 years old and six feet tall and had black hair. He was last seen wearing a multi-colored sweater and blue jeans.
The Orange County Sheriff’s Department is investigating an armed robbery that occurred early Wednesday morning at Sterling Central Apartments near the University of Central Florida, according to officials.
At 10:58 a.m., a victim was robbed inside the apartment complex, which is located across from UCF at the intersection of Alafaya Trail and Sterling University Lane, according to the Orange County Sheriff’s Office. The victim did not suffer any injuries.
Officials said the victim did not know the suspect.  The Sheriff’s Department is aware of the type of weapon used in the robbery but did not release any more information at this time.
The suspect is still at large.
Anyone with any information about this incident should contact Central Florida CrimeLine at 1-800-423-TIPS (1-800-423-8477).



