Students will get a chance to see fireworks on campus for the first time ever Friday night.
UCF Homecoming will be hosting a free fireworks display on campus at 9:30 p.m. at Memory Mall, with the fireworks shooting off of Garage D. The show will be accompanied with music to get students in the spirit for Saturday’s showdown against the Temple Owls. 
To accomodate for the fireworks, Garage D and select rows in Lot D1 will be closed for the event. 
Benjamin Bower, the UCF Homecoming Special Events director had to go through quite a long process to make an on-campus fireworks display a reality.
“Because we are a State University, we can’t just contact a fireworks company and say we want a show. We have to go through the State Fire Marshal in Tallahassee as well as getting permission from various groups on campus, such as Environmental Health & Safety,” said Bower. “It is quite the long process.”
Bower said that the best place to view the fireworks will be at Memory Mall, but the fireworks will be visible anywhere on campus. 



Hundreds of UCF students participated in the nation’s number one homecoming tradition — Spirit Splash!

Check out aerial video obtained by KnightNews.com from this drone!

























































































1234131415► 




Performers are breathing fire like dragons. Vampires head over to the bar to quench their thirst for something other than blood. Herds of zombies are twerking.  It’s just that time of the year for the Orlando Zombie Ball hosted by Orlando Weekly. 
The party to die for took place Wednesday, Oct.22, at Venue 578, formerly known as Firestone Live, from 8 p.m. to 12 a.m. The event for those 21 years old or older had a ticket price of $15 in advance or $20 at the door. 
With mandatory costumes, the looks ranged from being sexy adult costumes to characters from movies and shows such as “Guardians of the Galaxy” and “The Walking Dead.” 
Miles Bernam, a 2012 theater alumnus, went as a a borg from Star Trek. He wore a full Star Trek uniform with fake blood smeared on it and a piece he created to go over his eye, which appears as though it burned the same side of his face it was on. 
“I made the eye out of latex, plastic and computer parts,” Berman said.
This year, Orlando Weekly had music by VH1’s celebrity DJ Brain Dawe, performances by Victorian steam punk circus troupe Phantasmagoria and aerial performances by AntiGravity Theater. 
While the ghouls and girls danced down stairs, there was an even more haunting event taking place above on the second floor. 
Legends: A Haunting at Old Town, had the second floor infested with the undead stalking the daring visitors as they go through the scare zone and try to make their out past the two zombies guarding the exit door. 
Andreina Icaza, the marketing manager at Orlando Weekly, spoke about the planning process of this year’s Zombie Ball. 
“It started in 2013 as Orlando Weekly was thinking of creating a one-of-a-king Halloween experience  for Orlando residents by combining a scare zone, party, live performances and a costume contest, all in one event,” Icaza said. 
The event brought out almost 600 attendees and Icaza said preparing for it is not easy.
“We hosted our first-ever Artlando Festival on September 27, which took a lot of time and effort, so we only had less than four weeks to promote Orlando Zombie Ball. We work in a fast-paced environment, so we’re used to shifting gears rapidly.”
Icaza said she couldn’t reveal about next year’s killer party, but she said it just gets better and better every year. 



You know that bowling alley down the road on Colonial? Yeah, they’re opening up a brand new 21 and up sports bar.
Aloma Bowling Centers’ Boardwalk Bowl, located roughly ten minutes from UCF on East Colonial Drive, has announced a ghostly grand opening of their brand new Brooklyn South Bar.
Opening at 10 p.m. this Thursday, Oct. 30, the grand opening will be hosted by Brian Grimes of XL 106.7’s Johnny’s House and will feature live DJing by DJ Yonny and Jay Mac. There’s also a Costume Contest with a $1,000 prize going to the best costume.
The new bar will feature 21 craft beers, over 28 flavors of Smirnoff Vodka, eight flavors of Bacardi Rum, and a selection of whiskeys, scotches, bourbons and other specialty drinks.
For Thursday night’s opening, bartenders are serving up a very special “Think-Pink Drink” that will benefit the Susan G. Komen organization.
The bar also features an over-sized projector screen, surround sound and several other TVs for your sports needs.
To keep things authentic, menu items will include the Coney Island hot dog and hand-stretched pizzas made with La Monica’s dough imported from Brooklyn.
So what does Brooklyn have to do with Orlando?
“Brooklyn is very special place,” said Vincent Luccisano, owner of the Aloma Bowling Centers in a release. “Given the Coney Island theme of Boardwalk Bowl we feel Brooklyn South Bar will be a natural fit, bringing more of the sounds and tastes of Brooklyn to Orlando. We thought it would be a fun way to launch it with a big Halloween Eve party!”
Be sure to check out all of Brooklyn South’s drink specials and events in our upcoming Happy Hour and Daily Specials article.



Hosted by VUCF and Straight Street Orlando, the Sunday Knight Food Share caters to the local homeless and need-based population of Orlando by providing food, water and other services, such as clothing drives and haircuts.
With a mission and statement in mind, on Sept. 1, 2009 a local pastor by the name of PJ Charles founded the food share at Lake Eola Park and in August of the same year, one of the parenting non-profit organizations – Straight Street Orlando. When Volunteer UCF partnered with the food share, weekly volunteering took off.
“I started the food share after a mission trip to Bolivia in the summer of 2009,” PJ Charles said. “I realized that church organizations spend millions of dollars a year to offer spiritual and physical relief to countries all over the world. Whereas there is importance in that, I realized there is just as great a need here at home.”
Shortly before the founding of the food share, another group, the American Civil Liberties Union, won the two-year highly publicized “homeless feeding” lawsuit in Orlando, which nulled the ordinance made by city officials barring the feeding of homeless in public parks. Less than three years later would the First Amendment claim be overturned, with city officials stating that the ordinance included a reasonable place, time and manner restriction on their First Amendment rights.
The food share would then move to the Church of Saint George, where their private parking lot now provides an area exempt from the ordinance.
The idea of VIP treatment, where volunteers interact with the homeless and where food remains served to recipients rather than prepared buffet-style, would set this organization apart from other food-providing services.
“It is a unique volunteer event in that volunteers get one-on-one interaction with the people they serve,” said Alice Neira, the current Hunger and Homelessness director of Volunteer UCF. “Unlike other organizations, where you may sort donations or refill shelves to help others indirectly, at the Sunday Knight Food Share we get to see the direct impact on those in need.”
With a faith-based side at the weekly event to provide support for the Orlando denizens, those who arrive to receive a meal can also expect a side of anecdotes central to perseverance and persistence that can be applied to their lives in the following week. Ny’a Crum, the Marketing Director for Straight Street Orlando, leads their developmental worship.
“We not only feed the homeless physically but we feed them spiritually as well. This allows us to change lives and make an impact that will last a long time,” said Crum.
From a mere six volunteers when the first plate was served to up to sixty-five volunteers today, weekly attendance has more than quadrupled. Sixty attended the first event, and now Straight Street Orlando meets the need of 400+ on a weekly basis. SSO has since expanded the food share to twice a week, with events held every Sunday and Tuesday.
The first meals put together were peanut-butter and jelly sandwiches. Through donations from students, families, and third-party restaurants, meals now provide families with something to meet even their most basic needs.
“It has become a passion of mine, I’m learning to love and appreciate the homeless of our city,” Charles said. “I have come to realize that they are most often seen and treated as a demographic of low value and importance. Our mission has become to not just feed the hungry, but to love the unlovable and teach those of us who are more fortunate to do the same.”
Volunteers can participate in the weekly held Sunday Knight Food Share by signing up through Knight Connect.
Students can also donate meals, beverages, and desserts in any capacity at the Sunday Knight Food Share by contacting the VUCF Director of Hunger and Homelessness, Alice Neira, at vucf_hunger@ucf.edu.



The Knights (4-2, 2-0 AAC) will take on the Temple Owls (4-2, 2-1) Saturday evening at 5:00 p.m. ET on CBSS at the Bright House Networks Stadium.
The Knights captured a key win in last week’s conference matchup against The Tulane Green Wave, but by no means was it considered a pretty one. The Knights pocketed a close one in a 20-13 victory. If the Knights plan on posting a win against Temple, some much-needed improvement and execution will need to take place.

Sponsored Advertisement (Story Continues Below)


While it’s clear that UCF’s offense is still a work in progress, the defense can still hold it down as they have helped secure victories in UCF’s past three games, against Houston, BYU and Tulane. While the offense has only converted 29 of 81 third downs, the Knights’ defense has done a great job in making sure the ball gets put back in quarterback Justin Holman’s hands.
Temple is trying to rebound after last Saturday’s loss to the Houston Cougars, 31-10. Temple will also rely on their defensive backbone. The Owls’ defense, which currently ranks No.1 in the nation in red-zone defense, will push the Knights’ young offense to great lengths if the Knights are not prepared.
While Temple’s opponents have stopped the rush, much of the Owls’ success can be attributed to sophomore quarterback P.J. Walker. Throwing for 1,358 yards and 10 touchdowns on the season, Walker sets the example for this team’s motivation in winning.
The Knights have been preparing all week for Saturday’s game. Coach O’Leary has had the team practicing in full pads since Monday to help build mental toughness when facing a potential tough challenge against Temple.
The Knights will be coming into this weekend’s game in hopes to make it five wins in a row, and they have the home field advantage. If UCF plans on taking down the Owls in their home territory, explosiveness in the offense and continued true grit on defense should help it keep its momentum going. The Knights need to get right out of the gate with a fast start, then let the defense finish the job. The fans will be excited and hopeful to win number 5 in the bank.



