Complimentary UCF football tickets for the active military, veterans and first responders will be available for UCF’s upcoming home game against the Tulsa Golden Hurricane.
The game, which will kick-off at 8 p.m. on ESPN2, will pit UCF coming off their first American conference loss against a two-win Tulsa(2-7, 2-3) team. However, the Golden Hurricane have put up at least 20 points in six of their past seven games and have the 20th ranked overall passing offense in the nation.
Active military, veterans and first responders can redeem their tickets by visiting GovX.com and signing up on the site, according to UCF Athletics.
Additional tickets, up to four, can be purchased at $15.



The Orlando Toy and Comic Con is set to return this year, bringing with it a slew of vendors and special guests.
For $10, attendants will be able to peruse a wide selection of merchandise from local Orlando merchants as well as meet a few well known comic book guests including Jason Fabok, Rob Guillory and Ethan Van Sciver. Jason Fabok is a comic book artist who has been heavily involved with many DC titles, especially those involving the Batman family, including cover work for the “Batman: Future’s End” one shot. Rob Guillory is known for his work on the highly popular comic book “Chew”, while Ethan Van Sciver has been extremely influential in the comic book industry known especially for his work on the “Green Lantern: Rebirth Miniseries”.
Along with the various vendors and guest artists, the event will also feature a costume contest, face painting, balloon artists and more.
The event will be held Sunday, Nov. 16 at the International Palms Resort, running from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.
Tickets can be purchased in advanced for $10 at a number of local comic book shops, including Waterford’s own Epic Comics, while admission will cost $15 at the door the day of the event. Parking is free, as well as kids 6 and under. More information can be found at the Orlando Toy and Comic Con website.



Alcohol abuse is a serious issue on most college campuses. 
As students, we are constantly bombarded with horror stories of devastation and startling statistics that come as the result. On Nov. 6, Delta Zeta hosted Mocktoberfest at Lake Claire in the hopes of bringing awareness to the negative consequences that result from excessive drinking in a new, fun way. 
With all proceeds benefiting Mothers Against Drunk Driving as well as the Starkey Hearing Foundation, members of the UCF community came together to play classic tailgate games, but with water and soda. From corn hole to water pong, over 300 attendees had the chance to participate and learn about the destructive effects of excessive alcohol consumption.
One of the most popular games, pumpkin scramble, utilized Fatal Vision Impairment Goggles to simulate the effects of alcohol. According to the Fatal Vision website, the goggles are a hands-on prevention tool that allows people to experience with a sober mind what it’s like to be under the influence of alcohol.  Participants experience how alcohol impairs their balance, vision, reaction time and judgment. The students were asked to arrange pumpkins in a certain order while wearing the goggles. 
“It was terrifyingly scary to use the Fatal Vision Goggles. It throws off your equilibrium and you can’t even walk. Alcohol abuse is something that we have been told about time and time again. All of the horror stories about drinking and driving and the devastating effects that come from it. Mocktoberfest helped give us the facts while still being in a fun environment,” said UCF student Lauren Jacobs.  
According to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, an estimated 3,360,000 students between the ages of 18 and 24 drive under the influence of alcohol. This is something that Delta Zeta philanthropy chair Victoria Quintero wants to reduce by hosting events like “Mocktoberfest”.  
“With the college environment constantly revolving around alcohol, I believe this event is extremely important in order to raise awareness. We also hold Mocktoberfest to promote not drinking and driving. So many college kids think they are ‘fine to drive,’ but they are really not at all. We use the beer goggles to show that if you can’t simply put a set of pumpkins back in place, how on earth do you think that you are fine to get behind the wheel of a car?” said Quintero.
So far, Delta Zeta has raised over $1000 for M.A.D.D. and the Starkey Hearing Foundation and Victoria Quintero has high hopes for the event in the future. Overall, the event was a success as Delta Zeta member Brittany Flint affirmed. 
“It is great to be able to show people that you don’t have to drink to have a good time. It is fun to see people having fun in a sober environment,” said Flint. 



