A UCF student, who filed a brutal and excessive force complaint against a UCF police officer after being arrested a year ago, will face a jury tomorrow, along with the possibility of at least a year in jail. 
On Sept. 4, 2013, Victoria King was pulled over by UCF Police Officer Timothy Isaacs for a routine brake light traffic stop, according to police.
After refusing to roll down her window completely, Officer Isaacs shattered King’s window and arrested her.
UCF Police Chief Richard Beary did not discipline Officer Isaacs, finding King’s claims to be unsubstantiated after a review of the incident. 
King recorded the incident on her cell phone and Officer Issacs was also wearing a body camera which recorded the incident as well. 
(Window shatters at just over 5 minutes into the video.)

Officer Isaacs claims that King was trying to roll her window up on his arm.
“I reached in the vehicle in an attempt to open the door, as I did this, King began to roll the power windows up on my right forearm,” Issacs said in the police report. “I began to feel pressure on my forearm due to the window compressing it against the frame of the window.” 
King was initially arrested and charged with battery on a law enforcement officer and resisting an officer with violence — charges that were dropped — and resisting an officer without violence, which still remains, according to clerk of court records.
According to Wesh, King declined two plea deals, which didn’t include jail time. 
KnightNews.com expects the case to go to the jury tomorrow. Continue to check back for updates. 
Click next page to see Officer Isaacs’ review.



A Space X launch from Cape Kennedy on Saturday will carry two payloads with ties to UCF.
University of Central Florida Physics professor Joshua Colwell and alumnus Jason Dunn will both have their experiments travelling aboard a Space X rocket when it takes off from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station on Saturday and heads to the International Space Station. 
Colwell’s experiment will look at slow-speed collisions of dust, which aren’t possible to create in Earth’s gravity, in order to better understand the conditions that lead to the formation of the building blocks of planets. 
Colwell, who is also assistant director of the Florida Space Institute, studies the origin of the solar system, including the early stages of planets, Saturn’s rings, and the evolution of comets and asteroids.
His experiment was chosen two years ago. 
Engineering alumnus Jason Dunn’s developed an experimental 3-D printer for space that would cut down on resupply missions and would be the first time something is manufactured off the planet. The printer could make replacement parts and other items needed, reducing the need for hauling expensive parts and materials aboard spacecraft.
Dunn’s vision for the printer is to produce whatever is needed for space operations in space via the printer.
The aerospace engineer interned at Kennedy Space Center and co-founded the company Made in Space, which is now based in NASA Ames Research Park at Moffett Field, Calif.
Both experiments were selected as part of NASA’s Flight Opportunities Program.



