Former Dr. Phillips standout quarterback Nick Patti has officially been granted his release from Boise State.
Patti, who holds career records at Dr. Phillips for passing yards (5,701), touchdown passes (66) and pass completions (374) could not find a niche within the Boise State football team. During his redshirt freshman season he completed 8-of-11 passes for 63 yards with no touchdowns.
Boise State University Assistant Athletic Director of Media Relations Max Corbet confirmed the story that was first reported by the Orlando Sentinel to KBOI2.
“Nick’s father contacted us and asked for permission to contact the University of Central Florida. We have granted permission for him to only contact Central Florida,” Corbet told KBOI2.
UCF offered Patti a scholarship during his senior season at Dr. Phillips, but he was already committed to Boise State. Per NCAA rules, Patti would likely have to sit out for the 2014 NCAA Football season.



The UCF men’s basketball team (9-5, 1-2) has dropped two of their past three games since starting American Athletic Conference play.
After starting the season 3-3, the Knights went on a 5-game winning streak against Division-2 opponents, but those days are over as they are set to play in conference games for the rest of the season. Three games into conference play, the Knights lost by more than 2o points to Louisville and UCONN, with a close 78-76 win against Temple.
The Knights play at Rutgers (7-9, 1-2) on Wednesday night and are hoping to get a win before facing a daunting schedule of three currently ranked top 25 opponents in the four games following that.
Isaiah Sykes will play a crucial role in the success of the Knights upcoming games. With four straight games in double figures, the leading scorer for the Knights will have to play his best if UCF wants to pull off some upsets. The biggest thorn in Sykes’ side this season is his free throw shooting, which is under 50% on his free throws on the season.
The Knights’ game against Rutgers will air on ESPNews.
 



