The Orange County Sheriff’s Office is searching for a man who allegedly attempted to snatch purses from three women in a seven-hour period between Monday evening and Tuesday morning in the UCF area.
The alleged crimes happened twice at the Wal-Mart on East Colonial Drive and once at the Regal Cinema in Waterford Lakes. The suspect was last seen leaving in a large green or black SUV such as a Suburban or Tahoe with aftermarket chrome rims and dark tint.

Orange County investigators responded to the Wal-Mart on East Colonial Drive on Tuesday morning at 1:30 a.m. According to OSCO, the suspect followed the female victim through Wal-Mart, snatched her purse when she was leaving and ran towards the getaway vehicle.
Prior to the snatching, at 12:19 a.m. on Tuesday morning the same suspect approached a woman at Regal Cinema in Waterford, sprayed her in the face with pepper spray and attempted to take her purse. However, according to OSCO, the suspect was unable to take any property from her.
At the same Wal-Mart location at roughly 6 p.m. on Monday, the same suspect followed a female exiting the Wal-Mart into the parking lot. According to OSCO, he distracted her by asking her a question and reached inside her vehicle, taking her purse. He was last seen jumping into the SUV that night.
Anyone with information is being asked to contact the Orange County Sheriff’s Office or call Crimeline at 800-423-TIPS .



UCF may have found the QB of the future in new 2015 commit Bo Schneider.
Schneider (6-4, 215) of Jesuit high school in Texas was the second commitment for the Knights’ 2015 class, joining wide receiver Cameron Stewart.   It’s easy to draw the comparisons between Schneider and Bortles, who both have similar physical attributes and playing styles.
“Proud to announce that I’ve officially committed to University Central Florida! #goknights,” Schneider tweeted out on Tuesday.
Passing for 3,185 yards, 31 touchdowns and being named Player of the Year in his district as a junior this past year, the pocket-passing Schneider will try to make the smooth transition into UCF’s pro style offense.
Schneider  said that the success of the No. 3 overall draft pick Bortles played a part in his decision to choose UCF over Oklahoma State and Tulsa.
“It proves that coming from a smaller conference, you can still make it to the next level,” Schneider told Dallas News.



Prospective video game developers at UCF will now have a 5,000 square foot digital media workplace.
On Friday, the Florida Interactive Entertainment Academy(FIEA), UCF’s graduate video game development program announced the tech start-up space that will be located in downtown Orlando.
Scheduled to open this fall, the space will provide a 20-seat theater, mentorships, equipment, and access to technology and expertise. 
“FIEA’s success in developing graduates for high-wage, local industries has increased entrepreneurship, and this new program will place our recent graduates in a perfect atmosphere to start a successful small business,” said FIEA executive director Ben Noel in a news release. 
Graduate students will be selected through an application process that will take into account their concept, technology needs and business plans. If accepted, the student can stay at the Florida Interactive Entertainment Academy for up to one year.
“As the No.2 ranked graduate school for game development, FIEA is an anchor for the Creative Village,” said Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer in a news release. 



