Days after a hazing scandal involving the Chi Omega sorority at the University of Central Florida, KnightNews.com has obtained a heavily redacted police report from the incident showing that cops may be going after two different charges. 

According to the police report, at least one pledge was underage and UCFPD say two offenses were committed: Selling, giving, or serving alcohol to someone under 21 and college hazing with risk of injury or death. Both offenses are misdemeanors which could result in some jail time. 
Most of the six page long police report is blacked out, including names of the victims, the sisters involved and nearly all of the details on just what happened that night. 
On April 4, two pledges of Chi Omega were blindfolded and led into the UCF Arboretum on campus where they were then told to finish an entire bottle of rum before they could leave, according to documents from the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life. The pledges were then dropped off at a campus parking garage where they wandered around drunk with no way home. 
Eventually one of the pledge’s boyfriend picked up the pair.
The sorority is awaiting a review with the university on April 25. Police are continuing to investigate. Keep following KnightNews.com for updates on this story. 
http://knightnews.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/04/Incident-Report.pdf



Corporate sponsored concerts always make for a conflicting environment.
On one hand, you often have bands who are trying anything to get their name out there, and any exposure, for them, is a dream come true. However, the nature of such sponsorship can also warp the focus of the evening.
Interview with Carousel the day before the event:

What should normally be a night devoted to supporting new and relatively unknown musicians, becomes an elaborate advertisement. When I went to the Red Bull Sound Select show, I was concerned the need to sell energy drinks might outshine the music. While the event did feature some product placement, the music more than made up for it.
Featuring three fantastic bands that seem genuinely passionate about what they do, the Red Bull Sound Select show was an excellent showcase of some of today’s newest groups.
Future Unlimited was the first band to grace the stage. Playing what would be akin to “indie” music, with some obvious 80s synthpop influences, their sound was nothing overly impressive, but not terrible either. While I don’t see them breaking out into the mainstream within the next few years, they certainly have potential. As of now, though, they just sound like a few too many other bands with more fame.
Following Future Unlimited’s set, came Carousel who was, by far, my favorite group of the night. Mixing ethereal, almost airy vocals, catchy hooks, and electronic instrumentation, Carousel managed to have me singing along to the chorus of songs I had never heard before. I had the chance to interview them the day before as well, and they were some of the nicest, most down-to-earth people I have ever met. They are a band who could really use some support, and their set was the best evidence of why they deserve it.
Once Carousel had left the stage, I found myself apprehensive about the next band’s performance. After hearing music I was shocked to find I enjoyed so much, I wasn’t sure how I would feel about the final performers. Once Cherub began their set, my fears were put to rest, however.
Out of the three bands, Cherub definitely went out of their way, the most, to differentiate themselves from the rest. Their instrumentation was the most unique, out of the three groups, and they strove to create a fun and enjoyable atmosphere, more than the others.
That being said, I still enjoyed Carousel the most. Cherub was a great band who played some wonderful music, but their lyrics were just not up to par with my usual taste. That however, is a matter of opinion, and someone else might feel completely different.
All the musicians, though, helped to create a show I really enjoyed overall. Aside from some moments of excessive promotion, and a less than desirable crowd, it was a great night filled with some wonderful bands. I encourage everyone to check out their music and go to their shows if you can. They would really appreciate the encouragement, and I guarantee that you would enjoy the entertainment they have to give.



