UCF takes on BYU Thursday night in a prime time ESPN-televised game at 7:30 p.m.
Since the game is being played on a weekday, the tailgating for the game will be a little bit different than what a fan would expect on a normal Saturday tailgate.
UCF will be holding classes until 3 p.m., any classes scheduled later than that will be cancelled. At 4 p.m., the open-container waiver that allows fans to have alcohol on campus will be in effect until game time.
As for parking,  the E lots (those closest to Bright House Networks Stadium) and Garage F will open at 2 p.m. for fans who have Golden Knights Club or UCF Athletics Association parking passes for those lots. Parking garages C and D will open at 4 p.m., along with lots D1, D2, C1, C2 and C3.
For fans wanting to set up their tailgate spots at Memory Mall–it is first-come, first-serve as usual. Fans will be able to set up their tents and tailgate spots anytime during the day on Thursday, but won’t be able to officially tailgate until the open container waiver is in effect at 4 p.m.
UCF will return back to normal operations on Friday.



The Seminole County Sheriff’s Office responded to a call Monday night at approximately 6 p.m. after a female resident was reported missing, officials said. 
According to the police report, the victim contacted her sister telling her that she was being held hostage and needed help. Her family called deputies, who met them at the victim’s apartment in Northgate Lakes, an off-campus student-housing facility.
“She texted her sister ‘help me,’ but her sister thought it was a joke,” said one of the victim’s roommates, who are not being identified to protect the victim’s identity. “Then (her sister) called (the victim), but the phone was away from (the victim), and all (her sister) heard was (the victim) screaming and crying saying ‘let me go.’”
Seminole County’s public information officer Kim Cannaday said the victim was released unharmed later that night. 
“A female resident (at Northgate Lakes) reported to deputies that she was taken against her will in the parking lot by two male suspects,” Cannaday said. “She reported that she was then driven to the Orlando area where she was released unharmed several hours later.”
The victim, a Valencia College student, told deputies one of the men was armed with a gun.
SCSO officials said that investigators are still looking into the case, but believe it was not random and was an isolated incident. The police report states that the case may have been marijuana related.
Knight News is continuing to follow this story, so keep checking back for updates.



