The Knights Helping Knights pantry opened up an on-campus thrift store on Wednesday.
The Knight’s Pantry is located in its own suite in the Ferrell Commons attached to the All Knight Study II facility and is open Monday thru Friday from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Students in need can take up to five food items a day and now as many clothes as they need to live a sustainable life free of charge.
The idea for an on-campus thrift store came from SGA President Melissa Westbrook’s campaign platform and SGA Community Outreach Specialist Jamie Corey took on the project of making it a reality.

“She took on this project and it’s so amazing, I always tell her she’s done a great job with it,” Westbrook said.
If you would like to donate clothes, you can simply go to the Knights Pantry and drop off any clothes you would like to donate.
“So basically donations come in,  we process them, we mark them down, we weigh the items and we take them to the back. We sort them by type and see if we can accept it. We can accept all clothes now, before it was only business casual, now we can accept absolutely everything except for personal items like undergarments or swimsuits,” Knights Pantry volunteer Alyson Ayers said.



Many UCF students wish that they can be a part of something big but do not know where exactly to start. Many of these want to help children and make a difference in their worlds. If you are one of these fellow knights, then Knight-thon is the place for you to be this April 5!

Knight-thon is UCF’s annual dance marathon which helps raise money for kids and is supported by students, organizations, and community members from around Orlando. During the event, the community comes together to dance for 20 hours straight in support of Greater Orlando Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals. 
Students raise money year round through different fundraiser events or through personal support from their friends and family.
Money raised (which stays local) supports kids in these hospitals in many different ways such as with support research, new equipment, or uncompensated care. 
This year, their goal is $365,000. 
Over the 20 hours, different families from the Greater Orlando area will come to share their stories with participants as they dance non-stop.
The event will be full of food, entertainment, and even bounce houses! Come together with your fellow knights and dance the ‘knight’ away in support of these kids and make their dreams into miracles.
The event will be held April 5-6 from 12 p.m. to 12 p.m. at The Venue.



UCF Police sent an email to students Friday alerting them to a string of car burglaries that have occurred recently at an off-campus communities around UCF.
Students who live in the Pointe at Central have woken up in the mornings to find that their vehicles had been entered and that items were missing, police said. The vehicles were all unlocked.
Student reported his wheels stolen off his car while parked in an off-campus complex.
“We want to remind you to lock your vehicles. Never leave any valuables in plain sight in your car, and if you are traveling with an item susceptible to theft, be sure to store it in your trunk,” UCFPD said.
Students have recently been taking to the UCF Car Club page on Facebook to alert others about thefts, including stolen car emblems, roof racks, wheels and even stolen vehicles. Students have reported wheel thefts at off-campus complexes including University House just across from campus.
Student says his roof rack was stolen while parked in Garage E. Courtesy Adam LZ. Another student said his roof rack was ripped off his car and stolen while parked in Garage E on campus. 
“STOLEN. Late last night my locked Thule roof rack was ripped off my car and taken in parking garage E between 12:50 AM and 11 AM,” Adam LZ posted.
“The amount of recent thefts I’ve heard about lately is very upsetting. The worst part is that most parking garages only have cameras at the exit/entrance and what is that going to do?” Adam LZ said.
Several other students have posted in the group about the string of thefts.
“Hey guys I park in garage I and came back to my lugs on floor and just the wheel locks on. I have oem plasti dip rims wth! Need to stop this…” one student posted in the group. 
“Roommate got his emblems stolen today at boardwalk apartment….this [is] getting out of hand,” another student posted.
In the email to students, police provided several tips to help avoid car thefts including making sure that all windows are up and that the trunk and doors are locked.
Be aware of people who look suspicious. Common behaviors of vehicle burglars include:
-Moving from vehicle to vehicle and checking door handles
-Standing out of sight and watching people enter or leave
-Looking in the windows of cars
Report any suspicious activity to UCF Police by calling 407-823-5555. 



