It is March Madness time for college basketball teams across the nation.
Even though UCF will not be participating in the field of 68 teams, Orlando will still get a taste of the tournament action. Amway Center located in Orlando is hosting first and second round games for the tournament, including the top-seeded Florida Gators.
Thursday will be the first day of games for the first round, which have been announced with the exact times. The second round game times, which will be played on Saturday between the winners of the first round games have not been announced yet.
Below is the schedule for Thursday’s slate of games:
1:40 p.m. (9) Pittsburgh vs. (8) Colorado
4:10 p.m. (16) Albany/Mt. St. Mary’s vs. (1) Florida
7:20 p.m. (12) North Carolina St./Xavier vs. (5) Saint Louis
9:50 p.m. (13) Manhattan vs. (4) Louisville



University of Central Florida senior and innovator, Michael Artime, spoke to his fellow students on Thursday about planning and researching before starting a business in the Blackstone Launchpad.
Artime started online marketing at the age of 19 and over time created software. He ran this business up to six figures in less than three months, but sold the business to focus on his own tech start-up, MobiCatch.
In simple terms, MobiCatch is an app that will work to connect people and businesses and draw them closer together.
Just like most entrepreneurs, Artime admitted that he had failed numerous times.
“People will learn more from their failures than from their successes. I failed a bunch of times and there are people that have failed a lot more than I have, and they’re successful now,” said Artime.
Artime pointed out that one of the biggest mistakes people make when they think they have an idea for a business is to put money into it and start marketing it right away.
Before thinking about money or even the name of your future business, Artime suggests first going through an extensive process that he has dubbed the “grind hub.” The process is as follows.
Define
During the first stage of the process, Artime advised that you should figure out exactly why you are doing this and what your vision is. Then, try to form a 1-2 sentence statement describing your idea.
“This is the most important thing. If you can knock this out, that’s huge,” said Artime.
Market
Next, determine what your market is and why people would want to use your product. There are three types of addressable markets: potential, total and target.
When Artime was making his grind hub, he literally drew out a stick person, gave him a name and then listed demographic characteristics about this fictitious person. This person is his potential new customer.
Lastly, list all the problems and solutions within your market. Artime gave the example of a problem being the long line that is always at Chipotle. A solution to this would be an app that tells the approximate wait times.
Competition
Competition is usually one of the first things someone with a new idea researches. Most of these people are discouraged when they find that something similar to their idea has already been invented, but Artime said that you shouldn’t just give up.
There are different features to products and you may be able to offer a different feature or multiple features as opposed to the competitor. In order to figure out what these features are, a detailed list needs to be made.
Once you have all the competitors listed, figure out how you’re different or better than them. A more extensive analysis can be made for each competitor about how fast they grew or where they started so that you can reference back to that later in your process.
Revenue Model
The revenue model is pretty straight-forward. For this stage, you will research different ways that your business can make money and figure out which one you think will work the best. You can also reference the extensive competitor analysis in the previous stage to help.
Feature Set
The feature set is where you will draw out everything that you want to see. In Artime’s case, he drew out all the pages of a software program he wanted to create. You should do this before you spend anytime on a designer or a programmer.
Drawing everything out will also save time and help the designer in the future to see your vision, which in turn, helps the programmer.
Growth Strategy 
Last is the growth strategy. This is the stage when you have to think about how your product will grow to reach customers. First, start by figuring out how you are going to reach you very first or second customer.
Whenever you feel stuck, look back to your competitor analysis to draw inspiration and see how your competitors went about establishing customers.
This is also the stage when you can start thinking about the name of your business, the domain, how much money you need from investors, etc.
This process can take months to complete, but that shouldn’t discourage you. Artime said that doing this process will really let you determine whether your product is a good idea or not. Also, this information is exactly what investors will be looking for when you ask them for money.
Jake Thomas came to the speaking event to learn more about start-ups and business marketing.
“I feel like he [Artime] knows what he’s doing. I’ve heard numerous times that you’ll fail many times, but it’s all about how you take that failure, just like he pointed out,” said Thomas.
One of Artime’s best pieces of advice was to surround yourself with people who believe in you and people that you want to be like, like friends and mentors.
“If your five best friends a millionaires, you’re not just going to stay poor. You’re going to figure out how to be a millionaire like them,” joked Artime.
Artime plans to graduate this May and then travel to the Silicon Valley for a month. He’ll just be “winging it” there while also raising funds for MobiCatch.



With the student body presidential campaign underway, students might soon be using a form of transportation that has never been used before.
Presidential candidate Weston Bayes, along with his running mate Sydney Altfield, is proposing a pedestrian bridge to be built over Alafaya Trail and University Boulevard.
“University is one of the busiest areas and sees a lot of traffic from students going to restaurants, retail, housing, and to campus.  It is the one of the main entrances to our campus, and with the new Plaza project coming out of the ground for fall 2014, we believe that the need for this bridge will only grow,” Bayes said.
The idea was inspired by a similar bridge built on Semoran Boulevard. Bayes said the bridge would have staircases on both ends with a walkway through the bridge elevated at a safe distance above the road.
Junior Alex Schult rides a longboard and motorcycle to travel to and from campus. He said a bridge would make him feel safer when crossing Alafaya’s busy intersection.
“It would make me feel safe because I know that no matter what I don’t have to worry about any of the stupid drivers or any of the cars driving on Alafaya,” Schult said.
But some students think the idea seems a little far-fetched to accomplish in one presidential term.
“After an accident where one of my friends was killed crossing Alafaya, I believe a safer way to cross the street is crucial and I’m glad it’s being addressed in this new election. I feel like this is going to be a huge undertaking for SGA. In my three years at UCF, I’ve never heard of a project this large,” junior Sabrina Holt said.
However, Bayes said he made sure this project could be accomplished before it was put on the platform. 
“We believe that using our current resources, such as our lobbying firm in Gray Robinson and the voice of our large UCF community, we can work with the city to make sure this is a priority on the agenda,” Bayes said. 
The funds would come not from student fees. Instead, it would be financed at a state and city transportation level. Bayes said because Alafaya and University Boulevard is a public road used by UCF students as well as the greater Orlando community, his team will be lobbying with Orlando officials to ensure the money would be allocated for this project.
Bayes and Altfield will release the rest of their platform Sunday at Moat Sports Bar & Grill at 9 p.m.



