The Pop Parlour officially opened the doors today for its on-campus location in Knights Plaza.
The Pop Parlour serves various flavored popsicles and features a full espresso bar, Cigar City beer and wines. The UCF location even features alcoholic popsicles with a valid ID. 
“We are the only company in Central Florida that uses local, all-natural, and organic ingredients to make hand crafted flash frozen pops. By using real fruits, vegetables, herbs, and other high quality ingredients we aim to create a better tasting frozen treat that can fit any diet. We put our employees and customers ahead of profit, that will come with the quality we constantly strive for in all areas,” The Pop Parlour’s website stated. 
Jagger Larson, a freshman at UCF and lead barista, commented on the grand opening for the campus location. 
“We seem to have a lot of people for the opening; we have a line out the door. People are loving our pops and loving the coffee. I think espresso sales will go up after it isn’t free anymore. This is Pop Parlour’s third location and I think it is going to be a huge hit. I hope the coffee culture of UCF and the Orlando area grows and continues to expand,” Larson said. 
Many students passing by were drawn in by the “free popsicle and coffee” sign including freshman, Sydney Weinstein.
“I walked by and I saw that there were free popsicles so I had to stop by. I got the orange cream popsicle because I love orange. It’s actually really good and it tastes just like an orange. They give you a card to stamp and nine visits gets you a free popsicle so I’m sure I’ll use them,” Weinstein said.
In order to spark appeal from UCF students, The Pop Parlour will be handing out free popsicles and coffee on campus for three days this week, Monday through Wednesday.  



With dance music playing and choreographers on stage, more than 80 students gathered on Court 1 at the Recreation and Wellness Center Monday evening for a Cardio Dance Party. 
The event showcased three types of dance classes offered at the RWC. 20 minutes segments of Zumba, Hip-Hop Cardio, and Dance Fusion were offered, according to Valerie Wexler, the fitness coordinator who oversees group exercises. The class was open to anyone with an RWC membership, with no requirement to sign up in advance.
“We like to offer a taste of each of our dance classes, for people who have never been to one before, because we have a lot of dance classes on our group exercise schedule,” said Rosie Stump, Fitness Programs lead. This event provides a sample of what the RWC offers in different dance formats, and allows individuals to try out different options and see what they like.
“We always bring dance to Court 1 so we can get a lot of people out here,” Stump said. “I just love the energy they bring.”
Choreographers quickly engaged participants, and the energy level was evident as the pace began to increase with the beat. 
“The vibe convinced me to come out tonight,” said Jonathan Castellanos, a junior Legal Studies major. “I like to challenge myself.”
This was Castellanos’ first dance event, though he’s participated in other classes and events at the RWC. Castellanos said he was excited about trying out three different styles combined into one class. 
“I like to do new things, and I like to have fun,” Castellanos said.
A full schedule of upcoming events at the RWC can be found here.
Photo gallery of participants at the Cardio Dance Party event held at the UCF RWC on Monday, Oct. 5.



As the fountain lights shined through the UCF Reflecting Pond Monday evening, a small group of UCF students lit candles and reflected on the lives lost during the recent shooting at Oregon’s Umpqua Community College.
 
College Democrats at UCF members hosted a vigil as a way for UCF students to pay respect to the shooting victims.
“I think its really important that we pay respect to our peers,” UCF graduate student Amanda Colella said.
College Democrats at UCF Ally Faircloth said the vigil was held to not only honor the victims of the recent Oregon shooting, but also to honor those who have been lost in past mass shootings and “those that we will lose.” Faircloth expressed that she thinks shootings will continue to happen unless stricter gun laws are put into action. 
“For me, I’m tired of hearing these stories, these horrible stories,” College Democrats at UCF President Nikki Mariutto said.  “You read about these people, these students and professors, that lost their lives and you get so tired because it feels like only yesterday we were mourning the lives of another school shooting.” 
In charge of arranging the event, Mariutto had a goal to raise awareness about the bill that is going through the Florida legislature that would allow guns on college campuses if it were to be approved.
Although some students are in favor of keeping guns off campus as a safety precaution, other students argue that allowing guns on campus will permit students to protect themselves in a life-threatening situation. 
In favor of guns on college campuses for protection reasons, Colella said she would want mental health to be a considering factor when judging whether an individual is fit to own a gun or not. 






Update- Oct. 7, 3 p.m.: The University of Central Florida Homecoming will be distributing tickets today, Oct 7., at the Student Union while supplies last.
As of this time, UCFHC said that all other main campus ticket distributions have been canceled. 
The University of Central Florida’s homecoming week is right around the corner and with UCF HC comes Knight spirit and many student events.
This year, Damon Wayans Jr. from New Girl and Let’s Be Cops along with Jimmy Tatro from 22 Jump Street and Grown Ups 2 will bring laughter to UCF during Comedy Knight on Oct. 19. For Concert Knight, Big Sean and Dan + Shay will take the stage on Oct. 21.
Ticket distribution will take place the following days:
Oct. 5: Student Union/CFE Arena
Oct. 6: Student Union/CFE Arena
Oct. 7: Student Union/outside the RWC
Oct. 8: Student Union/outside the RWC
Oct. 9: Student Union/outside the RWC
Distribution will be from noon to 5 p.m.
Tickets are free to students with a valid UCF ID. Students can also purchase an early access pass for $5.
Non-students are able to purchase tickets on Ticketmaster.
Alumni can receive discounted tickets by messaging the UCF Homecoming Facebook page for a discount code.
For more information on ticket distribution, check out the Facebook event and make sure to like UCF Homecoming on Facebook to stay updated on all other events.
Image Credit: UCF Homecoming



University of Central Florida students and other members of the community will gather at the UCF Reflecting Pond on Monday at 7 p.m. to honor the victims of the shooting at Oregon’s Umpqua Community College.
College Democrats at UCF and other student activists and organizations coordinated the vigil that will include a program of speakers who will speak about the incident and also discuss the dangers of concealed carry on college campuses, according to the Facebook event page. 
Check KnightNews.com for coverage of the vigil. 



