On Monday, September 21, 2015, a UCF student lost his life after becoming victim to what is believed to have been a heart attack.
The first responder who arrived at the scene moments later wrote an open letter to the parents of the student Tuesday evening:

Ballestas continued.
“Through the efforts of yesterday’s tragedy, there are more untold stories and acknowledgements to be made by his peers and responders. The courageous students, staff and police at UCF all played a crucial role in working towards saving Michael’s life.”
Further identifiable information on the student will not be released by KnightNews.com until contacted and provided permission by the parents of the victim. Information on the student has not been confirmed by UCF officials for the time being.
A transcript is as follows:
“Yesterday at around 11:55am, a UCF student collapsed in his class due to what is now believed to have been a massive heart attack. As a first responder, I was his fighting chance. I did everything I was ever trained to do but I was unsuccessful. The image of his face as I gave him his last breaths and pumped his chest will never leave me. Michael [] (I believe his name was), wherever you are now, please know that I am so sorry to you man. I am sorry I failed you. I’m sorry you lost your life so soon. I did not know you and I will never get that chance but I have no doubt in my mind that you were a remarkable human being on your path to becoming an extraordinary adult.
To his parents, if I never get the chance to find you, I hope this reaches you: your son fought for his life without feeling any pain. I did everything I knew how to possibly do but it wasn’t enough. I cannot fathom the pain you feel and my words will never ease them but please know that I am so sorry. I will work everyday, as a student of UCF, an individual of society, and hopefully one day as a politician, to assure that what happened to your son can be prevented in schools nationwide. Whether it be by spreading the importance of knowing CPR, adding more AED machines to schools, I will make his life meaningful somehow, someway. I promise.
To everyone else, I’m not writing this to receive any sort of sympathy, that should be directed to Michael’s family, but rather to share the importance of knowing what to do in similar situations and to remember this incredible person. Just like millions of other students, including myself, Michael woke up Monday morning for school; to learn, to progress his life, to eventually become an essential part of society. Giving him a 50% chance of living versus a 0% was crucial, regardless of the outcome. Therefore, I plea to everyone out there, please go and familiarize yourselves with the basics of CPR/AED. Every single second counts, trust me. It could mean the difference between life and death.. I only wish I would have gotten to him a couple of minutes sooner.
I ask that everyone please share this post in the hopes of spreading the importance of being CPR trained but also for me to be able to reach Michael’s family.
Lastly, to you Michael, I hope you rest in eternal peace. You will be missed by the entire UCF community.”
—
Contact: news@knightnews.com



ORLANDO, Fla. — 2014 All-Conference running back William Stanback has been officially dismissed from the UCF football team according to a statement released by UCF athletics on Tuesday morning.
“William Stanback has been dismissed from the football team for continuous failure to comply with athletic policy and team rules,” the release stated.
George O’Leary addressed the media after practice on Tuesday but refused to add any more context or detail than what had been provided by the official release.
“Basically William Stanback’s been suspended for, basically, failure to do what he’s supposed to regarding athletic rules and team rules. Period. That’s all I can say and all I’m going to say,” O’Leary emphasized with strict finality.
He did confirm that the running back had been removed from scholarship and that he had yet to inform the team.
Stanback was informed of the move early Tuesday morning.
O’Leary let the media know there was an impending statement to be made in his weekly Monday press conference when asked if Stanback would be in the team’s plans more following the Knights’ rash of injuries, losses and lack of offensive production.
Stanback had clearly fallen out of favor with his coaches, only carrying the ball 12 times for 11 yards in 2015. This fall in production comes on the heels of a 697 yard, 10 touchdown season last year.
Listed as the No. 1 running back on the Knights’ official depth chart to begin the season it was a surprise to see running back Dontravious Wilson emerge as the game-day starter in week one, but O’Leary had previously cited a lack of impact in practice in reference to his plunge down the depth chart; a criminal offense in the current UCF program.
Even with Wilson catching the injury bug spreading through the ranks, newcomer C.J. Jones and Taj McGowan took over the starting roles with a huge boost from Nick Patti in the Wild Knight formation against Furman.
Expect to see more of the three-headed running attack moving forward as the Knights work to solidify an offense in transition.



