UPDATE: KnightNews.com sat down for an exclusive interview with the President of Lambda Chi. See his side of the story. 
One of UCF’s oldest fraternities has been shut down indefinitely by its National Headquarters as of Wednesday evening. 
The Beta-Eta chapter of Lambda Chi Alpha Fraternity at UCF has been closed and its charter revoked, according to a letter sent to Greek Life members by Student Affairs director Clay Coleman. 
At a mandatory meeting for all members, representatives from the national office of Lambda Chi Alpha announced the closing of the Beta-Eta Chapter effective immediately with an unspecified time for returning, according to the letter sent by Coleman.
“The current state of the chapter does not reflect the core values of Lambda Chi Alpha, and there is no evidence the current officers can influence a change within Beta-Eta..,” the National Headquarters said.
Coleman stated in his letter that UCF supported the decision and representatives from the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life and Student Development and Enrollment Services were in attendance at this meeting.
The fraternity had been on disciplinary probation through the spring 2016 term after being found in-violation on multiple charges stemming from an incident that occurred at Lake Claire in September of last year.
Click next page to read the full letter sent to Greek Life members. 
Continue to check back for updates. 
Other UCF Greek Controversies:
– UCF Failed to Formally Report Severe Hazing Allegations to Police for Investigation
– Did UCF violate First Amendment by trying to ban men, signs from Bid Day?
– Caught on Camera: UCF Conduct Panel Laughs During Serious Fraternity Hearing



The alleged serial stalker of the coach of the UCF women’s basketball team was arrested on Jan. 2, police say.
Andrew Epps was arrested for stalking and trespass after written warning.Allegedly, Andrew Epps, 74, had “willfully, maliciously and repeatedly followed and harassed” Joi Williams, who has coached the women’s basketball team at UCF for eight seasons, police say.
The police report indicates that Epps was issued an indefinite trespass warning that barred him from being on UCF property on Sept. 9, 2013, which is roughly about a year and a half ago. Police said that when the warning was issued, Epps was specifically told to stay away from Williams because of him consistently following her around and attending numerous basketball games to see her.
In the police report, Williams told police that she received a text message from assistant coach Joe Silvestri that Epps was in the office. Williams said as she was pulling up to the CFE Arena loading dock, she saw Epps drive past her in the opposite direction. After he saw her, he made a U-turn and slowly pulled into the loading dock, parking next to her vehicle.
Williams told police she felt uncomfortable and called Silvestri to walk her into the building, where she called police.
Epps was arrested for stalking and trespass after written warning. He was transported to the Orange County Jail and issued a new trespass warning barring him from all UCF property.



The UCF women’s flag football team “Check On it” left no doubt in Pensacola, FL about which team reigns supreme at the NIRSA Championship Series National Flag Football Tournament hosted by the University of West Florida.
UCF’s team used a fourth quarter comeback on Sunday, Jan. 4 to defeat the ladies from Florida A&M University 7-6 to successfully defend last year’s national championship. UCF Men’s, Women’s and Co-Rec flag football teams have now won 12 national titles since the first tournament in 1979, the most flag football titles of any school in the U.S. and Mexico.
UCF’s suffocating defense was the story of the tournament. Team Check On It started with back-to-back shutouts, combining for 80 points, in preliminary action with wins over Campbell University and Ferris State. In the Tournament round, UCF continued the tough defense with shutouts wins over North Carolina A&T in the quarterfinals and Howard University in the semifinals. 
“Defense is our foundation,” said UCF flag football coach Brandon Baroody, a UCF graduate who started coaching since 2010. 
UCF outscored opponents 119-6 during the three-day event; giving up its first and only score in the championship game when FAMU took a 6-0 lead late in the first half. UCF Senior, and center/corner, Dannica Mosher, felt like UCF’s defense set the tone for this year’s title, “Giving up only 6 points is quite the accomplishment and I thank our incredible defense for that.”
Baroody said his team took special preparations before playing against FAMU again.
“We prepare for certain plays. We literally planned and prepared for two years for one of their plays,” Baroody said. 
The play that they prepared for and counted on, FAMU played and the UCF women took control. 
Late in the fourth quarter, tournament MVP Tatianne Dearaujo, found the end zone to tie the game at six. On the next and most critical play of the game, UCF Quarterback, Keimy Milanes completed a pass to Amanda Hall for a successful point after touchdown (PAT) and one point lead. FAMU did get the ball back, but Hall intercepted a pass to stop the Rattlers’ threat with less than two minutes to go. 
Dearaujo says the team stayed calm the entire time. 
“I don’t remember anyone saying much, besides ‘let’s go and finish’. We all wanted this so badly that I don’t think anything needed to be said,” Dearaujo said.
Milanes said if they hadn’t practiced that play, the outcome could’ve changed.
“If we wouldn’t have practiced that play the day of the game, it could’ve been 7 on 7 or even overtime,” Milanes said.
Check On It was led by Milanes, who suffered a serious knee injury (an ACL injury) on the first day of last year’s tournament, Dearaujo, and Charlene Thome. NIRSA honored all three women as part of the All-Tournament team.
“As an athlete, it’s the most devastating thing [to get hurt during nationals and sit out],” Milanes said. 
A month later since her injury, she had to have surgery and had to go through eight months of rehab. So, this year, Milanes felt like she and others who were also hurt got their redemption. 
UCF now has 42 All-Americans in the tournament’s history and Dearaujo is the 17th UCF student to be named tournament MVP all-time.  
“What’s so special about this team is we’re much more than that, these girls and Brandon (Baroody) are family,” Dearaujo said. 
Shane Land, Assistant Director of Intramural Sports at the UCF Recreation and Wellness Center (RWC) credits the team’s hard work ethic for the sustained success, “This is an exceptional group of young ladies. They are coached by NIRSA Championship Series Flag Football Hall of Famer, Brandon Baroody.They practice and play in tournaments year round in preparation for the national tournament and that work ethic is what has led to their success.” 
Baroody said when they practice at UCF they will usually play scrimmage with other UCF’s athletes such as those on the girl’s rugby team and the ultimate frisbee team. 
Baroody has been a part of nine of UCF’s 12 titles as a player or coach. He says the success of the team is about much more than flag football, “Talent and experience gave us reason to believe we could win, but character and chemistry is what allowed us to have this run of success.”
Milanes said she considers her teammates her family.
“I started playing my sophomore year. I didn’t really know anybody. I think everyone should take a chance on something. The girls I didn’t know before are now my family.” 
UCF’s Co-Rec Team also made the final four of the tournament which also features student officials, including three from UCF: Kelsey Jones, Randy Korn and Sammie Fitzell.



