The McDonalds near UCF just got a new high-tech upgrade.

The McDonalds across the street from UCF is the first McDonalds in Central Florida and second in the state to roll out “create your own taste” kiosks. 
Rather than just ordering a burger when walking in, customers are now greeted by digital kiosks where they can create custom burgers, made to order. Customers can choose from toppings that aren’t offered on the normal menu – including guacamole, jalapeños, grilled onion, creamy garlic sauce and even adding Big Mac special sauce to the custom burger.
The general manager of the UCF area McDonalds said that the new technology is the way of the future and if all goes well, these kiosks can start to be spread across the state.
Although the customized burger option is only available inside, customers can still get their burgers to-go.
In total, a customized burger meal option runs anywhere in the range of $7-9. 



A suspect was caught-in-the-act of breaking into an apartment near UCF with a loaded shotgun, according to deputies. 
Deputies said when they responded to a home invasion at The Place at Alafaya apartments on Thursday morning, they caught suspect Andrew W. Graham inside the apartment with a 12-gauge loaded shotgun. 
Graham had entered the victim’s apartment and was wrestling the victim when deputies arrived, according to deputies. 
Deputies said they secured Graham and that he kicked several deputies as he was taken out of the apartment. There were no injuries to deputies.
Graham claimed to be having seizures and was transported to the hospital, according to deputies.
Graham is charged with aggravated assault with a firearm, aggravated battery, armed burglary and tampering with a witness, according to deputies. 



Countless students use bicycles to get around campus, but what happens when one has an issue? A flat tire, failing breaks, or broken pedal can make getting around quite difficult.
Luckily, the Student Union offers a free repair service for students every Monday through Thursday.

The service began with the Spokes Council, a student organization for bike advocacy. Spokes Council started a small repair service but aimed to grow it to support the UCF community.
“Their main goal as a club was to have it sponsored and overseen by the Student Union, and that movement was a success,” said Leland Carlson, a bike mechanic at the repair tent.
Spokes Council is still involved with the repair station, and their signs promote their regular group ride and gatherings.
Their main event, the Tuesday Knight Ride, leaves from the Little Econ trail and heads to Lazy Moon on Tuesday nights at 8 p.m.
The repair station sees quite a lot of activity, with anywhere from three to nine bikes an hour, according to mechanic and Spokes Council member Chris Carlson.
“Normally we do 25-40 bikes in a day,” Carlson said.
With the large amount of repairs, the two most common problems involve tires and brakes.
“It’s mostly flat tires though,” said Carlson. “It’s a thing that happens on bikes regularly, and not a lot of people know how to deal with it.”
The bike repair is open Monday through Thursday from 12 p.m. to 5 p.m.



