UCF junior Justin McBride had his best game of the season versus the UIC Flames after scoring 14 points, grabbing eight rebounds, and a block shot.
The 6’10” 325 pound center came off the bench and took advantage of every opportunity by hitting open jumpers, displaying good post moves, and owning the paint offensively.
“Justin’s been given us some good minutes of the bench when he has come in,” said UCF head coach Donnie Jones. “Obviously he hasn’t been playing a lot of minutes, but my whole thing is play as hard as you can for the time you’re in there…I think his focus has been accepting that coming off the bench.”
McBride has split playing time with freshman center Tacko Fall and senior forward Stephon Blair so far this season.
“Steph is the grandpa”, said McBride. “Me I’m getting old too…I’m kinda like that uncle that you see that always have something to say but kinda let you grew up and Tacko is the baby.”
Both Blair and Fall are known for their shot blocking, but McBride is known for his offensive repertoire.
“I don’t jump anymore, so I just put my hands up,” said McBride. “So if I can tip it, that’s good, I’m just trying to get the rebound.”
McBride doesn’t have much ‘ups,’ but he is fundamentally sound with a high basketball IQ.
“We know how to utilize [McBride] when he does come in,” said Jones. “He’s been instant offense for us with the things we run for him…really proud of Justin and also how he’s handled his role.”
With 15:38 remaining in the second half, McBride showed he could do it all, sacrificing his body for a charge on defense; all 325 pounds of him went crashing to the floor.
“I heard charges hurt, I probably took one charge prior to that my whole entire basketball career,” said McBride. “But I knew I weren’t gonna block it and I knew he weren’t gonna float it…it hurts, I’ll tell you the truth, it really does, he kneed me in my stomach.”
“It was all impulse,” added McBride. “It was a big momentum play, so you just slide over and take it. I took it for my team and that’s what you gotta do sometimes.”

Photo courtesy of UCF Athletics Communications.



The brothers of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity, alongside Delta Delta Delta, brought the spirit of the holidays to kids from the Big Brothers Big Sisters Program at their annual Chrismukkah celebration.
The kids were invited to a day of celebration at the Kappa Sigma house.
“Whether it’s Christmas or Hanukkah, kids of all ethnicities and religions come together for a day of fun activities and gifts for many that may not be as well off,” Kappa Sigma brother Andrew Norton said.



After three days of delays, Orbital ATK’s resupply mission to the International Space Station is finally underway.
The launch, which was originally scheduled for Thursday, took place at the open of Sunday’s launch window at 4:44 p.m.
Rain and thick clouds forced a scrub of the launch on Thursday, while strong winds were responsible for the scrub on Friday and Saturday.
The Cygnus Spacecraft, attached to a ULA Atlas V, will be bringing supplies to the Space Station along with tools and research equipment.
Cygnus will connect with the ISS at 6:10 a.m. on Wednesday, according to an Orbital ATK release.
 



The word Kaioen is derived from the combination of two Greek words to mean, ‘to burn within’; which is exactly what the creators of Kaoien Coffee are hoping to do in the local community.
Kaioen Coffee was created with the help of River of Life Church with the intent of creating a friendly atmosphere for customers to meet at to enjoy handcrafted caffeinated beverages.
“What’s unique about Kaioen is that when they [the customers] come here, they’re supporting the community, so they’re supporting a great cause,” said Kevin Quinones, Senior Pastor at River of Life Church and one of the founders of Kaioen Coffee.
What makes Kaioen Coffee different than most local coffee shops is that Kaioen is a non-profit café created with the purpose of giving back to the Oviedo community.
All proceeds from the café goes straight to community non-profit programs which includes ‘The Forgotten Ones Inc.’; a program for children who have aged out of the foster system as well as feeding the homeless. Kaioen is also planning on becoming involved with community beatification projects during the New Year.
“We have a unique style and way of doing things,” said Juan Franco, a manager at Kaioen Coffee. “We want our own identity.”
Although Kaioen Coffee has been open for less than two months, Quinones and Franco said that business has been doing pretty well and they are pleased with how it is developing.
“This is just the first location,” Quinones said “but at some point in time we would like to expand and target a broader area in Orlando.”
The quaint two story café located on North Davidson Street is equipped with spaces to study, a conference room and a spiral staircase, all which was designed and built by Quinones, Franco, and supporters at River for Life Church.
Kaioen Coffee is also proud to brew Panther coffee, which according to Quinones, is one of the best coffee known to mankind.
“We all love great coffee,” Quinones said. “We use Panther Coffee that is roasted right in Miami because we want to offer our customers a great coffee experience.”
Mia Richard, a new customer at Kaioen Coffee, initially heard about the café from an online advertisement and says she’s definitely planning on coming back.
“It’s a really nice place to go and focus on school while having coffee,” Richard said. “Especially with finals coming up, everyone is looking for study space and tons of caffeine.”
Kaioen Coffee is about a ten minute drive from the University of Central Florida and offers multiple caffeinated drinks and teas including lattes and cappuccinos that are sure to give students an extra boost of energy, all while benefiting the local community.



The University of Central Florida alert system woke up some students when a message regarding a robbery with a handgun was sent out at around 12:48 a.m. 
“According to authorities, a group of young people — in their late teens and early 20s — were shooting hoops, when the someone took their hoverboard and ran off. Deputies said the group chased him and he dropped the hoverboard, flashed a gun and fled,” WESH reported.
The crime happened at apartments at North Alafaya Trail and Darwin Drive near UCF fraternity and sorority housing, as well as the Marquee Apartments where a home invasion occurred last week.
Deputies told WESH that none of the victims were UCF students and that a man was pistol whipped and robbed at the same apartments in May.
The UCF alert described the suspect as a skinny black male with dreadlocks who was wearing a bandana, white shirt, and jeans. The alert also said he was carrying a silver handgun and that he fled on foot from the area.
If you know anything about this incident, please contact the Orange County Sherrif’s Office



