A new proposal announced Thursday by Gov. Rick Scott aims to give college students a break on the cost of textbooks.
Speaking at the University of North Florida in Jacksonville, Scott said he wants to exempt all textbooks used by students from state and local sales taxes. 
“To make Florida the top destination in the world for jobs and opportunities, we must continue to make the dream of earning a college education attainable for every student,” Scott said in a statement. “Eliminating the sales tax on college textbooks will directly help every Florida student with the cost of college by offsetting the rising price of textbooks.”
It’s estimated that the tax break could save full-time students as much as $60 a year, which assumes they are spending up to $1,000 on textbooks. The tax break is expected to cost more than $41 million if approved. 
Scott also said he will ask legislators to set $23.5 million to expand Florida’s Bright Futures scholarship program so it would cover summer classes.



Guns could soon be allowed on Florida college campuses, including the University of Central Florida, due to recent support of a House bill.
During the House of Representatives’ Criminal Justice Subcommittee meeting on Tuesday, House Bill 4005 – a bill permitting the possession of weapons on Florida college campuses – gained support from the Republican majority while being opposed by the Democratic minority. 
In the wake of campus shootings nationwide and just recently at Florida State University, UCF students have varied opinions on the proposed bill. 
UCF student Keith Melendez said his support for the bill is influenced by the Tower 1 incident that occurred in 2013. He said he completely supports the bill because it could help prevent against another close call.  
“We could have had a major tragedy,” Melendez said. “UCFPD can’t be everywhere on campus to protect us from situations like this. A responsible student who owns a firearm could make a difference in a situation such as that.”
Casie Ott, a finance major at UCF, said she supports the bill because she feels that this might help her protect herself better roaming the campus at night.
“As a female who has taken many night classes, I sometimes feel uneasy while making the long walk back to my car in the garage,” Ott said. “I would have a much stronger sense of security knowing I could use my gun to defend myself if I were ever in a threatening situation,” Ott said. 
While many are for the added protections of concealed weapons on campus, many are worried about weapons falling into the wrong hands. 
 “The potential for it to get stolen and used illicitly is still a threat, though a properly trained carrier will know how to properly secure their firearm,” Jon Bell, a mechanical engineering major at UCF, said. “The benefit would be the added security knowing that a fellow student next to you is willing to risk their life in order to protect you and everyone around you in the event of an incident.” 
Marlen Qaqi, 25, said he opposes the bill, and he believes guns can lead to more problems. 
“A single fight might break out and the first instinct of a human is to protect themselves. If the individuals had a gun at a situation like that, they would not hesitate to use it,” Qaqi said. “If the purpose of the bill is for protection, then they should consider adding more security around the campus.”
Under the proposed law, a valid permit would be required to carry a concealed weapon on public colleges and universities. Concealed weapon permit holders must be at least 21 years of age, except those serving in the military, and cannot have felonies. The current law prohibits possession of concealed weapons or concealed firearms to be carried on a college campus unless it is a stun gun or nonlethal electric weapon or device designed for defensive purposes. 
Criminal Justice Subcommittee Representative Dennis Baxley pledged his support of the bill at Tuesday’s meeting and said that guns could help empower people to stop violence. He said that while students are young, they are still adults. 
“[College students] are adults and they should act like adults. I think most of them do. These are responsible people,” Baxley said. “Yes, there are some irresponsible ones, but they are adults.” 
When UCF was asked about their stance on the new bill, Courtney Gilmartin, Public information Officer for UCFPD, only said that UCF will follow the state law regarding firearms on campus.
If the bill passes, it would go into effect July 2015. 



The Campus Activity Board has announced its first annual Knightfest concert, featuring co-headliners Kid Ink and Hoodie Allen, along with special guest Smallpools to be held on Feb. 26. 
Kid Ink is a West Coast rapper, set to release his third studio album, Full Speed, on Jan. 30, and known for his extensive number of tattoos. In the past, he has collaborated with notable members of the hip-hop community, such as DJ Mustard and Chris Brown, both of whom played a heavy role in the success of Kid Ink’s single “Show Me”.
Co-headliner, Hoodie Allen is one of America’s up-and-coming alternative hip-hop artists. Cultivating a dedicated fan base, known as the Hoodie Mob, Hoodie Allen was able release his debut album just last year.
Hoping to capitalize on the opportunity to open for two more established artists, Smallpools are set to bring their upbeat brand of indie pop to UCF, as well as help give the show a more eclectic lineup. Even though this band has only been together since 2013, Smallpools has already made waves, supporting groups such as Two Door Cinema Club, Walk the Moon and Twenty One Pilots on their respective tours. Last year also marked an important milestone for the band when the were announced to be playing Lollapalooza. The band will be releasing their debut album, LOVETAP!, on Feb. 3.
“We’re so excited to be able to offer such a big lineup for our first annual Knightfest concert,” said CAB Concert Director Michael Pentrack in a release. “Knightfest will give us the opportunity to offer an event UCF students can look forward to every Spring semester.”
Tickets for the show will go on sale, starting Jan. 26. The price for students will be $5 sold at the SGA ticket center, while general admission will cost $25 at the CFE Arena box office or Ticketmaster.
The show will be held on Thursday, Feb. 26, with doors opening at 7 P.M. and the show beginning at 8 P.M.



Want Microsoft Office 365 for free? Go to UCF.
Microsoft and UCF teamed up to offer all students Office 365 — including Word, Excel, Powerpoint and Outlook — at no charge.
UCF started offering the programs last semester, but students can still download for free.
Current students can download Office 365 through their UCF Knights Email account.
See a more detailed instruction list for downloading below. 
http://knightnews.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/01/Downloading-Microsoft-Office.pdf



