TALAHASSEE, Fla. – In a showcase of offensive firepower and four lead changes, No. 6 UCF (14-4) was outgunned 15-11 by No. 11 Florida State (15-3)  in a series sweep that is sure to knock the Knights down a few ranks come Monday. Both teams totaled twelve hits on the day, but the 26 runs put up by the Seminoles over two games completely dismantled the UCF pitching staff.
“The bottom line in these two games is you’ve gotta pitch better. I mean you give up 26 runs in two games, you can’t win. We got exposed a little bit in regard to pitching behind the count, walking guys, up in the zone, just the basics of pitching,” Head Coach Rooney said.
In the midst of what can only be described as chaotic carnage from the plate, Logan Heiser had a day that will go down as one of the best offensive days a freshman has ever had for the Gold and Black: 4-5, two home runs, a triple, a double, five RBIS and three runs scored.
Heiser tore the cover off the ball, locked in from the start.
“I felt great today, it all started in BP. I was swinging it really well, seeing the ball really well, was able to make solid contact from almost every single swing and just came into the game,” Heiser said. “The ball looked really big today, I was able to square up on some balls and they were able to fly out of the park.”
Not only did he have an absolutely monster game from the start, but he gunned a runner at second and didn’t let anyone run on him for the rest of his time in the squat.
“I’ve always tried to focus more on catching,” Heiser said. “They always say with catchers that the catching comes first and the hitting comes second. So if you’re able to do both, that’s great.”
Tuesday night’s woes seemed to be mirrored by the Seminoles on Wednesday, loading the bases early in the second on two walks and a catcher’s interference call. Each of the three runners gifted to UCF would score, flipping the switch on Game One’s 3-0 start.
Then Quincy Nieporte happened.
Nieporte has never hit a home run as a Seminole. In back-to-back visits to the plate he went deep twice to place himself in the history books alongside a Major League legend; Mr. Buster Posey. Posey was the last Seminole to drive in seven or more runs in a single game, back in April of 2007.
His first shot of the day was a game-tying three run shot in the second inning, which could only be topped by his Grand Slam to the deepest part of the park in the very next inning. Both home runs came off of different pitchers, the second being the first time Zach Rodgers took the mound in the game.
“Two first pitch swings, seven RBI’s right there, obviously he took very god swings on those two pitches and did a nice job. That’s what you need to win big games,” said Rooney.
Playing from behind however, is anything but uncomfortable for the No. 6 ranked Knights. After falling behind 3-7, there was instant retribution. A five run top of the fourth put them back on top. Logan Heiser and Dylan Moore both tattooed two run home runs, and Eric Barber notched an RBI single as well.
The big inning bled into the Knights’ attitude for the rest of the game. Zach Rodgers found himself after serving up the four-bagger, settling down to last 3.2 innings and stem the bleeding with two earned runs; three of the four from Nieporte’s Grand Slam were credited to Harrison Hukari.
Logan Heiser continued his big day in the fifth inning with the rarely seen catcher-hit triple, his third extra base hit of the game and the most difficult part of hitting for the cycle. UCF fed off of the sight and drove in two runs to extend their lead to 10-7, their second three run lead of the afternoon.
When it came time for his first chance to complete the cycle, Heiser stunned everyone by sending another ball well beyond the outfield walls. The home run extended UCF’s lead to 11-8, but it would not be enough.
Trent Thompson went down hard in the seventh. He could only retire a single batter he faced, getting pulled after 0.1 innings pitched, six hits surrendered and six runs given up. His ERA skyrocketed to 13.50 following the outing, and he was hit with the loss. It was enough for the Seminoles to steal the lead, the momentum, and the crowd back.
Even after the nightmare of an outing, Rooney insisted he has complete faith in Thompson on the mound moving forward.
“He’s gonna get back out there. He’s a great pitcher, he’s done a great job for us the entire year. He’s gonna get back out there and I know he’s gonna have a great outing. I’m not worried about him one bit,” affirmed Rooney.
Tanner Olson came on in relief, but was unable to record a single out in a short outing.
In all, Florida State’s seventh inning rally totaled them seven runs and a four run lead. The seven hits in the inning were as many or more than they had scored in nine total games this year. UCF watched in agony not only as their three run lead was shattered before their eyes, but as FSU piled on the additional runs.
No walks were drawn by FSU during the surge, just pure unadulterated decimation of a pitching staff.
There is no quit in these Knights, not when they know from experience how vital a single pitch can be to the outcome of a season. Everything matters. Tuesday night was a few good at bats, a few batter choices on the basepaths and a few strikes away from a huge comeback; just a taste of what the team is capable of. Wednesday was one big inning away from a decisive victory.
“We’re just going to get back after it tomorrow, keep doing what we’re doing and everything will be alright,” Tommy Williams said.
UCF returns home for a weekend series against Fairfield, with the first pitch scheduled for 6:30 p.m. on Friday.



A video is going viral on social media showing a Pinellas County deputy taking down two men on St. Pete Beach Sunday afternoon. 
The crowd of about 50 spring breakers are heard cheering in the video, which now has more than 7 million views. The video, posted on Darrell Lynn Tate II’s Facebook, shows the entire incident, including the deputy putting both men into a choke hold. 
Both men, Justin D. Lewis, 24, and Joshua McMahan, 25, were charged with disorderly conduct and battery on a law enforcement officer, according to ABC Action News. They both have bonded out. 
Lewis told ABC Action News he was just trying to help his friend and wasn’t resisting arrest. 
“When I got there, my friend’s face was blue. He was already passed out before he hit the ground and the cop was just not letting up,” Lewis told ABC Action News. “I got marks, banged up. There’s times in that video I have my hands at my side. I’m tapping, tapping out. I’m not even resisting.”
ABC Action News reached out to Cooley Law professor and legal expert Jeff Swartz, who said “there’s no question” the men appeared to be resisting arrest. He said the deputy had the right to meet violence with violence but questioned the deputy’s use of a choke hold on both men.  
“If the hold was illegal and could have been considered to be deadly force, then the officer might have a problem, but not much of one,” he told ABC Action News. 
WARNING GRAPHIC LANGUAGE 




The relaxing sound of the ocean, lush palm trees, salty air and tropical scenery may be in the future for a hopeful 9-year-old boy thanks to five UCF business students. 
The students have been working on a mission to send a young boy on a Caribbean cruise with his family, so they can get away from the multiple hospitalizations.
Alyssa Kruger, Shayna Greenberger, Gabriela Edwards, Autumn Davis and Kent Barley formed a Cornerstone group to gain social entrepreneurship experience, however, they say what they have experienced along the way has been much more than that.
UCF offers a Cornerstone Lecture course so students can practice lessons related to entrepreneurial thinking, communication and teamwork. The students’ goals are to adopt a mission to create and sustain social value, pursue opportunities to serve their mission, act boldly and exhibit accountability, according to the UCF Cornerstone website.
After choosing New Hope for Kids as their client, the group of students chose Noah as their “wish child” and began fundraising to send Noah and his family on a Caribbean cruise and cover medical expenses.
“This is a chance for us to focus on something other than ourselves and make a tremendous difference in this little boy’s life,” UCF Finance major Alyssa Kruger said. “During this Cornerstone course, not only do we get to help someone who desperately needs it, but we also get to learn important networking skills and get different experience than the standard classroom learning setting.”
Noah fights multiple life threatening illnesses and undergoes brain surgery every few months. He has two serious brain abnormalities, is dependent on gastrostomy tube feedings, suffers from growth hormone deficiencies and requires a wheelchair.
“Despite all that Noah has endured, it is not his suffering that makes us want to help him, but his will to live through and treasure the small time that he does have free from pain,” Edwards said. 
The group has set a goal of $10,000 and they have raised just under $3,000. 
If the students are unable to raise the $10,000, Noah and his family will still be able to attend the cruise thanks to New Hope for Kids, who has already purchased the cruise tickets. The money raised will go towards the trip expenses, and if they surpass the goal the extra donations will go towards Noah’s family and the organization currently assisting him. 
After several hospitalizations and surgeries, Noah’s mother Katie Bower said she is thankful to the students for working to help fund Noah’s tropical getaway. 
“He actually just got out of the hospital from his seventh brain surgery, eighth overall surgery, and 10th hospital admission in the past year alone,” Bower said. “Giving him something to look forward to other than more surgeries, hospital stays and painful procedures is so much more than a vacation. Its something to get excited for and a chance to escape from all the medical issues and just be a kid.”
According to Bower, her son was previously accepted by another wish agency but ended up being too sick to do anything. He is eager to finally have someone grant him a wish and make his dream a reality. 
“Watching these students really take an interest in Noah, plan a special unique party just for him and work towards giving him a wish has really touched us all,” Bower said. “It’s incredibly hard on the whole family when a child has such serious medical problems, and knowing that they care and are doing this for Noah and our family is so meaningful.”



