ORLANDO, Fla. — Short their lead scorer, the UCF men’s basketball team lost its grip on Temple early in the first half, missing several opportunities to recover on their way to a disheartening 86-62 loss.
Both teams managed the opening minutes with a few plays but Temple would soon take the lead and widen the gap on a few fast breaks and well-placed layups.
In place of an injured BJ Taylor came Daiquan Walker with 14 points for the night including UCF’s first points on the board. Alongside Walker and with 17 points tallied, Brandon Goodwin finished the night contributing the most to his team’s score. Goodwin and Walker would account for more than half of UCF’s points but their effort could not outmatch the offense put out by the Owls.
UCF went 21-50 from the field and 8-24 beyond the arc by the game’s end, versus Temple’s 33-65 from the field and 10-18 beyond the arc. Halftime saw the score at 37-18 in favor of Temple, with the Owl’s largest lead arriving later in the second half at 36 points with 9:03 left on the clock. The 36 point deficit did not go unanswered as UCF picked up its performance and cut down the lead to 24 points, finalizing the score at 86-62.
Taylor, out with a concussion from Sunday’s match, is expected to return to practice Thursday and Friday, with hopes to play Saturday’s away game. Wednesday night’s offense had to adjust with the loss of the starter, creating an added stress to the game.
“We’re going to get some rest [tonight] and come back mentally more than physically tomorrow, we’ll learn from this and get ready for SMU,” head coach Donnie Jones said after the game. “I know these guys are bothered, and hurt by it, but we’ll have to regroup from it and find our rhythm.”
The Knights have been plagued by a losing streak going back the previous four games, while having dropped 7 out of the last 9 played. UCF will hope to break this streak when they take on SMU on Saturday at 8 p.m. Senior Myles Davis adds that an away game might allow the players to pick up speed before the season, his last, comes to a close.
“We’re going to get it right, but it’s going to be a process,” said Miles. “It starts with us being teammates and being there for each other… If we go out there on the road I see ourselves coming together a little bit more. It’s going to be a real team change, it has to be.”
Fans can follow the match at SMU on ESPNU.



An alert message sent out to students Wednesday evening warned of an apparent armed robbery occurring near the water tower on campus.

The call came around 7 p.m. from a female victim who was near parking lots B12 and B13, which are located near the UCF Water Tower and across from the Libra garage, UCF spokesperson Courtney Gilmartin said. 
The victim said the suspects, who were wearing hoodies, implied that they had a weapon. The suspects stole the victim’s purse and took off in a loud vehicle.
UCF said there will be an increased police presence on campus the rest of the night. 
In 2013, a man was pistol-whipped and robbed by four men in the same area. 
Continue to check back for updates.



UCF student Ryan McKinney was confused when he went to get into his car in the Tower’s Parking Garage E on the first day of spring 2015 semester.
He could have sworn he parked on the second floor, but just to make sure he checked the first, then the third and finally the fourth. He started to get the feeling that something was wrong.

His first car, a 1997 Honda Civic with custom amplifiers and subwoofer, was gone. 
When police arrived they found his car on the fifth floor, an estimated $1,800 just in engine parts and spark plug wires gone–that’s not even counting the missing custom car audio. 
“In order to park in the covered parking of Garage E, it costs $150 for three semesters,” McKinney said. “When I paid $150, I was not expecting gold-plated pillars or anything special, however, I was expecting a reasonable level of safety.”
McKinney took to a Change.org petition to air his grievances and ask for support to place more cameras in parking garages. In the garage that McKinney had his car stolen, there is only one camera place right at the entrance/exit.

KnightNews.com showed the petition to SGA President and Board of Trustees Member Weston Bayes who is in support of placing more cameras in garages.
“It’s definitely something that’s been brought up in the past, students get there cars hit everyday and the best thing we can do is have campus police say ‘sorry’. To have some type of video evidence to understand who’s in the garage at that time, that would definitely help students,” Bayes said.
However, Bayes said that some of the garages are more difficult to place cameras in depending on the garage’s infrastructure. 
“I know for example Garage I which has been here for a long time that takes a lot of money because you have to go into the infrastructure and re-do that, but a garage like H, which is newer and more hollowed out in the beams, the infrastructure is there to put the cameras in,” Bayes said.



The Orlando community will gather downtown on March 7 and attempt to break the Guinness World Record for the World’s Largest Pub Crawl. 
The 21-and-up only event currently has early bird tickets on sale until Feb. 28 for $25, plus a $2.37 fee. Ticket prices go up March 1 and can be purchased up until the day of the event based on availability.

Tickets include three Heineken beers and a concert at Wall Street Plaza the night of the event. The band is unannounced at this time.
Hosted by Orlando City Soccer Club, event tickets also include a complimentary ticket to the inaugural Orlando City match on March 8 at the Citrus Bowl. 
The Record Breaking Pub Crawl, as it is being called on the Facebook event page, currently has one thousand people planning on attending and nearly two thousand invited. 
The current record was set June 1, 2013 when 4,885 people participated in the Crawl for Cancer pub crawl in Kansas City, MO. 



UCF and FAU will battle it out on each other’s home turf in a home-and-home series scheduled for 2018 and 2019.

UCF announced on Wednesday that the Knights will host the Owls in 2018 and the Owls will host the Knights in 2019. The UCF home game is scheduled for Sept. 22, 2018 and the FAU home game is scheduled for Sept. 7, 2019.
The Knights have only taken on the Owls in football once, when UCF beat FAU 33-29 on Sept. 13, 2003. 
With the scheduling of the FAU series, UCF will have played a non-conference game against a Florida school every year from 2005-2019, with the exception of 2010. 



