Deputies showed up at various local bars around the University of Central Florida on May 5.
The University of Central Florida Police Department and the Orange County Sheriff’s Office partnered together that night in order to “combat some of the dangerous alcohol-related behaviors we see on holidays such as Cinco de Mayo,” UCFPD spokesperson Courtney Gilmartin said. 
KnightNews.com posted photos of the deputies at the bars that night via KnightNews Facebook and KnightNews Twitter.
UCFPD issued 10 student affairs referrals for liquor law violations. One DUI arrest was made and one .02/Notice of Suspension was issued, according to Gilmartin.
A Notice of Suspension can be issued when a driver under the age of 21 has been drinking, but is not driving under the influence. If they blow over a .02, their license can be suspended for six months. 
Gilmartin said the referrals were issued at Knight’s Pub, Stagger Inn, Knight Library, Applebee’s and an off-campus house party.
The fire department also came out on Cinco de Mayo, responding to two calls regarding people passing out in public from drinking, according to Gilmartin
“The goal isn’t to ruin students’ good time; we’re out there to save lives,” said Gilmartin.



UCF’s Phi Delta Theta fraternity made history by winning this year’s intramural sports Greek Cup Championship, by expanding the longest active winning streak in the Greek Cup era to six years.
Alpha Delta Pi also won the Greek Cup this year in the Greek sorority league. Both Phi Delt and Alpha Delta Pi are now in first place for the total number of Greek Cup championships they have won, both with six.
“We are extremely proud of the teamwork, perseverance, and dedication that all of our athletes displayed over the past year and are very excited about our sixth consecutive Greek Cup win,” said Jacob Milich, President of Phi Delta Theta.
Scoring a total of 1,779 points, Phi Delt beat out Zeta Beta Tau, its closest competitor, who earned a total of 1,687 points.
Alpha Delta Pi, who scored 690 total points, won by a wide margin. Kappa Alpha Theta came in second scoring 383 points.
Phi Delt members have taken to twitter to celebrate the victory by posting a graphic with Michael Jordan wearing six rings. 
#RushPhiDelt pic.twitter.com/yQ8WoHru1X
— Phi Delt UCF (@PhiDelt_UCF) May 7, 2015

Check back for more interviews as we continue to gather reaction on this story. 



