Tuesday marked the fourth round of UCF Orientations for the incoming class of 2019 and KnightNews.com was there to meet the new freshmen.
We caught up with the new UCF Knights and talked to them about their favorite spots on campus, their majors, and what sets them apart from the rest of the students here at UCF.
As always, hilarity ensued as reporter Justin Levy talked to the freshman.

Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get UCF News like this on your feeds!
Follow @UCFKnightNews
Click here to watch Part 1: The first UCF Orientation Video
Click here to watch Part 2: The second UCF Orientation Video
Click here to watch Part 3: The third UCF Orientation Video



UCF students who are hoping to smuggle alcohol on their next spring break cruise are going to face some new obstacles in the future.
Starting July 9, passengers will only be able to bring cans and cartons of water, soda, and non-alcoholic beverages and those will be limited to a maximum of 12, according to the Orlando Sentinel. 
Carnival Cruise Line said, “Guests bringing bottled beverages on board are proving to be a source of multiple issues.” 
“The first issue is the impact on the boarding process. Bottled beverages are the most common means by which guests attempt to smuggle alcohol on board which necessitates bottles be individually examined by security personnel. This delays the embarkation process and requires security resources dedicated to checking bottled beverages,” according to Carnival Cruise Line.
The statement given by Carnival goes on to say that smuggled alcohol usually is the cause of behavioral issues on board.
“When behavioral issues occur on board and are ultimately investigated, smuggled alcohol often appears to be a factor. Hence, to ensure an enjoyable experience for all guests and crew, we are modifying our beverage policy,” said Carnival.
The  Carnival Cruise Line still allows one bottle of fine wine or champagne per adult 21 or over to be brought aboard during embarkation, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
The Carnival bottle ban, on top of Panama City banning alcohol in the beach during the duration of the majority of college spring breaks, is likely to impact spring break options for college students next year



The end of the first summer semester for 2015 is approaching. With that being said, so is the withdrawal deadline for summer A. 
Students have until Thursday, June 11 to withdraw from their summer A classes. 
Below are the instructions to withdraw from classes on myUCF:
Navigate to myUCF “Student Self Service”, then click on the “Student Center.” 
Click on the “enroll” link and at the next page, click on the “drop/withdraw” tab. 
Choose the current semester (Summer 2015). 
Select the class you wish to withdraw from and then click on the green box for “DROP/WITHDRAW SELECTED CLASSES” 
From there – follow the directions to withdraw. 
You should also consult with an Academic Advisor if you have questions before withdrawing from a course.



