7-Eleven will let their customers get creative as they want, filling their choice of cup for the price of one regular medium Slurpee, which comes out to $1.49.
On Saturday, April 11, the #BYOC day will take place at 7700 stores, where customers can bring their own container of any size and fill it with as much Slurpee as they please.
Potential containers may include an industrial size water cooler bottle, fish bowl, dog food bowl, milk jug, and more.
“From sand buckets to trophies, customers can unleash their creativity by bringing in their choice of a unique, fun Slurpee cup,” 7-Eleven spokeswoman Laura Gordon said in a release.
According to the convenience store chain, the Bring Your Own Cup Day rules are:
The promotion takes place on Saturday, April 11, from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.



Poetry is an outlet where many writers share their thoughts, ideas and feelings without the feeling of being judged or isolated. Through Project: SPIT, a movement is beginning where this unique, open art form is growing into a great community.
“The mission of Project: SPIT is to create a spoken word,poetry community and awareness on the UCF campus that promotes and develops creative writing, allowing students to be in a safe environment that enables them to express and grow in the art form as well as promote diversity,” Shelby Birch, Project: SPIT president, said.
This club began in Fall 2013 and since has become a creative outlet for many of its members. The club aims to enhance creative writing skills and help develop performance skills which are essential for everyday life. Within their meetings, they hold several practice workshops for students to improve public speaking as well as have constructive communication of thoughts and ideas.
Recently, they put these workshops to use and competed in College Unions Poetry Slam Invitational (CUPSI) held in Virginia Commonwealth University from March 25 – 28. It was the clubs first time attending this competition against 68 other collegiate poetry slam teams from U.S and Canada. They were the first Florida team to compete in a while among schools such as Harvard University, Yale University, Brown University and New York University.
“We had the poets, the poetry and the drive to compete, so we decided to seriously pursue it,” Birch said.
 Before going to compete, the club picked 5 performers who practiced for three months, three times a week perfecting their poems. With the help of their coach, Blu Bailey, they perfected their movements, gestures, pitch and diction.
 “Leading up to the competition we competed in as many poetry slams to gain funds and exposure, and featured at open mic shows around Orlando. Hustling is an understatement. Late nights and early mornings is an understatement. Sacrificing one’s social life is an understatement. But I wouldn’t take back this experience for anything in the world,” Birch said.
 With the help of SGA funding the majority of the trip, 17 students went while five of those performed against other college poetry slam teams. One of the members representing UCF, Charles Hines, said this experience was unlike any other he had before and has inspired him as a writer and made him grow closer in his poetry community.
“The great thing about our team was that we are really, really diverse and came together as a team but also had these great individual poets,” Hines said.
Project SPIT’s hard work paid off and in their first year of competing, UCF placed 5th!
 The team came back with inspiration to reach even higher next year and spread the love of poetry throughout Florida and beyond. They hold about two meetings each month and accept anyone who wants to create and share their love for art in whichever form it may come.
In the future, they want to see Project SPIT spread unto other campuses so that more college students can appreciate the art of spoken word poetry. They also intend to have a consistent and reputable team that will travel and compete in the annual CUPSI competition as well as nationally and internationally through other slam poetry competitions.



Five students have a pressing question for the UCF student body: do you give a sheet?
On Monday, The White Linen Project, an initiative with Volunteer UCF, tabled outside of the Student Union. They were accepting donations of linens, towel and other rags for homeless shelters. Shakera Quince, the founder of the organization, has a passion for social entrepreneurship and had been anticipating this day for months.
“We’re collecting sheets, blankets, towels, rags, all linens, of all shapes and sizes and we’re going to give them to homeless shelters and the Mustard Seed of Central Florida,” Quince, a junior marketing major, said.
Quince’s heart for the homeless started long before when she worked with the Orlando Union Rescue Mission. When Quince realized there was a shortage of linens, she tackled the issue head on.
“The reason I started this initiative is because so many people donate clothes, so many people donate money… but nobody thinks to donate linens. It’s so needed out there. You wouldn’t imagine that one little rag could be the difference between someone taking a shower one day or not taking a shower,” Quince said.
Quince said that they are accepting all linens of any shape or color. Originally they planned to donate the linens to the Orlando Union Rescue Mission. When their policy changed to accept only white and brand new linens, they found another partner. It might have slowed college students from readily donating since students aren’t always able to purchase brand new sets of linens and sheets. So The White Linen Project partnered with the Mustard Seed of Central Florida, a furniture and clothing bank.
Quince spent the majority of last fall at the Blackstone Launchpad working out her idea and forming her team — currently composed of Tiffany Vandesande, Alyssa Ledesma, Katrina Poggio, and Chibundo Egwuatu.
“The Blackstone Launchpad was a major role player in launching The White Linen Project. I went there for coaching nearly every day in the beginning,” Quince said.
This spring, The White Linen Project, or TWLP, started in full force. They’ve set the bar high with a goal of 500 linens to be collected by the end of the month. Quince said they will be tabling outside the Student Union every Monday of this month from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. For anyone who can’t make those times, they are invited to drop off their linens at the VUCF cubicle on the second floor of the Student Union.
Their twitter hashtag for the campaign, #doyougiveasheet, has a clear agenda: catch students’ attention. Vandesande, a member of TWLP, said homelessness doesn’t have to be this taboo subject, and this hashtag shows just that.
“I think a lot of people think of it [homelessness] in a very somber light. But these are people, you know, they have emotions. They’re not always sad people. It’s not to have a laugh at it, but just to take it as it is. It doesn’t have to be this scary, untouchable subject,” Vandesande said.
If you give a sheet, you’ll be featured on their social media handles and will be actively helping fill the gap of the lack of linens in the homeless community. Check here for more information.



The Alpha Delta Pi sorority raised over $20,000 for the Ronald McDonald House at the 2015 Cheers for Charity event.
Click on the next page link for a slideshow of all the videos.



