Free food, t-shirts and discounts — every college students’ dream.
At the Spirit Week Expo being held by the Student Government Association at UCF, students can expect all that and more during the week long activities. 
Check out the list of events below!

Jan. 20 – UCF Women’s Athletics Teams Expo
– Meet UCF Women’s Team Athletes and get autographs
– Get free Pizza and T-shirts
Time: 10:30 a.m. – 3:30 p.m.
Location: UCF Student Union Atrium
Jan. 21 –  UCF Men’s Athletics Teams Expo
-Meet UCF Men’s Team Athletes and get autographs
-Get free Pizza and T-shirts
Time: 10:30 a.m. – 3:30 p.m.
Location: Student Union Atrium
Students must wear the Spirit Week t-shirts being handed out the prior two days in oder to receive the discounts.
Jan. 22 – Discount Day
-Receive special discounts from UCF vendors
STUDENT UNION DEALS
1. Smoothie King- 20 oz smoothies for $2.99.
2. College Optical- Additional 10% off on glasses and contact lenses orders.
3. Toppers- $2 Waffle Cones.
4. Subway- $5 Foot long.
5. Wackadoo’s- $5 Fat Ass Burger and Fries with a purchase of a drink.
JOHN T WASHINGTON CENTER DEALS
1. SK8 Shop- 10% off all longboards, 20% off all headphones
2. The Spot- 25 cent Color Prints (8.5 x 11) only
3. A-1 Hair Salon- $2 off any service.
4. In Style Women’s Boutique- $5 eyebrow threading
5. CHICK-FIL-A- buy one small ice cream cone, get another free!
CFE Arena
1. CFE is offering students who make a deposit or open an account on Discount Day a free UCF spirit item.
Jan. 23 – UCF Traditions Teachings and Giveaways
-Receive promotional items
-Get Free T-shirts
UCF Cheerleaders and Knightro will teach you chants and take pictures with you!
Time: 10:30 p.m. – 3:30 p.m.
Location: UCF Student Union Atrium



Blake Bortles, Daunte Culpepper and a slew of other celebrities are expected to be at UCF Saturday evening for a charity softball event.
Chris Duffy’s 2nd Annual Celebrity Softball fundraiser to benefit Boys & Girls Clubs of Central Florida is tonight, Jan. 17, at Jay Bergman Baseball Field. 
Top athletes from the NFL, MLB and NBA, along with prominent business men and women will gather together “in the Positive Spirit of Sports” to raise money and awareness for Boys & Girls Clubs of Central Florida. 
Celebrities who have committed to attend include former UCF and NFL Quarterback Daunte Culpepper, former Orlando Magic Player Nick Anderson, former UCF Baseball Outfielder Chris Duffy, former UCF and NFL Doug Gabriel and Michael Gains, former Boston Celtic and Orlando native Marquis Daniels, former Orlando Magic Player Bo Outlaw, former UCF and Dallas Cowboys Wide Receiver Jamar Newsome, Miami Marlins and MLB All-Star player Dee Gordon and “Food Wars” culinary artist Hollis Wilder.
The event starts at 5:00 p.m. with the public having the opportunity to speak with local
charities about their worthy causes. 
At 6:00 p.m. “Hit It Here!” gets underway with a Major League batting practice. At 7:00 p.m. the Teams get to it with Chris Duffy’s 2nd Annual Celebrity Softball game. 
A $15.00 donation for general admission is requested, $10.00 for students (with proper
I.D.) and VIP Passes for $50.00 provides special seating behind home plate. There may
be the opportunity for photographs and signatures from the celebrities in attendance. 
Visit WeThrowIt.com for tickets and more information. 



