Sharing the love this Valentine’s Day just got a lot saucier thanks to Qdoba’s Valentine’s Day deal.
According to Qdoba’s website, “Grab a friend – and a fork this Valentine’s Day. Smothered
Burritos are BUY ONE, GET ONE FREE for a KISS.”
The effort, #SMOTHERED4ASMOOCH, is to spread the word about their new line.
Choose from a variety of sauces to smother your burrito in, from savory queso, bold red chile, smoky chipotle creme or tangy verde. 
If your smothering will continue after the meal, carrying a pack of mints or some gum is recommended.
Whether you’re stuffing your face out of love, friendship, or just deliciousness, a kiss and BOGO burritos is a deal to endear this day of affection.
Luckily for UCF students, the on campus location will be participating. Their Valentine’s Day hours are 11 a.m to 7 p.m. 
For more information, visit Qdoba’s website.
So grab your significant other, a friend, or even a willing stranger (no judgement here) and head over to Qdoba this Valentine’s Day to embrace this loving offer.



Thanks to his credit card and SunPass, a UCF student has been reunited with his stolen vehicle.
KnightNews.com reported the story when Sandeep Bala discovered his car had been stolen from The Edge apartments in the early morning hours of Jan. 30.
Bala had left several personal items in the vehicle, a 2012 Honda Civic, including a credit card, SunPass and longboard.
Shortly after reporting the car stolen, Bala discovered a charge on his credit card from the suspect in Kissimmee.
“The suspect used the victim’s credit card to fuel up the car, and then buy a Mountain Dew and Newport cigarettes from a Circle K on Buenaventure Blvd. in Kissimmee,” said Jane Watrel, Public Information Officer with the Orange County Sherriff’s Office.
A security camera at the convenience store captured an image of the suspect.
Bala then turned to his SunPass activity to learn about the suspect’s whereabouts.
“I was able to keep the detectives updated on the pattern of activity of the thief,” Bala said.
Around 3 a.m. on Friday, Feb. 6, the suspect was seen speeding in the stolen vehicle, and the police pursued, according to Bala.
“A cop tried to pull him over, but instead of slowing down, the thief continued to speed and went into a hotel parking lot. He then got out of the car and ran. By the time the cop got to the car, the thief had already escaped,” Bala said.
Police told Bala that the suspect had other stolen wallets, licenses and credit cards in the vehicle.
The suspect had removed Bala’s fraternity letters from the vehicle to make it harder to identify, but left on the UCF decal and plate, according to Bala.
“He’d sold some of the stuff I had in the car, like my longboard, and thrown out the rest. It looked like he was stealing consistently around the Orlando area and was moving between hotels,” Bala said.
The only damage to the vehicle was a new dent, a cigarette burn on the seat and the strong smell of cigarette smoke, according to Bala.
The suspect is still at large, according to Bala.
Bala’s final words for the suspect: “Keep your eyes open for this guy around UCF – I’m sure he’ll be back. I’d love to see this guy in jail for a good number of years.”
Anyone with information is asked to call Crimeline at 800-423-TIPS (8477).



Senior forward Kasey Wilson led the Knights to victory in a game played against rival USF Wednesday night, snapping a six-game losing streak with the win.
Wilson tallied 18 points and 11 rebounds to notch his third career double-double, returning after 10 days without practice due to a concussion. Alongside Wilson, Daiquan Walker and Stephon Blair finished the night with 10 and 14 points, respectively. The trio’s balanced scoring attack held the lead most of the game for UCF and its packed student section.  
“Coach was telling me ‘keep being aggressive,’ so it worked out and it helped me out,” said Kasey Wilson. “It was a good night and I’m thankful for it. We’ve all been positive and we’ve come together.”
The 73-62 win came as a welcome result for the players and the 6,200 fans in attendance. UCF held the lead from five minutes into the first half and through the end.
“I want to thank the students and the Knightmare section for coming out strong,” UCF head coach Donnie Jones said after the game. “Our guys brought that up right off the bat in the locker room. The energy that they provided tonight, and all the fans, made a great atmosphere for our players.”
Halftime saw the score at 35-26 in UCF’s favor after a 26-11 run made by the Knights. UCF’s largest lead increased to 20 points in the second half, soon cut to 9 after a few fast breaks by the Bulls, although that was about the closest the Bulls got to sniffing out a victory .
The Knights haven’t lost to USF by double digits since December of 2000. The loss brings USF’s record down to (7-17, 1-10) while improving UCF’s to (9-13, 2-9).
UCF will face the Bulls again in its last regular season game on March 4. The Knight’s next game will be at home against Houston, a team they beat previously in overtime, on Feb. 15 at 2:00 p.m.



