Story updated for official filing.
Senator Darren Soto and Representative Rene Placensia officially filed legislation late October in the name of former UCF student Chloe Arenas.
The proposed law would require barriers along dangerous bodies of water bordering state roads in Florida.
Soto and Placensia spoke to Knight News and reporters at the Orange County Courthouse Monday announcing the official filing and timeframe the community should see the bill progress.

Fatal accidents that occurred or reoccurred in certain bodies of water over the past ten years will take priority for the proposed law – “Chloe’s Law” – which aims to reduce the number of lives lost to vehicle-related drownings in the state of Florida, a state which leads the U.S. in such fatalities.
In the Federal Highway Administration’s most recent Fatal Analysis Reporting System, a two-year period saw the loss of 60 Floridians. The years 2012 and 2013 had the Sunshine State top the list of occupants killed in submerged vehicle crashes with nearly two-fold the runner up, Louisiana, at 32 deaths.
The data continues records reviewed by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration from 2008 to 2012 that show Florida carrying 49 drownings inside vehicles during the five-year period.
The state senator expressed the need for change in preventing retention-pond deaths, stating that victims of drowning incidents have been a continuing tragedy. His statement follows the emergence of high-profile cold cases solved in the last month in Florida, including a missing Navy sailor found in an accident that occurred in 2003, and a missing 36-year-old woman found in an accident that occurred in 1990.
Senator Soto detailed his plan of introducing the law to Knight News prior to the announcement.
“I have begun the process by requesting the Florida Department of Transportation re-examine their guardrail assessment standards,” Soto said. “Their response will be critical to crafting new legislation based upon any shortfalls which exist in the current standards.”
Once a bill has been filed, it will be assigned to several committees. Senator Soto will then present the bill to the committees while a member of the Florida House of Representatives continues the same process in the House.
The University of Central Florida Student Government Association’s speaker of the house Meghan Kircher and legislative affairs coordinator Tyler Yeargain were in attendance at the press conference to declare support for the congressmen and family of Arenas, as well as the UCF community, also noting the support Knights have shown for the cause.

A petition started in July of 2015 has garnered more than 57,000 signatures in support of the law across the U.S., even making the homepage of Change.org in the same month.
Senator Soto spoke at the courthouse commending the outpouring of support the UCF community has shown, as did Placensia.
January’s legislative session will see “Chloe’s Law” go to a vote should the document pass through its respective committees.
Knight News will be in Tallahassee to bring coverage of the law at the legislative session.



A bicyclist was hit by a vehicle on Gemini Blvd. early Monday evening, according to a University of Central Florida police officer.
The accident occurred shortly after 6 p.m. at the intersection of Gemini Blvd. and Central Florida Blvd.
“Bicyclist was Ok but transported to the hospital as a precaution,” UCFPD spokesperson Courtney Gilmartin said.
This is a breaking story. Check back for updates.



George O’Leary may be retiring as head football coach but his wallet won’t be retiring from the athletics department…
O’Leary will remain on payroll until March 2020 receiving an annual base salary of $200,000, according to his contract.
KnightNews.com obtained a copy of O’Leary’s contract which states that O’Leary will be employed as “Special Liaison to the the Director of Athletics on Football Operations from January 5, 2015 through March 15, 2020.”
The contract states that O’Leary will work under the Athletics Director during the “Special Liaison Period” and that he “shall not be required to render more than twelve (12) hours of service to the Association in any one year” of the liaison period.
That means that O’Leary will be making over $16,000 an hour.
The contract also restricts O’Leary from accepting a head coach position at another FBS institution during his liaison period.
O’Leary is entitled to a personnel benefits package and will not be eligible for leave benefits, the contract says.
For more coverage on O’Leary’s retirement announcement:
UCF Interim Head Coach Discusses New Position
UCF Football Coach George O’Leary Retiring



ORLANDO, Fla. – The win-less Knights will now be led by interim head coach Danny Barrett, who spoke to the media on Monday about his new position.
“I’ve been in a similar situation before, my first couple years of coaching where an incident like [O’Leary’s retirement] happened,” coach Barrett said. “But it wasn’t done the right way, so I had a sincere conversation with Coach O’Leary. Obviously this is not something that he wanted to do, but at the same time he did wish me well and said go get ‘em.”
Coach Barrett began his coaching career in the CFL in 1997 as a quarterbacks coach for the Calgary Stampeders, which was the same position he held with the Knights this season up until George O’Leary’s retirement. In Calgary, Barrett coached and helped develop eventual NFL pro-bowler Jeff Garcia to his first professional accolade as the division’s top player.
Following the 1997 season, Barrett found himself as the assistant offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach for the B.C. Lions. In his second season with the Lions, Barrett actually had to suit up as the team’s backup quarterback for 15 games while serving as the team’s wide receivers coach. His work with the Lions over those two seasons would land Barrett his first ever head coaching position with the Saskatchewan Roughriders.
The Roughriders steadily improved under Barrett’s six seasons with the team while only managing one winning record, but he helped right the sinking ship and brought them to the West Final after nine consecutive losing seasons. Immediately following Barrett’s departure from the Roughriders, the team managed to win a Grey Cup for the first time in nearly 20 years.
“To date, I’m the only one on the [UCF] staff that has previous head coaching experience and I think it makes a difference to leave [the coordinators] in play so we can keep our defense and offense in tact with what they are doing,” coach Barrett said.
Barrett actually made his way to college coaching when he accepted a position as the assistant head coach and quarterbacks coach at the University of Buffalo under Turner Gill. The University of Buffalo won their first ever MAC championship and went to their first-ever bowl game under Gill and Barrett. In 2009, Turner Gill accepted the Kansas Jayhawks head coaching position and the interim head coach label fell on Barrett for the first time.
However, in just a short eight days, Buffalo hired Cincinnati’s offensive coordinator Jeff Quinn to be the university’s next head coach which left Danny Barrett looking for another job.
The Boynton Beach native found his next position with Bethune-Cookman as their quarterback coach where he helped run ‘Speedway’ offense. The ‘Speedway’ offense was a quicker version of the spread offense that Bethune-Cookman ran to a lot of success in 2010 as they reached the FCS postseason and won a share of the MEAC Championship.
“I’m all about winning, that’s the only reason I came [to UCF], because this is a winning institution,” Barrett said. “That’s the only reason I stayed with previous opportunities to leave, I stayed here because this is a winning program and we are going to continue to try to get back on track.”
Barrett was brought on by George O’Leary in 2011 to be the running backs coach for UCF and while at that position he coached three consecutive all-conference first team running backs. Those running backs names are certainly familiar to the UCF faithful: Latavius Murray, Storm Johnson, and the recently dismissed Will Stanback.
“Coach Barrett has always been a very organized guy and he’s always been pinpoint accurate with his things that he does. He makes that everybody’s on point, so it’s just more of the same,” senior Cedric Thompson said. 
Danny Barrett’s toughest test now will be in steering the Knights back in the right direction after this rough start and keeping the team focused going forward.
“What you have to do now is make sure the players understand what’s going on, its business as usual for us as coaches and it always will be,” Barrett said. “But for a young man 17-18 years old, his world just got turned upside down and where does he go next? So it’s my job and the rest of these coaches to make sure these players still feel as though they have a legitimate opportunity to one, get that degree and eventually play for championships.”
While the team continues to deal with the departure of George O’Leary, Danny Barrett will try to get the team on track and ready to face his alma mater Cincinnati in his first game as the Knight’s interim head coach this Saturday at 12 p.m.
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla



The U.S. Women’s National Team played against Brazil at the Orlando Citrus Bowl on Sunday, October 25th, 2015. The score for the game was the U.S. won 3-1.





Photo credit: Aileen Perilla

Photo credit: Aileen Perilla



UCF Knights’ interim head coach discussed the future of the team at a Monday afternoon press conference only one day after George O’Leary’s sudden retirement announcement. 

“In an effort to allow UCF to accelerate its search for my successor and clarify the facts regarding my future plans, I am retiring effective immediately,” O’Leary said in his statement on Sunday. 
Although O’Leary will not finish out the rest of the 2015 football season, UCF quarterbacks coach Danny Barrett, who has been with the team for five years, will serve as interim head coach for the remainder of the season and is optimistic about the Knights’ future. 
“We got to stay together and find a way to win a ball game,” Barrett said. “You know and it has to start tomorrow when we get back on the practice field and it all starts with the right attitude.”
UCF football players Thomas Niles, Joseph Puopolo and Cedric Thompson spoke together and answered questions from the media before Barrett at the press conference. 
Puopolo, H-back for the Knights, described the room as “quiet” after O’Leary personally told the football team about his retirement.
“We didn’t really know how to react,” he added.
Thompson, H-back for the Knights, expressed that he thinks O’Leary would not have made this retirement announcement if the team were having a successful season.
“It is tough because a lot of the losses and a lot of things that we went through was on us as a team,” Thompson said. 
Thompson continued to talk about how he believes the coaches have done their job in preparing the football players. 
“It is a little disheartening, as a player, to know that we could of had a greater effect on this in a more positive manner,” Thompson said.  
Thompson added the he does not know if O’Leary’s decision will help the program, but the team has four games to play and they need to focus on finishing strong.
“In this program we have pride and we don’t quit,” Thompson said. “We work hard regardless if things aren’t going the way we want them to go; We still want to finish strong.”
Barrett said he is going to focus on motivating the football players. 
This will not be the first time Barrett has taken on such as position since he worked as the head coach for the Canadian Football League’s Saskatchewan Roughriders from 2000 to 2006. Barrett stated at the press conference that he is the only staff member to date that has previous head coaching experience. 
UCF offensive coordinator Brent Key will receive a $700,000 payout in exchange for not being the Knights’ next head coach, said Grant Heston, Vice President of communications and marketing at UCF. 
The university expects to hire a new vice president and director of athletics by December, the release states. After those positions are filled, the new athletics director will search for a new head football coach. 
Barrett said he came to UCF because it was “the place to be.” He added, “and it’s still the place to be.” 
Photo by Aileen Perilla



The Orlando Pride announced three acquisitions to their newly formed team, set to make their inaugural season debut in 2016.
Among the three comes Alex Morgan, an Olympic gold medalist, FIFA Women’s World Cup Champion and a forward for the U.S. Women’s National Team. Canadian international Kaylyn Kyle and U.S. international Sarah Hagen also join Morgan for the Orlando Pride’s debut.
Orlando City SC founder and president Phil Rawlins spoke to reporters at halftime of USWNT vs. Brazil match at the Orlando Citrus Bowl Sunday hinting at the acquisition of Morgan. A reporter commented to Rawlins “Now feels like a good time, though, to make a big announcement for a big name if you want to do that,” to which Rawlins happily noted “It kinda does, doesn’t it? But then there would be no point in a press conference tomorrow!”

Orlando soccer fan suspicions were confirmed in Downtown Orlando on Monday when the Orlando Pride made their official announcement, also stating what were given for the players in terms of draft picks and player trades.
“Today marks a significant milestone in building a successful professional women’s club here in Orlando,” said Rawlins. “Signing three players with the caliber of Alex, Kaylyn and Sarah clearly demonstrates the club’s intention to be successful from the very start. I’d like to welcome all three players to ‘The City Beautiful,’ and I look forward to seeing them and the rest of the Pride on the pitch next season.”
The Portland Thorns received the top overall pick in the 2015 expansion draft, the No. 1 overall pick in the 2016 NWSL college draft and international roster spots for the 2016 and 2017 season as part of the deal.
Morgan also wanted to stay closer to her husband, Orlando City midfielder Servando Carrasco, which became a motivator for the request from Alex to the Thorns.
The USWNT and FIFA star will bring exposure and skill to the Pride, being among the most adept and accomplished soccer players in the world.
“Alex Morgan is a dynamic, prolific striker in the global women’s game, with all of the qualities that we look for in a star player,” said Orlando City general manager Paul McDonough at the conference.  “Her career and accomplishments in the game speak for themselves. She will instantly raise the profile of the Orlando Pride, and help develop an attacking style of play for the team.”
The addition of Morgan will likely overshadow Kyle and Hagen as the fanfare continues to play. Not to take away from the skill of the latter two, McDonough continued.
“Kaylyn Kyle and Sarah Hagen bring additional international experience and a championship pedigree to Orlando. Kaylyn is a tough tackling midfielder with extensive league experience. Sarah has a strong track record of scoring goals both domestically and abroad. We expect Sarah and Alex will form a potentially lethal partnership on the attack. These three signings bring world class talent to the squad and we look forward to adding other exciting players in the upcoming Expansion and College Drafts.”
The Orlando Pride will play in the Citrus Bowl at the start of the season and move to the Orlando City soccer stadium upon its completion, as with the Orlando City Lions. A schedule has not yet been released to the public.
Photo credit: Aileen Perilla



After The Basement started offering free beer until UCF won a football game, another business is hopping on board and giving free rides to UCF fans around campus.
Uber is offering new users a first free ride within a certain radius around the UCF campus until the Knights win a football game, according to Bleacher Report.
All fans have to do is use the promo code “KNIGHTSWIN” when they sign up.
The Knights have four more chances this season to win a game, one of them being against USF on Thanksgiving night. 
With the bad comes the good and deals like this are making this season just a little more easier to cope with. 



Knights came together at Memory Mall on Oct. 23 to celebrate the University of Central Florida’s second homecoming fireworks show.
Crowds watched the show in the sky all over campus, including from the top of parking garages and the Reflecting Pond.
Miss the fireworks or want to relive the spectacle all over again? Check out our photo gallery:



The University of Central Florida’s registered student organizations and Greek life came together on Oct. 20 to put on acts at homecoming’s Skit Knight.
Knight News was there to shoot both photos and video of the event.
Did you make our photo gallery? Check the images below.



