On November 14th, 2015, Alpha Tau Omega will be hosting its 11th annual Rock the Wreath philanthropy concert benefitting the Children’s Miracle Network, a non-profit organization that raises money for more than 170 children’s hospitals.
Doors will open at 7:30 at the ATO house located at 4419 Greek Court Orlando, FL 32816.
ATO’s goal this year is set at $50,000. 
The main performer of the night will be Henry Fong. Fong’s music has seen support from Hardwell, Avicii, Armin Van Buuren, Calvin Harris, Knife Party, Bingo Players, Tommy Trash, and the list keeps growing, according to the FaceBook event page.



Sunday marked the beginning of this year’s action packed homecoming week with the 6th annual Kidz Carnival at Lake Claire. 
Below are the rest of this week’s events.
Monday:
Royalty voting opens for homecoming court
Students can log on to MyUCF to vote starting at 9:00 a.m.
Comedy Knight
This year’s acts include Damon Wayans Jr. and Jimmy Tatro. Doors will open at 8:00 p.m. and the show will begin at 9:00 p.m. Floor seats are first come first serve. Tickets are free with a student ID. Alumni can purchase tickets through UCF for a discounted price and the general public can purchase tickets for the full price.
Tuesday:
Skit Knight
Skit Knight is known to be a huge tradition during UCF’s homecoming week. Performances will begin at 9:00 p.m.
Wednesday:
Concert Knight
Big Sean will be this year’s main performer at the CFE Arena. Doors will open at 7:00 p.m. and the show will begin at 8:00 p.m. Free tickets have already been distributed but can still be purchased through UCF.
Thursday:
Coin Wars
From 11:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m., homecoming teams will be competing against each other to get points and raise money for Knight-Thon.
Movie Knight
UCF Homecoming asks you to join them on Memory Mall at 7:30 p.m. for Minions.
Friday:
Spirit Splash
Awarded Best Campus Tradition 2011 by the National Association for Campus Activities (NACA), Spirit Splash is the Nation’s greatest pep rally. Come in your swim suits and get crazy in preparation for the big game at the reflecting pond in front of the library at 2:00 p.m. Free T-shirts, guest speakers, and lots of ducks! This is one Homecoming tradition you won’t want to miss!
Fireworks
Join UCF Homecoming on Memory Mall at 9:30 p.m. for their 2nd annual fireworks show.
Saturday:
UCF vs. Houston
This year’s homecoming game will kick off at noon. Campus will become wet for tailgates starting at 8:00 a.m.



Dozens of students arrived at Lake Claire Saturday evening to recognize and celebrate the life of Michael Namey, a freshman who became victim to a sudden heart attack late September.
The vigil had been planned by the family as well as Theta Chi and Manny Ballestas, a first responder who immediately began first-aid procedures moments after the medical incident took place.
Students showed support with roses, awareness bands and candles at the Lake Claire pavilion and dock by the lake, including donations to ease costs on the family for putting their Knight to rest. A three-minute moment of silence was held at 8 p.m. where students placed the white roses and candles around a portrait of Michael resting by a tree at the front of the lake.

Among the supporters were UCF police.
Sergeant James Mangan of UCFPD was the first officer on the scene in the fight to revive Michael before EMTs were able to transport the engineering student to the hospital. The officer arrived at the vigil with the family and Ballestas well before the event began and stayed as other officers arrived to gather with fellow Knights.
“The UCF community came together and did everything they could during the incident,” Mangan said. “After the incident, the police department continues to be a part of this community and we want to show we’re here to support our students.”
The family of Michael received condolences and compassion from citizens of Europe, Africa, Australia and more as the story made its way through international newsrooms.
“I want to thank each and every one of you for being here tonight,” Connie Namey, Michael’s mother, said as the vigil closed. “It means so much to us. Thank you – thank you for everything you’ve done.”



Orlando City Soccer team (12-8-13) faced their rivals New York City FC to secure a 2-1 win on Friday Oct. 16 at the Citrus bowl in Orlando, Fla.    








Most people wouldn’t think a night of playing trivia could be a way to save a man’s best friend – but it can be.
Scottie Campbell hosts a trivia night every Tuesday from 6 to 8:30 p.m. at the Hammered Lamb’s patio in Ivanhoe Village. Ten percent of all food and drink sales made during trivia hours goes to Florida Little Dog Rescue (FLDR) and any tips that Campbell receives goes straight to a dog facing death row. It costs $75 to rescue a dog from being euthanized.
FLDR is a foster facility, which means no shelter to visit, and no caged animals. Instead they set up temporary homes for the dogs with volunteers, who take care of the dogs until they can be placed in a permanent home.
Campbell’s dad, Glen Swem, often comes out to support both Campbell and the pups. Swem said that Campbell has always had a dog in his life.
His current dog, Bernie, was rescued by FLDR when he and his sister were abandoned in a park as puppies. Bernie can be seen from time to time at trivia night, where dogs are welcome in the patio area. Campbell says he’s become a sort of mascot.
“Adoptions made sense to me,” Campbell said when asked why he started adopting rescues, “my mom was adopted… it always starts with humans.” 
Campbell said it was natural for him to take that concept and transition it to rescue dogs.
Campbell had narrowed the list to three shelters in which he wanted to donate to and left the final choice to the winners. Campbell said FLDR was chosen by a winning trivia group a little less than a year ago.



Students from UCF’s Sangam Indian Student Association held their second annual Garba and Dandiya Rass dance night Friday, Oct. 16 in the Pegasus Ballroom.
Garba and Dandiya Rass are traditional Indian dances which are typically performed during the celebration of Navratri, a nine day festival celebrated throughout Indian culture.
The evening began with students learning how to perform the Garba dance, a quick paced dance requiring fast footwork and clapping in unison. Eventually it resulted in a room filled with swirling colorful skirts and clapping hands as everyone began to master the dance.
UCF students from all backgrounds were given the opportunity to learn these dance steps Friday night, even if they have never done it before.
Pavan Bucha, a UCF computer science grad student who is originally from India, had never been to a Garba and Rass dance night but said he enjoyed the event.
“I’ve never been to a Garba, not even back in my country [India] so this is my first time learning these steps,” Bucha said. “This is also my first to a Sangam event but I’m planning on joining in on their next event.”
Trevor Jenkins, a sophomore computer science major at UCF was also attending a Garba and Rass dance for the first time and immediately found himself dancing with the rest of the crowd.
“I immediately joined the circle of dance. It’s great, they have an advance circle and a beginning circle,” Jenkins said. “Garba. Loved it. Garba all night.”
Besides the dancing festivities, traditional Indian food was available for purchase.
Sangam is planning on hosting an event, the Diwali Show, in celebration of the Festival of Lights on Oct. 25 starting at 5 p.m. This event is free with a valid UCF student ID and a free dinner is provided.



