Speaker of the Senate Meghan Kircher has refused to comment on the resignation of former Supervisor of Elections Nicklas Bajema. Bajema resigned after he said he felt “harassed” by the senate leadership.

Knight News reached out to Kircher many times for a comment on Bajema’s resignation but never received an answer. 
When asked about the controversy by Knight News reporter Michael Williams during an open forum, Kircher had “nothing to say.”
Bajema explained that he felt “there were massive amounts of harassment and bullying.”
“I had gone through the formal channels to shed light on the problem in which the pro staff was telling the collective group to back off but I felt as if my claims were falling on deaf ears as far as student leadership goes,” Bajema said.



Sigma Chi tried to argue that the three brothers participating in the hazing incident were acting within their own capacity and not on behalf of their organization, and that the fraternity should not be held responsible as a whole, UCF records show.
“There were several discussions during today’s hearing related to the notion of Group Responsibility, and its application to the incident. The argument was made that because there were three brothers acting within their own capacity and within a non-organizational responsibility, that Sigma Chi as a whole should not be held responsible,” said David Oglethorpe, the administrative hearing officer, in his rationale.
Despite that there were three brothers carrying out the hazing on the pledge, there were five to six active brothers present, according to UCF documents.
READ RATIONALE SAYING SUSPENSION SHOULD LAST THROUGH FALL 2017
After the hazing incident had occurred, the fraternity did not report it to the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life or the Office of Student Conduct. This requirement was added to Sigma Chi’s bylaws by its members during its past disciplinary sanction review process, according to UCF documents.
The rationale stated Sigma Chi admitted it was in violation of disruptive conduct during the hearing, but pleaded not guilty of hazing and alcohol misconduct.
The fraternity also admitted that several pledges were initiated into the organization, although they were ineligible due to grades and/or enrollment status, according to UCF documents.
Oglethorpe continued to say in the rationale that current changes are being made and that the administration of the fraternity is dedicated to a culture of change. However, it is also apparent that changes needed to be made from the organization’s previous violation had not been made.
Oglethorpe recommended that the fraternity go on suspension through the end of the Fall 2017 semester.



Flu season is upon us and UCF does not want their students getting infected with the influenza virus. 
UCF held its annual health expo Wednesday morning where students had an opportunity to get a free flu shot.
“On a campus like UCF where there is so many students, you can imagine how many people are touching the same door handles, the same desktops, the same computer keyboards,” said UCF marketing coordinator for Health Services, Megan Pabian. “Germs do circulate pretty quickly in this condensed environment.”
According to Florida Department of Health: “Estimates are that between 15 percent and 40 percent of the population will develop illness from influenza every year. An average of about 36,000 people per year in the United States die from influenza, and 114,000 per year have to be admitted to the hospital as a result of influenza infection.”
Some students said they are afraid that they might get infected with the flu virus and they want to avoid it at all cost.
Ryan Lundy, a junior Hospitality Management major from Germany, said he wants to be prepared for the flu season.
“I don’t want to get sick,” said Lundy. “I’m going to be starting a new job soon and I figured if I’m going to be working at Disney, I might as well get a flu shot when I’m going to be around all those people.”
“I remember getting sick once a long time ago and it was the end of the flu season so I wasn’t sure if it was the flu or not, but every since then I’ve always gotten the flu shot just to be safe,” added Lundy.
Although, most people get the flu shot to be safe. A common misconception is that the flu shot makes you more susceptible to getting the flu virus.
“That is totally false, that is a myth,” said Pabian. “You do not get the flu from getting a flu shot. After getting a flu shot you can expect maybe a little soreness in your arm, you might feel a little bit tired, but other than that those are the only side effects and their gone within 12 hours after getting the shot.”
Sometimes the flu shot won’t work well with fighting against the flu virus. 
Every year scientists attempt to forecast which virus strains on the loose that will infect people when flu season hits.
“The flu is always unpredictable, but the best defense is getting a flu shot,” said Pabian. “The flu shot does contain protection for the most common strands that they predict will be circulating this flu season.”
“Get a flu shot and then after that make sure you’re using good hand hygiene,” added Pabian.



Seeing bags unattended at the gym is not an uncommon issue. However, after a recent incident, students should think twice before leaving their belongings out in the open while working out. 
The University of Central Florida Police Department made an arrest early Tuesday morning regarding a stolen gym bag while the victim was playing basketball, according to UCFPD spokesperson Courtney Gilmartin.
Roshane Walker was playing basketball at the RWC Monday around 11 p.m. and placed his bag on a bench near the court. At the end of his game, the bag was missing.
Inside of the bag was an Apple Iphone 6, a black leather wallet, a credit card, a debit card, 9 dollars in cash, green Nike shoes and keys.
Walker was able to track his phone through a friend’s Iphone and GPS, according to the arrest affidavit.
Once contacting the police and locating his belongings, Walker and UCFPD headed to Collegiate Village Apartments to find the individual who stole his bag, the affidavit states.
Once at the apartment complex, Walker was able to identify the defendant, 23-year-old Hudson Ferguson III, according to the affidavit. 
The defendant admitted to UCFPD that he stole the bag from the RWC, the affidavit states. 
The cell phone was missing from the bag. The victim also reported that the defendant was wearing shoes that were inside the bag before the theft occurred, according to the affidavit.
The report states that the defendant showed the officer where he hid the stolen Iphone, under a trash can located on the second story of the apartment. 
Gilmartin said that Ferguson admitted to taking the items “saying he needed money for food. Ferguson said he used a friend’s guest pass to enter the RWC and then took the bag after some encouragement from friends who he did not identify.”
Ferguson spent $110.03 on food purchases from local restaurants. He was arrested for 3rd degree grand theft and taken to Orange County Jail, according to Gilmartin.
“First, never leave your items unattended. Theft is the top crime at any college campus, and we want students to help prevent these crimes of opportunity by either keeping an eye on their valuables or making sure they are secured,” Gilmartin said.
UCFPD also wants students to know that if a crime occurs, they are a resource for them. 
“We encourage students to report crimes or suspicious activity to us,” Gilmartin said, “and we take it seriously when they do. Police and the community working together makes UCF safer for everyone.”



Netflix will raise its standard memebership plan by 1 dollar, making it $9.99 per month.
The company’s other plans have not been changed. 



