KnightNews.com is giving away two tickets to Halloween Horror Nights at Universal Studios Orlando! 
It’s easy to win.
See instructions to enter below.


Follow @UCFKnightNews
Tweet #KnightNewsContest

Your tweets must be public for us to see your entry. Click next page, below, for official rules. 



At Lake Claire, on Friday at 5 p.m., the UCF and Orlando community will gather to show support for the family and life of Michael Namey, a freshman at UCF who suffered a sudden cardiac arrest during a lecture class late September.
Namey was unable to recover from the medical incident after attempts of revival by UCFPD, EMTs and first responders. An outpouring of support followed shortly after, reaching an international scale from Europe to South Africa.
A vigil has been planned by close ones to celebrate Namey’s life and will also include a fundraiser, on gofundme.com, to ease costs on the family for putting their Knight to rest.
Candles, red rose stems and awareness bands will be given for any amount of donation at the event, where donations would go to the family of Michael.
Manny Ballestas, the first responder who attempted to revive Namey, organized the event along with the brothers of Theta Chi to “remember a remarkable human being” and “also to encourage everyone to go out and get CPR/AED trained,” Manny said in a post.
Ballestas met with the mother and brother of the engineering student the week following the tragic loss of their son to share condolences. The three discussed holding an on-campus vigil so that friends of Michael, and strangers affected by the loss, had the opportunity to express their grief. A nearby fire department has been reached and asked to come and teach students and supporters how to act quickly and effectively with hands-on CPR training in the event of an emergency.
The vigil begins at 5 p.m. and a moment of silence for Michael begins at 8 p.m. sharp.
Ballestas expressed his gratitude for the responses showed by UCF, Orlando and the international community.
“Thank you to everyone that has shown endless support. Together we could literally change sudden cardiac arrest statistics which in return will save lives.”
 



UCF Head Coach George O’Leary was adamant that the wide receiver drops played a big factor in the outcome of the UConn game at a press conference on Monday.
“Last week’s game, the biggest issue was the nine dropped passes,” O’Leary said. “And you know when you look at time of possession, 38 minutes to 21 minutes. Six of the drops occurred on third down which would have prolonged the series and obviously the field position.”
The drops that plagued the Knights definitely played a factor in junior quarterback Justin Holman’s play as well, but that could be attributed to the fact that most of the receivers that he played with in the first two weeks were not there on Saturday.
“When I left, the same guys that are playing now weren’t there, you know, that were starting the game,” Holman said. “So I just had to get adjusted to that, but we are working this week to get that on track.”
Jordan Akins is out indefinitely with a knee injury and Tristan Payton missed last week’s game with a hand injury. That left Tre’Quan Smith and Nick Patti as the only two receivers that had started with Holman in the first two weeks.
The state of the Knight’s receiving core has been in flux week to week which can cause issues when developing chemistry with the starting quarterback. However, barring any more injuries, true freshmen receivers Cam Stewart and D’Erren Wilson will have all the time they need in the coming weeks to begin developing that chemistry.
“Yeah, we’re young and we had a lot of injuries, but we got to keep moving and its next man up,” Holman said. “[Our coaches] have done a great job of showing us the good things we are doing throughout this whole season.”
The offense will have to get back on track quickly against an undefeated Temple team this Saturday night at Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia.



