SEE UPDATE ON HOW THIS POLICY MAY BE CHANGING HERE.
KnightNews.com received several reports from students saying they started noticing the ban being enforced Monday night.
According to the UCF RWC website, “Shirts must be worn at all times. Shirts or tops must fully cover the back, front and sides of the torso. Shirts that are manufactured or altered to expose abdominal area or ribcage are not considered appropriate.”
A UCF RWC receptionist said the ban includes any tank top that is see through, cut on the sides, or exposes the front torso in such a way that is too revealing and unsanitary.




Amazon is planning to launch a new delivery system next year called Amazon Prime Air, uses drones to deliver packages to to customers within 30 minutes of ordering. 

However, the Federal Aviation Administration would need to modify regulations before the service can launch. Amazon previously announced their interest in pursuing drone deliveries in 2013 but there were complications with rules set by the FAA requiring drones to be in the operator’s eyesight, according to Business Insider.
Last week the FAA announced in a congressional hearing that they will finalize regulations for commercial drones and Amazon Prime Air will launch shortly after, the Daily Mail reported.
Amazon states that these innovative deliveries with small unmanned aerial vehicles are the future of the mailing system.
“One day, seeing Prime Air vehicles will be as normal as seeing mail trucks on the road,” Amazon states in their Frequently Asked Questions. 



The University of Central Florida participated in the World’s Largest Swimming Lesson event on Thursday, June 18 to break the world record. It is estimated that 40,000 individuals in 900 different locations participated in the collaborative event, according to a press release.





				Dylan Preble, 19, a legal Studies major at UCF, and Emily Eschen, 19, a Biomedical major at UCF, instruct the Creative School of Children (CSC) swim group who are eager to learn. Preble was excited “to help teach kids about water safety and to be more comfortable in the event of an emergency so as not to freak out.” (Photo by Aileen Perilla)
				




				Swimmers practice their kicking skills. (Photo by Aileen Perilla)
				




				Lacey Carter, Facilities and Aquatics Coordinator, looks on as one of the CSC kids jumps in. Carter said, “The World’s Largest Swim Lesson is a great way to get pool safety out to kids across the world. Especially it being summer time and people being in an aquatic environment has increased, and here at UCF and we’re glad to be a part of it. This is our first year doing it, so we’re looking forward to doing it in the future.” (Photo by Aileen Perilla)
				




				Dylan Preble, 19, instructs proper swimming techniques through a curriculum provided by World’s Largest Swim Lesson (WLSL) 2015.  (Photo by Aileen Perilla)
				




				Lacey Carter, holds a student from CSC as they practice floating in the leisure pool. (Photo by Aileen Perilla)
				




				Hayden Nassoiy, 7, practices his flutter kicks at UCF leisure pool as part of WLSL 2015. (Photo by Aileen Perilla)
				





