New details are becoming available in the recent sex crime case that occurred at the University of Central Florida affiliated Knight’s Circle apartment complex.
The UCF police department recently sent out a press release announcing the arrest of Edward Santana Thorpe, stating “Thorpe has no UCF affiliation and is not an official resident of the complex.”
The UCFPD press release also said, the victim, a minor with no UCF affiliation, and a female friend met with Thorpe on Nov. 16 near Alafaya Trail and McCulloch Road “and voluntarily hopped a wall with him to enter Knights Circle.”
If after reading the press release you inferred that the suspect did not live at the UCF affiliated housing complex, you’d be incorrect.
Knight News decided to dig deeper and pulled court records and found out “Thorpe lives in the apartment complex with his girlfriend,” according to a lawfully sworn UCF police officer’s testimony in an affidavit for arrest warrant against Edward Santana Thorpe.
While Thorpe is not an “official” resident of the complex, he lives with his girlfriend at Knight’s Circle, a UCF student affiliated apartment complex that the university promotes to its students.
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”79256″]
The victim told the UCFPD officer that she and her friends had gone to the 7/11 gas station to buy a black and mild cigarette. While the girls were waiting to be picked up by friends of one of the girls she was with, the victim stated that they met a group of guys, according to the affidavit.
One of the guys said they would send one of their friends over. Thorpe then arrived at the gas station and took the girls back to the Knight’s Circle apartment complex, according to the affidavit.
The victim said that Thorpe gave her something to smoke and she did not know what it was. She also told the officer that Thorpe had asked to have sex with her. “I didn’t want to, but I was kind of scared so I consented and then half way through I asked him to stop but he didn’t,” said the victim to the officer, according to the affidavit.
According to the affidavit, the minor told the officer that the details of the night were hard to remember because she was “so high” and her “brain was blurt.” She did not remember what the male was wearing and would not recognize him if she saw him again, according to the arrest affidavit.
According to the arrest affidavit, Thorpe told the UCFPD officer that the girls he was with asked if he had any marijuana on him. Thorpe told the girls he had a pre-rolled joint, the affidavit said.
As they were walking around the complex smoking the joint, one of the girls asked Thorpe if he wanted to have sex, Thorpe said, according to the affidavit.
Thorpe said that she then proceeded to pull down her down her pants. He described her behavior in the affidavit as though she “enjoying it, engaged, embracing it,” according to the arrest affidavit.
According to the affidavit, Thorpe admitted that the two black females that were with the two white girls “looked kind of young.”
Almost one month after the incident on December 25, Edward Santana Thorpe was arrested at 12227 King’s Knight Way inside of the Knight’s Circle apartment complex, where UCF admitted he “lives,” but not as an “official” resident.



New Year’s Eve is only a couple days away and many night clubs in Orlando are hoping to spend the last hours of 2015 right by their side.
The biggest parties happening in the Orlando area are listed below.
Knight’s Library:
Cover – $10
Free drinks and drafts from 9-12 p.m.
$15 bottles of champagne
Stagger Inn UCF:
Pre-sale tickets – $15
Cover at door – $20
Complimentary bottle of champagne for pre sale ticket holders
Knight’s Pub:
Free drinks from 9-12 p.m.
Draft beers – $1
Bottled beers – $2
Two for $30 bottles of champagne
Champagne toast at midnight
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”79256″]
The Attic Orlando:
Pre sale tickets – $50
Open bar from 9-12 p.m.
Complimentary bottle of champagne
ONO Nightclub:
Ladies general admission early bird – $25
Gentlemen general admission early bird – $40
Under 21 ticket (18-20) – $35
Saddle Up:
Cover – $10
Champagne toast at midnight



