Daylight Saving Time came to an end at 2 a.m. on Sunday, causing UCF students and most of America to “fall back” an hour in time.
This year, Daylight Saving ended the morning following Halloween night, giving costumed guests an extra hour to enjoy festivities; Or an extra hour of horror movie binging.
Alex Thomas, a sophomore at UCF who is majoring in accounting said that the extra hour of sleep positively affected his November morning.
“I woke up earlier. Like I woke up at 11 instead of 12 like I usually do,” Thomas said. “I felt one hour more productive.”
While the extra hour allows some people to enjoy the extra hour of sleep, students such as Cole Pfautz, a junior UCF Spanish major, were not affected too much from the change.
“It did not affect me,” Pfautz said. “I’m used to the time I wake up to normally so the change didn’t really change that since my phone was automatically set.”
Andrea Bender, a sophomore biomed major at UCF also expressed how the time change did not affect her sleep schedule in anyway.
“It didn’t have any effect on me because I was sleeping the entire time then I woke up as usual,” Bender said. “Time is a construct of human perception. It’s all relative so that’s why I don’t care for it.”
Josh Kaltner, a senior film studies major at UCF said he had enjoyed the extra hour of sleep without realizing the time change at all.
“I don’t think I really noticed,” Kaltner said. “I just kind of woke up and thought ‘oh the time changed, I forgot’. I didn’t even have to set any clocks because my phone is automatic.”
Beryl Van Ness, a freshman studio art major at UCF also explained how her sleeping schedule was not disturbed because her phone clock automatically updated to the update time.
“My alarm is set to the cell phone clock and since it changes when the international clock changed, I didn’t feel like I was waking up an hour earlier,” Van Ness said. “It’s definitely easier when the time falls back because you gain an hour and everyone can do with more sleep, right?”
Daylight Savings will begin at 2 a.m. March 13, 2016 and all clocks will ‘spring forward’ an hour, costing many people an hour of asleep. Until then, everyone can expect to experience sunrises earlier in the morning as well as have shorter days as the sunsets will also begin earlier then usual.



