Three runs in the third inning sealed the win for the Knights as they blew past Siena 4-1 late Friday evening on opening night.
The first run came late in the second inning from sophomore Matt Diorio, diminishing Siena’s chances at gaining a crucial upper hand. After taking a walk to first from a stray ball and stealing second, the returning sophomore took to third base before tallying the game’s first run. The Knights entered the third inning 1-0 before taking off after a solid performance from sophomore Kam Gellinger, who put up his team’s second run for the night.
The momentum led by Gellinger and his first run in the third inning allowed fellow Knights Dylan Moore and Matt Diorio to continue the pace and bring in two more runs to put the Knights up 4-0.
Diorio had himself a night, recording an RBI, the season’s first stolen base, and two runs scored.
An incredible pitching game led by seniors Zach Rodgers and Spencer Davis as well as junior Harry Hukari combined for 13 total strikeouts and only 1 run.
“I had a great group of guys behind me. I tried to throw the ball in the zone and get some ground balls – it was a big deal for us to go out there and get this win tonight,” said Rodgers after the victory.
Freshman left fielder Kyle Marsh picked up an RBI double, while freshman catcher Logan Heiser batted in his first hit at the collegiate level as well.
“For a freshman, to make your first start is pretty awesome in itself, but to be a starting catcher on Friday night under the lights is pretty awesome,” said head coach Terry Rooney. “I thought Heiser did a great job, he’s got a lot of energy back there. He’s got a great arm and he’s going to be a great player for us.”
Siena would put one up on the board at the top of the 4th inning to make the score 4-1, but would not see another run for the rest of the night.
UCF’s win brings them to (1-0) for the 2015 season and (7-0) for opening night games played under coach Rooney.
The Knights will face the Siena Saints again on Saturday at 4:00 p.m. followed by the final game of the series on Sunday at 1:00 p.m.



