Orlando Mayor Dyer was one of the hundreds gathered at Disney World’s Yacht and Beach Club Resort for Rick Scott’s Economic Growth Summit Tuesday.
The summit was a chance for numerous potential Republican presidential candidates to share their ideas with the public.
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”73925″]
Dyer told KnightNews.com that he’s confident that the UCF Downtown Campus will eventually get funded. 
“I talk every day with Senate President Andy Gardner who’s a real supporter of that and local members of the house are equally supportive so I think we’re going to get that done,” said Dyer. 
Possible presidential candidate, Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal, told KnightNews.com in an exclusive interview that the size of government needs to be decreased and the private sector needs to grow.
“I think one of the worst things about the Obama years is the unemployment across the country especially for our college graduates. As government gets bigger the private sector economy suffers. It’s like a law of gravity, it’s inevitable. We need to shrink the size of government, grow the private sector so that all of our people, including college graduates, get good paying jobs right here at home,” said Jindal.
Jeb Bush told the media that social security is not likely to exist in the future for those who are now under the age of 40 in the current format.
Bush said, “The actuaries that designed the social security retirement system never envisioned a life expectancy in the 80’s and growing.”
Neither Governor Jindal nor former Governor Bush have officially declared their presidential candidacy as of now. 
Marco Rubio was not in attendance due to the fact that he was in Washington D.C. debating whether the Patriot Act should be extended.
Governor Rick Scott does not plan on running for president or for Marco Rubio’s Senate Seat.




University of Central Florida student Alexander Morgan was arrested at the John C. Hitt Library for battery upon another student on May 28, according to the arrest affidavit.
The victim was studying on the fifth floor of the library when Morgan sat behind her at another desk although there were plenty of empty desks on the floor, according to the affidavit. The affidavit states that he “willingly and unlawfully touched” the victim’s “buttocks with his fingers.”
The victim “felt an object touch her butt.  She  looked  behind  her  and  saw  his  2 fingers  (middle  and  index)  were  touching  her  butt,” according to the affidavit. The report also states that Morgan attempted to leave until two students came to help the victim.
KnightNews.com obtained the video of the incident once officers arrived from the UCF Police Department. 
In the video, Morgan said that he was reaching in his bag. However, the victim said that no backpack was behind her.
Morgan also said in the video that he tried to apologize and said “it’s not what you think.” Morgan said the victim “tried to punch” him as he waved a fist in the air and imitated a neck grab with his other fist.
In the recording, the victim admitted to grabbing him and said “if somebody’s touching me inappropriately I’m gonna tell them what’s up.”
The affidavit said that the victim would like to prosecute and that Morgan said he picked the seat next to the victim because he “does not like to be alone.”
A witness who went to help the victim said that Morgan was “sweaty and breathing very heavily.” The witness also informed the female officer that while she was patting down Morgan he became sexually aroused, according to the affidavit.
Morgan’s description also matches a similar case that occurred back in March, according to the affidavit.
The incident report for that case says that a female was touched inappropriately by an unknown male at the library who sat behind her and placed his backpack in between his and her chair.
“Mr. Morgan was arrested, and UCFPD continues to investigate his link to the earlier incident of a similar nature,” said Courtney Gilmartin, UCFPD Public Information Officer.



An unexpected sports rivalry from the University of Connecticut has been unofficially declared, naming UCF as its awaited contender for the 2015 football season.
A tweet from UConn Football’s official Twitter shows a blank trophy with 9 unmarked tags and one marked below a black plate with the two mascots, a Husky and a Knight, featuring the words “CIVIL CONFLICT” at the top of the trophy. Along with the trophy is a countdown to the UConn/UCF football game on Oct. 10 and a picture of a UCF helmet with the words “BEAT UCF” to its side.
First day back on campus for #UConnFootball! And just 130 days until the next Civil Conflict with @UCF_Football ! pic.twitter.com/RgOkXiob0T
— UConn Football (@UConnFootball) June 1, 2015

Brandon Helwig, of @UCFSports, tweeted that UCF Football acknowledged no involvement with the trophy or involvement in creating a rivalry game:
Just checked w/ @UCF_Football: "We have no involvement with the trophy or creating a rivalry game with UConn." They were surprised by tweet.
— Brandon Helwig (@UCFSports) June 1, 2015


A conference realignment making UConn and UCF AAC opponents may have sparked UConn’s rivalry interest, along with a UCF upset in the 2014 football season. The Nov. 1 matchup saw UConn claim a surprise victory at home against the Knights, finishing with a score of 37-29, amidst a UCF five game winning streak. The win came as UCF’s only loss in the AAC conference and UConn’s only win against an FBS team.
After the game, UConn Football Head Coach Bob Diaco recommended a rivalry trophy during the post-game press conference:
“We’re excited about this North/South battle. You want to call it the Civil Conflict? Maybe I’ll win my money and make a trophy. I’ll buy it myself. Put a giant Husky and a big giant Knight on it, make a stand [and] put it in our hallway. The Civil Conflict. The loser, maybe they’ve got to put nutmeg on the stand when it’s not there and we’ll put a sack of oranges,” said Diaco.
Join the fan discussion of the proposed rivalry on Twitter using #CivilConflict.
UCF Football, who already has an established rivalry with the Bulls, has not officially responded to UConn’s tweet on their Twitter account.



