Students interested in scuba diving had the option to get their certification this weekend, thanks to a partnership between UCF’s Outdoor Adventure program and Ranger Rick’s Scuba Adventure. 
Dave Ross has been working with Ranger Rick’s for seven years, and is currently a lead instructor there. Ross was the instructor for this weekend’s course, teaching students everything they’ll need to know for breathing underwater.
“This is one of the few sports you can enjoy through your whole life,” Ross said.
Danielle Bessent, a junior who works with Outdoor Adventure, was excited about working as a facilitator between Outdoor Adventure and Ranger Rick’s for the class. Growing up in Gainesville, she’s been around springs most of her life, and as always had an interest in learning to dive. She hopes to travel after school, and plans to use her certification to see new places.
“It would be cool to go in the water and see everything,” Bessent said. 
Typical scuba classes offered through this partnership have anywhere from five to 20 students, according to Ross. The class meets over the course of a weekend, and consists of three sets of instruction. 
The first meeting is the classroom section, which walks students through the safety procedures. The second day is a pool section, where student’s learn to use tanks, masks, and put their knowledge to use. Everything learned is put to the test on day three, during an open water dive at the Devil’s Den Springs in Ocala, Fla. 
Ross stresses the importance of safety from the first instruction. His teaching style shows students the reasons behind the rules, and helps new divers learn why things are done a certain way.
“There are no diving police, physics polices diving for you,” Ross said.
Freshman Jillian Jernas had heard about the program when applying to colleges, and made it a priority to take this class after getting into UCF. Like Bessent, she wants to travel and experience things from a different perspective.
“I want to see the wildlife underwater,” Jernas said. 
Jernas plans to continue her diving instruction, and already wants to look into advanced diving classes after she learns the basics.
At the completion of the class, students are open-water certified, allowing them to dive to depths of 60 feet, according to Ross. The certification lasts for life, those Ross encourages divers to take a refresher course if they don’t dive for an extended period of time. 
The next class will be offered October 16th, according to Outdoor Adventure.



Libraries are a common place for students working on group projects to meet up as well as work on their homework. Every month, different art is displayed on the art wall located inside the John C. Hitt Library at the University of Central Florida but for two months, the art displayed is from visual artists who work right on campus during the Hidden Artists annual exhibit. 
The artists behind these several pieces are not the ones found by the Visual Arts building but are instead inside of financial aid offices and classrooms lecturing among other places on campus. They call themselves “hidden artists” and are a part of the art world although many would not know this since it is not their main career.
About seven years ago, Judy Bragg Pardo, from Student Development and Enrollment Services, saw a watercolor painting by Diane Colvin Reitz from Student Financial Assistance on the University’s website. Pardo asked Reitz if she was an artist and had an idea of wanting to display their art for months until she told Reitz that they should get a group together and exhibit their artwork in the library.
“During our first UCF exhibition, a lot of people exhibited their art for the first time. It was like a safe stepping stone for many of the artists and since then, many have exhibited elsewhere,” Pardo said. 
Several years later it has become an annual event where several artists’ work are now displayed for the first two months of the Fall semester. Each art piece is from a current faculty or staff member showing different forms of visual art which they are either familiar with or different mediums they explore with which expands their creativity. These art pieces range from photography to digital illustration and even jewelry. 
Pardo said that this event always brings the UCF community together and shows the creativity that many faculty and staff members bring into their workplace on a daily basis. Generally, about 12 artists exhibit their art but they are open to anyone who wants to show their art. 
Pam Williams Gruen, Financial Aid Assistance, is one of the hidden artists who is displaying her art for the first time in the Hidden Artists exhibition. Her jewelry art can be seen inside of the display cases. About seven years ago, her friend got her art lessons working with wire and she has been making wire jewelry ever since along with things she finds such as interesting bottle caps and pieces she picked up while traveling in Asheville, North Carolina.
She has not displayed her art in many places before and loves that students she works with have recognized her name in the display cases. 
“It’s fun and really cool. I like this. To be known for something else. It’s great to be known as the person who does your financial aid but it’s a way different thing to be known as someone who does cool stuff like this,” Gruen said. 
Gruen said she has always enjoyed art and performance and said she cannot wait to do it again next year and will tell her faculty friends so they can enjoy this great opportunity as well. 
Another hidden artist is Meredith Malkin, from Counseling and Psychological Services, who is an expressive arts therapist. Since she was a teenager, she has looked to art as a form of healing starting around the time when her grandmother was diagnosed with dementia and connected with her through art. 
With her art piece titled “Let It Go”, she expresses the struggle of not knowing what direction to take. When creating this piece, she said she didn’t know what direction it was going in and wasn’t focused on the final product and was really trying to be aware of the process. 
Inside of the art piece, it states “Creativity is like a bird in a uni-cycle. You don’t think it’s possible until you trust the process and one day manage to draw it.” 
She said it’s kind of trusting the process that the art will find a way to go where it needs to go. Malkin said that as long as Prado has the Hidden Artists exhibition running, she will be displaying her art. 
“It’s been such an incredible experience being able to express a passion of mine,” Malkin said.
The group of artists meet twice annually for lunch meetings discussing the future exhibition which always happens during August. Generally, the reception is held during September after faculty is settled into the new school year with live music by Aaron Lingelbach, food and beverages and a time where everyone can come and talk to the several artists displaying their art. 
The Art Wall and two display cases feature the talents of: Pamela Williams Gruen, Dawn M. Herrod, Jacqui Johnson, Simona Loh, Meredith Malkin, Russ Muller, Fiona Murphy, Judy Bragg Pardo, Brian Pate, Diane Colvin Reitz, M.C. Santana, and Tina Tran.
Photo by Chelsea Santiago



ORLANDO, Fla. — It has been a devastating week for the Knights as they lost two of their most prominent leaders.
Starting quarterback Justin Holman will be out for 2-4 weeks with hand injury and starting center Joey Grant will be out for the rest of the season with a shoulder injury.
“Holman will be out 2-4 weeks with a hand injury,” said Head Coach George O’leary at Monday afternoon’s press conference.
“Joey Grant will be out for the year with his shoulder…he aggravated his shoulder again,” added O’leary.
Those are two devastating blows for the Knights after starting the season with an 0-2 record.
However, The Knights are still optimistic about the 2015 season. After starting last season with an 0-2 record, the Knights went on to win the American Athletic Conference. They have been in this predicament before.
“We staying positive, were just going to keep working hard and get this thing rolling,” said red-shirt senior linebacker Dominic Spencer at Monday afternoon’s press conference.
The Knights will have to rely on red-shirt freshman Bo Schneider to be successful in the upcoming weeks. After coming into game in the second series of last Saturday’s game at Stanford, Schneider went 7 of 19 pass attempts for 49 yards before being taking out of the game for true freshman Tyler Harris in the fourth quarter. Although Harris had more passing yards than Schneider and threw a touchdown, Schneider is expected to start at quarterback for the Knights until Holman is healthy.
“Things would of turned out better for Bo if weren’t for the dropped passes… he is the top guy, the next guy will follow,” said O’leary.
The Knights are also expected to feature true-freshman running back Taj McGowan going forward. McGowan ran for 67 yards on 20 attempts against Stanford.
“Taj did some nice things,” said O’leary. “He is a quick kid. He needs to keep getting better and better and I think he will.”
“He ran well, we ran the ball better,” added O’leary.
The Knights’ o-line is staring to play better and they should begin to gel with each other. Junior Jason Rae is expected to take over the stating center position for the rest of the season. Rae got the start against Stanford as Grant was unable to play with the shoulder injury.
“The interior of the o-line needs to play better,” said O’leary.
UCF will have to rely on their young players for the rest of the season. Coach O’leary has a tough task ahead of him, but he has been coaching for 47 years.
“We have to do a better job of coaching them,” said O’leary.
Photo Credit: Nick Russett 



Final update: Shannon Lamb, the Delta State shooting suspect, shot himself after he led police on a manhunt, CNN reported. 
CNN said that Lamb spoke with police during some point of the day and told them he wasn’t going to jail. “He made good on his threat, police said: He pulled out a gun and killed himself.”
Officers found Lamb late Monday night. The suspect fled from his car into the woods and officers heard a gunshot. When police reached him they found the body, according to CNN. 
Lamb was also the suspect in the shooting of “Amy Prentiss, who was found shot to death at a home in Gautier, a coastal city about 300 miles away from the university,” CNN reported. Lamb and Prentiss lived together and he taught with Schmidt.
Update, 6:31 p.m. ET:
Law enforcement at Delta State University are searching for Shannon Lamb, the person of interest in the shooting of Professor Ethan Schmidt, according to the Delta State University website.
The Delta State Twitter said that the person of interest may be driving a Dodge Avenger with a Stone County tag number STF015.
Although the Delta State website said it is not believed that the suspect is still on campus, the university is still under lock down. 
The person of interest is still at large, CNN reported.
Mississippi’s Delta State University is under lock down as a male professor was shot and killed in his office on Monday, according to CNN .
Ethan Schmidt, a history professor at the university, has been identified as the victim, Bolivar County Deputy Coroner Murray Roark told CNN.
SCHOOLCAST: An active shooter has been spotted on campus near Jobe Hall. Please take immediate lock down action.
— Delta State (@DeltaState) September 14, 2015

The victim was in his office when the shooting occurred, Roark told CNN.
Delta State University has confirmed one fatality. Campus remains under lockdown. Please stay inside and away from windows.
— Delta State (@DeltaState) September 14, 2015

The shooter is still at large, CNN said.
According to Delta State’s Twitter, the school is still on lock down. Mississippi Highway Patrol, Cleveland Police and Bolivar Sheriff’s Department are on scene as well as “hundreds of law enforcement from across the state.”
Delta State is located in Cleveland, Mississippi.
This is a breaking story. Check back for updates.



The grandson of a former South African president and activist will visit the University of Central Florida on Sept. 21 to speak on the future of Africa and the influence his grandfather, Nelson Mandela, had on the world. 
According to a UCF news release sent out today, Ndaba Mandela’s visit is sponsored by the UCF Global Perspectives Office and he will speak at 10:30 a.m. in the Cape Florida Ballroom in the Student Union and is open to the public.
In addition to having served as a political consultant at Japan’s embassy in Pretoria and South Africa, Mandela is co-founder and chairman of the Africa Rising Foundation, which is focused on spreading a worldwide positive perception of Africa and increasing growth in employment, education, and international corporate alliances. 



Orlando City came out the gates firing Sunday evening versus Sporting Kansas City. The Lions scored on a header by Adrian Winter off a free-kick by Luke Boden in the third minute of the game.
This was the first goal scored by an Orlando City player in the last five matches and the fastest goal scored by Orlando City in club history.
“We deserved it,” said Orlando City’s Head Coach Adrian Heath. We started really well…I’m pleased for our players and supporters.”
Orlando City’s offense was clicking this game. After getting substituted in for Cyle Larin, Bryan Rochez scored in the 66’ minute off an unselfish pass by Brek Shea.
“I had a good run, Rochez challenged, Ball came to me, I was going to go for the goal and he kept running, so I just let if off for him,” said Shea.
Winter added  his second goal of the game on a beautiful touch pass by Lewis Neal in the 72’ minute of the game. He went on to say his teammates’ passes were a “present” when asked how much credit he gives his teammates for his two goals.
In the final minutes of the game, frustration for Sporting Kansas City mounted over when Dom Dyer head-butted Orlando City player David Mateos in the 88’ minute of the game. With the Lions not scoring in the last five matches, Sporting Kansas City did not see this display of offensive prowess by Orlando City on the horizon.
After losing the last 6 matches, this win keeps Orlando city in contention to make the playoffs.
“Tonight gives us another chance and we got closer to that red line,” said Coach Heath. “The playoffs is the goal, it still is the goal.”



