Consider how difficult it is to make sure your kitchen stays stocked.
Now imagine if that kitchen was the International Space Station, and it was 220 miles away.
This is a job that SpaceX is tasked with for the fifth time, under a Commercial Resupply Services contract with NASA.
The launch was originally scheduled on Dec. 18, but was pushed back to provide enough time to prepare for the launch.
The launch is currently scheduled to launch at 6:20 a.m. Tuesday, Jan. 6.
The SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket will be carrying a Dragon spacecraft filled with supplies, such as food and water.
In addition to supplies for the ISS, eighteen students will get a second chance at watching their research projects take launch.
The winners of the Student Spaceflight Experiments program took flight back in October, but were lost after the Oct. 28 launch was lost to an explosion.
“I am delighted that most of the students will get to see their investigations re-flown on tomorrow’s SpaceX mission,” said NASA Administrator Charles Bolden, in a Jan. 5 press release. “Perseverance is a critical skill in science and the space business.”`1
In addition to a well timed launch and mission, SpaceX will be attempting their first precision landing of the Falcon 9 rocket. Using their Spaceport Drone Ship, they will attempt to land the Falcon 9 rocket in a reusable condition. This involves controlling and slowing the rocket’s decent back to Earth.
This will be accomplished though a system of engines, parachutes and wings, according to SpaceX.
Check back to KnightNews.com tomorrow for updates on SpaceX’s Cape Canaveral launch.



The UCF gym is back open for the spring semester.
Since classes do not start until Jan. 12, the gym is operating on slightly different hours than it normally does throughout the semester.
The main building will be open from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. until Thursday night. On Friday and Saturday, it will be open from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. and 11 a.m. to midnight on Sunday. 
Starting on the first day of classes, Jan. 12, the gym will be back open on normal operating hours.





The Orange County Sheriff’s Office has released video of the New Year’s Day armed robbery that occurred at the AT&T store near UCF main campus.

Shortly after 11:40 a.m. on New Year’s Day, an armed black male suspect entered the AT&T store and forced two employees into a back room while he took an undisclosed amount of cash, cell phones and other merchandise, according to the Orange County Sheriff’s Office.
The suspect then fled the store, leaving the employees unharmed. 
This is not the first time an Orlando-area AT&T store was robbed. On Dec. 23, there was a similar armed robbery at the AT&T store on East Colonial. 
Detectives are trying to identify the man in the video, anyone with tips is urged to call Crimeline at 800-423-TIPS (8477).



