Tyler Yeargain, a Student Government Senator and Cait and Jarell supporter, filed the affidavit saying SGA Candidates Brian Zagrocki and Alex Bennett violated the election statutes by providing food to attendees at their rally at Buffalo Wild Wings Tuesday.
Yeargain said that he did not attend the rally and received all of his information based on accounts from three students who did, two of which he identified as Benjamin DeStefano and Joshua Burbridge.

“I spoke to each of the three people who did attend the rally; I obtained this evidence from all of their versions of the event. At that point I felt that this needed to be hashed out by the Elections Commission,” said Yeargain.
Section 604.2 of Title VI in the Election Statutes states that, “at no point can a candidate, group of candidates, ticket, or third party (with the exception of the Election Commission) provide food, drinks, or prizes to voters. Such items shall be considered bribes. This rule applies both on and off university controlled property.”
When asked if Yeargain investigated further before filing, he said that he did not speak to Zagrocki or Bennett or any of the attendees. His accusation was based off the accounts of three people who attended the rally, one of which, according to Yeargain, is affiliated with Cait and Jarell’s campaign.
KnightNews.com reached out to Cait Zona, who gave a statement on behalf of the accusation. 
“For the accusation on the food violation, if a concern was raised by a student, it is important that the election commission has the opportunity to investigate it. Neither myself or Jarell were present at the event,” said Zona.
Zagrocki’s evidence in response to this accusation was a document signed by the manager at Buffalo Wild Wings stating that Zagrocki and Bennett did not cater the event, and encouraged attendees to purchase food on their own.
In response to the accusation, SGA candidate Richard Stein said, “I personally think this is a ploy used by Cait to mud the waters right before the election. I don’t think Brian did anything wrong, he’s a good guy.”
Knight News was at the rally and reported two people wearing Cait and Jarell t-shirts taking photos of the event.



UCF’s lawyers give student government officials at UCF the power to have their names blacked out on public record documents that often have to deal with the spending of students’ money — at least, for now.
UCF claims that these officials have the right to redact their names, if they so please, because UCF believes the information on these SGA documents is covered under a privacy law called FERPA.
FERPA stands for the Family Education Rights and Privacy Act. It is a federal privacy law that gives college students certain protections with regard to their educational records, such as report cards, transcripts, disciplinary records and class schedules. Many lawyers disagree with UCF’s position that an SGA budget document falls under the same category as a private educational record.
All of this year’s candidates have expressed that they are in favor of more transparency when it comes to SGA officials having their names redacted from public records. Candidates Zona and Stein have already promised to have their chosen cabinet members sign a waiver requiring their names be shown on all SGA documents if elected.
“As for SGA candidates and their name being released, we do believe that all SGA officials and candidates should give permission for their names to be shown on all SGA documents,” Zona and her running mate said in a statement. “Jarell and I have had many public records requested and we have always had our names be shown. As for next year, we would most definitely have our Cabinet sign the FERPA release if elected. We fully stand behind keeping student government accountable and being fully transparent with the students. We have exemplified this through our open leadership in the past.”
During the presidential debate, Stein slammed SGA for their lack of transparency with students.
“You have to request that information, you have to do it through all the loop holes,” Stein said. “So, I mean, I’m just taken aback that this is student money and yet it’s not shown to students. So first thing I would do is I would require all my cabinet members to sign a waiver saying that they would release their names for all public information requests, make sure I push for legislation as well, that all SGA candidates sign this waiver as well.”
Zagrocki has not said yet if he would require his cabinet members to sign the waiver, but seemed doubtful that FERPA should cover up names of people who choose to run for office.
“The moment that you walk into that SGA realm, you’re essentially a public servant for the students,” Zagrocki said. “At that point transparency takes the up most importance….As long as we fit within the legality, I want SGA to be as transparent as possible. There’s different things we can do to promote that as well. It’s reforming the SGA website, making sure people are aware of what we do in SGA, things like that. There is always room for better promotion and transparency.”
The University of South Florida requires all members of SGA sign a waiver so that there is no question as to whether their names will show up on public documents such as budget requests or impeachment votes.
Stein does not believe FERPA applies to SGA records and was disappointed that Knight News had to file a lawsuit against UCF to fight for the public’s right to see how and which SGA officials are spending students’ money.
“It’s sad that a lawsuit needs to be filed to force the SGA to abide by already established rules and legal requirements,” Stein said. “Regardless of the election results next week, I will remain committed to helping students at UCF and across the state hold their leaders accountable. Students deserve better.”
The lawsuit Knight News filed two years ago is still working its way through the courts. The lawsuit was essentially split up into three main issues. These included: Whether FERPA protects SGA records, whether UCF can have secret Greek conduct hearings, and whether UCF can delay public records requests by forcing a requester to obtain records from UCF’s public relations office rather than the office that actually has the record.
The trial judge ruled UCF staff broke Florida’s public record law on the third issue, but sided with UCF on the other two issues and other remaining counts. UCF did not appeal the issue it lost to Knight News, however, Knight News did appeal the issues it lost — and is now backed by numerous lawyers for media organizations and First Amendment groups in Florida and across the country.

The Student Press Law Center brought the groups together to file a friend of the court brief for Knight News that blasts UCF’s position that FERPA protects SGA records the same way it does a student’s private education record such as an SAT score.
“Indeed, if these were genuinely FERPA records, the University would have quite a lot to explain about letting dozens of students handle ‘confidential education records’ in a non secure manner,” according to the amicus brief.
The brief goes on to say, “In reality, colleges have regularly granted access to exactly the type of records sought by the journalists here, with no FERPA repercussions.”
UCF has not yet filed its response to the appeal.



Having a third party ticket is a rare occurrence at the University of Central Florida’s Student Government Association Elections. This year, candidates Stein and Barhamje challenged the norm with intentions to break the SGA continuance in office. 
SGA hosted a presidential debate on Thursday, March 26. Presidential candidates Richard Stein and Mo Barhamje said the way the debate carried out was terrible.
The candidates argued that the debate was far too boring and that the answers given by the other candidates were essentially the same. 
“We think that it’s extremely hard to foster democracy on this campus when debates don’t really serve the purpose of a conflict between candidates. There wasn’t really any conflict, none of the answers added spice to the mix and it’s really sad that everyone attending there was SGA instead of a really good demographic of the actual university,” said Stein.
Barhamje agreed with Stein and told KnightNews that it is now clear to them why there is rarely a third party candidate.
“It just goes to show that essentially, SGA votes in SGA,” Barhamje said. “It upsets me in the regard that an average student is just not set up for any success when running. I mean, everything is working against us; we’re climbing a mountain whereas the other candidates who were a part of SGA go right through it,” said Barhamje.
The Stein and Barhamje ticket, known to not hold back their thoughts in this election, pride themselves in being the outside ticket.
“My ticket comes down to perspective. This is the first time in a long time that there’s been a third party candidate and what we bring to the table is just outside experience,” said Stein. 
Stein even compared the presidential elections to a cross country race. “We’re just sprinting for the finish line and every time we step there’s a political landmine on the ground, and we step on it and it just blows off our legs.”
One of the major points in their platform is transparency in SGA. Stein said that his financial background makes him passionate about this issue.
To prove his point, Stein mentioned that if elected president, he will require his cabinet members to sign a waiver that will allow the release of their names on all public information records.  He also said he’d push the legislature so that all of SGA signs the waiver as well.
“I feel time and time again we have presidents who bring up flash bang issues, you know it’s a land bridge or it’s cutting tuition… A few months into the election, a few months into their term, those issues are to go quiet. So I think the only way that you can actually lock their word is to look at their record,” Stein said.
The presidential candidate also spoke about the issue of RSO funding in SGA. He stated that the most important issue in the legislature was the funding process, saying that, “if there’s a problem for funding for RSO’s, maybe that’s a problem with the legislation.”
Something Barhamje wanted to make clear was that all the platform points for their campaign are able to become a reality within the next year.
“Why do we agree with the status quo? Why do we continue to implement the same things over and over again? You know, we keep electing the same cookie cutter SGA candidates and we keep getting the same results. Last year, the issue was safety. The year before last the issue was safety and communication, the year before last was safety and communication. So like, we have the same problems over and over and over again because we’re electing the same people over and over and over again. It’s time for a change; it’s finally time that we stand up and say, ‘Hey, this is the year we’re going to do something for the students.’ This is the year that we’re finally going to stand, and that’s what Mo and I are about,” said Stein.
For more information on the Stein and Barhamje campaign, visit their website, Facebook, or Twitter. 
Check back on KnightNews.com for more SGA election coverage. 



Students stood for 20 hours — moving and shaking to raise money ‘For the Kids’. And they did just that.

Students raised a whopping $688,049.19 at this year’s Knight-Thon, surpassing the $500,000 goal that was set and making UCF’s annual dance marathon number seven in the country.
Over 1200 students from 70+ organizations participated in the annual event, listening to families share their stories and raising money to benefit Greater Orlando Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals.
KnightNews.com will have video from the event soon! Keep checking back for more! 



