A UCF student called on the UCF Board of Trustees to help put more cameras in parking garages around campus.

Ryan Mckinney spoke Thursday at the UCF Board of Trustees meeting, calling for an increase in cameras in parking garages after having his car stolen, moved and stripped of parts in Garage E this January.
“In order to park in the covered parking of Garage E, it costs $150 for three semesters,” McKinney said. “When I paid $150, I was not expecting gold-plated pillars or anything special, however, I was expecting a reasonable level of safety.”
The Board acknowledged Mckinney’s request, saying student safety is an “utmost concern,” and asked staff members to look into the possibility of increasing cameras in parking garages.
“She [Olga Calvet] did acknowledge it, at the end, but I did’t know there was only a three minute time limit and I feel like that really limited my speech. But I feel like I got the point across in a successful manner,” Mckinney said.
A Change.org petition set up by Mckinney gathered over 1100 signatures in support of increased cameras in garages.



The University of Central Florida is asking all shuttles be inspected following a fire that left one shuttle burnt to crisps. 
“We have no indication of any problem with the other shuttles that serve the UCF community, but student safety is certainly our top priority,” UCF spokesman Mark Schlueb said. “We’ve asked our contractor to inspect the rest of the UCF fleet to make sure there are no problems.”
Orange County Fire Rescue credited the cause of the shuttle bus fire on March 16 to  “failure of equipment,” a report said. No other shuttles have been found with any problems. 
There were four students aboard the shuttle when the driver told investigators he smelled something off. The driver evacuated the shuttle, which was near the intersection of Alafaya Trail and Challenger Parkway. Shortly after, it erupted into flames, destroying the bus. 
Keith Morlock was nearby when he noticed the bus start to catch on fire.
“It looked like the front left tire was on fire and it grew from there. The driver got all the students out and they abandoned ship before it got worse. Not much left,” Morlock said.



NBCUniversal has invited students from the University of Central Florida, along with other innovators, to take part in a “hackathon” for a chance to win cash and prizes.
Hackathon participants will be challenged to use hardware, software and content to explore immersive entertainment for Universal Theme Parks & Resorts, Telemundo and Golf Channel’s GolfNow. From virtual reality to beacons, wearables, and the Internet of Things, participants will need to imagine and develop new ways consumers experience stories. 
NBCUniversal and Comcast will jointly present their third hackathon in Orlando, FL on March 28-29 at the Portofino Bay Hotel. Themed “Smart, Dynamic, Immersive Entertainment Driven by Technology,” the 24-hour event offers over $15,000 in cash and prizes, plus the opportunity to pitch their idea to NBCUniversal Media Labs.
NBCUniversal theme park and TV executives will be on hand to advise and guide ideas.
“We are excited to bring our industry leading Hackathon to Orlando, making it a first of its kind event in our theme park and resort,” said Sanjay Macwan, Senior Vice President & CTO of NBCUniversal Media Labs. “Orlando has a budding technology ecosystem and we want to engage local innovators – developers, entrepreneurs, designers, and academic groups – to help us create immersive entertainment experiences for our customers,” said Macwan. “In addition to giving developers unique hardware, software and content, we’re also giving participants access to top industry executives. This is really a unique experience.”
For information on participating in the hackathon, click here.



