A driver plowed through the sign of a UCF-area apartment complex Sunday morning, a security guard at the complex said. 
Security guard at the Pointe at Central, Sultan Ashi, said he was walking through the complex at 9:30 a.m. as part of his normal patrol when he heard the crash. He said a woman plowed her silver SUV through the sign of the complex leaving a pile of rubble and cables behind. 
Ashi said she appeared to be unharmed in the accident, despite having large slabs of brick on the windshield of the vehicle.
“I couldn’t believe the windshield didn’t break. There were so many bricks piled on top of her car,” Ashi said. “She was really lucky. I mean there are metal cables that could have really hurt her.”
Ashi said the female driver told the Pointe at Central as well as UCF Police she was trying to turn into the complex when her foot slipped and hit the gas. 
“She said she was trying to visit a friend who lives here,” Ashi said. 
Management at the Pointe at Central could not be reached in time for the publication of this article, but an employee of the complex verified the story saying the woman was unharmed in the accidental crash. 
Check back for updates on this story. 



Theta Chi is hosting their ninth annual G.I. Theta Chi event from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. at their fraternity house located on the corner of Greek Park and Gemini Blvd on Sunday. 
The annual philanthropy focuses on raising money for the United Service Organizations which is a non-profit organization that assists troops serving in combat, wounded warriors, veterans and their families.
Over the course of the past week, UCF student organizations have been raising donations and earning points for their team through dunk tanks in front of the Student Union and the “You’ve Been Drafted” kick-off event. In this event, students dressed up in military costumes and took pictures with military equipment. Teams were also encouraged to bring care packages for injured veterans that would later be shipped internationally to men and women serving in the U.S. Military.
Ryan Whittington, the Iota Theta Chapter’s director of special events, is excited more than ever this year for the G.I. Theta Chi event.
“This is our most hyped up event of the year, and we truly enjoy the charitable contributions and competitiveness everyone brings out trying to win each competition,” said Whittington. 
Last year, UCF’s Theta Chi raised over $11,000 in donations from local and national sponsors. Some of their sponsors this year include, Muscle Milk, Study Cube and No Limit Event Rentals.
Come out and show your patriotism for this good cause as teams compete in outdoor activities such as tug of war, jousting, and a canoe race through Lake Claire.



Another close called game on UCF’s senior day had the Knight’s fall short, causing them to hand over a 71-66 loss to East Carolina.
UCF held the lead through the second half before the Pirates one-up’d the score 35-36 with 16:51 to go. The rest of the half never saw a lead larger than 4 points until an ECU player closed it out with 2 free throws. Goodwin saw an opportunity to bring the game into overtime, driving down the lane with a shot in the paint, but couldn’t connect. A few fouls on both sides ended the final minute of the contest from the free throw line until the clock ran out.
“It was a disappointing loss because I wanted it for the seniors as much as anything,” said head coach Donnie Jones. “We had a key turnover there late and they [came] down and hit a big three and [went] up two. We’re still fine and then we come down and don’t score and execute. This one will sting for a while and then tomorrow well turn it over and get right back on South Florida here on Wednesday, and try to end this season on a good note going into the tournament.”
Seniors Kasey Wilson and Myles Davis were recognized at their last UCF home game, with both players on the receiving end of “thank-you’s” and pictures from a number of student and alumni basketball fans.
Wilson came to UCF on a scholarship as a freshman and started for the team the following three years, etching his name several times into UCF record books. The senior finished the night with five rebounds, seven points and two steals. Myles Davis walked on for the Knights and has been a motivator on and off of the court according to his team. Davis tallied a steal in his last minutes on the court.
“Everybody was thanking me, but it was really about me thanking them,” said Wilson on his final home game. “They’ve been with me all four years, they’ve gotten to know me and watch me grow as a person and player. It was special to have so many people that I don’t know come up to me and say ‘thank you’ to me.”
“I just want to thank everybody who has supported me over the last four years here and I greatly appreciate it.”
The Knights’ last regular season game will be against USF on Wednesday, March 4 at 7 p.m. at USF’s Sun Dome. Last time around, UCF beat the Bulls with a 73-62 win. Following Wednesday’s game, UCF will have a week before beginning American Athletic Conference play in Hartford, Connecticut.



