GAINESVILLE, Fla. – The No. 9 ranked Knights looked completely out of character on Wednesday night during a 10-2 loss to the No. 2 Florida Gators.
“We just didn’t play well today. We just didn’t play the fundamentals of the game today,” said Head Coach Rooney after the game.
A team that starts out 10-0 does so with painstaking attention to detail, mental sharpness and fundamental baseball. The Knights committed four errors while allowing two runs to score on passed balls and one on a throw down to second that never had a chance to catch the runner before sailing into center field.
No part of their game fired smoothly on the road to the worst loss of the year.
Florida was aggressive at the plate and on the basepaths as well, making UCF pay deeply for their unusually out-of-focus play.
Freshman Eric Hepple took the mound for the first time as a starter but couldn’t come close to replicating the success fellow freshman Kyle Marsh had against the No. 2 team. From the onset Hepple appeared not long for the spotlight, finding early trouble with a two-run first inning before being pulled in the second after 1.2 innings pitched.
His exit from the game would begin a carousel on the bump for UCF. Six pitchers saw action, with only Brad Rowley pitching a full two innings.
The Knights’ offense – averaging just under 12 hits a game before the series – was unable to notch a base hit until Dylan Moore’s fourth inning solo home run, and came up with only five all game. Eugene Vasquez added his own one run bomb in the eighth inning, but the game was well out of reach at 10-2 after he crossed the plate.
It was a different environment playing in front of an empty crowd that made McKethian Stadium seem cavernous through nine torturous innings. There was no buzz from the crowd, no trucks in the outfield, not even a student section as most Gators are away on Spring Break.
Coach Rooney refuted the claim that the environment was a factor in his player’s performance, insisting that though the UCF faithful can energize anybody, this team is just as electric anywhere they play.
“I don’t think I have to motivate our kids to play, I mean that’s for sure,” he said. “I think every single day we talk about energy in our program and bringing energy to our program every single day that we play.”
A team ranked No. 2 in the nation should never be taken lightly, so Florida’s fundamentally sound play surprised nobody in the loss. It was the disturbing change of play from the UCF squad that had captured national attention.
Fatigue may have been a significant factor for UCF after a double-header on Sunday that went until the last possible minute and a hard-fought three and a half hour game Tuesday night in Orlando. Again however, Rooney wouldn’t place the blame anywhere outside of pure baseball reasoning.
“To a certain degree, but that has nothing to do with whether we would have won or lost that game,” he said. “Certainly as a coach it’s something you look at when you’re making lineups but listen, these guys, it is what it is, on Sunday they played 16 innings and we had two mid-week games.”
The Knights will only have a few days to shake the loss off, gearing up to host Columbia at home this weekend for a three game series. Zach Rodgers will get the start on Friday night, with the first pitch scheduled for 6:30 p.m.



UCF students lined up outside the door to try the new UCF-area BurgerFi, which opened up on Wednesday. 
BurgerFi, located in the Plaza at University retail shops, joins the many retail shops that have been opening up in the retail area below the student apartments.
Look inside of BurgerFi.
Burger options include the Breakfast All Day Burger, which has American cheese, hickory bacon drizzled with maple syrup, fried egg, hash browns, grilled diced onions and ketchup. Another option is Brisket Burger with aged ground brisket, Swiss cheese, blue cheese, lettuce, tomato, pickles and the signature BurgerFi Sauce. 
BurgerFi is a Florida-based chain that has since expanded to 20 states since its creation in Delray Beach. They have broken off from the traditional drive-thru fast food chain, moving more towards an upscale fast food restaurant, specializing in fresh ingredients and order at the counter meals. 
Burgers range from $5.97 for the BurgerFi Burger with cheese to $9.97 for the Brisket Burger. 



UCF Baseball’s first top-ten matchup brought not only a 4-3 win, but also a single-game record crowd of 4,319.
UCF Pitcher Kyle Marsh swept the Florida lineup with two strikeouts and a putout at the top of the first, holding the inning at 0 hits and 0 runs. UF had the first walk at the top of second, only to have their bases cleared with a double play made by Dylan Moore and James Vasquez. Marsh would catch a UF runner off guard with a throw to Vasquez on first to hand the Gators an out before closing the top of the third.

The top of the 4th saw an unusual double play made by the Knights after a Gator at-bat struck a ball towards center field, later tripping another Gator on first who staggered their run while taking second, creating the double play.
Shortstop Dylan Moore earned a spot on first base at the bottom of the 4th, later stealing second for the Knights. Moore advanced to third after a hit from right-fielder Erik Barber and soon put the first point on the board after a sac fly from Tommy Williams to right field. Barber made a close steal to second and joined Moore with UCF’s second run of the night off of a base hit from first baseman James Vasquez, bringing the score to 2-0.
UF threatened the Knights at the top of the 5th, with two bases loaded after Kyle Marsh held back a throw to second. The Gators had all of their bases loaded on the next hit and earned a run as UCF recovered the ball. Pitcher Harrison Hakuri relieved Marsh and gained a putout to prevent another UF score.
At the bottom of the 6th, center-fielder Derrick Salberg hit a single on a two-out situation, while Erik Barber earned a walk to first. Third baseman Tommy Williams approached the plate and ripped a ball to deep left, allowing Salberg and Barber to run in on his two-run double, bringing the score to 4-1.
Barber notched his second run of the night after Williams’ hit.
“He is consistent. I think that’s one word that comes to mind from last year to this year is that he’s consistent,” said head coach Terry Rooney on Barber. “He continually gets those great at-bats throughout the game and he just gets the job done… ‘Barb’ has done a great job for us and is off to another great start this year.”
At next frame, UF stocked Moore’s ball count and allowed him to walk in an attempt to out him later on.

The final inning saw the Knight’s clear UF’s first at-bat, followed by their second after a dive from Dylan Moore in deep center field, bringing the crowd of over four thousand to their feet. A pop fly to the outfield then sealed the win for UCF in their first top-ten match-up in program history.
“It was a tremendous win,” said Rooney after the game. “Tonight it took every single player on the bench [and] on the field to get this done. I want to thank everybody that came out. It was a record crowd. I really appreciate all the support of Knight Nation. It was an awesome environment.”
UCF earned their fourth win against a ranked opponent this season, the most since 2011, where they defeated five ranked teams.
The Knights (11-1) travel to Gainesville on Wednesday to face-off against the Gators (10-2) again at 7 p.m. The Knights will also face Columbia in a three-game series on Friday at 6:30 p.m. at UCF’s Jay Bergman Field.



