Adopt A Road by Beta Alpha Psi was a success last Tuesday morning as 11 members of the club took the road to clean up a portion of UCF.
The group found a social security card and a concealed weapons permit.
“It’s by far the most valuable item we have found thus far,” said Accounting senior and vice president of Chapter activities for Beta Alpha Psi, Samantha Rudolph. “Mainly it’s just a lot of water bottles, cans, and paper.”
Beta Alpha Psi is an Honorary Accounting society and they hold the event five to seven times a semester. 
One half of the group goes from Lake Claire to the CFE arena, the other half goes from Lake Claire to Alafaya Trail.
“I think it’s important because we’re in charge of cleaning up these roads. If no one else did it, we’d have a lot of pollution problems,” Rudolph said. “There’s a lot of other groups that do these roads, but still we end up getting huge trash bags, full of trash.”
During the event the students seemed to enjoy being around each other and had a genuine good time cleaning up their campus.
“It feels good to give back and help around the UCF community,” said senior Accounting major Christopher Rolle. “If you are an accounting major, this is definitely a big help to network and get involved with people that have similar aspirations to you and just get around an organization that’s going to put you in the right place to succeed, with bringing in the right people, clubs and things like that to help you find a career.”
Jinhee Lee, a junior accounting major was also very excited about the event.
“I’m a transfer student and this is my first club,” Lee said. “My first semester was all about studying and this is me branching out.”
Beta Alpha Psi’s main goal in doing this event was to give back and keep their campus appearance up to standards.
“We pay a lot of money to go here and we want to make our campus look pretty,” said Rudolph. “We like to give back and part of our organization is service and voluntarism.”



Pope Francis paraded around Washington D.C. Wednesday, Sept. 23 as thousands of people awaited his presence from the sides of streets around the city. 

In the arrival ceremony on the White House lawn, President Barack Obama said to the Pope, “From my time working in impoverished neighborhoods with the Catholic Church in Chicago, to my travels as President, I’ve seen firsthand how, every single day, Catholic communities, priests, nuns, laity are feeding the hungry, healing the sick, sheltering the homeless, educating our children, and fortifying the faith that sustains so many.”



After a UCF student suffered what is believed to have been a heart attack on Monday, UCF officials have begun examining standards for placing and locating life-saving equipment around campus.
Classmates of the engineering student who fell victim to the cardiac arrest reported there were no AEDs immediately accessible to administer the reviving technique.
An AED was located on the second floor of HPA1, one floor above the incident, although UCFPD officers on patrol carry AEDs in their vehicles and are trained in using them, a UCF official stated.
One of the responding officers on Monday had an AED on hand to make two at the scene within two and a half minutes of when the 911 call was placed.
The American Heart Association recommends that an AED be available within three minutes of a medical event.
Assistant director and public information officer for UCF Police Courtney Gilmartin spoke on UCF’s plan for improving responses to such incidents.
“Although UCF met that standard on Monday, we have already started examining our AED availability and policies to see what we can do better. We want to encourage more students to take first-aid and CPR classes.”
UCF will waive fees for three upcoming first aid classes, which will be held Sept. 30, Oct. 8 and 13 at the Recreation and Wellness Center. Additional information on the classes can be found at http://rwc.sdes.ucf.edu/programs/risk-management/cpr-first-aid.



When it comes to nightlife, the UCF area has plenty of bars and pubs where students of age can go out and enjoy themselves.
Knight’s Library, a local UCF bar, made Yahoo’s list of The 33 Best College Bars in America.
Yahoo described Knight’s Library as an “utterly massive” venue with “three whole bars, a fleet of flat-screens and projectors, an enormous dance floor, and a patio for cornhole and beer pong into one seriously fun library.”
Knight’s Library often offers free drinks and/or free draft beers for a small cover charge between five and seven dollars.
Knight’s Library can be located at 11448 University Blvd, Orlando, FL 32817.



According to a report released by UCF, at 11:58 a.m. Monday, a 911 called was received by UCF Police reporting a student seizing during a precalculus class in Health and Public Affairs building 1.
The student, an engineering major, started classes at UCF in the summer of 2015.
UCF described the response to the medical call.
“The first officer arrived on scene at 11:59 a.m. as two students – one a Disney lifeguard and the other a paramedic – administered CPR. An AED was brought into the classroom at noon and deployed twice by UCFPD. Rescue crews arrived on scene at 12:03 p.m. and took over advanced life support. The student was rushed to Oviedo ER and then transported to Central Florida Regional Hospital.”
“Staff from UCF’s Counseling and Psychological Services and Victim Services met with students in the class Monday, were available to students Tuesday, and will speak with the class when it meets again Wednesday,” according to officials.
UCF president John C. Hitt responded to the tradegy.
“Our condolences go out to Michael’s family and friends,” said Hitt. “The unexpected loss of someone so young is truly heartbreaking. We thank the students in the classroom who so bravely came to the aid of a fellow Knight, and we also keep them in our thoughts.”
UCF offers first aid classes throughout each semester. These classes are taught by the American Red Cross and typically cost $19.
UCF will waive fees for three upcoming classes, which will be held Sept. 30 and Oct. 8 and 13 at the Recreation and Wellness Center. Additional information on the classes can be found at http://rwc.sdes.ucf.edu/programs/risk-management/cpr-first-aid.
Students report an AED was not accessible near the incident; an inquiry has been made by KnightNews.com for further details.
A petition has been made following calls by parents and students for more AED’s on campus.
Stay tuned for updates.



Pope Francis’ upcoming visit to the United States sparked excitement among young local Catholics who refer to this religious figure as the “Pope of this generation.”

Video by Brigitte Snedeker and Katrina Poggio.
President Barack Obama will welcome Pope Francis into the country on Sept. 22 in Washington D.C. After his visit in the nation’s capital, the Pope will visit New York and Philadelphia. 
Although his visit will not bring him to Orlando, Fla., local Catholics are eager to learn what Pope Francis has to say to U.S. leaders and some students are even traveling to be in his presence. 
“Here in America we are known to be very materially wealthy, but we’re spiritually poor compared to other countries who may be spiritually wealthy but materially poor,” Catholic Campus Ministry at UCF mission leader Daniel Chedid said. 
CCM mission leader Anna Palka explained the importance of the Pope’s visit when she said he is the figure that Catholics look to for guidance. 
Planning to travel to Philadelphia to see Pope Francis, Carillo explained how she thinks the encounter would enhance her faith. 
“By the Pope visiting, it’s going to make my faith more real, more tangible. . . seeing someone so holy,” said Vanessa Carillo, a UCF civil engineering major who served as CCM at UCF president for the 2014-2015 year. 
She mentioned that she believes the Pope is a living symbol of something she cannot physically see, God.
Media attention revolving around the Pope has had people talking about him kissing babies, washing the feet of prisoners and sharing meals with the homeless. 
“He’s showing us what love is [and] what it means to be a Christian,” Carillo said passionately. “And this is where Pope Francis is the Pope of our generation. This is what the young people see ‘how can I make a difference in this world for a better world? How can I love more, tangibly?’”
Palka said the Pope’s actions have inspired her to “be more merciful and love people intentionally.”
However, there has also been stirred controversy as some have said the Pope has untraditional Catholic values regarding gay marriage and divorce. 
The way Father Ben of CMM at UCF sees it, Pope Francis is not for or against any particular issues. 
“Clearly what he is trying to say is we need to be much more loving and embracing of other people,” Father Ben stated. 
“Pope Francis is not teaching anything new. He is teaching the same traditional values with new words,” Carillo stated.
Carillo explained that Pope Francis is trying to teach the public to be accepting of any and all human beings, regardless of marital status or sexual orientation.
The Pope may continue to teach traditional Catholic values, but he is doing it in new ways as he utilizes Twitter to spread his message. 
Father Ben said he thinks each pope is reflective of the people of that generation and they each lead the church with their own flair. 
“I think that’s what each pope is meant to do is speak to the people of that generation,” he added, “particularly challenging them about the joys and the sorrows of that particular time.”
KnightNews.com will be reporting on the Pope’s visit from Washington D.C. Check back for updates.



