The 20th player to be drafted under UCF Baseball head coach Terry Rooney earned a seventh round pick on Tuesday, by the Texas Rangers. On Wednesday, first basemen James Vasquez and pitcher Mitchell Tripp joined Moore as the second and third player to be sent to MLB, both soon to be sporting Cincinnati Reds’ jerseys.
Shortstop Dylan Moore made the 89th player to be drafted by Major League Baseball in program history, and follows five others picked in the first ten rounds in the previous 5 years: Beau Taylor (5th, 2011), Joe Rodgers (5th, 2012), Roman Madrid (7th, 2012), Ben Lively (4th, 2013), and Eric Skoglund (3rd, 2014). The following day, James Vasquez and Mitchell Tripp marked the 90th and 91st players to be drafted by the Major Leagues from UCF. The announcement for Vasquez and Tripp to join the Reds came in the 25th and 36th round, respectively.
Moore finished baseball at UCF with 96 runs, 351 assists, 76 RBI’s, 30 doubles, 3 triples and 11 home runs. The shortstop made the 2015 AAC All-Conference First Team and the 2015 Perfect Game Midseason All-America Team during his senior year. Vasquez leaves UCF with 126 runs, 123 assists, 146 RBI’s, 39 doubles, 1442 putouts and 23 home runs. Tripp started at Oregon State University and transferred to UCF from Lower Columbia College, sitting out the two previous seasons due to an injury.



Women in the state of Florida will have to make at least two appointments and wait at least 24 hours before getting an abortion starting July 1 after Gov. Rick Scott signed a bill into law Wednesday, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
There are exceptions for victims of rape, incest, domestic violence, and human trafficking, however, those victims must provide proof of the incident with a police report or medical documents, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
Representative Jennifer Sullivan, who represents the 31st district of Florida, sponsored the bill and said, “We are blessed in the state of Florida to have a governor that stands for life.”
Rep. Sullivan went on to say how she thinks the bill will give women a second chance to think about the life-changing decision.
“[The waiting period] will empower women across our state to make an informed decision on this life-changing procedure,” said Sullivan.
Planned Parenthood, the American Civil Liberties Union of Florida and CREDO Action (a progressive advocacy group), collected 13,900 petitions asking Scott to veto the bill and delivered them to his office last week, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
The Florida Democratic Party was highly critical of Florida Gov. Rick Scott’s decision.
The Florida Democratic Party said, “It comes as little surprise that Rick Scott would embrace this demeaning, anti-women measure that limits the freedom Florida women have in making medical decisions.”
Rep. Sullivan said it was too early to say whether the law would lead to fewer abortions in Florida because some women seeking abortions change their minds during the waiting period, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
“I would think there would be at least be probably a few because they’ll have more time to think about it. Only time will tell,” said Sullivan.
After the law passed, the American Civil Liberties and the Center for Reproductive Rights filed a lawsuit to sue the state on Thursday, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
The lawsuit says that the law violates women’s right to privacy in the state constitution by creating additional burdens before having an abortion, according to the Orlando Sentinel.



