Do you find yourself at Chipotle on a regular basis? Andrew Hawryluk, 23, has eaten Chipotle for 153 consecutive days and has the receipts to prove it.
The Los Angeles native originally planned just to eat chipotle for the 40 days of lent, however after the 40 days were up, Hawryluk decided how long he could keep going, according to Business Insider.
“Once the 40 days ended it was so anticlimactic,” Hawryluk told Business Insider. “I decided to see how much longer I could do it.”
Hawryluk posts pictures of his meals and receipts everyday on his website, Chipotlife. Hawryluk even buys meals in advance of company holidays like Easter and July 4, according to Business Insider.
Hawryluk’s go to meal includes, white rice, chicken, guacamole (even though its extra), and lettuce. He then tops it off with Tabasco chipotle hot sauce, according to Business Insider.
Hawryluk has no plans to stop eating chipotle soon. He even plans his vacations around where chipotle restaurants are located.
“I’m going to Vancouver, and they have one. I want to go to Berlin, but I can’t because they don’t have a Chipotle,” Hawryluk said.
Chipotle is the best restaurant all around, Hawryluk said.
He writes on his website, “I believe the main factors that determine the quality of a restaurant are cost, taste, speed, decor, consistency, ingredients, portion size, and transparency. If you know of a restaurant that dominates any or all of these categories as thoroughly as Chipotle does, please let me know.”



The family of a man who died at a University of Central Florida football game in 2013 is now suing UCF trustees for negligence. 
Shane Brintnall, a 34-year-old UCF alumnus, attended the UCF home game on Oct. 26, 2013 to see UCF play against the University of Connecticut. 
Brintnall collapsed at halftime and suffered a heart attack that led to his death, according to attorney Spencer Kuvin. 
Brintnall’s wife, Amanda Brintnall, and his mother-in-law, Amy Feldman, are suing UCF trustees for more than $15,000, according to the lawsuit filed Friday in Orange Circuit Court. 
“Although Shane Brintnall suffered cardiac respiratory failure, had he received timely emergency care, AED shock and/or CPR, a normal heart rhythm could have been restored and he could have been safety transported to a hospital for further treatment,” according to Amanda Brintnall’s complaint record. “Without timely access to emergency medical care, AED shock or CPR, there was little anyone could do to restore Mr. Brintnall’s normal heart rhythm. By the time the professional responders arrived at the Defendants premises, and he could be transported to the hospital, too much time had elapsed and Mr. Brintnall could not be fully resuscitated.” 
Check back on KnightNews.com for updates on this case.



