A UCF shuttle bus caught fire near UCF campus, and a car caught fire in the Nike parking lot about an hour apart from one another Monday afternoon.

No students or the shuttle bus driver were injured in both incidents. 
Orange County Fire Rescue responded to the flame engulfed bus around 1:30 p.m. The bus was on Route 10, which connects residents of The Lofts and Orion on Orpington to UCF campus. 
Four students and a driver were aboard the shuttle and got off when they realized something on the bus did not smell right, UCF spokesman Mark Schlueb said. 

Keith Morlock was nearby when he noticed the bus start to catch on fire. 
“It looked like the front left tire was on fire and it grew from there. The driver got all the students out and they abandoned ship before it got worse. Not much left,” Morlock said. 
The shuttle bus fire forced firefighters to shut down Challenger Parkway and parts of Alafaya Trail. The roads are back open and a new shuttle bus is currently serving Route 10. 

A green four-door sedan caught fire in the parking lot of Nike student housing about an hour later. 
The owner of the car told KnightNews.com that his car began to smoke up when he started it. He said the car started to burst into flames and he called 911. 
He said he is not a student, and his car was working fine up until today. He wasn’t injured.
Other vehicles in the lot moved away from the car and none were severely damaged, however one car did have minimal damage. 
The cause of both fires is still under investigation, but Orange County Fire Rescue said both appear to originate from the mechanical problems under the hood of the vehicles. 
Eric Alas Gutierrez, Christal Hayes and Jake Rakoci contributed to this report.



A woman was taken to the hospital after her black sedan collided with a UCFPD cruiser on UCF campus, an officer said at the scene.
The accident happened shortly after 11 a.m. in the intersection of Gemini Boulevard and Centaurus Boulevard. 
The male officer driving the cruiser had his sirens on and was responding to a medical call in Research Park when the two cars collided, UCF spokesman Mark Schlueb said. 
Schlueb said the woman driving the black Ford Fusion did not see the police car and allegedly caused the crash. 
She was cited for failing to yield for an emergency vehicle, Schlueb  said. 
The woman was taken to the Oviedo Emergency Room after complaining about minor pain, Schlueb said.  
Nick Russett contributed to this report. 



Knight Style has become a safe haven for fashion lovers and creative minds in the few short months that the site has been online.
“People are just so excited about it,” Knight Style founder Matt Fultz said. “They want this and some of them even need this.”
Knight Style is a fashion and style blog completely run by UCF students. After launching in January 2015, it has already gained wide popularity among university students. Their claim to fame is featuring Knights who dress to impress.
“We like to think of Knight Style not only as a way to feature fashionable students, but as a way to connect with people and learn how different backgrounds affect personal style,” Knight Style writer Alinnette Hernandez said. “A little ‘fashion philosophy’.”
Although they have only been active for a few months, Knight Style is ready to take their fashion blogging to the next level. They will be introducing a new segment to their blog entitled “Knight Style Talks”, and it will introduce video interviews to their site.
“We’re going to be interviewing young entrepreneurs who are making a difference in either fashion or culture,” Fultz said.
The team of fashion and creative bloggers that make up the Knight Style staff aim to showcase student style that is unique and all its own. Their style blog includes detailed photos of students on campus who they feel are wearing an outfit worth sharing.
“We’re big on collaborating, even with people we meet while photographing,” Hernandez said. “It’s pretty amazing how we can tie in everyone’s interests in a way that lets everyone have a creative outlet.”
As an independent publication, they have nothing but word of mouth and social media to get their stories out to the public. However, their social media strategies and way of engaging with their viewers has allowed them to reach more people than they ever thought possible.
“It’s been challenging to start an independent publication,” Fultz said. “It’s really rewarding to hear people say that they feel good because we feature them on our website. I’ve even had guys come up to me and tell me that Knight Style is inspiring them.”
Knight Style offers UCF students something that no other fashion site can. It allows their readers to see what their peers are wearing on campus, and it features the uniqueness and beauty that goes along with having such a diverse student body.
With their launch of “Knight Style Talks”, they will be hoping to take their site to the next level of fashion blogging.



Friday and Saturday’s win set the scene for the Knights for their soon-to-be Sunday victory in this weekend’s perfect series.
UCF welcomed the Connecticut team with an 11-1 blowout Friday evening, going unanswered for the majority of the game. Fairfield responded by holding the Knights back to a 1 run victory Saturday afternoon.
The winless Stags earned a lead Sunday afternoon at the top of second after three singles and a run. Fairfield continued with another run after UCF catcher Jordan Savinon dropped a throw to home. Fairfield’s Sebastian Salvo finished the scoring run with 3 RBI’s on his double to left field, bringing the score to 0-5.
What seemed like a game-decider turned into just another frame when UCF found their rhythm at the bottom of the second, earning 7 runs. Dylan Moore began the streak with 2 RBI’s, followed by an RBI from Tommy Williams. With two Knights on base, Matt Diorio turned over the lead on a home run hit to deep right, improving the score to 6-5. UCF’s Jordan Savinon ended the inning with a run after getting on base with his single to right field.
The bottom of the third saw Dylan Moore slide in to third after a triple hit off the wall. Derrick Salberg soon joined Moore by stealing second while Tommy Williams took to first after a stocked ball count from Fairfield. Senior James Vasquez stepped up at-bat with bases loaded, going 1-0 at the plate, then crushing a pitch by the Stags to deep right for a grand-slam. The season’s second grand-slam earned the Knights a score of 12-5 by the inning’s end.
“The wind was blowing out and I knew he didn’t have command with his off-speed, I was looking for a fastball to just hit hard and it went out,” said Vasquez on his hit.
Dylan Moore stole the fourth inning with his two steals to second base, then third. Tommy Williams would single to center field and quickly advance to second during a throw by the Stags. Williams then gained an RBI after a dropped pop fly out in the field.
Matt Diorio made his 3rd run of the day in the fifth, tying Moore with his 3 runs. A single hit by JoMarcos Woods up the middle gave Vasquez and Savinon a chance to take home and tally an improvement of 3 runs for the inning. Fairfield mirrored the Knights in the next set, also earning 3 runs. The next six frames only saw one run, by Fairfield, before the game’s end.
“The guys got it done, they did a terrific job,” said head coach Terry Rooney. “Our offense has been outstanding… The theme over this weekend was to see how mature we are, and I thought that we did that this week, I was impressed with that. I told the guys that we’re not going to practice tomorrow, we’re going to be a mature team and get some rest and regroup and get ready to go on Tuesday (against Bethune-Cookman).”
The 16-10 win by UCF (17-4) makes a perfect weekend series as well as a continued losing streak for Fairfield (0-8).
UCF’s next game will be a single game set at Bethune-Cookman at 6 p.m.



