A UCF student pulled a handgun and fought off burglars that forced their way into her Village of Alafaya Club apartment on Tuesday, according to deputies.
At approximately 4:51 p.m. Tuesday night, two black males in their early 20’s forced their way into the apartment of two UCF students, male and female, according to the Orange County Sheriff’s Office. 
According to deputies, one of the suspects held a handgun to the male victim’s head and ordered him to the ground. The female victim then ran into her bedroom and got her handgun.
It turned out the suspect’s handgun was actually a pellet gun, according to deputies. 
Both students were unharmed. 
A perimeter search involving a K-9 unit and air search did not locate the suspects, according to authorities. 
RELATED: 
– Bill Allowing Guns on Florida College Campuses Could Have Shot At Passing
– UCF Allowing Students to Store Guns on Campus in Locked Cars After Judge’s Ruling



Three apartments were burglarized Monday at Northgate Lakes apartment complex, according to Seminole County Sheriff’s Office.
Five residents had items stolen in the break-ins, the sheriff’s office report says. The items stolen totaled to be about $5,815. 
The report says that an unknown person entered these apartments between midnight and 8 a.m. on Monday through unlocked front doors while the residents were sleeping. 
Kelly Bourne, one of the victims of the burglaries, said that she had items totaling to be worth over $3,000 stolen, not including the sentimental value. 
Her wallet, PlayStation 4, Nikon D40X Digital SLR camera and Macbook Pro laptop were among the stolen items. She said she can’t help but feel extremely violated someone came into her apartment while she was sleeping. 
“My camera and laptop were extremely sentimental to me, and although I can replace them, it’s really not the same,” Bourne said. “I wish they would have thought about what this would do to us. I mean, obviously they’re not in a good place to be thinking of stealing, but you don’t know how these items got into someone’s possession. You don’t know how they will or will not function without it. I can’t drive. I can’t pay for anything. I can’t even get a temporary debit card because I don’t have my license.”
Chad Russom, another victim of the string of burglaries, said he believes his apartment was burglarized on Friday night. He said he didn’t realize his apartment was stolen from because only his keys and Xbox One were taken. 
“I didn’t realize we got robbed until my roommate came back from out of town yesterday. I saw his Xbox One was gone, and I just thought he took it with him on his trip or something.” Russom said. “Originally when I saw my keys were gone, I thought I had misplaced them until I realized they went missing the same time as the Xbox.”
Russom, a senior majoring in accounting, said he was thankful nothing was stolen from his vehicle, but has put a lock on his steering wheel to prevent it from being stolen. He said he feels uncomfortable knowing someone was in his apartment while he was asleep, and he said he was afraid the suspect might come back since the apartment keys were stolen. 
“It’s very strange knowing that someone was rifling through our stuff while we were in the other room sleeping,” Russom said. “We now have a golf club and baseball bat handy in the living room, and we’re keeping our blinds shut at night now with a light left on.”



UCF’s Ad Club will be holding “Adobe 101” workshops every semester in order to teach the fundamentals of Photoshop and InDesign. 
“In our industry, a basic knowledge of desktop publishing is a huge plus to potential employers,” Ad Club president Bailey Morris said. “It will definitely spice up a resume.”
The prices do range depending on whether one is a UCF student, alumnus or non-UCF student. Students, with a valid UCF ID, would register and pay $50, UCF alumni would pay $75 and a non-UCF student would pay $100. These prices include lunch. If one has any dietary issues they could contact the club and the club will try to accommodate them.
If one decides to sign up for the workshop, it is important to know that no prior knowledge is necessary.
“By the end of the workshop, [those that have signed up] will have an introductory understanding of how to create collateral such as fliers, newsletters, tickets, posters, and more,” Morris said.
Also, computers will be provided in the workshop area with the software already installed, so one doesn’t have to worry about whether or not they need to bring any equipment. The workshop is held in the Nicholson School of Communication, Room 211a.
The deadline to sign up and pay is Jan. 31 for the Spring 2015 workshop. Saturday, Feb. 7 is already filled up, so the remaining workshop for the semester will be held Sunday, Feb. 8 from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. with a one-hour lunch break. Right now the idea of a second workshop this semester is possible; it depends on how many more students sign up for the Sunday workshop.
If one wishes to sign up, the registration link is here.



UCF Engineering buildings I and II were evacuated Tuesday afternoon after reports of smoke from inside the Engineering I building.
After multiple fire trucks entered the scene and investigated inside the building, the situation was deemed safe after about an hour. 
KnightNews.com talked Engineering Building manager Peter Alfieris who told KnightNews.com that there was no fire, just heavy smoke and the building was evacuated as a precaution. 

“From what I found out from the fire department, there was an oil leak from one of our compressors, it seeped into one of our labs and obviously it smoked up,” Alfieris said. 
There were no reported injuries or damages to the building, aside from the compressor, but UCF will evaluate to assess any other damage.
UCF spokesperson Courtney Gilmartin told KnightNews.com a student was working with the equipment when the smoke started to occur. 

“A student was working in one of the labs in Engineering 1, there was a malfunction with the equipment and it caused some smoke,” Gilmartin said. “Orange County Fire responded and we cleared the scene in about an hour and the building reopened.” 



A local band is revolutionizing the way a typical UCF student experiences a late night trip to the gas station.
Using the Wawa on University Boulevard as their stage, student band ‘TYB’ plays Friday nights starting at 11:30 p.m. outside the gas station/eatery.

TYB, which stands for Take Your Blessings, is a hip-hop alternative cover band comprised of six Full Sail University students. J’Quan Jarrell, Chandler Brathwaite, Marion Shockley, Kendrick, Jonathan Powell and Shakeim Fraser work together to compose unique, eclectic sounds to well-known songs.
“I feel like music has no limit,” band member Chandler Brathwaite said. “I mean, you could play anywhere. I just love music so I could play anywhere.”

Playing renditions of classic songs like Bob Marley’s “Redemption Song” to Willy Wonka’s “Pure Imagination” to Pharrell Williams’ “Happy,” TYB’s set changes the mood, style and genre from one song to the next.
Although they have only been playing together for four months, they’re quickly gaining an audience during their weekly shows.



