The Knights failed to pick up their fifth straight victory as they fell to the University of Detroit Mercy Titans 95-89 on Saturday afternoon.
Sophomore Paris Bass and junior Chris Jenkins were the difference makers for the Titans with both players combining for 49 of the team’s 95 points. Detroit regularly gave the Knights’ zone defense trouble early on and forced Donnie Jones to switch up the defensive approach for the first time this season. While freshman Tacko Fall was strong offensively for the Knights, he proved to be a bit of a liability defensively when the team switched to man-to-man.
Fall’s limited minutes definitely proved detrimental in the long run on the boards as well because UCF found themselves out-rebounded for just the second time this season. Sophomore Justin McBride filled in admirably for the Knights with 8 points off the bench, but the Titans’ penchant for the 3-point shot made it impossible for UCF to close the gap.
Detroit shot a blistering 48 percent from beyond the arc which kept them in front for the duration of the game and really expose the Knights defense for the first time this season. UCF and Donnie Jones will have to learn how to handle rangy teams like Detroit if they hope to have success in conference play. The Titans developed an offensive strategy that utterly dismantled the 2-3 zone and is not hard to assume that other teams will use that game tape as a ‘How to Beat the Knights’ blueprint.
On the bright side for UCF, redshirt sophomore AJ Davis is definitely a star on the rise as he continues to develop into a do-it-all forward with 23 points, 8 rebounds, 5 assists and 4 steals against the Titans. Davis is going to be an X-factor when the Knights enter conference play in a very tough AAC, especially with BJ Taylor’s status still looming large for the team.
The Knights will hope to right the ship when they return home for their next game to take on the 4-6 Bethune-Cookman Wildcats of the MEAC on Dec. 22. UCF needs to avoid looking past the stingy Wildcats despite their toughest test of the season coming just a week later on Dec. 29 against the #21 George Washington Colonials.



