Comments caught on camera — including “We’re going to rape them, who cares dude?” — are starting to get international attention nearly a month after UCF received the video.
The Sigma Nu fraternity was placed on emergency suspension on July 20 pending the outcome of the disciplinary case that involved encouraging sexual misconduct, according to UCF records.
The UCF community was oblivious to the comments until the Orlando Sentinel published an article about the suspension and Knight News released a video Friday night that shows at least one Sigma Nu member screaming rape chants at the fraternity house, according to a source close to the investigation.
Websites like Total Frat Move, Total Sorority Move, Huffington Post, and Daily Mail, which is based in London, England, are giving the piece attention. News outlets in Orlando, West Palm Beach, Jacksonville, and even Houston, Texas are also running with the story.
Total Frat Move has historically been known to side with the fraternity, but that’s not the case here. TFM compared saying the word “rape” in a fraternity house to uttering “bomb” in an airport and said that it just wasn’t smart.
Many individuals think that instead of the entire chapter being punished, only those who made the comments in the video should be disciplined.
An individual commented on the TFM article and said, “There is no excuse for this whatsoever. But with that said, with an enrollment of over 60,000 at UCF, there is bound to be bad apples in all Greek organizations. But if this was just a few individuals, ban those individuals. I don’t see, football teams getting banned if their players commit crimes or give the school bad name, the individual, not the whole is punished. Why is there a double standard with Greek organizations. If this was an entire fraternity chanting this, then ban them, suspend them, do what you have to do, but if it was a few individuals punish them.”
A UCF student took to social media and left a comment on the Knight News Facebook page saying, “Never understood why Greek organizations are targeted with such harsh punishment. No other organization would be suspended bc the action of a few. Same circumstances except make the offenders on a sports team or club..do you see the entire organization being suspended? No just the individuals..how it should be handled.”
While many think the individuals should be punished rather than the entire organization, others disagree, including one individual who commented on the Total Sorority Move and said she believes the UCF Sigma Nu charter needs to be revoked.
“I honestly hope they are expelled. People like that are the reason Greek life is portrayed so badly and we as Greeks need to stand up against this. We should be pushing for them to lose their charter since they clearly violate what fraternities and sororities are truly about. Rape is never a joke.”
WARNING: Offensive Language in video below.




