A fatal crash occurred on the corner of Alafaya Trail and Strategy Blvd near the University of Central Florida at around 7:20 p.m. on Friday.
Florida Highway Patrol confirmed the death of 18-year-old Helen Lewis-Verdu who lived in Orlando.
Lewis-Verdu was admitted into UCF but never enrolled in classes, according to Courtney Gilmartin, UCF spokesperson.
The 2006 Ford Mustang was flipped over against the stop light pole of Strategy Blvd.
The vehicle was traveling southbound on Alafaya Trail preparing to make a u-turn at University Blvd. When the mustang began to travel northbound on Alafaya, the left tire tread separated and the driver lost control of the vehicle. The vehicle then left the roadway and overturned, striking a pole, according to a FHP release.
The crash was alcohol related, Sergeant Kim Montes confirmed.
“We will not know how much, until the toxicology is conducted by the medical examiner,” Montes said. 
There was a small puppy in the vehicle that was not injured. Orange County Fire Rescue said the dog was being transferred to animal services.
This story is still being investigated. Check KnightNews.com for updates.



Returning to school for the fall semester after an adventure-filled is enough of a struggle while preparing for the start of a busy semester at the University of Central Florida. Most students are concerned with move in, finding a part-time job and ordering books. For junior Matthew Keller, coming back to UCF had an unexpected obstacle on the road.
Keller was driving his 1994 Toyota Corolla to the university for the fall semester on Interstate 4 at 70 mph when his car engine blew up and caught fire. Luckily, he walked away safe.
The brakes to the car were lost and all power shut down.
“I had to either jump off the car and pray that I don’t get run over or my car slammed into someone else’s car or use the metal median to stop the car so I went with the latter. I grabbed a few things that I could and got out and ran for it. It burned through a lot and the rain started pouring and put the fire out,” Keller said.
Keller stood and watched as his car engine was in flames.
“There was nothing that I could do. My father is a firefighter so he always had horror stories about car fires, so I did the best I could to stay away,” he said.
Keller said that in the moment his mind was saying to stay as far away from others as he could. If the car blew up completely, other children and family could be at risk. 
The engine fire was like a domino effect. After catching fire, a small explosion in the compartment began, which then set the wiring and hoses on fire as well.
“As soon as I got away from the car, and I looked at everything I’ve spent my life building being surrounded in flames & destroyed, I looked up at the sky & it began to pour. Not just rain, it was like the heavens opened up & covered me & the flames in water. Within minutes the fire was out. I lost a lot of things including my clothes, music equipment & other personal belongings, but I didn’t lose my life,” his gofundme  page states.
Using the shuttle to campus is now Keller’s form of transportation. 
Luckily, he was able to find a job at CapTel Service Specialists.
Due to the old age and mileage of the car, the insurance did not help out Keller and left him starting from scratch. 
“I’m still alive. And there is work to be done,” Keller’s gofundme states.



The Burnett Honors College at the University of Central Florida is looking these individuals who they say vandalized the Pegasus statue outside of the college.
This video was posted on the Burnett Honors College Facebook page today:

A spokesperson from the Burnett Honors College told KnightNews.com that the incident occurred at around 6:30 p.m. and that they are still exploring the options regarding the replacement of the statue.
A $100 reward is being offered for identifying the two seen in the video. Any information should be sent to honors@ucf.edu or contact the UCF Police Department at 407-823-5555.
We’re working to find out more details on this incident. Check back for updates.
Video credit: The Burnett Honors College Facebook
Image credit: Sarah Hudlow



KnightNews.com captured the tailgate festivities before FIU took on UCF in this year’s home opener Thursday night.
Justin Levy came back one last time to fan cam to officially pass on the torch to Sean Morse. 
Morse caught up with some of the staff from Knight’s Library and also got some advice for women on what to wear on game days at UCF.




