A UCF student was held at gunpoint and robbed in downtown Orlando at 1:30 a.m. on Dec. 29, police say. 
Police say the two suspects allegedly responsible were found in Osceola County, one arrested for allegedly attempting to rob a 7-Eleven the following day. 
Logan Graves, a senior at UCF majoring in political science-prelaw, said she and her friend, Javi Fernandez, had just got into her car that was parked at 81 North Hughey Ave. in the parking lot underneath the I-4 overpass when two men opened the doors of her vehicle and pulled out black semi-automatic handguns. 
“We thought our friends were playing a prank or something by opening both of our doors, but we soon realized we did not know them, and they pushed guns into our bodies and demanded us to do and not to do various things,” Graves said. 
Graves told KnightNews.com that the two suspects proceeded to use their guns take almost everything that she and Fernandez, who is not a UCF student, had. According to the police report, two iPhones, a wallet, cash and several gift cards were among the stolen items. 
“They were there for about five minutes because we did not immediately give them our stuff. I was too freaked to move, and Javi was making the guy mad because he didn’t have a wallet. The guy kept moving the gun all over Javi’s body and then they both cocked them,” Graves said. “They continued using guns and their bodies to keep us in the car until we gave them almost everything we had.”
Graves said that at one point she thought the two men were going to shoot Fernandez. She said that one of the men punched him in the face and in retaliation, Fernandez tried grabbing the man’s gun. Graves said that she didn’t want to watch and turned away. She said that when she did this, one of the men shoved her door into her face and said “You’re not going anywhere.”
Graves said that after the two men ran off, Fernandez ran after them and got the tag number from the vehicle they got into and supplied it to the Orlando Police Department when they responded to the scene. 
OPD searched the area but couldn’t find the suspects. 
The following day, Osceola County Sheriff’s Deputies were called to a 7-Eleven on S. Orange Blossom Trail in Kissimmee where three men allegedly attempted to rob the store but ran out before taking anything, according to police. 
Police tracked down one of the alleged suspects, Alejandro Najera, 22, and arrested and charged him with attempted armed robbery, aggravated assault with intent to commit a felony, criminal conspiracy and driving without a license.
Working together, both OPD and the Osceola County Sheriff’s Office were able to also connect Najera to the armed robbery in downtown Orlando. Graves said OPD showed her a lineup of photos, and she said she instantly recognized the two men responsible. 
Both Najera and Ashley Antoine, 21, were arrested in connection with the armed robbery downtown Orlando. 
Graves said she feels very fortunate that police were able to track down the men allegedly responsible. She said she has been back to downtown since the incident occurred but nothing feels the same. 
“It’s like a loss of innocence,” Graves said. “Something wilted inside of me that night.”



After a nearly three hour contest, UCF edged out a win against the Tulane Green Wave Wednesday night in the season’s first triple overtime, holding a 103-100 score in the final seconds to secure the win.
A history of dropped games when playing UCF didn’t stop Tulane from putting up a fight, as the game saw 18 ties and 23 lead changes. UCF performed better when it came to free throws and field goals, making 52% in the field and 58% from the line, but lost possessions and an inability to stop several 3-pointers from cutting down the Knights’ lead after regular play allowed Tulane to stay alive three overtimes too long.
Before the game’s end, UCF’s Adonys Henriquez and Brandon Goodwin had a combined game time of 98 minutes, with B.J. Taylor close behind both players at 44 minutes. The hero in the match against Houston, Goodwin logged 18 points for the night and 4 assists. Stephon Blair notched his first career double-double with 13 rebounds and 15 points, while going 6-for-6 in the paint, not to mention a few blocks and dunks to get the crowd on their feet. Taylor notched a career high 33 points, going 9 for 10 at the free throw line and making 8 of 9 points tallied in the third overtime to put UCF ahead.
“Honestly, I don’t even feel tired,” Taylor said following the game. “The adrenaline was going and in a game like that and you’re a competitor, all you want to do is win. You don’t feel tired. In a game like that you just keep playing.”

In total, four Tulane players fouled out, making 20 of their teams’ 30 personal fouls, versus the Knights’ 16. Tulane’s 8 fast breaks and 45 rebounds challenged UCF but several critical plays made in the paint gave the Knights the win.
Met with an active and packed student section, UCF continued an impressive all-time series record of 9-2 against Tulane with the win, while also improving their perfect home record to 5-0 when facing the Green Wave at home.
“I definitely give the student section credit. It’s great to see the students there. I hope they’re watching me [in this interview]. I don’t know what we can do to get them here every night. Hopefully, we can give them that type of excitement every night that will make them want to come back,” UCF head coach Donnie Jones said. “They gave our guys energy and makes the student-athletes feel good when they see their own sitting in the stands cheering for them, we appreciate them being here.”
American Athletic Conference play will continue when UCF flies to Tennessee to face Memphis Saturday at 2 p.m.



