University trustees were briefed on a project for an upscale hotel and conference center on campus Wednesday, with the timeline set for an opening in two years, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
UCF considered and included the idea in concepts of future projects but has only recently chosen to move forward.
“I was not sold on the concept,” said UCF chief financial officer William Merck during a trustees committee meeting. “I was always thinking of it just as using up land to get some revenue. It wasn’t that exciting because the revenue wouldn’t be that great compared to what we give up in land.”
After talks with university faculty complaining on a lack of hotel and conference space for potential job candidates, Merck claims to have opened to the plan.
“It started to get me [thinking], maybe this hotel is really good.”
Construction and operating costs of the estimated 135-room building would not fall under the responsibility of UCF, but under developers KUD International, who would build the hotel and hire the hotel’s operator.
The project aims to be constructed along Alafaya Trail and University Boulevard on existing, open lands. 
UCF would share profits and receive rent, estimating a $35 million draw over 60 years with minimal risk. A specific hotel brand, such as UF’s Hilton hotel or USF’s Embassy Suites, has not been planned but guests can expect an average price of $140 for a night’s stay when the hotel opens.
UCF officials expressed clear and thorough oversight when approached with the possibility of guests being charged high rates on game days and orientation days, citing a need not to be tied to financial risk.
“Every little thing matters when you’re trying to recruit at the highest level,” said UCF president John C. Hitt. “We don’t have a really nice hotel that we can feature to put the university in the best light.”
The proposal for approval from the state goes out in November and opening of the boutique hotel may come as early as June 2017, according to Merck.



The University of Central Florida’s Sigma Chi fraternity participated in an administrative hearing before an officer acting on behalf of the student conduct board for accusations of violating multiple student conduct policies Wednesday afternoon.
“The administrative hearing officer recommended that Sigma Chi be found in violation of the charges of hazing and disruptive conduct and recommended a finding of not in violation for the alcohol-related misconduct charge,” Chad Binette, Assistant Vice President of UCF News & Information, said.
The recommended sanctions for the fraternity include suspension through summer 2017 and completion of a return plan prior to resuming activity at the university, according to Binette.
UCF cannot sanction Sigma Chi without first receiving a written rationale from the student conduct board finding the fraternity in violation of UCF rules. Binette said that due to the length of the hearing, the hearing officer did not complete the written rationale form immediately after the hearing and instead will complete the rationale Thursday morning. 
After the rationale is finished, Binette said the “recommendations are reviewed by the director of the Office of Student Conduct, who will issue the final decision.”
Moving forward, UCF can either accept the recommended sanctions, lessen or increase them, or remand the case for a rehearing. UCF cannot overturn the conduct board’s decision that Sigma Chi was “not in violation” of alcohol misconduct. UCF would have to remand the case for a new hearing in order to punish Sigma Chi on that specific charge. 
Sigma Chi could appeal the decision once it’s enacted. 
Check back on KnightNews.com for updates on this case.



The UCF Knights will host the UConn Huskies at Brighthouse Networks Stadium on Saturday as they try once again to come away with their first win of the season.
“Well I don’t really know much about the rivalry, but we are just going to treat it as we treat every other conference game. We have to go and win the conference, that’s our goal as a team,” sophomore receiver Jordan Franks said. 
UConn is coming off a three-game losing streak to Orlando after winning their first two games against lesser opponents Villanova and Army. Second-year head coach Bob Diaco brings the defensively-driven Huskies to take on a young UCF Knights offense that has struggled early on in the season.
The Huskies defense is comprised of seven upperclassmen (5 seniors, 2 juniors) and is the top American Athletic Conference team in passing defense. The Huskies’ vaunted secondary is led by redshirt senior safety Andrew Adams who tops the team in tackles (33) and is tied for the team lead in interceptions (2).
UConn also touts a dangerous set of linebackers in redshirt seniors Graham Stewart, Marquise Vann and redshirt sophomore Junior Joseph. Both Stewart and Vann were named to the preseason Lombardi Award watch list and have had solid seasons thus far, but they haven’t had quite the blistering start that they had hoped to given those lofty expectations. On the other hand, Junior Joseph has really come on in his second season with the Huskies as the team’s second best tackler.
UConn, not unlike the Knights, have a fairly young offense as well as they only have one senior started listed on their depth chart. Almost inherently, a young offense comes with inconsistency, but UConn has held up rather well on the shoulders of their redshirt sophomore quarterback Bryant Shirreffs.
“I think that new quarterback [Shirreffs] they have has helped them solidify the offense a little bit more, they have good size and they’ve always played pretty good defense,” Coach George O’Leary said. 
Shirreffs has been efficient through the first five weeks of the season, completing 61.8 percent of his passes while posting a 134.9 passer efficiency rating. The sophomore QB’s efficiency rating is good enough to place him above Ohio State’s Cardale Jones and Nebraska’s Tommy Armstrong. However, Shirreffs struggled this past week against the BYU Cougars in what was a terrible outing for the entire Huskies offense.
On the ground, UConn’s running game is a bit of an anomaly week to week as sophomore running backs Arkeel Newsome and Ron Johnson have each taken turns as the lead back. Newsome seems to have the hot hand the past two weeks though and has been prevalent in the passing game even when Ron Johnson handles the majority of the carries.
The Knights have faced their fair share of running back committees (FIU, Stanford, and Tulane) already this season and a closer look shows that they have done a solid job at stopping them.  UCF’s defense has only allowed over 4 yards per carry to two teams this season, South Carolina and FIU. The South Carolina game was exacerbated by their running QB Lorenzo Nunez who ran for 123 yards while UConn QB Bryant Shirreffs has accumulated just 110 yards throughout the season.
This is the first in-division contest for both the Knights and the Huskies and is an incredibly high stakes game for both teams. Not because a Civil Conflict trophy is involved, but more so because the American Athletic Conference is incredibly competitive this year and is still up for grabs. The UCF Knights and UConn Huskies will kickoff their in-conference ‘conflict’ on Saturday at Brighthouse Networks Stadium at 3:45 p.m.
 
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla



Maxwell Smith, the male who was hit by a vehicle in front of Garage A on Sept. 27 is recovering in his parents’ care after being treated at Orlando Regional Medical Center, according to a post on Smith’s Facebook page.
The University of Central Florida Police Department also confirmed that he is in stable condition.
“[Apparently] it was pretty bad as the eye witnesses thought I was dead right there. Luckily I survived with several facial fractures an a few other lacerations,” the Facebook post reads.
Smith was heading eastbound on University Blvd. in a crosswalk when a 2007 Honda CRV was heading north on Gemini Blvd. South. At that time, the traffic signal for north and south bound drivers turned yellow. 
The driver stated that he accelerated in order to beat the light, according to the crash report.
The driver did not see Smith “presumably due to the lack of illumination” on the bike, the report said.
The crash report also stated that the driver tried to avoid the collision by applying his breaks with force and turning his vehicle slightly to the right. The car left approximately 75 feet of skid marks and Smith was ejected off his bicycle approximately 60 feet away. 
Both bike tires were separated from the bike.
“Based upon physical evidence and witness testimony, I am unable to definitely determine if Mr. Smith was riding the bicycle in the roadway or the crosswalk prior to the collision,” the report states. 
This incident is still under investigation.



