Universal Studios Florida announced that the Fast & Furious: Supercharged ride is set to
join its list of attractions in 2017.
Film stars Vin Diesel, Dwayne ‘The Rock’ Johnson, Michelle Rodriguez and Tyrese Gibson will be featured on the ride, according to a press release.
The goal of the ride will be to make guests will feel like part of the “Fast Family” as they embark on an all new Fast & Furious adventure, according to a press release by Universal Orlando News.
After being absorbed into the underground racing world from the movies, guests will be able to see the headquarters of the “Fast Family” and some of the most popular cars from the film franchise. That experience will then be paired with the ride itself when guests board specially-designed vehicles and ride on the latest Fast & Furious adventure.
Opposite of the Fast and Furious: Supercharged experience currently in Universal Studios Hollywood,
this will be a standalone attraction instead of being a part of the tram tour.
After opening up at Universal Studios Hollywood this summer, Fast & Furious: Supercharged will replace Beetlejuice Graveyard Revue and Disaster: A Major Motion Picture Starring You!
Disaster will close permanently on Sept. 8 along with Beetlejuice Graveyard Revue later this year.
Image Credit: Universal Orlando Resort



“In matters of grave importance, style, not sincerity, is the vital thing.”- Oscar Wilde.
With exquisite Victorian style, Theatre UCF returns to school in Fall 2015 with additional performances of The Importance of Being Earnest, A Trivial Play for Serious People this Thursday, Aug. 27 on UCF’s main stage.
Director Mark Routhier and his cast, crew, and production team fearlessly take on this light-hearted satirical classic originally written and debuted in 1895.
In a 240+ hour rehearsal process over the summer semesters, the cast continues to study and embody rather curious roles while maintaining the Victorian aesthetic, reviving the wit and farcical elements from playwright Oscar Wilde.
“With text like Wilde’s, the attention to detail and word play within the text is a challenge, but a fun challenge! The play is so witty, an audience can see the show ten times and find something new every night,” Alexander Hehr, who portrays the role of Merriman, said.
In a timeless play revolving around the dated views of love, marriage and social obligations, Routhier also finds “truths in the dialogue that still resonate today,” according to Theatre UCF’s ‘A Note from the Director.’
With biting humor, questionable behavior and quick wit woven into universal themes of morality, the company of The Importance of Being Earnest is sure to entertain Theatre UCF fans, old and new, as they have tickled the funny bones of worldwide audiences for over a century.
Performances:
Thursday, Aug. 27 at 8 p.m.
Friday, Aug. 28 at 8 p.m.
Saturday, Aug. 29 at 8 p.m.
Sunday, Aug. 30 at 2 p.m.
Cost: $20 standard, $18 senior, $10 student
For any questions, contact Theatre UCF at 407-823-1500 or visit their website.
Photo credit Tony Firriolo.



The University of Central Florida announced it will make critical decisions Sunday regarding Tropical Storm Erika that is currently moving toward Florida.
If the weather becomes a serious safety issue, the university could cancel classes or close campuses.
“We’re going to be monitoring it through the weekend and making some critical decisions Sunday,” said Jeffery Morgan, director of the UCF Emergency Operations Center, according to the release.
“We don’t have any plans in place to shut down or anything like that right now. We’re really going to monitor the storm the next few days and take it from there,” UCF spokesperson Courtney Gilmartin stated.
“We have an office of emergency management that is fully staffed to support any sort of weather emergency,” Gilmartin informed. She explained that UCF is monitoring updates on the storm’s development and listening to the National Weather Service.
Morgan said his office updated its emergency contact lists to include the new campus residents in order to be prepared to send out information about how students should prepare their rooms, where to find safe shelter if necessary, what to bring and other safety precautions, according to the release.



As Tropical Storm Erika approaches Florida, the state is taking necessary precautions for any possible situation.
Florida Governor Rick Scott spoke out regarding the storm early Thursday and warned Florida residents to be prepared.
“He warned Floridians to be alert and prepared for the storm, even if it drifts further out into the Atlantic Ocean,” the Orlando Sentinel reported.
The State Emergency Operations Center has been activated to a level two.
“The State Emergency Operations Center (SEOC) in Tallahassee activated to partial activation, as current forecast models now indicate Florida is within Tropical Storm Erika’s five-day cone of error,” a press release from the State Emergency Response Team said.
As of the 2 p.m. National Hurricane Center Advisory, Erika is 160 miles (255 kilometers) west of Guadeloupe with maximum sustained winds of 45 mph (75 km/h).

The advisory also stated that “tropical storm force winds extend outward up to 140 miles (220 km)
to the east of the center.”
“Two people have been confirmed dead by the Antigua Daily Observer. As many as 5 people are missing, the Associated Press reported, and at least 20 homes have been destroyed in the storm,” the National Weather Service reported.
KnightNews.com has asked the University of Central Florida if they’ve been monitoring the storm and what would happen with classes once the storm arrives.
Check back for UCF’s response and continued coverage on Tropical Storm Erika.



