Knights Circle announced Saturday night that its internet connection had been down due to a damaged fiber located outside the Orlando area.
After days of residents complaining about having a slow, or no, internet connection, it was announced that “a fiber was cut outside of Orlando” and that repairs were underway, according to a mass text message sent by Knights Circle and shared with Knight News. Knights Circle issued an apologetic statement on its Facebook page shortly after.
“Knights Circle Residents, we are so incredibly sorry for any inconvenience that the Internet has caused you! We were just notified by our internet carrier (Airwaves) that a major fiber has been damaged outside of the Orlando area that is causing an outage to most of their Orlando clients. They did start repairs at 7pm and will hopefully be completed as soon as possible!” the statement said.
According to residents, the internet connection had been out since at least 11 a.m. Saturday and they were frustrated that Knights Circle took so long to give an explanation. General Manager Robert Myers said it’s because he did not receive word about the outage until much later.
“I received word that the internet was down around 6 p.m. on Saturday, though our Service Manager was made aware earlier than this and Airwaves was working on finding out what the issue was,” Myers told Knight News in an e-mail. “Once we got a firm answer to the source of the outage we sent a mass-text immediately. As the problem didn’t originate with Knights Circle, it took longer to get an answer as to the source of the issue.”
Similar complaints about sporadic connection outages have been made throughout the week, when students are studying for final exams.
One resident, Dior King-Aris, a physics major who has been living at Knights Circle for more than a year, said that the poor connection has forced him to work on his three online courses on campus or at a friend’s house.
“Loading pages used to be fine, albeit slow,” King-Aris said. “Videos were impossible.”
It is unclear if the outage is related to other instances throughout the week where residents struggled with accessing the internet. Myers said that he did not receive any reports regarding other such instances.
“We experienced a brief outage in Phase 1 on Friday afternoon when a vendor installing some security cameras in an attic, broke a sprinkler pipe and inadvertently flooded the maintenance closet where the breakers for the building’s power were stored,” Myers said. “It took us about an hour or so to get word out to let everyone know. We didn’t have any reports that connections were slow or intermittent.”
Throughout the semester, there have been complaints about slow download speeds from Airwaves Networks, Knight Circle’s internet provider for almost five years and recently replaced Bright House for its cable services. A petition has been circulating through Change.org since August, which demands that Knights Circle and its owner, Access Campus Housing, “improve its internet speeds to meet student need.” The petition has since reached 633 signatures.



Orange County Sheriff’s deputy Adam Popp was patrolling the Knights Pub parking lot Saturday night when he tried to break up a fight that ended with him being attacked and the attacker tasered, according to a sheriff’s report.
Popp was on a SNAP patrol, a joint program with the University of Central Florida Police Department to crack down on underage drinking.
A report stated that Popp was monitoring the parking lot due to many small fights breaking out before leaving the bar. In front of him, Popp wrote, two males broke out in fight. When a third male tried to break it up, one male fighter who was identified as Colin Robillard, punched the third male in the face, according to the arrest affidavit.
The deputy sheriff identified himself to Robillard and tried to gain control of the situation by placing the defendant on the ground, reports show. However, Popp said Robillard resisted his efforts.
“I was immediately met with physical resistance. Mr Robillard pulled away from my physical grasp and stated aggressively swinging his fists in my direction,” Popp said in the arrest affidavit. “As he was swinging his fists, he struck me in the head at least once with a closed fist.”
Both subjects ended up fighting on the ground as Robillard “continued to aggressively swing his arms and fists” toward Popp, according to the affidavit.
Robillard had his legs around Popp “so as to limit his ability to move away from the attack,” a supplemental report from OCSO Deputy Richard Pillay said.
“Each time he would pull an arm away from my grasp he would swing a fist. I attempted to give two distracting strikes to Mr. Robillard’s upper back in an attempt to gain control of his arms,” Popp reported.
The report shows that when Popp’s attempts did not succeed, Pillay tased Robillard.
“I then hear another Deputy yell ‘Taser! Taser!’ I immediate disengaged from Mr. Robillard to move away from the Electronic Control Device,” Popp reported.
Pillay gave Robillard loud clear verbal commands to stop resisting before activating the ECD, the supplemental report states.
After he was tased, Robillard still rested and was lying on one arm while tensing the other, the affidavit states.
The affidavit said Robillard was still resisting orders to place his hands behind his back. According to the report, it was not until he was tased again before Popp was able to place one of the defendant’s arms behind his back.
The defendant still resisted with his remaining arm but was eventually able to be placed in handcuffs, Popp reported.
Robillard admitted to drinking and said he believed to have no injuries, but recently had surgery, the affidavit stated.
The report also said that the deputy could not locate the third male that tried to stop the fight.
“Robillard’s engaging in a fight with at least two subjects outside a bar where he had been consuming alcohol to the point of intoxication and endangering others is disorderly intoxication,” according to the arrest affidavit. “His aggressive resistance and strike to my head at least one time with a fist is battery on a law enforcement officer.”
Robillard was charged with battery on a law enforcement officer, resisting an officer with violence and resisting an officer without violence, the affidavit stated.



