“It’s always surprising when someone wants to interview you, because it’s like, I just do my job, I didn’t think of it being anything phenomenal it’s just what I expect professors to do,” Professor Linda Howe said.
Despite what Howe may think, she went above and beyond her teaching abilities, which landed her the honor of being inducted as a fellow into the National League for Nursing Academy of Nursing Education in early October.
Professor Howe was one of 29 professors inducted, all representing various nursing schools and programs through the United States.
The National League of Nursing established the Academy of Nursing Education in 2007 to help recognize and honor those nursing professors who have made a significant contribution towards nursing education. 
Howe contributed with the creation of The Village, a unique case-based approach to teaching pharmacology that engages students, increases understanding of content and encourages self-discovery. 
The Village is now being used in more than 70 schools in the U.S.
Professor Howe said it all started when she went to Germany. 
“I was teaching pharmacology and I knew the students were having difficulties with this; it’s like learning a foreign language and you have nothing to attach it to. Pharm is a very different subject and it is voluminous. So I was concerned about my students, we went to Germany and we went to all these lovely villages, and all of the little stories going on and I said to my husband, it takes a village to teach pharm! So I started in the summer of 2005 when I wasn’t even teaching and I came home and started writing it and I worked all summer on it in order to use it in the fall. And I did more and more of them until I had a product to sell,” Howe said.
The Village continues to be a huge success for Howe as she uses it with students here at the University of Central Florida.
In addition to her program Howe has also started two scholarships, one here at UCF in honor of her late daughter called the Elizabeth Marie Howe Memorial Endowed Nursing Scholarship with her husband Brian. 
“I was pregnant four times, and I have one living child, so Elizabeth was my last pregnancy. I had lost a baby in a car accident, had my son, and then lost another baby, and then got pregnant with Elizabeth. She came a little early, she was very small, and she had a heart defect called tetralogy of fallot, which means she had four defects in her tiny little heart. When she died, I always felt all there is, is a heart marker with her name and her birthday and death day on it with a vase for flowers, that’s all she has. And when people ask me how many children do you have, I say one because I don’t want to explain that she died. And so I thought she needs to be remembered, and so I thought why not have a scholarship where her name will live forever.”
The scholarship is given out once a year to a student and the only special requirements other than a 3.0 GPA is that the student should be a member of the Student Nurses Association and wants a career in a neonatal intensive-care unit, or NICU, which is where Elizabeth stayed in the hospital. 
In addition to this scholarship, Professor Howe also started a scholarship fund in honor of her former student from Clemson University who passed away in a car accident. Professor Howe keeps a photo of her late student named Hunter taped to the doorway of her office.
Along with her recent honor, Professor Howe will continue to serve as president-elect of Sigma Theta Tau International Honor Society of Nursing: Theta Epsilon Chapter, and is a member of the editorial board for Nursing Education Perspectives. 
It’s safe to say that Professor Howe will continue to do great things here at UCF and make her family proud, especially Elizabeth.
Photo provided to KnightNews.com by Linda Howe



The corner of Lokanotosa Trail and Alafaya trail was the scene where shots were fired Sunday afternoon.
An aggravated assault with firearm occurred in the Walgreens parking lot near Campus Crossings, according to the incident report.
Two male victims were leaving Walgreens after purchasing cigarettes and when stopped at a stop sign, one of the victims said he noticed two unknown males fighting in the parking lot, according to the incident report. As he drove by, the victim said he saw another male walk up to the two men and join the fight.
“One of the suspects then ran away from the fight towards the street (Lokanotosa Trail) and [the victim] observed one of the black males fire at the running person,” the incident report said.
The victim also stated that he heard two shots, one of the rounds striking the passenger side of his vehicle and that two females were trying to break up the males from the argument as the vehicle drove onto Lokanotosa Trail towards Alafaya Trail, the report states.
The victim “stated he was in fear for his life and drove away from the scene” and returned to his apartment at Campus Crossings to pick up a firearm a friend gave him for protection before getting going to get gas, according to the incident report. Several deputies stopped the victim on the way back to his apartment.
The victim is willing to press charges and testify in court, the report said.
This investigation is still ongoing. Check back for updates.




Since the third Republican Debate on Oct. 28, Republican Presidential candidate and billionaire Donald Trump has been strongly against his conservative counterparts, in particular Florida Senator, Marco Rubio.
“All you have to do is look at his credit card,” Trump recently said about Rubio in an interview.
“He’s a disaster with his credit cards,” he continued. “I’ll tell you what I love, Florida. I am in Florida all the time and for years I’ve been hearing his credit cards are a disaster. I would think that when you take a look at it, you’re going to find that, but his credit card debt and his problems with credit cards and what he did when he was running the party apparatus with credit cards – I’ve heard about it for years. He has a very bad record of finances. If you look at what happened with his houses … he certainly lives above his means. There’s no question about that.”
Marco Rubio’s personal finances aren’t the only things Trump has called into question. Trump went on a tirade on Twitter Sunday morning tweeting out multiple tweets attacking the Senator.
“Anybody that believes in strong borders and stopping illegal immigration cannot vote for Marco Rubio,” Trump tweeted.
‪”@Morning_Joe‬‪: Marco only won the debate in the minds of desperate people. I won every on-line poll, even crazy @CNBC. Marco good looking?‬,” Trump added.‬
“Instead of accusing the Senator of having a weak stance on immigration and making personal attacks about the Senator’s finances, perhaps Donald Trump should be more concerned about explaining his own bankruptcies and flip flops on immigration,” Taylor Boutelle, Director of Communications for UCF Students for Rubio, said. “Marco Rubio has made it clear that the claims made against his credit card debt had been discredited when he ran against Charlie Crist for the US Senate. Senator Rubio also hasn’t hid from the fact that he does have a mortgage, has had student loans, and that his parents were Cuban immigrants. Although Trump clearly has never struggled in the money department, Senator Rubio has the experience in both financial and immigration issues that make him more appealing and relatable to a voting population made up of middle class citizens.”
“I think that Senator Rubio has lived a life that many hardworking Americans can relate to, and that he is doing a great job conveying how his past makes him a great candidate,” Chairman UCF Students for Rubio Amber Mariano added.
“When Donald comes across a poll he doesn’t like, he gets weird and he does these sorts of strange things and that’s fine – that’s the sort of campaign he wants to run and he’s entitled to it…I’m going to continue to talk about the future of America… I can’t respond to everything he says, I wouldn’t be able to run a campaign,” Macro Rubio said at a press conference last week. 



