The University of Central Florida is canceling the popular business class called Cornerstone, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
The Orlando Sentinel reported that about 2,000 students enrolled in the course annually and the class has been offered at UCF for 22 years. 
The UCF Cornerstone website says the social entrepreneurship class taught students to “practice the lessons related to entrepreneurial thinking, communication, teamwork, diversity, creativity, ethics…” 
Students in the Cornerstone class have raised money for a variety of charities to help the community, one of them being New Hope for Kids. The Nonprofit’s executive director, David Joswick, estimated that Cornerstone raised about $43,605 for the charity last year. 



Bento Cafe is a special sushi deal all day today Thursday, June 18 in honor of International Sushi Day. Customers can purchase any two sushi rolls and get one roll free at any Bento Cafe location. 
Bento Cafe Orlando posted this on their Facebook page, “Happy Thursday and Happy International Sushi Day! Today we will be running a spectacular special ALL day long! Nothing gets better than ‪#‎free‬ sushi!”
This special offer is only available for dine-in. 

Happy Thursday and Happy International Sushi Day! Today we will be running a spectacular special ALL day long! Nothing…
Posted by Bento Cafe Orlando on Thursday, June 18, 2015



UCF’s Delta Upsilon fraternity sent brother Dalton Dee to Jamaica for a week to help enhance a school with the tools and supplies that their national philanthropy (Global Service Initiative) raised money for.
Dee has been on site at Church Hill Primary School right outside of Negril, Jamaica since June 13 and will remain there until June 20.
Dee is the first brother from the UCF Delta Upsilon chapter that has been sent to take part in GSI and has been busy the last few days doing a variety of different things that he’s never done up until now.
“In the last two days I have mixed cement, helped construct a sewage draining system, painted the roof of what is soon to be the principal’s home, and installed a whiteboard inside of a classroom,” said Dee in his post on the Delta Upsilon Fraternity Blog.
Dee added that the Jamaican children of Church Hill Primary School are always filled with joy when they hear the recess bell.

“When the bell rings for recess it is awesome to see the kids running out of their classrooms because they know our brothers will be there to kick the soccer ball with them, or play marbles with them,” said Dee.
Dee shared a personal reflection about how this experience has impacted his life.
“The short time I have spent with these kids have changed me as a person. I am extremely blessed that Delta Upsilon has given me the opportunity to mutually benefit my life, and the lives of the children at Church Hill Primary School. I can’t wait to see the next few days of this journey has in store for me. I am so proud to say Dikaia Upotheke, Justice our Foundation,” said Dee.



Tuesday marked the sixth round of orientations for the incoming Knights.
KnightNews.com was at the student union to talk to the class of 2019 about their favorite spots on campus, their majors, and their hidden talents.
Humor hit the stage as Justin Levy conversed with the freshmen.

Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get UCF News like this on your feeds!
Follow @UCFKnightNews
Click here to watch Part 1: The first UCF Orientation Video
Click here to watch Part 2: The second UCF Orientation Video
Click here to watch Part 3: The third UCF Orientation Video
Click here to watch Part 4: The fourth UCF Orientation Video
Click here to watch Part 5: The fifth UCF Orientation Video



A ten round penalty kick shootout led to an Orlando City Lions advancement in the Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup on Wednesday, following the defeat of longtime adversary the Charleston Battery in a closely held game.
A hard fought fourth round matchup from the rivals ended in a 4-4 draw before the two teams took to the goal, where an exchange of successful kicks stopped at the hands of Lions goalkeeper Earl Edwards Jr.
Only a handful of shots on goal broke through the first half, leaving the score 0-0 after a quiet 46 minutes of play. Orlando City’s Carlos Rivas made the first moves of the game at the 4th and 9th minute, where the defender fired two shots on goal to Battery goalkeeper Odisnel Cooper. Eric Avila sent a corner kick to center field at the 15th, allowing defender Seb Hines to go for the header. Hines’ shot challenged Cooper but would be sent back into play.
An eventful second half would open up when Charleston found a lane and managed a header into the goal. Orlando responded with a sprinting mid-air header from Lewis Neal to equalize the score. Charleston picked up the tempo two minutes later with a shot that drove past the goalkeeper and into the net.
Carlos Rivas tallied a second point for the Lions, sending the ball into the corner and out of Cooper’s reach at the 75th minute. Rivas would return to make two more goals off of penalty kicks, bringing the score to 4-2 and leading Rivas to account for 3 out of the 4 goals the visiting Lions made in game time.
Not to be left out, Charleston Battery’s Justin Portillo broke free to make it a one point game in the 105th minute, and a tied match in the 115th off of a penalty kick. Five minutes later, the referee whistled the end of the match, beginning the ten round shootout.
The Lions pulled through as the victor of the sudden death situation with a score of 8-7 after ten rounds, settling the 4-4 score earned during 120 minutes of play.
“It was a difficult night for us – I knew it was going to be,” stated head coach Adrian Heath on the matchup. “You could tell as soon as we arrived at the stadium, Charleston were up for the game […]. In the end, obviously I’m delighted we got through. I feel for the Battery a little bit – I’ve got to be honest. I thought they put so much effort in it to come back from 4-2 down. I’ve been in the game a long time to know that in cup competitions the most important thing it to get it through. For our youngsters, it’s another bit of experience for them. I thought one or two of them showed well. At the end of the day we got through, and we live to fight another day.”
Orlando City resumes league play on Saturday, June 20th, to face the Montreal Impact at Saputo Stadium. The Lions will welcome the Colorado Rapids at the Orlando Citrus Bowl on June 24th at 7:30 p.m.



The suspected gunman wanted for killing six women and three men inside of a church Wednesday night has been captured and put into custody as of Thursday morning after being found 200 miles away in Shelby, North Carolina 14 hours later, according to the New York Times.
The suspect was identified as Dylann Storm Roof, a 21 year old white male from Columbia, South Carolina. Roof walked into a prayer meeting at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church around 8 p.m., sat down with black parishioners for nearly an hour, and then opened fire, according to the New York Times.
Roof’s Facebook profile picture shows him wearing a jacket decorated with the flags of two former white supremacist regimes.
Among the dead was Rev. Clementa C. Pinckney, pastor of the church, who was also a state senator, according to the New York Times.
“I have to do it,” the gunman said. “You rape our women and you’re taking over the country. And you have to go.”
The Charleston police chief, Greg Mullen, called the attack a hate crime, according to the New York Times.
President Obama spoke on the incident after hearing about the tragedy.
“There is something particularly heartbreaking about a death happening in a place we seek solace,” the president said at the White House.
Check back to KnightNews.com for updates on this heartbreaking story.



Todd Stansbury, UCF’s Athletic Director, is leaving to take the same position at Oregon State, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
“Todd has obviously done a lot of good things here,” UCF coach George O’Leary told the Orlando Sentinel, “but he’s going back to where he came from and Oregon State is a Power 5 school. I can certainly see the enticement of him wanting to take the job.”
Stansbury took over the UCF athletics program on March 1, 2012 after spending nine years at Oregon State as the school’s executive associate athletic director, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
During the time Stansbury was overseeing the UCF athletic department, the Knights have moved from Conference USA to the American Athletic Conference. UCF’s football team went 12-1 their first year as a part of the new conference and won the Fiesta Bowl against Baylor. The UCF Knights finished as a top 15 ranked football team that year.
UCF athletics captured a total of seven championships from various sports this past year.
Stansbury will also be named to the newly-formed Football Oversight Committee in early April. The group was created as part of the new governance changes to the NCAA and is chaired by Big 12 commissioner Bob Bowlsby. It will be in charge of looking at issues affecting college football including an early signing period, satellite camps and over signing, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
UCF athletics was ranked No.56 for total revenue production amongst other Division 1 schools across the country this year. USF athletics was ranked right behind UCF at No.57. 
UCF athletics also is ranked No.1 in average graduation rate for athletes over the last six years under Stansbury. 



