UCF junior basketball player Shaheed Davis was arrested on Jan. 12 for knowingly driving with a suspended license, according to a police report obtained by KnightNews.com 
Around 2:15 p.m., police pulled Davis over in the Delta Delta Delta sorority house parking lot, police said. Police said they ran his license plate number and saw he had a suspended license. 
Davis told police he didn’t have his license and confirmed to police he knew his license was suspended, but needed to go to basketball practice, according to the report.
Police said that Davis was cited one day prior, on Jan. 11, for knowingly driving with a suspended license, but was not arrested. Police said that due to Davis having prior knowledge of his driving privileges being suspended, and his total disregard for the citation he received a day earlier, he was arrested. 
Davis’s license was suspended for failure to pay two citations in Brevard County on Jan. 16 2014 and Feb. 12 2014. His license was then canceled/expired on Aug. 19 2014. 

Davis was transported to Orange County Jail and held on a $500 bond. 
The junior forward transferred to UCF after playing two seasons of junior college basketball at Eastern Florida State. Davis is averaging 5.1 points per game and 3.6 rebounds per game in his first season as a Knight. 
Davis has seen game action since his arrest, tallying seven points in 15 minutes on Jan. 17 in a 99-79 loss to Memphis. However, he did not play in the Tulane game on Jan. 14, just two days after his arrest. 
KnightNews.com reached out to Associate Director of Athletics Communications Dan Forcella who told KnightNews.com that the situation has been handled and he cannot comment further.
“Coach Jones has handled this situation with Shaheed internally,” Forcella said.
Check back for updates on this developing story.



The two championship games we’ve had this weekend could not have juxtaposed each other anymore perfectly. 
The first match-up of the Green Bay Packers versus the Seattle Seahawks proved to be one of the most tense endings this season, while the Indianapolis Colts’ attempts to keep the New England Patriots from another Super Bowl appearance ended in shame and misery.
Heading into this week, no one would have expected the Seahawks to be playing as poorly as they did. With four interceptions by the end of the game, Russell Wilson did little to provide hope for any Seahawks’ fan, failing to establish any momentum until the final 4 minutes of the game. Suddenly, everything appeared to swing their way. Wilson was able to lead one unstoppable drive, ending with a rushing touchdown from the man himself, before a successful onside kick led to another stellar rushing touchdown courtesy of Marshawn Lynch.
Yet Green Bay refused to concede, even then. With a little over one minute left in play, along with all their timeouts, the Packers were able to secure one last field goal, tying up the game, with a score of 22-22 and sending it into overtime. However, the Seahawks comeback could not be stopped, as they managed to score on the first drive of overtime, ending the game with a final score of 28-22.
After such a high energy finish to the day’s earlier game, it would have been nice to see a close match between long time rivals like the Indianapolis Colts and the New England Patriots. Unfortunately, the game we were forced to bear witness to featured no level of competition or tension. Instead, we were handed a slaughter, as the Patriots dominated the Colts with a final score of 45-7.
In only two weeks, we will finally see the return of one of the year’s biggest television events. The Super Bowl will take place on Sunday ,Feb. 1, at 6:30 p.m. on NBC.



