Crowds gathered around the Orlando Eye on Wednesday morning to witness a death defying stunt that was set to make history.
At approximately 8:15 a.m., Nik Wallenda, who comes from a family of daredevils, walked on top of the Orlando Eye while it was in motion.

Wallenda had no harness nor balancing pole to aid him in this stunt. According to a report released by NBC news, Wallenda had never completed a stunt in public without a balancing pole, nor has he ever had to duck under obstacles, which made the feat all the more challenging.
“The winds are about 20 miles per hour,” Wallenda stated as he began his walk.
Weather was a concern for Wallenda prior to the stunt, as it was expected to rain the morning of his attempt.
The tension in the crowd was high, as Wallenda, 400-feet above the ground slowly walked the top of the observation wheel. Cameras were out, and the eyes of all ages were captivated as Wallenda narrated his walk across the moving wheel. It took Wallenda about 10 minutes to complete his stunt, before safely walking back to one of the pods, where he celebrated his accomplishment with a selfie.
“This is definitely a dream of mine,” Wallenda stated as he successfully completed another death defying stunt.
Hands raised above his head in victory, Wallenda proceeded safely back to his family and then to reporters where he was interviewed by the media.
“I’m living out what my family has done for over 200 years,” Wallenda said. “ To be able to fulfill these life-long dreams is an awesome feeling of accomplishment.”



UCF basketball player Brandon Goodwin was arrested on April 27 by UCFPD over the grand theft of a bicycle owned by UCF, court records show.
Goodwin, 19, was arrested by UCFPD outside of the CFE Arena for an outstanding warrant dating back to an incident in June 2014, where prosecutors say he took a bicycle valued over $300 and charged him with grand theft, a third-degree felony, earlier this month, according to court records.
According to the affidavit, Goodwin took the bike from the bicycle rack next to Knightro’s. When UCFPD confronted him about taking the bike, Goodwin said that he previously had his bike stolen and “felt bad” about taking the bicycle, so he left it by the Mathematical Sciences building where UCFPD retrieved it, according to the affidavit. 
Court records indicate the UCF bicycle was assigned to a detective in the special investigations unit of UCFPD.
UCF hasn’t confirmed if the bike was a part of the UCF bait bike program, which was implemented in 2011. 
Earlier this year in February, UCFPD held a public bait bike education program. UCFPD owns the bait bikes and places GPS trackers on them, so if a thief steals one, they know where to find them. Since 2011, they have made at least 12 arrests for the theft of bait bikes. 
UCFPD also handed out “This Could Be a Bait Bike” stickers at the event to students to discourage potential thieves from taking the bike. 
Goodwin started all 30 games for UCF this past season and averaged 10.2 points per game with a team-leading 4.2 assists per game.  
Dan Forcella, UCF Associate Director of Athletics Communications, said that UCF basketball is aware of the situation.
“We are aware of the situation and allowing the legal process to play itself out,” Forcella said in an e-mail.



