After the Sigma Nu rape comment video that Knight News broke went viral, the woman who says she filmed the video has spoken out.
The woman told Knight News that she does not wish to be identified yet, but posted on Facebook today that she was the one who recorded the video at the fraternity house. She said that she’s been harassed constantly for doing what she believes was right.
“Coming from a Sigma Nu groupie herself, at this point I don’t even care if people know. I’m the girl who recorded the video. I’m just going to say that the men of this fraternity used to be my friends. Their fraternity was built in love, honor, and truth. But that isn’t what they stand for anymore,” said the woman.
“I am getting harassed by members of the fraternity through social media, through text messages..CONSTANTLY. Because it’s my “fault” I caught their bad actions on camera. This is so much deeper than one rape, or one guy chanting in the video. I don’t hate them, I used to spend my nights baking brownies and cookies for them. But things happen and people lie to cover up the damage. Or harass people like me for doing what was right and exposing them. Don’t get me wrong, there are a handful of good guys in there. But if you want to pick out all of the rotten tomatoes who have done wrong in this situation, you’ll be left with a 5 man fraternity,” said the woman on Facebook.
She later deleted her comments from Facebook.
Before she deleted her comments, the woman said she was starting to receive multiple messages from students. Despite being harassed by many, she said she has also received positive feedback.
“You did what was right, it was hard to do and I’m sure you lost some friends, but doing what’s right is so much more than just doing what’s expected,” said one student to the woman, the woman told Knight News.
“That was pretty brave of you,” said another, according to the woman.



The UCF Knights fan base must really be ready for football season — all tailgating spots on Memory Mall are now claimed.
Reservations were able to be made starting at 10 a.m. Monday morning. UCF students and alumni reserved all the tailgating spots on Memory Mall for the September 3 season opener against FIU in just a couple of hours.
A UCF spokesman said that it is still possible that reservations may be cancelled before game day. If students or alumni did not get a spot on Memory Mall, all other spots on campus are first come first serve.
Reservations for UCF’s second home game against Furman University will be available to be made starting September 7 at 10 a.m. The game will take place on September 19.



