Kappa Delta at UCF is changing up their annual spring philanthropy this year–hosting a carnival and country concert on Greek Park. 
Kappa Delta is hosting Shamrock Fest 2015 on March 22 from 12 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. at their chapter house property on campus. The carnival and country concert will be featuring artist John King, who is no stranger to the big stage.  
King has performed with artists such as Jason Aldean, Rascal Flatts and Florida Georgia Line while playing over 240 shows during his time as a performer. 
Tickets are $10 the week before the event and $20 the week of the event. Tickets are available by purchasing one from a Kappa Delta sorority sister or visiting the house during the time leading up to the concert. 
In previous years, Kappa Delta has hosted the Shamrock 5k in the spring. Kappa Delta Vice President of Community Service Patty Zorrilla believes that the change in philanthropy is beneficial. 
“I think change is a great thing. We are so blessed to have the opportunity to put together a whole new event to raise money than ever before for Prevent Child Abuse America and the Children’s Home Society,” said Vice President of Community Service Patty Zorrilla in a release. 
Prevent Child Abuse America helps 1 million children every year that face child neglect and abuse. Kappa Delta hopes that by having a change of event to raise money for their philanthropy, that it will be their most successful fundraising event yet.



Another overtime situation rallied fans at CFE Arena where UCF (12-14, 5-10) held Memphis (17-10, 9-5) to 56-56 by the end of regulation, before falling 75-65 in overtime.
The first five minutes of gameplay worked against the favor of the Knights, where Memphis worked up an 18-2 run.
A frustrated UCF bench lit a flame that burned Memphis’ lead to only 3 points by halftime, nearly tying the game before a shot by Adonys Henriquez bounced away from the rim. An active Knights lineup caused the Tigers to lose the offensive dominance built earlier in the half. UCF completed 40.7% of their field goals in the first half and 30.8% of their 3-pointers, versus Memphis’ 44.8% in the field and 16.7% from the arc.
The momentum UCF held stifled in the opening minutes of the second half after a twenty minute breather, although the gap in score would close soon after several quick plays made by the Knights.
Sophomore guard Brandon Goodwin drew in the last layup of regulation to tie up the game. A Memphis player allowed the ball to inch past half court to save on time but Goodwin dove for the steal and called a timeout with seconds left on the clock.
“It felt really good, hard work – Just hustle,” said Goodwin. “But that was momentum for us going into overtime. You know we can actually win this game if we just keep fighting.”
Overtime favored Memphis as the Tigers earned the first nine on the board as well as shooting 90% from the free throw line, keeping UCF at bay until the game’s end.
“It was a very good basketball game,” said UCF head coach Donnie Jones. “Our kids fought hard. Somehow we found a way to get into overtime and that says a lot about these kids and how they compete.”
UCF will compete in three more regular season games against Cincinnati, East Carolina and USF. Cincinnati’s game will be played on Tuesday at Fifth Third Arena. The Knight’s last home game will be played against East Carolina on Saturday at 12 p.m.



A good night’s rest was greeted with a rude awakening for a group of students; a burglar had entered their apartment while they were asleep and stolen their wallets and other valuables.
According to the Orange County Sheriff’s Office, several credit cards, cash and an Apple MacBook were stolen in the Jan. 22 burglary at The Village At Science Drive and no one has been arrested for the crime.
Spencer Simon, UCF junior majoring in marketing, said the incident happened in his apartment between 2 a.m. and 6 a.m. He said his credit card was used 21 times at various places in the area including a Walmart, Wawa and AutoZone. 
The incident report states that the burglar entered through the unlocked front door. 
One of the roommates’ girlfriend told deputies that she left the apartment that night but had “no way to lock the door herself.” She also told deputies that she informed another roommate that she was leaving, but that the roommate was already in bed and may not have realized to lock the door.
When Simon and his roommate woke up the next morning around 11 a.m., they noticed their wallets were missing from the dining room table near the door.
Their wallets contained credit cards, drivers licenses and other miscellaneous items. Ruiz’s wallet also contained $70 cash. Other items stolen were Simon’s iPad and another roommate’s Apple MacBook Pro.
Soon after discovering their wallets were missing, Simon and Ruiz received calls from their banks and credit card companies about suspicious activities on their accounts.
According to the incident report, Simon’s American Express Card was used 21 times that morning between 5 a.m. and 12 p.m., when he canceled his card.
The incident report states that the suspect is a white male between the ages of 22-28, 5’8″-5’11” and 140-160 lbs.
Just days after this crime, a string a burglaries was reported at Northgate Lakes. Residents told deputies their doors were left unlocked and a suspect come into their apartments while they slept. 
Christopher Bryan Woods, 27, was arrested on Feb. 14 in connection to a burglary at Northgate Lakes. Deputies said that they are investigating Woods to see if he was involved in any other burglaries in the area. 
There is no word if Woods was connected to this crime. 



Law enforcement came out in full force on Monday for a recruiting forum hosted in front of Memory Mall. 
Large crowds surrounded the variety of vehicles as professionals from the Orlando Police Department, UCF Career Services, Lambda Alpha Epsilon, and Alpha Phi Sigma talked to students interested in a law enforcement career. 
The equipment showcase was available from 12 p.m. to 2 p.m. and then again later in the afternoon from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m., but that’s not all these organizations had available for the day.
There was also a forum in UCF Classroom Building II (CB2) in room 206. SWAT, Crime Scene Investigations, Crisis Negotiations, HAZMAT and Orlando’s Police Department Recruiting Unit explained what they do and how their hiring process works. They also answered questions as well.
“We just want to open our doors and open our ears to hear questions that the students may have and then just answer them to help them get a jump start, whether it be interviewing skills or what to do to make yourself a better qualified applicant,” Orlando Police Department Recruiting Supervisor Sgt. Jerry Goglas said.
The Orlando Police Department usually has about 7,000 applicants for only 40 spots, so these officers are hoping to help students in the application process.
“We hire for a career,” Goglas said. “I don’t want to hire somebody for two years. I want to hire somebody for 20+ years that can come out and do the right thing in the community and help others.”



A man with a semi-automatic gun robbed the Del Taco restaurant on University Boulevard near UCF main campus early Monday morning, according to a UCF alert.
According to OCSO, at 6:48 a.m. workers at the Del Taco were approached by black male suspect wearing a white sweatshirt at the drive-thru. The suspect demanded cash and held up a gun, according to OCSO.
According to OCSO, the workers complied and handed the suspect cash who then took off. 
The drive-thru was the only open part of the business at the time of the robbery. There were no injuries to any of the workers, according to OCSO.
The OCSO Robbery Unit is working to identify the suspect. 



