More than 5000 Knights will become UCF alumni this Friday and Saturday during the three graduation ceremonies, according to a UCF press release.
The commencement ceremonies are scheduled for the following times.
9 a.m. Friday, December 18 for the College of Education and Human Performance, College of Health and Public Affairs, and the Rosen College of Hospitality Management.
2:30 p.m. Friday, December 18 for the College of Arts and Humanities, College of Graduate Studies, College of Nursing, College of Science, and College of Undergraduate Studies.
9 a.m. Saturday, December 19 for the College of Business Administration, College of Engineering and Computer Science, College of Medicine, and College of Optics and Photonics. 
Doors will open 90 minutes prior to the beginning of the ceremonies, and graduates will begin processing 20 minutes before the ceremonies, which are expected to last about two hours each, according to a UCF press release. 
The university will award an estimated 5,168 degrees during the ceremonies. That includes 4,405 bachelor’s degrees, 657 master’s degrees, four education specialist degrees, 12 educational doctoral degrees, 81 Ph.D.s and nine Doctor of Nursing degrees, according to a UCF press release. 
The speaker for Friday morning’s ceremony will be Mark Brewer, president and CEO of the Central Florida Foundation.
The Friday afternoon speaker will be Nancy Meyer, the publisher and CEO of the Orlando Sentinel since October 2014.
Richard Lapchick, the endowed chair and director of the DeVos Sport Business Management Program at the UCF College of Business Administration will speak at the Saturday morning ceremony.
UCF will be hosting a graduation photo opportunity at the Carl Black and Gold Cabana at Bright House Networks Stadium on Thursday, December 16 from 10 a.m. until 2 p.m.



Many former UCF football alumni are beginning to make their presence known in the National Football League.
When looking at the leading NFL quarterback, wide receiver, and running back represented by each school, UCF’s trio of Blake Bortles (30 passing), Brandon Marhall (11 receiving), and Latavius Murray (5 rushing) has the most touchdowns of any institution in the country with 46.
Bortles has thrown 30 passing touchdowns this year through just 13 games. The only other quarterbacks who have accomplished this in their first or second season are Kurt Warner and Dan Marino. 
Bortles is also the youngest quarterback to have 3500 passing yards and 30 passing touchdowns in a season since Dan Marino in 1984. Those 30 passing touchdowns are a Jaguars’ record, and his 10 passing touchdowns in the past three games are the most in a three-game span in Jaguars’ franchise history.
UCF has had 21 players with NFL clubs during the 2015 regular season. 
After former UCF football alumnus J.J. Worton signed with the St. Louis Rams last week, five of those 21 former UCF football players are wide receivers in the NFL.
20 of the 21 players are still playing with their respective NFL teams are the end of the season is approaching. 
Former UCF football players whose team has a chance to make the NFL postseason are listed below.
Brandon Marshall (New York Jets)
Legar Douzable (New York Jets)
Clayton Geathers (Indianapolis Colts)
A.J. Bouye (Houston Texans)
Blake Bortles (Jacksonville Jaguars)
Jah Reid (Kansas City Chiefs)
Josh Sitton (Green Bay Packers)
Josh Robinson (Minnesota Vikings)
Terrance Plummer (Minnesota Vikings)



