By: Shayla Phillips
“When we think about when we’re graduating, and we probably want to thank our parents, our siblings, our friends, and the teachers who took the time out. But I think we also need to think about the people who helped us get to class,” a reminder from senior Mondeson Mondesir in regards to the people who are “unseen by many” – Patrick Dormeus is just that.
Patrick Dormeus sits in the driver’s seat of UCF’s black route shuttle, with his bright red shirt and a smile just as bright as he peers through his sunglasses into the review mirror engaging with passengers. 
“One day I’m gonna ride on that board,” referring to a UCF student’s long board who hopped on for a quick ride to class. 
The student looked with curiosity and filled with doubt and questions, “this board?” 
Dormeus nods and they both laugh. This is the tone that many of Dormeus’ conversations carry with those who dare to step foot on a shuttle.
“He takes an interest in your interests,” Mondesir, who’s been riding the black route shuttle for a year and a half now, states. Mondesir and Patrick’s relationship blossomed simply from a “good morning.”
Dormeus’ curiosity and welcoming spirit stem from his extraordinary past and his very own interests. Moving to Florida in September of 1982 from New York, he came with an Engineering degree in hand and a dream that was short lived due to the lack of experience in the field. But he went on to teach physics and calculus at Miami Dade College, where he taught for a year and a half. 
Through teaching and tutoring is where he discovered how he dislikes lateness, and stresses the importance of getting his passengers to where they need to go on time. He decided to go back to school to get another degree in Criminal Justice, where he then worked at Krome Service Processing and Detention Center in Miami, Fla. where after the second week he became the chief commander. 
He questioned himself, “what is it that I’m actually gonna do to leave my mark?” 
He illustrated this by calling the detainees by their name and not by their number assigned to them. He continued this work for seven years. Continuing criminal justice, he became a Bounty Hunter for nine years, where he made enough money to purchase land in Polk County and to build houses for his two daughters and son.
That is his idea of success: being able to provide for his kids by sending them to college and making sure they had a place to live. 
“You can’t take one penny with you in the coffin,” humbled by the success he became a Bus Operator for UCF in January of 2005. 
“Each job is like food for my brain” and the most important lesson to harvest from it all is “if you can’t look in you and see what you can offer to the world, then you’re just existing – you’re just existing,” Dormeus is a manifestation of his words. 
In whatever job he finds himself in he is sure to leave his mark.
Dormeus is the representation of the gears that make UCF tick and operate every day. He defines not only what it means to be a Knight, but also that ordinary people with extraordinary lives can leave the biggest marks on those who utter a simple “good morning.” 
He is the energy that drives the campus and UCF students alike. 
Mondesir expands on that by saying, “everyone had a part to play in the success of a student – everyone. It doesn’t matter if it was a Liberian who took her time to try to find a book. It doesn’t matter if it was a person at Dunkin’ Donuts that got you breakfast, the energy you needed not to fall asleep in class. Or even the shuttle driver who waited for you while it was raining. Although it’s not great, those are sacrifices that they make.” 
And those sacrifices are what it means to be a UCF Knight.



This past holiday weekend, UCF students have been sharing what they are thankful for all over social media. The holidays tend to evoke positive emotions, but some have more to be thankful than others, such as sophomore Brandon Cononley.
When going around the dinner table saying what you’re thankful for, “my health” tends to be a common answer – but it’s usually healthy people saying this answer. Although Brandon is now healthy, he went through a lot to get to where he is today.
Last fall, Conoley was confronted and attacked one night by a group of people in the 4th floor staircase of University House, just across the street from campus. Although the amount of people that attacked him were uncertain, he believes there were four other people there.
Conoley was unconscious when his best friend, Johnny Liptak, found him later that night in the 3rd floor staircase of University House.
“It’s definitely a moment one can never forget, seeing their best friend covered in blood at the bottom of a stairwell,” Liptak said. “I’m just glad everything turned out okay in the end.”
He woke up the next morning with two black eyes, a swollen face, missing teeth and two broken wrists. “I just remember being in an extreme amount of pain,” Conoley said.
After his mom told him to go to the hospital, doctors found a type of bleeding in his brain that required surgery.
“The amount of blood in my brain was so extreme they didn’t expect me to be conscious with the amount of bleeding that was occurring,” Conoley said.
The surgery was so serious that surgeons told him to say his goodbyes. After waking up from the surgery, Conoley stayed in hospital for a week and was treated with three facial fractures, two broken wrists and bleeding in the brain. He had to drop out of his classes and head back home for therapy. He forgot how to talk and he couldn’t move his legs.
Through therapy, Conoley is now able to do everything he could do before, except play contact sports. Although he’s missing a piece of the right side of his brain, he still feels undamaged.
“That’s the miracle about this whole thing,” Conoley said. “Not only did I survive, but also I’m basically untouched. I have a scare and that’s it. It’s unexplainable.”



Imagine that each time you pick one foot up to put it in front of the other an earth quake begins. That’s how a beginner at slacklining might feel as they struggle to keep balance on a 2-inch wide line strung about 3 feet off the ground between two trees.

However, for Matthew “Matt” Morin, Alec Jacob and their slacklining group, walking across the tension line is nothing new. In fact, they are trying to learn new tricks. Even a simple bounce or jump can take hours of practice and repetitive tries to keep from losing balance and falling off.
“Matt was the inspiration of it all,” said Jacob, who joined Morin in slacklining after seeing him practicing at the UCF main campus.
Most of the time Morin will set up his equipment at the end of the John T. Washington Center Breezeway between classes or as often as Florida weather permits.
It’s hard not to slow down or stop to watch as these Knights walk the line. 
“We have people stop to watch all the time,” said Morin; “asking ‘Is this a tight rope, can I try?’”
Morin never turns away someone who is interested in slacklining and he often invites those who stop to watch, like Malik Jones and Lionel Lizince, to give it a try.
Neither Jones nor Lizince had tried slacklining before meeting Morin.
“This is not as easy as they make it seem,” Jones said after several attempts.
Morin advised them that it was best to start out bare foot or to have flat shoes, such as skate shoes. Morin also directed them to a second line that had been set up which was not as bouncy or as high.
Morin uses a Gibbon Trickline with a ratchet system, which allows him to make the line loose or tight depending on what he needs. The tighter the tension the more stability he has but keeping it slightly loose gives him more bounce for bigger tricks.
While Morin makes it look easy slacklining takes a large amount of balance and core strength, according to slackline4u.com. Because of this slacklining has become a useful fitness tool.
In 2012, Men’s Journal featured a story on slacklining in their health and fitness section and slackline yoga (or Slackasana) has also seen a growing trend since that time as well.
Morin has been doing this for more than a year and as more people became interested began an unofficial UCF Facebook page (Slackline UCF) to keep everyone informed about where and when they might meet.
Morin has contemplated on beginning an official UCF club but after learning that UCF requires equipment to be held by the school when not in use has decided to wait, not sure how to keep his or others personal equipment separated. “Maybe if we can get some sponsors,” said Matt.
But for now they will remain the unofficial UCF slackers and you can stop by and check them out by the breezeway and give it a try yourself.



With the recent announcement of five nurseries chosen to grow medical marijuana, high times will soon be upon us.
Well, not exactly all of us.
The five nurseries, one of which in Winter Garden, have been selected by the Florida Department of Health to grow Charlotte’s Web, a strain of marijuana that is low in THC and non-euphoric.
Charlotte’s Web has proven beneficial for people, especially children, suffering from epilepsy and other muscle spasms.
The medical marijuana strain has been hotly contested by politicians and citizens alike. But after Gov. Rick Scott signed the Compassionate Medical Cannabis Act of 2014 on June 16, 2014, a Tallahassee judge upheld the plans to grow Charlotte’s Web in May 2015.
These are the five nurseries selected to cultivate Charlotte’s Web:
Northwest Region – Hackney Nursery Company
Northeast Region – Chestnut Hill Tree Farm, LLC
Central Region – Knox Nursery, Inc. (Winter Garden)
Southwest Region – Alpha Foliage, Inc.
Southeast Region – Costa Nursery Farms, LLC
Following the judge’s decision, there was a rigorous process for nursery selection. The Florida Department of Health used a 600 page scorecard to determine which of the 28 nursery applicants could grow Charlotte’s Web, according to WPTV.
For a nursery to grow Charlotte’s Web, it must have been in business for 30 continuous years and able to cultivate 400,000 plants. The five selected nurseries now have 10 days to post a $5 million performance bond and must begin cultivating the plants within 210 days, according to a press release by the Florida Department of Health.



By: Samantha McCollum
Construction on Libra Drive, the University of Central Florida’s south entrance, is estimated to be completed by May 2016; the expansion will provide elevated areas, four vehicle lanes, bike lanes and a sidewalk on the west side of the road. 
The UCF Police Department encourages drivers to find an alternate route due to the construction and slowing of traffic. They will enforce the 20 mph speed limit while construction is ongoing to provide safety to drivers, bicyclists and construction crews. 
“I haven’t used Libra Drive since the construction started because it’s always so backed up. I just use the main entrance by garage A now,” UCF student Steven Gomez said. 
During the construction Libra Drive is closed to pedestrians, but remains open to vehicular and bike traffic. The Facilities Planning & Construction page on UCF’s website offers a map with temporary pedestrian routes. 
“There’s no sidewalk right now so bicyclists just ride in the street, which gives me a lot of anxiety when I take Libra, I feel like I’m going to hit them,” 22-year-old Ewin Vega said. 
The expansion of the mile-long road began in May of 2015. Not only will the road be widened from two to four lanes and feature bike lanes and sidewalks, but low areas will also be elevated several feet to eliminate occasional flooding after heavy rains, according to UCF Police.
“It rained really bad back in September, and I was on my way home and Libra was completely blocked off with barricades and police. It ended up taking me over half an hour to get to my apartment on Science Drive, which is less than a mile from campus,” said UCF sophomore Catherine Noll.
If students, faculty and staff decide to continue to use Libra Drive, they should be aware that construction — which includes heavy equipment, lane closures and workers on foot — might delay traffic.
“I assume that even when it’s completed it’s still going to be a hassle,” UCF senior Keith Brinsko said. 
UCF Today explained that eastbound Gemini Boulevard would also gain a new right-turn lane for easier access onto Libra. Right now there is no turning lane onto Libra, causing occasional traffic backup on Gemini stretching as far as the Wellness Center. 
“I’m really excited for the expansion. I use Libra to get to and from campus every day and can’t wait for it to be four lanes,” UCF student Gabriela Murphy said. 
There are still seven months of construction left; UCF authorities ask that everyone uses precaution while traveling down Libra Drive for the remainder of the project. Any updates on the expansion will be sent to the all-campus email when necessary.
Photo by Samantha McCollum



