Cait Zona and Jarell Jones sat down with KnightNews.com Wednesday to discuss issues such as halting tuition hikes, blacking out names on SGA documents and why they think the average student should vote for them.
Zona, current Speaker of the Senate, explained why their past experiences in SGA can help maximize their efforts as president and vice president, if elected.
“For the average student, I think we would make the best pair and the best candidates … because we know what is going on right now and we know how to fix it,” said Cait. [sam_ad id=”5″ codes=”true”]
Over the past couple weeks, both Zona and Jones said they have been out talking to students, asking for feedback and answering questions so they can truly represent the UCF student body and what it wants to the best of their ability.
Both Zona and Jones promised to oppose all tuition hikes if elected.
“We’re both normal students besides our involvement in SGA. We go to class, we pay the same tuition fees, we’re pretty much the average student for the most part and we don’t want our tuition to go higher just like the other students don’t want it to,” said Jarell.

The candidates also addressed UCF’s controversial practice of blacking out names of certain SGA politicians from public records and their feelings on the alleged 1 a.m. “House of Cards” style meeting that took place between the other two parties.
Zona and Jones are having their campaign rally and will be releasing their full platform to the student body this Sunday, March 22nd at 9 p.m. at Burger U, right next to the Towers at Knights Plaza living community and the CFE Arena.
KnightNews.com also talked to the Stein and Barhamje ticket Wednesday and we’ll be posting that video soon. The Zagrocki and Bennett also accepted KnightNews.com’s invitation for a sitdown interview, and it’s setup for tomorrow afternoon. Check back to see that video interview soon as well. 



There’s been a lot of questions surrounding the proposed downtown campus, and officials at the University of Central Florida attempted to answer some an open forum Wednesday afternoon. 
UCF was given the green light for the project from the Florida Board of Governors last month. They gave the okay for $2.77 million from the Legislature to allow UCF to continue planning the campus.
Paul Lartonoix, assistant vice provost, and Fred Kittinger, associate vice president for university relations gave an update:
– UCF is looking into having Google buses, with Wi-Fi in bus, for students to be able to work on projects during their commute.
– The programs moving downtown will be finalized later this spring. For now the potential programs include: Visual Arts/Digital Media & Studio Arts, Health and Public Affairs, WUCF Public TV & Radio, and the Nicholson School of Communication.
– There is the possibility of intramural sports, a recreation and wellness center, and the Burnett Honors College at the downtown campus.
– UCF is projecting to begin the master planning concept with architects this summer, start construction of Phase I and II in July 2016 for the anticipated opening of July 2017.
Students raised concerns of a disconnect between the two campuses. A major part of the undergraduate experience is football season, which student who are downtown would need to then commute to. According to Lartonoix, it will be beneficial in the sense that students are commuting back to main campus and everything will be going back to UCF’s main hub.
As for the Greek community, that remains to be seen. So far, that has not been a major part of the planning process for the downtown campus.
“We don’t have a Greek section on the map but I guess we’ll have to figure that out,” Lartonoix said.
Another topic that was raised was Student Government’s role and presence downtown. Kittinger said that at Arizona State, that has a successful downtown campus, student government leaders are selected for each branch campus but that SGA would need to decide what model would be best for our community.
Christine Dellert, senior director of internal communications at UCF, said that university officials and community partners are meeting weekly to continue the planning process, despite state funding not being guaranteed yet.
 



Big Sean will be coming to Orlando this Sunday, March 22, having just released his new album Dark Sky Paradise.
The concert will take place at Venue 578 (formerly Firestone Live), with doors opening at 7:00 p.m. and the show starting at 8:00 p.m. This is an all ages show and tickets can be purchased at online.
Big Sean is a hip-hop artist currently signed to GOOD Music who has been releasing a steady stream of albums and mixtapes for over 10 years now. The rapper first received attention in the hip-hop community when he free-styled for Kanye West, later getting signed to the musician’s record label. 
His third and most recent album, Dark Sky Paradise, landed number 1 on the Billboard 200, selling 173,000 copies in the United States during its first week. This album also marks the third straight record Big Sean has had debut in the top 10 of the Billboard 200.
Big Sean’s opening act for the night will be Casey Veggies whose debut album is expected to release sometime this year, having previously been known for his collaborations with Earl Sweatshirt and Vince Staples.
Tickets for the show are currently on sale, starting at $35.



A single game series win improved the Knights’ record to 18-4 Tuesday afternoon, highlighting this season’s offensive powerhouse while adding to another record-breaking performance.
UCF worked up a 14-3 lead through the 7th inning before Bethune-Cookman put up a fight, marking down a season high 20 hits in their 18-13 victory along the way.
Center fielder JoMarcos Woods set the Knights’ offense in motion on a triple to center field. Dylan Moore, Tommy Williams and Woods ran in the first scores of the game following a homer from Williams.
The 4th inning totaled 5 runs, improving the score to 8-0 in favor of UCF. Bethune-Cookman responded with three runs at the bottom of the 5th but would be outdone by UCF’s five runs in the next two frames. The Wildcats fought back at the bottom of the 8th with their seven run inning and three runs in the ninth. An attempted repeat of the 8th inning for the Wildcats fell short to end the game 18-13, UCF.
Second baseman Kam Gellinger recorded 5 RBI’s before the game’s end, trailed by Tommy Williams’ 4 RBI’s and home run. Williams went 6 for 7 at the plate and earned two doubles on his career-high 6 hits, tying a 17-year-old record made by Eric Riggs, in 1998 versus Stetson, when UCF was still referred to as The Golden Knights. Seniors Erik Barber and JoMarcos Woods joined Williams in their home runs, with 5 RBI’s for the pair.
UCF’s batting lineup has notched two grand slams and 30 home runs this season, powering the Knights forward in their No. 7 ranking, according to Baseball America. The Black and Gold have peaked at No. 6 in the rankings, the highest ever for the program. Following the weekend sweep against Fairfield, UCF ranked first in home runs (27) and slugging percentages (.536), and ranked second and third in batting averages (.331) and runs total (171), respectively.
“Over the course of a 56-game regular season, every team in the country is going to go through highs and lows and ups and downs. Right now, our offense is incredible and is doing a terrific job this season,” said head coach Terry Rooney. “Our pitching [has been] struggling over the past couple of games, but we are going to get better. The bottom line is our guys are finding ways to win.”
The Knights make the short drive home to Jay Bergman Field to begin a three-game series against Presbyterian on Friday at 6:30 p.m. Saturday’s game will be set for 4 p.m., while Sunday’s game will be prepared for 1 p.m.
 



A suspect is still on the loose after forcing a woman to the ground and disrobing her across the street from UCF Wednesday morning, Orange County Sheriff’s Office said. 

Video by Katrina Poggio, Danielle Apolinar and Jake Rakoci.
A resident on Socrates Drive called 911 around 1:23 a.m. after hearing the woman screaming for help, deputies said. 
When deputies arrived, they said the 20-year-old woman was walking around the area crying and was uninjured. She told deputies she was approached by a man who grabbed her and forced her to the ground. He then partially disrobed her and exposed himself while holding her down, deputies said.
She cried for help and the unidentified suspect fled and has not been found by deputies.  
The man is described as having close-cut brown hair and a well-groomed beard. He is approximately 6′ tall with a thin build and is anywhere from 20-30 years old, deputies said. The man was last seen wearing a dark colored shirt, blue jeans and sneakers. 
Orange County deputies are asking for help identifying the suspect and are offering a reward of up to $1,000. 
The 911 caller, who asked to keep his identity private as a safety precaution, explained that he heard screaming outside his home so he peered through his blinds and thought something was suspicious. Feeling guilty that he did not have a way to protect the victim, the resident called 911.
“In the end she was not raped, fortunately,” he said. 
The incident took place across the street from the University of Central Florida, however, students did not receive the usual UCF alert about the crime. 
“Although we are not required to send alerts about such off-campus crimes, we routinely do so as part of our commitment to help keep students safe,” UCF spokesperson Zenaida Gonzalez Kotala said. “An alert should have been sent last night given the nature of this crime. We continue to work with the Orange County Sheriff’s Office to ensure students are notified about off-campus crimes in a timely manner.”
A neighborhood resident and UCF student, Danny Beebe expressed his concern after the incident.
“Knowing that all of this is taking place right next to the school is pretty horrifying,” Beebe said.
Beebe said he thinks the college students in the area are vulnerable and the lack of lighting in what students refer to as the “greek ghetto” makes matters worse. 
Both the 911 caller and Beebe said they think more lighting on their dark streets would bring down the crime rate.
“There’s a lot of dark areas,” Beebe said. “There’s a lot of students walking back in forth in this neighborhood and the streets are just not really safe.”
—-
Orange County spokeswoman Lourdes Clayton wouldn’t comment if the woman is a student at UCF because of the sensitive nature of the case. She said deputies are continuing to investigate the case and want to keep the woman’s identity private while the investigation continues. 
If you have any information on this crime, call Crime Line at 407-423-8477. 
Christal Hayes contributed to this story.
Check back for updates on this breaking news story.



Have you ever dreamed of speaking at a TED Talk, or do you have an unhealthy addiction of binge watching them online?
Well, mark your calendars because the Campus Activities Board is bringing TEDx to UCF on Saturday, April 11 at 1:15 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the Business Administration room 119.
According to Ryan Rasmussen, the Speakers director with CAB, speaker applications are available online at www.tedxucf.org, on the UCF CAB website, or on the UCF CAB mobile app and the deadline to apply is March 23 at 11:59 p.m. A selection committee will be in charge of choosing the 2015 speakers on March 25. Due to limited seating, attendees will need to apply for a guaranteed seat by March 30 at 11:59 p.m., or be chosen by lottery on April 1. There is no cost of speaking or attending.
Rasmussen said that the goal of TEDxUCF is to give students a space to share revolutionary ideas, unique experiences, and burning passions in a conversational environment. The only criteria to be a speaker are to be a UCF student and to have a great idea.
Last year’s TEDxUCF hosted four student speakers covering a variety of topics from farming to cancer detection research. One was Afif Abu-Hanna, a premed student from Israel who had been researching a cancer detection device that would track chemicals in the human breath and confirm whether or not a cancer was present. This device is already functional in labs in Israel, detecting lung cancer specifically, but it has yet to be used in doctors’ offices. According to Abu-Hanna and his partner Professor Hossam Haick, it has a 92% chance of detecting lung cancer and accurately reporting it.
“It’s not hopeless, we are making progress and it may be slow but we’re getting there, we’re going to win the fight eventually against cancer and against other diseases,” Abu-Hanna said.
According to Abu-Hanna, his biggest challenge was putting his speech into terms that non-science majors would relate to, but with the help of his speech professor and mentor, Gino Perrotte, he was able to effectively tell his story.
“Everyone who steps up on the podium is trying to tell their story. I think that’s the power behind TED Talks, it’s that it’s personal it’s not just statistics,” Abu-Hanna said.
Another was sophomore Alfredo Salkeld who spoke on the benefits of learning more about the food we consume, and his experience working on a local blueberry farm for a week.
Bitten by the travel bug, Salkeld said he googled “how to travel for cheap” and found a directory for farming opportunities called Woofing. Although the advertising major had never farmed before in his life, he emailed local farmers assuring them of his work ethic and eagerness to jump into a new challenge.
“I think the idea of wanderlust is there no matter what age you are,” Salkeld said. “Sharing ideas makes people want to do more with their lives. It can be something really small. Even if just one person looks [Woofing] up, I made a difference.”
The travel theme continued with Hugo Cardona, a senior majoring in finance, centered his speech on the power of traveling and experiencing other cultures. He said that by putting himself in circumstances that push him out of his comfort zone, he’s able to grow as a person. Cardona who’s lived in six different countries said, “When it comes to TED talks you truly have to be passionate about what you’re talking about otherwise people won’t get the message.”
Last year’s speakers director, Catherine Samarista said that all the speakers brought a lot of energy and passion to the table throughout the coaching sessions that they held.
“You could almost feel the intensity in the room,” she said.
Samarista, who won the 2013-2014 CAB speakers committee award, said she hopes to see the same intensity with this year’s speakers.



