With the fall semester just around the corner, many fraternities are starting to serenade the sorority they would like to be partnered with for homecoming 2015.
KnightNews.com has been working sources in the Greek community that say the following sororities are being courted by these fraternities:
Kappa Delta: Phi Delta Theta | Pairing Confirmed
Delta Delta Delta: Kappa Sigma
Zeta Tau Alpha: Alpha Tau Omega vs. Sigma Chi
Zeta Tau Alpha: Sigma Chi | Pairing Confirmed
Pi Beta Phi: Zeta Beta Tau | Pairing Confirmed
Alpha Delta Pi: Theta Chi | Pairing Confirmed
Alpha Xi Delta: Team Beta Theta Pi & DU vs. Sigma Pi
Kappa Alpha Theta: Delta Sigma Phi
Alpha Epsilon Phi: Tau Kappa Epsilon
Kappa Kappa Gamma: Sigma Nu and Sigma Alpha Epsilon
We’re still working to find out other potential pairings. If you have any information regarding homecoming serenades, email news@knightnews.com and let us know! KnightNews.com will be updating this page as we find out more information.



The return of several international players had Orlando City regain its strength Friday night where they faced D.C. United for their third match at the Citrus Bowl.
Another last minute Lions foul had the ball reach the back of their net despite a strong performance given by the players.
Orlando City outperformed D.C. United in shots on goal (17), duels won (45), and passing accuracy (76%), creating several chances early on for a first-time win at home.
“It’s not very often that you create as many chances as we have,” said head coach Adrian Heath. “It’s not an easy night, and I feel for the players. They’ve done everything they can to win a game of football. They were terrific in all aspects of play.”
An opening in the 41st minute had Orlando’s Kevin Molino create a fast break opportunity to find a lane. Alongside Molino, Cyle Larin paced his way with the ball and split the goalkeeper to make an easy shot in, although Molino would keep the ball and take the shot in the path of D.C. goalkeeper Bill Hamid.
The 68th minute saw the Lions rally to shut out several attempts on goal by D.C. United. Goalkeeper Donovan Ricketts attacked the ball as it was shot towards the net, with Brek Shea close behind to protect the goal. After a dive by Ricketts, Shea would narrowly block an attempt by D.C. with his inside-foot, deflecting the near-score back in play. Donovan recovered with enough time to knock the ball out of bounds to end the rally.
“I was very relieved when I did that… Donovan and I had a miscommunication,” said defender Brek Shea. “I think everyone played pretty well. Tonight, I think we were a better team, we created many chances. We did everything the coach asked us to except win and score goals.
Later on, Lions forward Carlos Rivas rocketed the ball in the 80th from out in the field to catch D.C.’s Hamid off of his guard, only to return back in the 81st to find a lane and shoot wide right.
The final opportunity for Orlando to work on its momentum came in the third minute before the end of regulation, where the United worked its way to Orlando’s doorstep to take a shot, only for Ricketts to make a mid-air catch followed by ball toss out to the field.
Three minutes of added time proved to be enough for D.C., as the Lions handed out a free kick off a minor foul. United player Chris Pontius planned for a switch with Luis Silva, who staggered the Orlando wall’s jump and made a goal just out of Rickett’s reach inside the left post, marking the final play.
The 0-1 loss makes it the second consecutive drop at home through stoppage time, and reduces Orlando City’s record to 1-2-2. The Portland Timbers welcome the Lions next, with a match planned for Sunday, April 12th at 5:00 p.m. EDT. The next home match, broadcasted by FOX Sports 1, will host the Toronto FC on Sunday, April 26th at 7:00 p.m. EDT.



Singer and songwriter Ed Sheeran will be playing at the Amway Center in downtown Orlando on Tuesday, Sept. 8, only a few months after his upcoming performance for only 300 students that will be held at UCF.
Ed Sheeran is a British singer-songwriter known for such hits as “Sing” and “Thinking out Loud” as well as collaborations with Taylor Swift and songwriting credits for One Direction. Releasing his first EP in 2005, he has been active since he was 14 years old, having released his second full-length studio album just last year.
Sheeran’s opener for the show will be Christina Perri, most widely known for her hit single “Jar of Hearts”. Having just released her second studio album, opening for Sheeran will be a huge opportunity to expand her fan base.
Fan pre-sale starts on Monday, April 13, with general public sales starting on Friday, April 17. 
The show will take place on Sept. 8, at 7:30 p.m. at the Amway Center.



Ticket distribution for Universal Knights is officially underway.

Students lined up as early as 10:45 a.m. for the noon distribution at the Rec and Wellness Center Leisure Green. 
Universal Knights will take place on April 12 this year, running from 4 p.m. to 1 a.m.
Regular distribution lasts through Thursday. On April 6, 7 and 8 tickets will be available at the CFE Arena from 9 a.m. until they run out. On April 6 and 7 tickets will be available from noon until they run out at the Rec and Wellness Center Leisure Green.
On April 8 and 9 tickets will be available at the Student Union from 5 p.m. until they run out. 
For Rosen students, tickets will be available April 7, 8 and 9 at the Rosen Life Office (202B) from 10:30 a.m. until they run out. 
Guest tickets for the event cost $40. 



A UCF shuttle bus was involved in a crash Monday afternoon that hospitalized a woman, the Florida Highway Patrol said.
The shuttle, which had one passenger aboard, and a vehicle crashed near the intersection of Science Drive and Alafaya Trail, FHP spokeswoman Kim Montes said.
﻿Montes said their preliminary investigation shows the vehicle ran a red light and impacted the bus. 
The woman driving the vehicle was transported to the hospital with minor injuries, Montes said.
This is a breaking news story. Check back for updates. 



