The former University of Central Florida Director who resigned after UCF accused him of misusing over $30,000 of university funds could face 15 years behind bars, if criminally charged and prosecuted.
KnightNews.com broke the story about Robert Chandler, the former Nicholson School of Communication director in the College of Sciences, being pressured to resign after accusations arose of misusing travel reimbursement funds and university resources. 
KnightNews.com’s legal analyst, criminal defense lawyer Lisa Figueroa, said the incident could have a number of outcomes, including Chandler being charged with scheme to defraud and spending up to 15 years in prison. 
“If the State Attorney’s office chooses to prosecute along with UCF, these allegations are usually charged as a ‘Scheme to Defraud’ when the amount is $20,000 or more, but less than $100,000,” Figueroa said, adding that it’s a second-degree felony punishable by up to 15 years in prison. 
Another possible charge Figueroa said the state could consider is grand theft of $20,000 or more, another second degree felony.
“Sometimes the accused is able to work out or negotiate a settlement of sorts with the victim, here UCF, to avoid litigation, though I would suspect (that’s) doubtful in this case,” according to Figueroa.
KnightNews.com reached out to the State Attorney’s Office and found out they do not currently have any files on Chandler.
According to Gene Kruckemyer, news editor for the UCF News and Information Office, UCF’s six-month investigation is still ongoing. 
Keep checking on KnightNews.com for continued coverage of this story.



A team of four college students created a new app that aims to enhance your social experience, rather than replace it.
Bubble Social is a social networking application that allows users to get in contact with others based on proximity. Users can set a proximity ranging from one-fourth of a mile to 10 miles, depending on preference. This is the users “bubble.” Users can then create a “pop” to share and view content, pictures and statuses, with others who are in the same “bubble.” The “pops” show up on a timeline, similar to Twitter.
The app also provides an option to directly message other users and view their profile to see if there are shared interests among each other. Unlike its competitors, Bubble Social is not anonymous and it’s not limited to communicating only with friends.
CEO and UCF student, Nasser Almulla, says the app breaks the ice of communicating with new individuals in the same area.
“Too many times while being out at a bar, or social event do you see people on their phones checking Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter,” Almulla said. “Updating themselves with people who aren’t anywhere near them, rather than socially engaging with the new individuals right in front of them. Bubble Social is going to provide a way to easily and comfortably communicate with new people and old friends when they are in the same social setting.”
 The group, which consists of two UCF students, used UCF’s Blackstone LaunchPad in the process of developing the app.
Nasser says the LaunchPad encouraged the team to think outside of the box and connected them to local venues that assist in startups.
Bubble Social was released on April 23 into the App Store, so now you can see what’s poppin’ around the UCF area. The app will be released for Android users soon.



