The driver that left the sign of a UCF-area apartment complex completely destroyed Sunday morning says she was using medication that could have caused blurred vision and confusion, a crash report said. 
Kirsten Mary Burns, 20, told Orange County Fire Rescue and UCF Police Officers she was driving southbound on Alafaya Trail when she attempted to turn right into The Pointe at Central, the crash report said. Burns told police her hand slipped off the wheel and foot slipped off the brake and her 2005 silver Ford Freestyle ran up the sidewalk, plowing into the apartment complex’s sign.

According to the crash report, Burns, a UCF student, told police she didn’t know what happened. She told them she remembered looking down at the radio for a moment, but police said she seemed confused. 
Burns told police she is on medication that can cause blurred vision and momentary confusion, the report said. 
Police said that Burns had a seat-belt abrasion and some minor scratches but was not hospitalized. 
Security guard at the Pointe at Central, Sultan Ashi, said he was walking through the complex at 9:30 a.m. as part of his normal patrol when he heard the crash. He said Burns plowed her SUV through the sign of the complex leaving a pile of rubble and cables behind. 
“I couldn’t believe the windshield didn’t break. There were so many bricks piled on top of her car,” Ashi said. “She was really lucky. I mean there are metal cables that could have really hurt her.” 
Both management at the complex and Burns declined to comment on the crash. 



New information has been released regarding a concert being hosted by Chegg featuring Ed Sheeran at UCF.
The #EdOnCampus contest, which Chegg announced UCF won Monday, will take place on May 4 with approximately 300 students in the Alumni Gallery.
“Chegg is also working on a way to bring the experience to even more of the UCF students and others who voted, since the Gallery can’t fit everyone,” Victoria Butler, a spokeswoman for Chegg, said.
During the concert, Chegg will also grant a $10,000 grant check for the music department.
On March 2, Chegg announced that UCF had won the #EdOnCampus contest which began in January where schools across the nation competed to win a concert by british musician Ed Sheeran.
Keep checking back for updates on the event.



Two UCF students have declared their candidacy to run for the next UCF Student Government Association President, KnightNews.com has learned.
Cait Zona, the current UCF SGA Speaker of the Senate, and Brian Zagrocki, currently a Senator in seat 2 of the College of Education, will be campaigning over the next few weeks to become SGA President and earn a seat on the UCF Board of Trustees.
Zona will be running alongside Jarell Jones, the current Director of Communications for SGA, and Zagrocki will be running with Alex Bennett.
Both platforms have unleashed their slogans, Zagrocki/Bennett being “A new day. A new Knight.” and Zona/Jones being “Unleash Your Legacy”.
In an e-mail, Zona said that the current SGA President and Vice President, Weston Bayes and Sydney Altfield, are fully endorsing her candidacy.
We also spoke to Zona and Zagrocki to find out a little background on each candidate.
Cait Zona, UCF SGA President candidate :
Jarell Jones, UCF SGA Vice President candidate:
Brian Zagrocki, UCF SGA President Candidate:
It is still not too late to run for SGA President, after receiving 500 petition votes, potential candidates still have until March 5 to declare that they are running.
The campaign kicks into high gear after spring break is over, the official SGA Presidential Debate will be held on March 26 at 7 p.m. in the Pegasus Ballroom. The election ranges from March 30 to April 2.
We’ve reached out to the Zagrocki/Bennett ticket and will update this story when we hear back.



Tuesday evening will be a historic night for UCF baseball. 
The No. 2 Florida Gators (10-1) will be visiting Jay Bergman Field on UCF campus for what will be the first top ten matchup at home for No. 9 UCF (10-1) in program history.  
UCF has enjoyed an extremely successful start to their 2015 campaign, first sweeping Siena, then the South Alabama Tournament and finally taking two of three games from No. 22 Ole Miss this past weekend.
The national rankings have noticed, as well. UCF jumped all the way up to No. 9 in the D1Baseball.com poll on Monday, 14 spots in total. UCF also jumped up to No. 13 from No. 15 in the Baseball America poll.
The last time UCF was ranked in the top 10, was in 2012, when the Knights climbed up to No. 7 in the ESPN/USA Today poll.
UCF will going with freshman right-handed pitched Kyle Marsh (0-0, 0.00 ERA, 1 K) against the Gators, who will be making his first career start. Marsh, who won American Hitter of the Week on Feb. 23, is no stranger to pressure situations thus far in his short UCF career. 
Against No. 11 Maryland in the South Alabama Tournament, Marsh recorded the final two outs in a one-run-game with the bases loaded to give UCF the victory. 
Florida will be starting senior lefty Bobby Poyner (0-0, 1.93 ERA, 10 K).
The game starts at Jay Bergman Field at 6:30 p.m.  



