Need a ride home after the St. Patty’s Day festivities?
UCF is extending it’s shuttle service tonight, from 10 p.m. until 3:15 a.m., to help ensure students are safely transported back home on a busy night in the UCF area.
“Thanks to the suggestion from the folks in University Police; the Office of Student Involvement and the Student Government Association has worked with UCF Parking Services today and have reached an agreement to extend shuttle service for St. Patrick’s Day,” Dr. Michael Preston said in an e-mail.
[sam_ad id=”5″ codes=”true”]
It is the hope of UCF for students to use the shuttles instead of trying to cross Alafaya Trail on a night with heavy traffic.
The stops being made are as follows:
The move to keep students safe at bars come after talk of UCFPD patrolling UCF bars to reduce the risk of underage drinking and driving in the UCF area. Local 6 Orlando reported on Monday night that Mayor Teresa Jacobs is in support of UCFPD patrolling the off-campus bars.
Currently, UCFPD cannot patrol the bars due to the bars being outside of its jurisdiction. 



A man was found dead near a UCF apartment early Tuesday morning after being involved in a crash on his homemade motorized bicycle, the Florida Highway Patrol said. 
The man, Gabriel Rodriguez, 25, was traveling on a bicycle with a homemade motor attached on Adela Avenue, which is just about a block away from the entrance to the Village at Science Drive. 
Rodriguez hit a bump in the road that caused him to travel over the handlebars, the report said. 
He was found dead when first responders arrived at about 1:40 a.m. The incident is still under investigation, the report said.
Rodriguez graduated from UCF in 2012 with a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering.



Guns on college campuses in Florida took a step closer to becoming a reality.
On Monday, the Senate Higher Education Committee approved a proposal that would allow concealed carry guns on college campuses in a 6-3 vote. 
The campus carry bill (SB 176/HB 4005), has seen mass opposition many higher-ups in the education system. Both the Florida Board of Governors and the university police chiefs have released statements speaking out against concealed campus carry. 
Currently, Florida is one of 20 states that bans carrying a concealed weapon on campus.
Former Senate President Don Gaetz, R-Niceville, is one of the supporters of the bill because he said he has not seen any evidence that it would lead to more crime.
“In the absence of evidence, one is left with the Constitution of the United States,” Gaetz told the Tampa Bay Times.
The bill will now move onto the the Judiciary and Rules committees before reaching the Senate. 



