Knight News is inviting you to join us in supporting the UCF Rugby Team’s road to a national championship three-peat. 
UCF’s Rugby Team asked Knight News to help spread the word about how the team is asking for help from the community to raise funds to make the trip to the Elite 8 competition in Pittsburgh. 
We decided to spread the word — but also step up and donate ourselves to support the team. Knight News will donate 25 cents for every new Facebook “like” we get until 2:30 p.m. on Friday, April 17 (up to $150).  
So, if you already “like” Knight News on Facebook, “share” this story to spread the word!

And if you don’t “like” us yet, go ahead and do that now to help contribute to the trip!

KnightNews.com
(Also click here to make a donation to the team’s GoFundMe account.)
Earlier this month, the UCF Rugby team defeated both Kennesaw State University and Middle Tennessee State University and took home its third straight consecutive South Independent Rugby Conference Championship Title. That is what allowed UCF to advance on through to the Elite 8 competition in Pittsburgh, PA, where two more games will be played. If all goes well, UCF will be in the final for the D1-AA National Championship!
The UCF Rugby Team has worked all year to earn its shot at the title. The team says it currently receives little funding, and the players must pay all their own expenses, so they’ve set up a GoFundMe account for this trip. The Elite 8 airfare alone will be $10,000. They ask for all to donate, and say every little bit helps. 
“A lot of players on this team are freshman and this is their first ever experience at the collegiate competitive level,” team captain Scott Watters told Knight News. “We want to bring the school, our supporters and these new guys home another National Title so that we can grow the sport internally and get recognition for the college as a top level rugby provider.” 
If you’d like to donate, click on the UCF Rugby GoFundMe link here: http://www.gofundme.com/kqrojs​
Knight News, the only non-profit, independent news organization serving UCF, is proud to support our community whenever possible — especially by sponsoring worthy charitable events put on by UCF students, such as ATO’s Rock the Wreath and Kappa Sigma’s Key West Fest. Email marketing@knightnews.com with sponsorship requests. (Due to the large volume of requests, we apologize if we can’t get back to everyone.)



 

No, it’s not Valentine’s Day, but that doesn’t mean you won’t be greeted by a true gentleman at UCF.
Fabian Rene, Campus Activity Board, or CAB, marketing director, was one of a handful of CAB volunteers handing out free roses and an invitation to a concert this evening.
The concert, Symphony Under the Stars, is the one of UCF’s longest-lasting traditions, running annually for more than 25 years. It’s put on by UCF’s Symphony Orchestra. The event will be sponsored by the Campus Activity Board and UCF School of Performing Arts. Attendees will be entertained by selections such as “Mars” by Gustav Holst, and “The Star Wars Suite.”
Rene said his co-worker came up with the idea of handing out red roses to passerby. What better way to win a lady over?
“You can do a lot of things on campus to just make students enjoy their experience at UCF. At CAB, that’s our mission,” Rene said.
Classical music put on by Knights Of The Turntables accompanied CAB members tabling outside the Student Union. Rene said the event, usually hosted outside by the Reflecting Pond was moved inside the Pegasus Ballroom in the Student Union due to possible bad weather. The concert, which starts at 8 p.m. on Thursday, is free and open to the public.
For more information, contact cabarts@ucf.edu.



