The World Trade Center in New York City crashed down 14 years ago on Sept. 11 as terrorists attacked, killing 2,977 people. 
In remembrance of this tragedy, two University of Central Florida clubs are hosting their annual 9/11 remembrance event tomorrow in honor of Sept. 11.
Starting at 6 a.m., members of College Republicans at UCF and College Democrats at UCF will place 2,977 miniature American flags on the Free Speech Lawn near the library, with every flag representing a life lost during the 9/11 attack. 



University of Central Florida student Anthony Velasco Gomez was arrested on Wednesday by the UCF Police Department for committing two strong arm robberies by sudden snatching, according to the arrest affidavit.
Velasco Gomez snatched food and a cell phone, then resisted arrest from a UCFPD officer, the affidavit states.
Officers were dispatched to the Student Union at around 2:55 p.m. in response to a robbery and were informed that a victim was following the defendant towards Chick-fil-A.
One of the victims said ”he was sitting at a table eating his food (approx. $10) which was directly in front of him when the defendant sat down at the table also and a few moments later grabbed his food from him by sudden snatching and without permission,” the report states.
The second victim was sitting outside of the Pegasus Ballroom when the suspect walked by and took his phone out of his hand.
The victim said the suspect walked outside of the Student Union and through the breezeway by [Chick-fil-A] when [the victim’s] phone rang. The defendant took the phone out of his pocket and then the victim took the phone back. The defendant then turned and faced him and shoved him and walked away,” according to the report.
When the officer arrived, the suspect was coming from the Chick-fil-A/bookstore area with two males walking behind him. The males pointed out the suspect to the officer.
Once the officer caught up to him, Velasco Gomez initially complied but began to resist when asked to put his hands behind his back.
“The suspect still was resisting by tensing up and being non compliant and he was able to pull his hands and arms around in front of him in which I tightened my grasp on the suspect and went to the ground with him,” the affidavit described the encounter between the officer and Velasco Gomez.
A witness on scene said they saw and heard Velasco Gomez screaming “god made me do it” after the police had him in custody. 
Velasco Gomez was charged with two counts of robbery (sudden snatching), petit theft of $100 or more, battery and resisting officer without violence.
There were also two other robberies associated with Velasco Gomez reported after the arrest affidavit was completed, UCFPD spokesperson Courtney Gilmartin informed. Velasco Gomez was also carrying a stolen pink purse, Gilmartin said.
KnightNews.com is working on obtaining more information on the remaining robberies. 
Check back for updates



Construction of a $30 million research and incubation laboratory, as well as expansions to Parking Garage-C, have led the university to create a new mass-transit hub between the two projects, built to accommodate buses and other traffic flow, according to UCF officials.
The hub features a tear-drop shaped loop that leads to Gemini Boulevard East, replacing the former bus stop for students between parking lots C1 and D1.
The soon-to-be former bus stop between the lots will be constructed over to make way for the Interdisciplinary Research and Incubation laboratory.
The hub will be constructed within the same timeline of the expansions to Parking Garage-C, likely near the end of the project. Shuttle routes and schedules have not changed as a result of the new transit loop at this time.
Renderings and information on construction are tentative and may change at any time.



Parking Garage-C will see expansions to the east side of the 4-story structure, adding approximately 600 parking spaces to the current 1,290 spaces – an almost 50 percent increase – according to UCF officials.
A $30 million research and incubation laboratory will take up lots allocated for faculty and staff parking within the next year, leading the university to make up for lost spaces with the plans for additional parking along Gemini Boulevard East.
The $9 million four-story addition is expected to begin construction in November and finish in July 2016.
The new parking spaces will benefit current UCF students, officials said.
Rendering is intended to provide visualization for the expansion and does not reflect final concept.



A new $30 million research and incubation facility is in the works for UCF, planned for the parking lot between the Engineering II building and Garage-C.
Phase 1 of the Interdisciplinary Research and Incubator building covers 67,000 square-feet over three floors and will be comprised of 31 research and incubator laboratories – most of them to be “wet labs” – including space for business incubation, lecture halls, conference rooms and offices.
Researchers from various UCF colleges and centers will make use of the labs under chemistry, nanoscience, optics, physics, photonics and other disciplines.
“We currently rent some space off-campus in Central Florida Research Park,” said UCF senior communications coordinator Mark Schlueb. “By bringing [the disciplines] together, we expect the facility will spark collaboration.”
Phase 2 plans to be 39,000 square-feet at an estimated $16.6 million. There is no timeline for construction of a phase 2 plan nor have funds been allocated, according to UCF officials.
Approximately $6 million comes from the state to fund the project and the remaining budget will be filled by UCF through the university’s capital improvement budget.
The project goes out to bid in November and will see construction begin in January and continue for approximately 16 months. Completion of the Interdisciplinary Research and Incubator facility slated for mid-2017.



