University of Central Florida students should prepare to light up their taste buds.
According to a release, Blaze Pizza is set to open their UCF location in May. 
Blaze Pizza will be one of the new shops opening up at Plaza on University.
“Blaze uses an interactive assembly line format that allows guests to create their own artisanal pizzas. Customers choose an unlimited amount of toppings from a wide variety of house-made sauces, fresh vegetables and hand-selected meats and cheeses — all for under $8. The 11″ personal pizzas are then sent to a blazing hot open-flame oven — the centerpiece of the restaurant — where dedicated pizzasmiths ensure that the thin-crust pies are “fast-fire’d” in under 180 seconds,” said the press release. 
The press release also describes their pizza crust as “light-as-air, crisp crust,” made from scratch by Executive Chef Brad Kent. Blaze will also have other options for customers with dietary needs, such as gluten-free dough and vegan cheese.
Wine and craft beer will also be served at this location.
The hours of operation will be the following:
Sunday-Wednesday: 11:00 a.m. to midnight.
Thursday-Saturday: 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.
This speedy, new restaurant is founded by Elise and Rick Wetzel, the co-founder of Wetzel’s Pretzels. It is quickly expanding across the U.S and has investors such as LeBron James and Maria Shriver.
“Blaze Pizza is great for UCF students looking for a fast, quality pizza option that won’t break their budget. We are bringing back the classic pizza joint, but with a modern, fast-as-lightning twist,” said Laurie Ruggles, Managing Partner for Blaze in Florida.
Check back on KnightNews.com for information on the Blaze Fast Fire’d Pizza opening day.



UCF has released body camera video of the officer who subdued the man who pulled the UCF Library fire alarm and attempted to attack students on Sunday. 
The man has been identified as John Kane, a 21-year-old UCF student. He was issued a student affairs referral and is subject to the Office of Student Conduct’s review process. Police are currently reviewing possible charges for Kane. 

Around 3:15 p.m. on Sunday, UCF Police responded to the library in reference to a man in distress. In the body camera video, Kane initially complies with the officer and gets on the ground, but gets up to run away when the officer tries to handcuff him. The officer then used a taser to subdue Kane. 
“He was doing exactly what we asked at first. I put him on the ground, put his hands behind his back. He was not combative,” said UCF Police Supervisor Erik Lanshinsky. “As soon as I attempted to handcuff him for everybody’s safety, that’s when he became combative.”
Additional officers responded to the scene and asked for Kane’s name to calm him down, but it was obvious Kane did not understand what he was hearing. Kane eventually told officers that he was on LSD. 
Orange County Fire Rescue transported Kane to the hospital, where he currently remains. There were no injuries from this incident. 



UCF and Georgia Tech have agreed to a home-and-home series starting with UCF hosting the Yellow Jackets in 2017.
UCF will host the Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets at Bright House Networks Stadium on Sept. 16, 2017 and the Yellow Jackets will host the Knights on Sept. 19, 2020.
UCF and Georgia Tech have met on three occasions, most recently in 2000. The Yellow Jackets have won every meeting against the Knights. 
Playing Georgia Tech will be familiar territory for UCF head coach George O’Leary, as he was head coach of the Yellow Jackets from 1995–2001 and served on the Georgia Tech assistant coaching staff before that.
The Knights now have multiple Power 5 opponents scheduled in future years, including Stanford, South Carolina and Michigan.



The rules of the road are back in question with Uber drivers in Orlando.
Back in December, the Orlando City Council ruled that Uber drivers could legally operate under specific rules. Uber drivers could bypass the handicap-accessible vehicle and local dispatch center stipulations that other taxi services follow. However, they would need to have a $500 vehicle permit, $50 vehicle inspection, $25 driver permit, among other things.
One of the regulations put in effect this past February, was that Uber drivers are required to charge a base fare of $3 until the fare hits $20, at which point the driver can determine the rate. For Mears Taxis, the base fare is $2.40 per mile.
Uber connects riders to drivers through a mobile app, and while it’s highly convenient, some students have questioned its safety, especially upon learning some drivers haven’t followed through with the regulations.
Stephanie Quintana, a senior, said she always checks the profiles of any Uber she requests, in order to get an idea of who will be driving her and in what vehicle. She said her experience has been mostly positive, and it’s still a little cheaper than regular taxi services.
“I usually look at their profiles, and pick women drivers with newer cars. I don’t just pick any Uber like the one closest to me,” Quintana said.
For Brittany Hess, Uber is definitely the most economically effective route, as she shares her car with her boyfriend. And though most rides for the junior have been good experiences with friendly drivers, often dressed professionally, she remembered one sketchy ride to Sanford.
“I’m sure he had his drivers’ license, but I would have failed him on the test. He was on his phone, texting, the whole way,” Hess said.
Hess said that she’s aware that taking Uber is a bit of a risk, but she still uses it frequently to go downtown. Hess is grateful that there are regulations now for Uber drivers.
“You’re taking that risk because technically it’s not a taxi service, it’s a ride-sharing service. I still would never take an Uber alone at night,” Hess said.
According to the Orlando Sentinel, only nine permits have been issued since the regulations took effect. Uber drivers don’t seem willing to follow the recent regulations.
And why should they? The rules are not being enforced. According to Orlando Police, the Sentinel said only four citations have been issued to two Uber drivers for driving without permits.



