A local doctor said the things we have been told about eating are simply not true.
M.D Christopher Smith gave an information packed presentation Wednesday evening at the University of Central Florida College of Medicine: Medical City.
With obesity increasing in America, there are tons of diets offered to lose weight. Everyone wants to know what to eat and when to eat…
“Scientifically, some of what you hear is true and some is exaggerated and some is flat out false,” UCF College of Medicine spokeswoman Wendy Sarubbi said.

“They’re aimed at people looking for a way out,” Dr. Smith said. “They prey upon vulnerable people.”
Dr. Smith believes in a balanced diet and consuming sugar in moderation. For example, he recommends drinking juice occasionally and doesn’t believe everyone needs to consume dairy.
“Not everybody needs to eat dairy,” Dr. Smith said. “Human beings are the only species that continue to drink milk after we are weaned. That might say that it’s not equally natural to drink milk, but if you do choose to take in dairy, I recommend whole dairy products.”
The crowd was very responsive to Dr. Smith and seemed content with the information they received from the presentation.
The audience consisted of young parents, seniors, college students and some retired physicians.
Maria Sapicas, a junior biomedical sciences major at UCF, said she learned some new things and will incorporate them in her daily life.
“I learned about the consumption of raw foods and omega-3 fatty acids can lower anxiety, stress and depression,” Sapicas said.
The seniors and retired physicians in attendance were also impressed by Smith’s presentation.
Chicke Smith, a retired RN nurse and her husband Tom Smith, a retired physician, were impressed and inspired by Smith’s presentation.
“It was excellent,” Chicke said. “A little long, but very good.”
“You want to die young at a very old age,” Tom expressed.
Dr. Smith’s presentation was scientifically based and he incorporated historical facts which established his credibility.
“I thought it was very well put together, I really enjoyed it and I learned a lot,” 47-year-old Kyeni Matee said. “It’s good to hear different perspectives, it was very informative.”



A night of fiery speech loaded with persuasive appeals and rebuttals that examined logical fallacies, the second Republican debate was one for the books. As I watched the eleven presidential hopefuls introduce themselves then quickly jump into full gear, I felt as if the spirit of the deceased actor and 40th president was with the panel of distinguished doctors, politicians, and business people. 
A number of topics were brought up and quite a few were hastily avoided all together. I had my share of laughs as Donald Trump shot wise cracks at his opponents and nods of affirmation as Carly Fiorina stood up for herself amid a crowd that underestimated her ability. 
There were a number of contenders that came up on top, like Marco Rubio with his ability to talk about foreign policy with such fervor that trumped the business apprentice. 
Chris Christie, with a focus on the American people in the crowd and at home, spoke aggressively about adamantly vetoing “crazy liberal Democratic legislature” and his mission to listen to the people first, but I wondered how he would get along in the White House if he refused to work alongside his political left counterparts considering constituents represented the same population he was vying for votes. 
Paul Rand was the stark opposite, pushing to work with all members of the bipartisan system, not alienate.
Ben Carson spoke with deliberate slowness but came across as unsure in a room full of aggressive speakers and hardly got the crowd going as much as Jeb Bush did after his multiple retorts directed at Trump for blatantly disrespecting both his wife and brother. 
As the three hour debate came to a close, I had gathered more information about the new figureheads of the Grand Old Party, and unconsciously began to characterize them as caricatures of themselves. 
Only time will tell who truly won the race.



An artist by trade, Cedric Lopez was always creating new objects with his bare hands. Mirroring his father, Byron, he would spend hours on end in his workshop. This approach led him to study architecture at Florida Atlantic University where he studied his freshman year.
An Orlando native, Lopez moved to South Florida to do digital marketing for a cleaning franchise. Unsatisfied with his development, he decided to move back to Orlando to attend UCF for their entrepreneurship program and resources. 
In his free time he would practice Kendo and that is when he noticed the tear in his leather glove used for fencing. His father used that moment to expound upon his hand making skills and began collecting the tools necessary to repair his son’s gear. 
It was around that time that Lopez took it upon himself once again to begin fiddling with a new equipment.
“One day I was bored and decided to make a card wallet out of leather,” Lopez said. “From that point I thought I should make a case for my laptop for school… once I finished it, I posted a picture of it [online] and people asked me if I could make them one.”
He used his new found craft as an escape route to his old creative venture: architecture.
“[Studying architecture] was the last time I remember truly loving and getting lost in what I did.” He continues, “I had forgotten what that feeling was like until I started tinkering with leather.”
At the time of this venture, Lopez was busy developing an app NiteGrid, which would help partygoers choose the best place to attend on any given night. While he used his leather making as a source of income to support his app, he found himself dedicating more time to his more hands on project.
“I ended up choosing leather because it reminded me of when I studied architecture; I loved how I was able to get lost and lose track of time.”
The UCF Blackstone Launchpad, a student-led organization, helped Lopez legitimize the business he initially started on his personal Facebook. Getting him in contact with mentors and other like-minded individuals, they assisted him with the creation of his webpage and design logo.
“Business has been great, I know I can take this to the next level,” Lopez said. “Eventually I see my work rivaling Hermes, Burberry, and Louis Vuitton.”
For more information on Lopez and his craft, check out his website and Instagram.



Building on the foundation of the University of Central Florida’s creed, the Center for Success of Women’s Faculty aims to make the educational institution a better place for each person in their distinct walks of life.
Initially established in August, 2001, the organization was originally called the Women’s Research Center. Its purpose was limited; research on women, performed mostly by women. Eleven years later the name and mission was changed to reflect the needs of the growing faculty and staff members. Marine Biologist Linda Walters is the director for the Center for Success of Women Faculty and under her lead the organization has taken on a few progressive stances unseen at many other universities in the States.
“Our goal is to make UCF more family friendly,” Walters said. “It is pretty standard in academia that women’s issues, especially in career life balance, were not taken into account for making women’s faculty successful.”
Acknowledging that many faculty and staff are parents with young ones to take care of, as well as a career to maintain, Walters has begun a number of initiatives for the university.
“[The community] may use expectant mother parking,” Walters continued, “We are also negotiating with the faculty union for paid maternity leave for faculty, as well as play areas for the times that children need to be with their parents on campus.”
Valiant in their efforts, the Center for Success for Women Faculty attempts to ensure that both men and women are acknowledged for their contributions to higher education. Understanding that showing appreciation for their efforts fosters a sense of satisfaction and high sense of self, Walters has a number of ceremonies that promotes equal recognition in an all-inclusive environment.
“Going forward, UCF needs to make sure that the faculty is more diverse,” Walters said. “Faculty should mirror the student population to better our students.”



ORLANDO, Fla. — The Knights have lost four of their offensive starters this season while quickly spiraling to 0-3 after two heart crushing losses at home and one at the hands of Stanford.
Quarterback Justin Holman (hand), running-back Dontravious Wilson (leg-injury), center Joey Grant (career ending shoulder problems) and wide-receiver Jordan Akins (season-ending ACL tear) all have had to recover from setbacks.
UCF’s rash of injuries and inexperience have left them with a lack of offensive difference-makers, leading the Knights to rank last in the FBS rankings for total offense.
Offensive coordinator Brent Key’s offense has been underwhelming in his first season as the coordinator, but he has not had his full arsenal of offensive weapons.
“Injuries are tough to overcome, it’s our practice habits,” said red-shirt junior Nick Patti, in regard to what has gone wrong with the team this season.
“It’s definitely a big challenge, it’s very hard to replace experience, especially with youth,” said red-shirt senior Cedric Thompson. “We have to be positive in the manner and make sure that we are preparing well and doing things that we need to do to move forward…we have to live in the now and just try to get it done with what we have.”
The Knights are optimistic about this upcoming week as they face the South Carolina Gamecocks, excited about the energy at practice Monday.
“There was more of a sense of urgency at practice,” said Patti.
“Today in my opinion was the best vibe I’ve had at practice,” said red-shirt junior Luke Adams. “Everyone was into it. Everyone was hustling.”
O’Leary credits the lack of execution to the players not doing the little things and that better practice is a positive sign for the Knights.
“I told the coaches you gotta feel bad about what’s taken place, but you gotta move on,” said Oleary. “I think that’s the first thing that the kids look at, is the coaches…they gotta coach the little things up and those are the things we aren’t doing right now, the little things that are causing some big problems.”



