A new restaurant venture is expanding its boundaries and making its way towards becoming one of UCF’s newest food options.
Chicken Salad Chick, a quick-style restaurant, servers 15 different kinds of chicken salad, according to the restaurant’s website, and has a variety of soups, salads and desserts. 
“Chicken Salad Chick is a place all chicken salad lovers can find something they enjoy. With 15 different chicken salads to choose from, there is something for every palate,” Founder Stacy Brown says.
The restaurant plans to open a location at 12101 University Blvd. near the University of Central Florida.
Click here to learn more about the restaurant. 



The UCF-area shooting that spurred a reported internal investigation at the Orange County Sheriff’s Office may have been gang related, a newly released incident report indicates. 
KnightNews.com broke this story after students reported hearing gunfire on Khayyam Avenue Thursday night. The Orange County Sheriff’s Office incorrectly informed the public there was not a threat, stating in a tweet there was “no credible report” of shots fired near UCF. 
Deputies talked to a resident of the neighborhood who said he was walking his dog when he heard a group of men arguing. The man, who KnightNews.com is not identifying, told deputies he turned around and saw four men in a heated argument in the middle of the street, the incident report said. 
The man said he heard one of the men in the group yell “Brim blood,” and three of the men pulled out handguns. He told deputies he saw two of the men run away from the area as one man fired a round at them, the report said. 
As the men were running away, the witness said he heard one of them yell, “we’re going to kill you.” He told deputies the men might know where he lives and is in fear for his family’s safety, the report said. 
The incident report states deputies are classifying the incident as possibly gang-related. 
KnightNews.com talked to several witnesses who heard gunfire and saw a gunman. Deputies also said they found a shell casing near the scene.  
KnightNews.com reached out to Orange County Sheriff’s Office Thursday night by contacting their Public Information Officer Jane Watrel, who was on call that night. Watrel did not answer or return either of our two calls. 
About an hour later, a tweet was was sent out from Orange County Sheriff’s Office Twitter account indicating there was “no credible report” of shots fired near UCF. 
KnightNews.com almost immediately replied asking if this information was correct and supplied information from witnesses. A reporter at WKMG Local 6 also replied to OCSO’s tweet informing them that a deputy told him a shell casing was recovered at the scene. 
WKMG Local 6 followed up  with the Orange County Sheriff’s Office about the story and found out they were looking into if the tweet was incorrect. 
The tweet was eventually found to be false after Local 6 investigated, and OCSO spokesman Jeff Williamson sent out an email indicating it was a mistake.  
“The tweet was incorrect. In fact multiple patrol deputies arrived on scene and interviewed witnesses. There was a potential victim who declined to prosecute and a witness who gave testimony as to what he saw,” OSCO spokesman Jeff Williamson said. “Shell casings were recovered at the scene and the case is open and ongoing.” 
The tweet, sent out Thursday at 9:45 p.m., has yet to be corrected or deleted on Orange County Sheriff’s Office Twitter.



UCF’s exclusive night at Universal Studios’ Islands of Adventure is back once again and we’ve compiled all the information you need to get tickets!
Universal Knights will take place on April 12. Below is information on ticket distribution. Students are allotted one ticket each and must have a UCF ID to receive a ticket. 
Advanced Distribution 
WHEN: April 2 – 3
12 p.m. – 5 p.m.
WHERE: RWC Leisure Green
Regular Distribution
WHERE: CFE Arena
WHEN: April 6 – 8
9 a.m.- 1 p.m.
WHERE: RWC Leisure Green
WHEN: April 6 & 7
12 p.m. – 5 p.m.
WHERE: Student Union
WHEN: April 8 & 9
5 p.m. – 10 p.m.
Rosen Distribution
WHERE: The Rosen Life Office (202B)
WHEN: April 7 – 9
10:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.
UCF will also be offering a free shuttle service to and from Universal Knights. Check back for information as it becomes available. 



Cait Zona and Jarell Jones, candidates running for this year’s SGA President and Vice President, hosted their campaign rally Sunday night at Burger U on campus next to the CFE Arena.
Zona not only released her and Jones’ platform but also touched on supporting to give UCFPD more jurisdiction to patrol areas such as the “Greek Ghetto”.

“I definitely think the UCF police should be patrolling all UCF students. That does reach further than just the Greek Ghetto, however we need to make sure that we’re listening to the homeowners and students back there,” Zona said.
Just days ago, there was a report of a gun shot in the Greek Ghetto where UCF police later showed up on the scene. Reports of a gun shot came just two nights after a 20-year old woman said she was nearly raped just down the street. The area is home to many UCF fraternity houses and students.
Orange County Mayor Theresa Jacobs sat down with Local 6 news and said that she would personally lead a unification meeting amongst all agencies to develop a plan that would give UCFPD more jurisdiction.
“If that’s something that he (UCF Police Chief Richard Beary) feels he could be more effective at I would absolutely support that,” Mayor Jacobs told Local 6. 
Following the report of a gun shot in the Greek Ghetto, Orange County Sheriff’s Office sent out a tweeting claiming no “credible” report of a gun shot, despite the multiple eye witnesses. OCSO later admitted that the tweet was incorrect. 
With all of the recent crime in the UCF area, especially surrounding local bars and in the Greek Ghetto, Knight News will monitor to see if UCFPD is allowed more jurisdiction in the near future.
Check back with us as we keep you updated on all SGA campaigns and to whether UCFPD is given more jurisdiction to patrol off campus areas such as local bars and the Greek Ghetto.



