UCF Athletics and Carl Black of Orlando announced a partnership on Monday, bringing a new name to the premium seating on the east side of Bright House Stadium. The company signed a six-figure, multi-year naming rights agreement with UCF, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
To surround the future East Side Club viewing deck, the ‘Carl Black & Gold Cabana’ currently features gold-colored folded seating in the stands at mid-field and access to the ESC.
“This is awesome,” said Omar Rodriguez, general manager of Carl Black of Orlando. “I can’t wait for everybody to be able to see this and experience this. I think the UCF Knight family is going to be very, very proud of what’s happening up here. I don’t know of any other university or athletic association that has anything like this going on. My team, my staff, our people are very excited, as well as the staff here at UCF. We’re honored to be a part of something like this.”
Since 2006, Carl Black of Orlando has been a close partner to UCF Athletics, and the near ten-year relationship reached a milestone with the sponsorship, commented UCF officials.
“We greatly appreciate the support of Carl Black of Orlando over the years. Obviously, Omar Rodriguez has been a big part of that support and we thank him for Carl Black’s involvement in this project,” UCF Interim Director of Athletics and head football coach George O’Leary said.
“Carl Black of Orlando has been a loyal, sustaining partner for UCF Athletics for many years,” said Mark Wright, UCF Assistant Vice President and Senior Associate Athletics Director for Athletic Development. “We’re grateful for Omar’s decision to partner with us to deliver a new and exciting experience in Bright House Networks Stadium. That’s exactly what the Carl Black & Gold Cabana is going to be.”
The Carl Black & Gold Cabana will see it’s completion before the Knights kick off the 2015 football season on September 3, when they face FIU at home at 6 p.m.



If Donald Trump’s comments about Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly are hurting his standing in the republican primary, it’s certainly not showing in the numbers, according to NBC News.
According to a survey held by NBC News, Trump is still in the lead amongst other GOP candidates after the debate.
The poll was open from Friday evening to Saturday after the debate. Over 3500 adults casted who they would vote for if the election were happening right now.
Trump received twenty-three percent of the votes. Right behind him was Senator Ted Cruz with thirteen percent, according to NBC News.
During the debate, Trump would not rule out a run as an independent candidate if he did not get chosen as the Republican candidate. Fifty-four percent of Trump’s supporters said they would still vote for him if he didn’t win the GOP nomination, according to NBC News.
Read the full NBC News story on its poll here.



