The No. 22 Knights pulled out another win on the road in the South Alabama Tournament, this time against the No. 11 Maryland Terrapins, closing the game 7-6 at Stanky Field.
UCF ended Maryland’s then spotless schedule after going unanswered with 5 runs in 4 innings. The Knights chalked one up on the board in the bottom of the first after senior shortstop Dylan Moore ran in an RBI, taking a 1-0 lead. Moore would hit a double down the third base line before taking to third on a ground out, running in on Erik Barber’s sacrifice to left field. The 3rd and 4th innings would see UCF put up two runs a piece, including catcher Logan Heiser’s home run to left center field. The Terrapins worked up a rhythm at the top of the sixth to give them two runs, only for 2 more to be matched by the Knights in the 7th inning.
Maryland wouldn’t go quietly, edging in another 4 runs in the final two innings in an attempt to even up the score. At the top of the ninth, the Terps had their last chance for a lead taken away by a UCF shortstop on a 3-2 grounder.
Senior shortstop Dylan Moore brought in 3 runs for his team, with center fielder Derrick Salberg right behind Moore at 2 runs. On defense, UCF’s right-handed-pitcher Cre Frinfrock retired the first 8 batters before allowing a single to break through. 
UCF’s powerful offense has given them 9 or more runs in the previous 4 games, making tonight’s game against the Terps (4-1) well within their grasp. The Knights (6-0) have now beaten two top-20 opponents in a row with the win against Maryland.
UCF’s final game in the South Alabama Tournament will be against South Alabama on Sunday at 3 p.m. South Alabama (4-1) lost their last game, falling 0-8 against Maryland on Friday.



Chinese yo-yoing, belly dancing and spoken word took to the stage and impressed a large audience at Late Knight’s first student talent show.
Late Knights is an organization that provides UCF students and the community with alcohol and drug free events in a fun and safe on-campus environment. It hosted its first talent show Friday night.  Fifteen student acts graced the stage and showcased their talents to a captivated audience.

This Late Knights’ event was different from past events but that did not stop it from being a success. Late Knights has been hosting events that provide free food, prizes and entertainment to students, their families, friends and even the community for years, but this year the organization was struck with dramatic budget cuts.
Late Knights did not let that get in the way. Instead of reaching out to vendors that it would have to pay for, the organization looked for entertainment within UCF. Entertainment director Amna Hayatt took to social media to recruit UCF talent.
“It began with auditions. We had three rounds of auditions and no one showed up and we still couldn’t get people, so literally just social media blasts and I walked up to random strangers and asked if they wanted to perform,” Hayatt said.
A panel of judges decided the winners of first, second and third place. Third place went Malcom Kelly, who performed an inspiring spoken word which discussed modern society’s interpretation of beauty.
Second place went to Casper, a rapper, who surprised the crowd with his lyrics and quick pace.
First place went to Octavia Page who has been belly dancing for four years. She danced her way to the top spot with her passion and impressive moves.
“I’m so surprised. I had no idea. There were so many good acts and I really didn’t think that I was [going to] win,” said Page.



