The UCF Police Department is joining agencies across the country in a Click It or Ticket seatbelt enforcement going on through May 31.
Citations will be issued to motorists not wearing a seat belt. The campaign is tied with Memorial Day Weekend and the upcoming summer travel season when more road activity causes greater risk.
“UCFPD is part of these waves several times a year, the most recent being Spring Break. With Click It or Ticket we try to target holidays and other times where we know there will be more cars on the road,” said Courtney Gilmartin, UCFPD spokeswoman. “More cars means greater risk for accidents, but if more people are wearing seat belts it improves the chances for fewer fatalities.”
When a person is unbuckled and thrown from a vehicle, the risk of death is five times greater than if the person would have been wearing a seatbelt, according to the Florida Department of Motor Vehicles. 
In Florida, all passengers in the front seat must wear a seatbelt and passengers under 18 must wear a seat belt. This applies to all cars, pickup trucks and vans operated on Florida roads, according to Florida DMV.
“The high number of people traveling by vehicle increases the odds that you could be involved in a traffic crash. Additionally, people tend to take this holiday as a “start to summer” and may be drinking as part of their celebration,” UCFPD officer Peter Stephens said.
UCFPD said they hope that through targeted enforcement, drivers will make buckling up a habit.
“I was only going around the corner. It cuts across my neck and is uncomfortable. It wrinkles my clothes. I would rather be unbuckled so I can get out quickly if I drive into a lake,” officer Stephens said are common excuses drivers say for not wearing a seatbelt.
Officers will be looking for unbuckled motorists, and seat belt violators will be subject to a $114 non-moving violation in Orange County. If a child is unbuckled, motorists will face 3 points and a $164 fine.



Students from all over the country, even the world, attend the University of Central Florida, all in hope of gaining a worthy education as well as a diploma upon graduation.
However, tuition is unique to each student depending on where they are from and the amount credit hours they are taking, even if they have scholarships.
Debate over whether or not to raise the undergraduate tuition rates of $212.28 per credit hour in-state and the $748.89 for out-of-state students, as well as the graduate tuition rates of $369.65 per credit hour for in-state and $1,194.05 for out of state, according the The Orlando Business Journal, took place, where a decision has now been made.
The University of Central Florida will not raise tuition prices for the 2015-2016 academic year.
“There was a desire by the state level to hold costs down for students,” William Merck, UCF chief financial officer, told the Orlando Sentinel. “Everybody agreed this is something we should probably do.”
UCF’s decision to fall in line with the wishes of state leaders and not raise tuition comes as UCF is lobbying state officials to approve a downtown campus.
Tuition increased in the 2012-2013 academic year, which increased UCF’s bottom line and likely helped the university be in a stronger financial position to propel the downtown project forward.
The project is now underway, and according to www.ucf.edu. The downtown campus has a hopeful opening date for the Fall of 2017.
For now, students budgets can stay as they are, until the debate is brought up again for the 2016-2017 academic year.
Derek Lowe contributed to this report.



