The University of Central Florida saw a 12% increase in market value over the past year, gaining $60 million between 2014 and 2015.
The total market value of UCF: Main Campus has been brought to $571,548,628 and has been assessed at just under $562 million over 1,881 acres, according to the Orange County Property Appraisal.
The property appraisal states that the year 2015 owes its 12% increases to land and building values at $22,690,077 and $521,611,125, respectively. A small raise in the worth of university features at $11,000, to exceed a two-thousand dollar loss in value the previous two years, brings the total to $27,247,426.
Raises in land values by $200,000 and building values by just under $60 million may be owed to projects the university has placed under construction.
Additions of a $30 million multi-purpose research facility, a $23 million Trevor Colbourn Hall, an upscale on-campus hotel, a $9 million parking garage expansion and a $13 million expansion to the Student Union before the close of the decade will only add to UCF’s growing market value.
Meanwhile, the Rosen College of Hospitality Management holds a $41 million assessed and market value with an increase of $124,000 through the past year, according to the property appraisal.
And Walt Disney World Resort? At least $2.91 billion in market value over 27,400 acres.
Figures are drawn from the Orange County Property Appraisal and are not intended to be utilized as a legal resource.



The final four have been chosen over one of the most event-filled races this season. 
The fight to secure a spot in the Chase for the Sprint Cup was once again intensified, with drivers doing anything they could to not be cut off from the pack.
As with most races, this one ran pretty smoothly – until around the 125th lap, where there was a caution thanks to cars stacked on the track. Too many drivers came onto the small inner part of the lane, causing a chain reaction that knocked cars out of place. Not too many laps later, Greg Biffle spun out of control and another caution was added to the ongoing list.
Kurt Busch later made contact with Austin Dillion’s car, causing Carl Edward’s car to be damaged as well – Goody’s 500 was turning into quite the headache for many drivers, and the race hadn’t even reached halfway just yet. Flames were seen on Clint Boyer’s car as well, rounding out more strange circumstances occurring during this race.
A few rough patches were laid out after the halfway point in the race, truly proving that everyone was in it to keep that Sprint Cup from coming into their opponent’s clutches. There was more trouble on the track wen Danick Patrick and David Gilliland dragged each other into trouble as Gilliland began by pushing Patrick up the racetrack and into the wall; she later retaliated in the same way, running him far enough into the wall that his car is damaged but she suffers a spin on the track. Shortly after the accidents pile up, Brad Keslowski hitting Matt Kenseth who is sent into a loss of control and ultimately ends up backwards after slamming Kurt Busch into the inside wall.
The race ended with a possible act of revenge from the week before, with Matt Kenseth purposefully wrecking Joey Logano so they were both out of the race – a possible act of revenge. It was all or nothing after the Headache 500, where Jeff Gordon ultimately claimed a first place win and the first spot in the Championship 4, while Jamie McMurray and Denny Hamlin followed in second and third place.



UCF men’s basketball freshman,  7-foot-6 center, Tacko Fall has been ruled ineligible to play for the Knights this fall according to ESPN insider, Jeff Goodman.
The NCAA is not accepting 7 1/2 of Fall’s core courses and he is no longer allowed to practice with the team. Fall attended Liberty High School Preparatory in Tavares, Florida and the school is being investigated for two full academic certification cycles by the NCAA.
Fall had a reported 3.6 GPA his final two years of high school and is an engineering major at UCF.
This a big disappointment for the Knights basketball team and Fall; the UCF community have rallied behind Fall and he was excited about the upcoming season.
“I just came in and fit right in,” said Fall at UCF’s basketball media day. “All this people around me, the fans, I’m just looking forward to it[first college game].”
UCF plays Davidson on Nov.14 for their season opener.
 
 





