Kappa Sigma, Alpha Tau Omega, Phi Delta Theta, and Sigma Chi have come together to host a concert starring Waka Flocka Flame at UCF.
All four fraternities sought a way to involve students through a charitable event by joining together with a common cause.
“The four fraternities involved have come together to host this concert for two reasons: first to rally behind a local cause and help impact our local community by raising money for OCPS, and second is to help increase our visibility on campus and get more students interested in joining a fraternity here at UCF,” said Lincoln Devine, spokesman for the event.
The American rapper will perform on Friday, Sept. 4, 2015, at UCF’s ‘The Venue’ located in the CFE Arena complex, on the north side of campus.
“The reception since our announcement has been fantastic and we look forward to hosting an incredible concert,” Devine said.
Tickets for the event go on sale on Friday, July 24 on TicketMaster.com.
All money raised from the concert benefits Orange County Public Schools.



Christopher Bastien, who appeared to be intoxicated, jumped off a third floor balcony at The Edge, severing his spine and losing all movement from the waist on Sunday around 3:15 a.m., according to the Orange County Sheriff’s Office.
“I believe Mr. Bastien became intoxicated and attempted to jump on the palm tree from the third story,” said OCSO in an incident report.
Bastien’s friends told OCSO that he had come to their party and then disappeared. His friends went to go look for him and found him on the ground outside of the building.
One of Bastien’s friends told OCSO that witness told him that they saw Bastien jump from the balcony onto a palm tree. Bastien then bounced off the palm tree and fell to the ground, according to OSCO.
The palm tree was approximately 10-12 feet from the balcony and had broken branches at the top. According to OCSO, it appeared that Bastien lunged his body toward the palm tree. Bastion’s friends told OSCO that they have never heard Bastien mention suicidal thoughts, according to OCSO.
Deputies followed Bastien to the Orlando Regional Medical Center where he appeared to be intoxicated and stated he could not remember what happened. It is not believed that Bastien was trying to hurt himself intentionally, according to OCSO.



