The Furman Paladins of the FCS are 0-2 and coming off of a blowout loss to Virginia Tech, but appearances can be deceiving and the Knights cannot look past them on Saturday.
Staring down the barrel of a 0-3 start, the Knights and the Paladins enter the matchup in very different positions. The Knights didn’t expect to be winless at the start of the season and have a lot to lose going into the Furman game. Furman, on the other hand, is playing one of the toughest early season schedules in program history, has nothing to lose and will give it their all to hand UCF another loss.
Head Coach Bruce Fowler, while only entering his fifth year as head coach, has spent a quarter of a century at Furman with his time as a player and assistant coach. Fowler led the Paladins to a Southern Conference championship in 2013 including a win over Appalachian State, but the FCS team experience a down year in 2014 going 3-9 overall.
The Paladins bring an experienced defense to Brighthouse Networks Stadium that is led by a pair of linebackers, senior Cory Magwood and redshirt junior Carl Rider. Magwood led the Paladins with 123 tackles last season while Rider is coming off a missed season due to torn labrum following a monstrous 2013 campaign where he registered 136 tackles.
Furman’s defensive starters are all upperclassmen and 8 of them have registered at least ten starts with the team as of last week. However, the Paladins secondary has allowed two consecutive 300+ yard passers and they have been vulnerable to giving up long passes. The Knights and newly anointed starter Bo Schneider should take advantage of Furman and fare much better this week then they did against Stanford.
Defensively, for the third time this year, the Knights will once again have to take on a team that leans heavily on its tight end in the pass game. Junior Duncan Fletcher anchors the Paladin offense and provides a safety blanket for junior quarterback Reese Hannon, however due to a hamstring injury Fletcher has not yet been able to suit up this season. If he can play on Saturday, he could help smooth out the turnover-prone offense the Paladins have been struggling with this season.
Reese Hannon also missed the 2014 season when he fractured his ankle in the first game last year against Gardner-Webb. Hannon has had more trouble protecting the football than seasons prior, throwing two picks each in games against Coastal Carolina and Virginia Tech respectively.
The biggest surprise and bright spot in the first two games for the Furman offense has been true freshman running back Triston Luke. Luke is not the starter for the Paladins, but totaled the most carries in their game against Virginia Tech last week. It was a breakout game for the true freshman as he managed 79 yards over 10 carries against the Hokie defense and he may see a larger role in the offense going forward into the season.
Of note on Furman’s special teams is sophomore J.C. Hollingsworth who takes on the role of both kicker and punter. Hollingsworth was named to the All-Freshman Team for the Southern Conference as a punter and has range as a kicker with a career long of 51 yards.
This game has interesting ties involved to it as well as it is the second time that UCF has played Furman and the first time that the game will take place in Orlando. UCF head coach George O’Leary’s first career victory came against Furman in 1995 when he was coaching Georgia Tech and at the time Furman head coach Bruce Fowler was a defensive backs coach. Just a year later, the Knights joined the FBS and have not lost to an FCS program since with a record of 20-0.
 
Photo Credit: Nick Russett



The Theta Chi men’s Fraternity was found not in violation of alcohol related misconduct due to a lack of evidence at a Student Conduct Board panel hearing held at UCF’s Office of Student Conduct on September 10, according to the panel’s statement of determination.
Knight News broke the story that Theta Chi was on an emergency suspension for alcohol related misconduct after UCF confirmed so on August 20. The interim suspension was lifted four days later on August 24 after Theta Chi had an interim suspension meeting with the Office of Student Conduct. Although the suspension was lifted, the case would still move forward to a conduct hearing.
During the hearing, a Theta Chi representative explained that the “Loggers and Joggers” party was held by a former fraternity member who was suspended in 2012 for his birthday and that the Theta Chi affiliation was a “misunderstanding.” The representative became aware that there were three active undergraduate members present at the party but that they were all of the legal drinking age and provided their own alcohol for themselves, according to UCF documents.
The home was occupied by three alumni members of Theta Chi and a suspended member, all of who had graduated from UCF at the time of the party. The representative said he was aware that there was significant Theta Chi memorabilia around the house that probably led to the assumption that the party was Theta Chi affiliated. 
Multiple witnesses testified in the hearing on September 10. Two witnesses included Emily Santos, an RA in Nike, and Anne Fetzner, an RA in Neptune. Fetzner had received a call about an overly intoxicated student who had been at fraternity party that night, but did not specify which fraternity. Later that night, Anne had encountered another group of students who were dressed similarly who indicated they had been at a Theta Chi party earlier that night. She made the connection that the overly intoxicated student was most likely was at the same party earlier that night as well, according to the panel’s statement of determination.
Fetzner was asked by the GRC to include the information about the fraternity being Theta Chi although the first witness had not identified Theta Chi being the fraternity party in question. 
A third witness, Rosie Timothy provided a social media picture from Twitter showing party attendees referencing “Joggers and Loggers” and Theta Chi. It could not be confirmed this was the same party due to the absence of Theta Chi memorabilia in the picture and the representative stating that the people in the picture were not members of Theta Chi, according to UCF documents.
The panel members made the perception that this was the same party but due to the lack of information they could not state whether or not the party was hosted by undergraduate members of Theta Chi where underage drinking occurred. 
Spencer Card testified via telephone during the hearing. Card lived at the property where the party was held and stated that the party was for himself and was in no way Theta Chi affiliated. He stated that there were anywhere from 150-200 people at the party and he knew around 15. Card admitted that the party “got out of control.” He also stated that there were multiple Theta Chi banners held around the house that could have given the assumption the party was affiliated with the fraternity, according to UCF documents.
Card denied seeing any alcohol being served, claimed there was no bar where alcohol was being served that witnesses had indicated in their reports, and did not see anyone who was “dangerously drunk” in which fraternity members assisted, according to the panel’s statement of determination. 
Based on the information in the hearing, the panel could not find the fraternity in violation of alcohol related misconduct. The panel could not identify any members as undergraduate members in the fraternity and whether or not any fraternity members purchased or served alcohol to anyone under the legal drinking age. Due to the fact that the tenants were alumni of the organization it was reasonable to have memorabilia at the property. However that does not connect the house or party to the undergraduate members of the fraternity, according to the panel’s statement of determination. 
In the past, UCF has been more strict on punishing greek organizations with questionable evidence. For instance, when Alpha Tau Omega was suspended years ago, the student conduct board had a police officer testify over the phone during a secret hearing and when the officer testified, the board completely misstated his testimony in their report and went against what the police officer said.
“I was curious if there was a structured attire for the females as you have described for the males,” panel member Joe Schofield asked a UCF police officer during the hearing.
“It didn’t appear so,” UCFPD Officer Tirado said. 
However, in the panel’s final report where they explained why ATO was deserving of a one-year suspension they said, “…UCFPD Officer Tirado stated that most people at the party were dressed formally to fit the theme. Based on this information, the panel feels that this was a structured event that should have been registered with the university.” 
Not once in that final report did it mention that officer Tirado stated that it didn’t appear that there was a structured attire. On top of that, the star witness that testified in the hearing is also not the most credible source of information.
Since Knight News has exposed members of the conduct board during these secret hearings on video,the conduct board has rejected UCF’s allegation of misconduct in Theta Chi’s and Sigma Nu’s hearings, when it felt the evidence was not present to support an in violation finding.
One of the panel members in the Theta Chi hearing, Joe Schofield, was one of the same panel members in the ATO hearing. 
Danielle Frazier’s name was also released as a panel member in the report. The other two Student Conduct Board panel members names were censored from the report  by UCF. UCF believes that it can keep the names of student panel members secret as FERPA education records, which is the law protecting private things like a student’s SAT scores.



One of the oldest buildings on UCF’s main campus will be given a renovation after 40 years.
UCF plans to give Colbourn Hall a top-to-bottom renovation that will clear out and rebuild the structure following changes in building codes and waterproofing issues.
A $23 million ‘Trevor Colbourn Hall’ will be constructed in addition, before Colbourn Hall’s improvements, to house the approximately 200 Colbourn Hall faculty and staff and their offices while the renovation takes place. The project will consist of 79,000-square-feet of new space adjacent to the current Colbourn Hall and expects to be put out to bid in July 2016.
Construction of the new hall will take 16 months.
Faculty and staff will move into the new building once the phase concludes and a complete renovation will take place at the old facility. Renovation takes place for 14 months after the move-in, and includes “replacement of all mechanical, plumbing and electrical systems,” according to senior communications coordinator Mark Schlueb.
UCF officials credit the motive to renovate the building in addressing:
Despite calls to the instability of the current Colbourn Hall, UCF Facilities Planning and Facilities Operations confirmed the building is structurally sound.
The $38 million-budgeted two-project plan will be overlapped by construction of an Interdisciplinary Research and Incubator facility planned for the UCF main campus in 2016.



For the first time since leaving UCF in 2013 as the Oakland Raiders’ sixth round draft pick, Latavius Murray is the featured back in an offense that has the potential to build around him as a cornerstone player.
The team parted ways with former rushing champion Maurice Jones-Drew and 2008 first round draft pick Darren McFadden as a result in their confidence in him.
Even with the first two seasons as a learning curve with few touches, Murray believes that his skillset will translate well to a full season as the team’s workhorse running back.

“Run the way I know how to run, just get ready for a long season and just be ready to be the guy,” Murray said about his mindset headed into the year.
The Raiders hope that he can breathe life into a historically awful running game from 2014. Murray first showed that he could succeed when given the chance in the NFL in a late-season game against the Chiefs, the Raiders’ first win of the season – a win that snapped a 16 game losing streak.
Murray had 112 rushing yards and two touchdowns on only four carries in that victory.
“High emotions,” he said about the experience. “Just to be able to go out there and put on a big game like that, to get our first win was most important.”
New offensive coordinator Bill Musgrave built a reputation for a heavy-handed running attack with a resume’ that includes orchestrating the best season of Adrian Peterson’s career. Latavius figures to shoulder the burden of this ground game emphasis.
“I think Coach Musgrave has a plan,” Murray emphasized after a disappointing 33-13 loss in the season opener to the Cincinnati Bengals. He was only given the chance to carry the rock eleven times, but amassed 44 yards on the opportunities.
This years’ Knights are in a similar position of disappointment with their uncharacteristic 0-2 start to the year, and Murray is all too familiar with the idea of persevering through this kind of adversity.
“You’ve got to take it one game at a time, just like we’re going to,” the third year back said in reference to his alma mater. “We can’t let this game define us or what we want to be. It’s on to the next week.”
In similar fashion he said that he has not been in contact with Storm Johnson lately but has high hopes for his former backfield partner.
“I haven’t spoken with him much,” Murray explained, “but again I know how this league is and hopefully he gets a chance again somewhere else, and to make the most of it, he has all the ability in the world to do so.”
Murray has all of the potential and ability in the world himself. The running back finally has the opportunity, system and confidence in place to make his name in the National Football League.



Story by Jarleene Almenas
Money was the only thing on Stephanie Bellevue’s mind as she waited to be helped during the second week of classes.
There was a roped-off line that snaked a good ten feet outside UCF’s Financial Aid office where students waited to get a number, many of them looking like they’d rather be anywhere else. 
They waited to be shuffled inside as soon as possible, only to then wait even longer for assistance. 
There was almost only standing-room inside the small waiting area, and the competition for remaining chairs could have been compared to a less-interesting version of the Hunger Games. 
Bellevue, who is a junior Science Education major, had about a 30 minute wait ahead of her. She chose to leave and come back closer to the end of her waiting time, and though she was inconvenienced, there was no way she wouldn’t come back. 
 “Money is a big issue, especially for college students,” Bellevue said. “It’s worth the wait.”
In the 2012-2013 school year, UCF awarded over $440 million in financial aid, and $438.1 million of that money was disbursed back to its students.
However, about 58 percent of the aid UCF awarded was made up of loans, coming up at about $253.7 million. Only about 16 percent of the aid awarded was due to scholarships.
Though aid did increase in those years by approximately $18.6 million, or 4.4 percent, tuition and fees per one credit hour had also increased by almost 12 percent. 
These are the most current numbers the financial aid office offered. Due to the high traffic in their department, they could not meet for an interview. 
So, assuming that the numbers have more or less remained the same currently, students are potentially being disbursed quite a chunk of money—whether it is from loans, federal grants, or scholarships.
Yet college students are notoriously known for being broke. So where does that money go? What are students spending their money on?
“They might use it on a vacation, or if they’re studious, they’ll use it for their studies,” Zara Farheen said, a freshman electrical engineering major.
But student spending might not be so black and white. 
John Mohr, a junior mechanical engineering major, said that at least most of the time a student can partially justify the way they spend their disbursements.
“If someone goes out and they take their refund and buy a laptop, that could be for personal or school reasons,” Mohr said. 
But some students aren’t just buying things like laptops with their disbursements. 
Jason Lupo, a junior electrical engineering major, was sure that some students spent their money on whatever they wanted, regardless if it is necessary for their studies or not.  
“I’m sure freshman go and they get this huge check and they’re like ‘Let’s go buy the latest videogame or let’s go get some alcohol’ — Just not smart financial decisions,” Lupo said.
But videogames and alcohol are not all students buy. 
“I heard of people buying cars, buying guns… Just stupid stuff,” Bell said. 
A few students brought up purchasing tattoos and even drugs with their refunds. 
“I know someone, and I used to be friends with her, but I know she spent part of her refund check on meth,” Mohr said.
Yasmin Linares, a junior sociology major, said that student spending has to do with self-indulgence, and that there’s nothing wrong with that, especially for college students.
“Everyone’s done it,” she said. “Once you get [a lot] of money, it’s like ‘Hey, I’m not broke for once’. It’s understandable.”
On the flip side, not all students spend their disbursement in this manner.
Karl Bell, a junior political science major, said that many of UCF’s students rely on their disbursements as their sole income for the semester. 
“Most people probably use it to pay bills, pay utilities and to be able to come to school every day,” Bell said. 
And while some students are fortunate enough to have many of these things already covered, saving the money from financial aid disbursement is their next logical step. 
Bell pointed out that having this money set aside for emergencies is important. 
“I really don’t touch it,” Bell said. “I just keep it as something to have just in case something happens.” 
This came off a surprise to some students. Linares didn’t think many people actually saved up their disbursements. 
“I don’t think I’ve ever met anyone that actually puts it away,” Linares said. “Not one.”
The possibilities of student spending are numerous, depending on what type of person a student is and how they use it, which could be either good or bad. Whether they’re saving or spending, college students are responsible for their own management of money.
Bellevue just shook her head at the mention of students using their financial aid in wasteful ways. 
She said that a lot of them were probably spoiled, because she believed that refunds shouldn’t be used that way. She said that the money should be going towards your studies, paying housing, tuition and the required books for classes. 
She’s not waiting in a 30 minute line just so she can spend her money on the first thing she wants. But she’s sure students will probably rethink their financial decisions in the future.
“At the end of the day,” Bellevue said, “I feel like they’ll kind of realize that when the money is gone.”



Story by Ashlyn Becton
A new app, created by a group of computer science students from the University of Michigan, promises you that you never have to walk home alone. Companion, is a free app for iPhone and Android users. The app was originally intended for college students but it can work for anyone who wants to use it.
This is how it works: Before starting your walk home, pull out your cell phone and start up the app. Type in your destination, the app will then ask you to pick someone from your contacts list to be your “companion”. It then send a text message to that person including a hyperlink to an interactive map of your walk, so even if they don’t have the app they can still be your companion. 
If you are unsure whether or not your friend is awake, the app allows you to send out multiple requests to different contacts. The app is built to detect if the user strays off their path, stumbles, or starts running. It can even recognize if your head phones get pulled out. 
If it detects any of these movements it will send a notification to the user and asks ‘Are You Okay?’ The user then has 15 seconds to respond. If they fail to respond or an emergency is occurring, the Companion app turns the users phone into an alarm system. It signals off loud noises to scare off any criminals or catch bystanders attention. The interactive map will show that there is an issue and gives your companion the option to call the police.
Additionally, if the user is feeling nervous for any reason, maybe there aren’t any people nearby or you see suspicious activity they can press the ‘I Feel Nervous’ button. If your companion sees you pressed that button they are able call you and check on you or even just talk to you until you feel safer.
    The app pairs up with police departments on college campuses by sharing their data, resulting in making the areas around campus safer. Even though the app is less than a year old, it has already started marketing campaigns to introduce the app to college campuses across the country.
    KnightNews asked Courtney Gilmartin, Assistant Director and Public Information Officer for UCF Police, what their thoughts were on implementing an app like this to the UCF campus.
    “The UCF Police Department is always willing to consider technology that could improve our public safety response. In any case, we would need to evaluate the technology before endorsing it,” Gilmartin said.



The University of Central Florida’s Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) held a “Question, Persuade, Refer,” or “QPR a Thon” on Wednesday where students learned the ins and outs of suicide prevention.
In just a 60-minute training session, each participating student became a “gatekeeper,” who by definition in the QPR Institute website, is “someone in a position to recognize a crisis and the warning signs that someone may be contemplating suicide.”
CAPS QPR instructor Krystal Pollack taught students the nuances of the “question, persuade, refer” process by first assessing the textbook signs of suicidal behavior. These include fluctuation in appetite and sleeping patterns (too little or too much sleep), a decrease in self-esteem and concentration, and an increase in social isolation and excessive use of alcohol and other substances.
Participants were also trained to stay alert for verbal, situational, and behavioral cues that may prompt the “suicide conversation” with those who may be at risk. Situational cues may include loss of a job, relationship, loved one, or familiarity with their surroundings which lead to dangerous behavioral changes such as purchasing pills, a firearm, or a knife.
By taking all signs seriously, gatekeepers must then choose the correct language to spark the suicide conversation.
“Many people don’t get involved because they’re not sure what to say or how to ask questions,” Teresa Chmelir, Associate Director of Outreach and Community Intervention at CAPS said. “We are here to help.”
Gatekeepers learned less-stigmatizing ways to approach asking people if they have suicidal thoughts, according to Pollack. Everyone is advised to address his or her concerns in a private setting and ask an open-ended question. For example, one could say, “I’ve noticed drastic behavior, and I am worried you may be having suicidal thoughts. Am I right?”
One should not directly tell the distressed, “I know exactly how you feel,” or “it will all work out; don’t worry,” and one should especially not say, “you just need to go out and have a good time.” These statements will invalidate their emotions and distresses. Gatekeepers must persuade them to keep moving forward. Perhaps, one could provide a sense of belonging and encouragement with, “I want you to live; we will get through this,” and, “if they are reluctant, be persistent.” Finally, if needed, everyone should refer those suffering to someone who can help further.
“The training program was very effective,” participant Kristyna Ceuninck said. “I feel now I know exactly what to do, what to say, and what not to say.”
CAPS recognizes that “suicide is the second leading cause of death in the United States,” but the final words of the QPR presentation may be the simple solution: “ask a question, and save a life.” Simply showing one’s genuine support and care can truly prevent such tragedy.
If you or someone you know is having suicidal thoughts, please contact CAPS at 407-823-2811 or UCF’s Health Center at 407-823-2701. CAPS business hours are Monday-Thursday 8:00 AM – 6:00 PM and Friday from 8:00 AM – 5:00 PM. If you call CAPS after business hours, press #5 to speak directly with a crisis hotline counselor.
 



