The University of Central Florida will begin two major construction projects later this month. One of these projects will be the expansion of Libra Drive from two-lanes to four-lanes. Additionally, a right turn lane will be added on the intersection of east-bound Gemini Boulevard and Libra Drive.
On top of those improvements, various areas of campus will be undergoing road and sidewalk improvements. The roads that will be affected will be Aquarius drive, the Andromeda Loop, North Orion Boulevard and Greek Court.
Throughout these projects, students should expect periodic road and sidewalk closures. The university said it will be proactive in announcing traffic changes to students ahead of time.
Students should expect the Libra Road project to be complete around March 2016 and the other projects to be complete around October 2016.
While the university was quick to point out in an e-mail to students that improvements will not take place on game days, students should be prepared to take alternative routes during the other time periods of construction.



 
 
On Monday May 18th, Universal Studios announced they are determined to make this year’s annual Halloween Horror Nights the biggest that visitors have seen in honor of the 25th anniversary of the spooky event.
The 25th annual Halloween Horror Nights will feature nine haunted houses, which is more than have ever been offered in event history. They also decided to bring back the ever scary, Jack the Clown to present the event in as twisted of a way as possible.
According to the park, Jack the Clown was so popular in the years he appeared in the park, from 1991 to 1999, that fans would scream, “Bring Jack back!! He’s my favorite!! He is Horror Nights!”. Well fans got what they wanted because the famed character is back and ready to get in your nightmares.
Additionally, the park boasts that it will have double the “scareactors” it has ever had, and will run for a record number of thirty nights. Visitors will get the chance to attend the spookfest and be a part of their own horror movie from September 18th to November 1st.
Tickets will be on sale closer to the event. One thing’s for sure, visitors will have to be ready for scares that are more intense than ever before.



video platformvideo managementvideo solutionsvideo player
UPDATE 4 p.m. 
 The sheriff's office told us the rape #UCF alerted students about this morning is actually an attempted rape because the student victim fought him off at Arden Villas. It happened around 3am when the man she didn't know grabbed her as she approached her door and pushed her inside her apartment, according to OCSO. After she fought him off, cops say he exposed himself and ran off. If you know him there's a reward. Call 800-423-TIPS.
A photo posted by KnightNews.com (@ucfknightnews) on May 23, 2015 at 1:00pm PDT

The Orange County Sheriff’s Office was working a K9 track for a sexual battery at University Blvd and Arden Villas early this morning, according to UCF Emergency Management.
The suspect is a white male wearing a green shirt, khaki pants, and a red hat, according to the alert sent to students at 4:49 a.m. The suspect has a slim build and is around 5’9″ with dark features, according to UCF Emergency Management.
The scene has been cleared by the Orange County Sheriff’s Office, according to UCF Emergency Management. They are continuing their investigation, the alert said.
Please report any suspicious activity to the OSCO at 407-836-4357.



CREOL, UCF’s Center for Research and Education in Optics and Lasers, is sponsoring a photo contest aimed at K-12 students. The winner will receive a $100 cash reward.
The first-ever photo contest by CREOL is by no means a selfie challenge. Rather, students are asked to submit an original photo that shows how light affects their daily lives.
The photo contest, which is open until May 30, is part of a much larger project. In 2013, the United Nations declared 2015 as the International Year of Light and Light-Based Technologies, or IYL. Their aim was to globally raise awareness for the importance of light-based technologies and how they are key to finding solutions to challenges in energy, education, agriculture and health.
The contest is the latest in various projects UCF has been creating to raise awareness for light-based technology, said Mike McKee, the assistant director for the college’s undergraduate programs who organized the contest. He has led teacher workshops where elementary teachers received free kits of lenses and LEDs to do hands-on activities with their classes.
Though many of the activities for the IYL have been science-based, McKee said he felt it was important to expose kids of all different interests to the power of light.
“What I like about this is it attracts sort of a different type of kid. It might be a kid that is more artistic that will be engaged and interested in the field,” McKee said.
And it’s done just that for Maxwell Zengage, a sophomore at A.W. Dreyfoos School of the Arts in Palm Beach, who can be found most often editing his photos through Photoshop but has yet to enter a photo contest. He saw the competition as an ideal opportunity to share his love for photography.
“My appreciation for light’s ability to create every visual aspect of our world fuels my love of photography,” the visual major said.
“I myself hated school,” said McKee, who was a middle and high school science teacher for fifteen years. “So, I like to do things that are very hands-on and inquiry based that engage the kids in learning so that they’re not studying science, they’re doing science.”
For Allie Wisniewski, a senior at Matanzas High School in Palm Coast, her camera roll on her phone is full of experimental photos of natural light, so this contest immediately piqued her interest. Her photo submission  consists of her hand in the sunlight with her shadow dancing behind it.
“The hand in the photo is my own, and I feel that its shadow on the wall demonstrates the fact that I, as well as any other person, have the capability to affect nature in a beautiful, personal, and almost unintentional way,” Wisniewski said. “I aimed to convey that fact: the complexity of light and light obstruction make it possible to create a separate and artful extension of yourself in the form of a shadow.”
McKee said the panel of judges consists of himself, the dean of the College of Optics and Photonics, Bahaa Saleh, and one other faculty member. Along with looking at the photo’s artistic appeal and ability at capturing light, the judges will take into account the photo descriptions required with each photo submitted. At the end of the contest, McKee said all photo submissions will be displayed on the CREOL website.
Photo submissions can be uploaded at http://www.creol.ucf.edu/Academics/Outreach/IYLPhotoContest.aspx



