Mark your calendars: the UCF Student Government Association has announced the free, annual Universal Knights event will be on Sunday, April 12.
Chris Hixon, SGA’s public relations coordinator, said students going to Islands of Adventure at Universal Orlando will need a ticket, which will be distributed on a first-come, first-serve basis. Tickets will be available for pickup on:
– April 6, 7, 8, and 9 at the CFE Arena or Rosen from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.
– April 6, 7 at the Recreation and Wellness Center from 12 p.m. to 5 p.m.
– April 8-9 at the Student Union from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m.
Students must bring their valid UCF ID  in order to receive a ticket. Only one ticket will be distributed per student.
Advanced ticket distribution will be on April 2-3 from 12 p.m. to 5 p.m. at the Recreation and Wellness Center Leisure Green. Dates and times for pickup will be confirmed soon, according to Hixon.
SGA will be tabling on March 30 and April 1 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Student Union and offering more information. Tickets will not be given out at that time.
Check back for updates to this story.



UCF students got the chance to release their inner artists at the “So You Think You Can’t Draw?” event hosted by Volunteer UCF on Friday. 
Volunteer UCF’s arts and recreation committee hosted “So You Think You Can’t Draw?” for its Spring Art Series to encourage students about the importance of artistic expression and how art continues to evolve. The event gave students a hands-on opportunity to draw creatively on their own small canvas using Crayola oil pastels. The demonstration showed students how to draw a sunset, but students were not just limited to that, they could draw whatever they liked.
Amanda Brown, a senior and economics major, is the director for arts and recreation for Volunteer UCF. Her role involves planning service and educational events related to social issues within the community, especially the social issues that relate to arts and recreation. 

“I think that art is a really awesome way of stepping outside of yourself and viewing the world kind of from your outside perspective,” Brown said.
This outside perspective, Brown says, gives people a creative outlet.
“You kind of step back and say how do I feel about this, what do I think is going on, and how do I want to show the world how I feel?” Brown said. 
Brown explained that there are various ways to show that perspective, whether it be through photo representation of the world, or through one’s own personal meaning. 
“I think everyone has the ability to draw, I think that we don’t always know how to see the right way,” Brown said.
Pooja Krishnamoorthi, a junior and biomedical sciences major, is a member of the arts and recreation committee, and shared similar sentiments about people who say they can’t draw. 
“You may already be doing things that other people would say is art, but you may not feel is art,” Krishnamoorthi said.
Krishnamoorthi says art is something a person thinks about, something done on purpose.
“Even if you’re putting a bunch of colors different places, if you’re putting handprints different places, even if you feel like you’re just doing this randomly or whatever, it is a purposeful act,” Krishnamoorthi said.
Lameria Campbell came to the event after seeing it on the website. For her oil canvas drawing, she drew a sunflower. 
“I’m not like interested in being an artist or anything, I just kind of like to come outside of my comfort zone,” Campbell said.
Campbell explained that she enjoys music too, and how both music and art give way to self-expression.
“A lot of times when we listen to music, we paint a picture in our head, especially with the lyrics,” Campbell said.
Michelle Grasso, a junior and health sciences student drew a quite unique painting on her canvas.
“It’s an eye seeing a vortex of things,” Grasso, said.
Grasso said the drawing represented someone who is confused or has a lot on their mind.
Christina Cajina, a junior and criminal justice major had the day off, so she decided to attend the event. Her painting was a sunset, using colors of blue and green. 
“I can’t draw, I don’t care what anyone says,” Cajina said. 
And though she may feel her drawing skills aren’t the best, Cajina shared what makes art so important.
“It’s necessary for the world to go round,” Cajina said. “It brings people together, it may show someone that they’re not going through something by themselves.” 



The University of Central Florida’s College of Engineering and Computer Science (CECS) hosted its Engineers’ Fair on Wednesday at the Harris Engineering Center Lawn in recognition of Engineers Week.
Engineers Week is nationally recognized by the National Engineers Week Foundation and is celebrated on all U.S. engineering college campuses. This special week was created in recognition of all engineers around the nation and to commemorate them for their work that aids society.
The Engineers’ Fair was a public event held from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Wednesday Feb. 25, where all students and faculty were invited to join in interactive games like playing giant Jenga or launching bottle rockets, talk to members of various engineering clubs and enjoy free food/refreshments. 
Jeremy Young, a senior and aerospace engineer major at UCF, is the president of a club called SEDS (students for the exploration and development of space). He gave a little insight as to what the club does and how its members compete in aerospace competitions in various states.

“What we do here at SEDS, we do a lot of high-powered rocketry, a lot of NASA competitions,” Young said. “Last year we went out to the Bonneville Salt Flats in Utah and launched some rockets. This year we’re gonna be out in Huntsville launching some high powered rockets. We also do hybrid rocket competitions as well as weather balloons.”
Young went on to say that the club is a social one as well. He enjoys being in the company of friends that are like-minded in the technical side of things.
Michael Bambula, a senior and mechanical engineering major at UCF, is a team leader at the University of Central Florida Formula Society of Automotive Engineers. He talked about his society, where they use what they learn in the classroom and other real world experience to aid them in their future careers.
“What we do is we design and build a brand new racecar every single year from scratch,” Bambula said. “And we do it on a budget given to us by the university. And we apply what we do and what we learn in our classes, in our workshop, when we design and manufacture.”
Engineers Week took place at UCF from Feb. 23-28. You can check out the full list of activities that were done here.



