The Greeks of UCF keep on giving — this time with over $14,000 raised for a children’s charity.
UCF’s Kappa Delta sorority raised the money for Prevent Child Abuse America and the Children’s Home Society after hosting its annual Shamrock festival Sunday afternoon. Country singer John King, known for his hit single ‘Tonight Tonight’, performed for students and families at the festival.

[sam_ad id=”5″ codes=”true”] 
“It feels amazing. We’re honestly blessed to represent such a good cause,” Cassidy Coakley, Vice President of the sororities public relations, said.  
The Children’s Home Society of Florida was founded in 1902, and serves to rescue abused children and rebuild homes. They help children and families in Florida heal, and hope to break the generational cycle of abuse.
Photos by Gabriela Mont



The LEAD Scholars Academy will be partnering with the Electric Vehicle Transportation Center to create a forum on STEM career opportunities in the emerging field of electric-powered vehicles.
The EVTC, a four-year, multi-million dollar research effort, grew to establish a network of electric vehicle transportation. UCF is just 1 of 33 universities funded by the U.S. Department of Transportation to address this critical challenge, and UCF’s EVTC is the only one focused on electric vehicles.
The schedule for Tuesday’s event will be:
An expert panel of industry leaders will conduct the forum in the Student Union – Cape Florida Ballroom, in room 316. The guest speakers will make brief introductory remarks and then move to roundtable discussions with students paired with faculty and industry representatives. Each panelist will visit two tables at a time to participate in a Q&A with students. One topic would be assigned to each speaker, who will then make their way to each table. Lunch will be provided for each student that attends, courtesy of Orlando Utilities Union.
Featured speakers include:
The Ride, Drive and Display of featured vehicles will take place on Memory Mall. A similar event has taken place last fall at Tuskegee University, one of the partners for the conference, where Rolls Royce, Tesla, and other manufacturers displayed their automobiles.
Students must have a reservation, which can be obtained, with limited availability, here.



The sights are set high at raising half a million dollars for charity, but UCF students — for the 19th year — will dance together to try and make it happen For the Kids.
Knight-Thon, UCF’s annual Dance Marathon benefiting Greater Orlando Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals, will bring together over 1,000 Knights from 70+ organizations to stand for 20 hours ‘For the Kids’.
This year, students aim to raise $500,000. 
At just six-years-old, Chris Hixon — now Knight-Thon’s event operations director — received a terrifying diagnosis: acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a type of blood cancer that’s often fatal. 
For the next two and a half years, Hixon underwent a variety of procedures at South Florida children’s hospital and fortunately, has been in remission for hte past 15 years. 
“I can relate to them on a different level. I’ve been there – I’ve lived in a hospital, I know what it’s like,” Hixon said. “There were times I was very scared, but because of the caring doctors and all the people by my side, I never felt alone.”
The opening ceremonies begin at 10:45 a.m. on March 28 and the event ends at 6:30 a.m. the following morning. Last year, Knight-Thon managed to raise $392,831.65 benefiting Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children, the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit of Winnie Palmer Hospital for Women and Babies, and Shands Hospital for Children. 
KnightNews.com will be LIVE streaming this event. Check back next weekend for video of the dancing as it happens!



