UCF’s new head coach, Scott Frost, had quite the recruiting weekend, acquiring some linemen commitments that will help UCF next year in the battle of the trenches.
Three-star prospect Boman Swanson (6-4, 260), an offensive lineman from South Dade High School, committed to the Knights, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
Swanson wrote on his twitter, “Happy to say that I have committed to be a knight #ChargeOn.”
The Knights had three more recruits commit on Sunday with defensive end Josh Odigie, offensive lineman Christian Beard, and defensive tackle DeQuinton Osborne.
Odigie (6-4, 250) is currently playing for Orange Coast College and is from Rancho Cucamonga, California, according to the Orlando Sentinel. The three-star prospect and held offers from Oregon State, Colorado State, San Diego State and Texas-San Antonio.
Odigie tweeted, “I’m excited to take my talents to Orlando [and] commit to the University of Central Florida.”
Christian Beard (6-4, 270) is playing for Trinity Valley Community College and played high school football in Waco, Texas, according to the Sentinel. He had previously signed with Arkansas State before ending up at Trinity.
Beard wanted to share his commitment on social media with his peers. A post on his twitter read, “Committed to UCF! Blessed to have this opportunity and can’t wait to help this team get back on top! #ChargeOn.”
Obsorne (6-0, 310) is currently playing for Kilgore Junior College and played high school football in Grand Prairie, Texas, according to the Sentinel. He had offers from New Mexico, Southern Miss and UAB.
Osborne tweeted early Sunday morning and said, “Verbally committed to UCF. Shout out to coach frost and the rest of the  coaches, I enjoyed my visit.”
UCF so far has 13 commits in this year’s recruiting class. Coach Frost is responsible for more than half of those commitments, acquiring 7 of those 13 since becoming UCF’s new head coach.
Image Courtesy: UCF Athletics



The Orange County Sheriff’s Office responded to a burglary and stabbing call at the Edge Apartments near the University of Central Florida at around 2:30 a.m. on Tuesday, deputies told WFTV.
“Investigators said they found a 20-year-old man with multiple stab wounds lying in the front of the apartment complex, and a 19-year-old man in front of an apartment, also with multiple stab wounds,” WFTV reported.
Both were taken to Orlando Regional Medical Center in critical condition, according to WFTV.
“I saw someone lying on the curb. There was definitely a lot of blood on him. Cops were already there. I was just like sitting and studying and then like I see, all these cop cars and an ambulance and stuff. So, I go check it out and there’s a dude bloodied on the sidewalk over there,” UCF students Thomas Alhanti and David Taylor told WFTV.
WTFV reported that a third man who was also in the apartment had lacerations on his hands and was transported to Florida Hospital East.
The two victims were not students and no names have been released yet, WFTV reported.
The suspect still remains at large, according to WFTV.
This is a breaking story. Check back for updates.



