Surfers often make catching a wave on a super gnarly day just look like second nature. 
Climbers taking on some of the most daunting cliffs make it look so simple that they could do it blindfolded. And then there’s climbers who are legally blind and use all their other senses to ascent some of the most difficult climbs, and leave everyone around staring in awe.
On Feb. 11, Tripp Clemens, Will Humphrey and Zach Bastian, three members of the four-man team with Harvey Burrell, came to UCF for the screening of their documentary “Endless Abilities.” UCF Housing, Student Disabilities Services, Sporting clubs, the Multicultural Student Center and the Office of Diversity sponsored the event. The movie showcased the world of adaptive sports and highlighted Paralympic athletes, and rehabilitation patients that they met on their 7,000 mile journey. These individuals were swimmers with muscular dystrophy training for the Paralympics, climbers who are legally blind, and quadriplegic soccer players and the four friends sought to tell their stories.
Bastian got in a dirt bike accident when he was in high school and lost most of his legs’ mobility. After six months, doctors told him that he’d probably be in a wheelchair for life. He said that his friends and family helped him come to accept his disability and move forward.
“Knowing that yeah I lost half my body, but I didn’t lose my friends, that’s what kind of got me through,” Bastian said.
Growing up in a coastal town in Rhode Island, his friends were all sailors and surfers so there wasn’t any question about leaving that part of him on hold. Inspired by them and Jesse Billauer, a paraplegic surfer, Bastian dove back in. And he brought three new friends with him.
Clemens, Humphrey, and Burrell are childhood friends and met Bastian in 2010. After filming him surfing, they realized they wanted to do more. Thanks to a $10,000 grant from the Hartford Insurance Company in Connecticut, and $30,000 raised on Kick Starter, the Endless Abilities team’s dream was beginning to look possible. In the summer of 2012, the four friends drove cross-country searching for adaptive sports for people with physical disabilities and told their stories in a documentary film.
“The project became much bigger than us. People were calling us saying ‘We really want to be a part of what you’re doing,’” Bastian said.
People reached out to them and asked them to connect along the way.
“The other half of the stops were done through our sponsor, Disabled Sports USA,” Humphrey said.
During the road trip, Humphrey, Clemens, and Burrell experienced what Bastian’s daily life is like.
“You get to really understand what someone’s going through in their shoes, when they’re in a wheelchair, when you live with them,” Clemens said. “I was learning to live with someone else’s abilities.”
Bastian said that some of his favorite parts of the trip were also the most unexpected. Although the four had been friends for about two years, they undoubtedly formed a special bond.
“People look at me like ‘He’s the man, he’s the voice,’ but I’m just happy to be a part of their film. These guys are incredible. They’re phenomenal,” Bastian said.
They said what is special about adaptive sports is that it is such an equalizer, making it a level playing field for everyone. They came back from the summer of their lives, but it didn’t end there.
“We have a deal with PBS and so starting this spring anyone can see the film on their local PBS station,” Humphrey said.
“Endless Abilities” has gained quite an audience on small and big screens. Movie theatres have screenings, and people can take the film and create a fundraising event for themselves with it. Spaulding hospital and Vanderbilt hospital are showing the film to individuals with physical disabilities. According to Clemens, that’s their ultimate audience.
“If we’re going to change, not just the three of us, but society as a whole, the way disabilities are perceived we really have to be not just in places where people with disabilities are like hospitals, we have to be in auditoriums like this and education facilities and change the culture,” Humphrey explained.
To keep the ball moving forward, they’ve created a film company called Windy Films, making short documentaries, based in Boston.
“Our second documentary film is following a couple and their work to have the world’s first complete malaria vaccine and it will take us to Africa in about a week and a half,” Clemens said.
The team will be in Equatorial Guinea for a few weeks. For anyone who missed the screening, “Endless Abilities” is available on DVD.



The UCF community came together Thursday night for a vigil to remember three Muslim students who were shot and killed in North Carolina, a slaying that has the nation rattled. 
UCF alumni, students and members of the Muslim community gathered at the Reflecting Pond to honor the students killed in Chapel Hill, N.C., reportedly over a parking dispute.
Chapel Hill police identified the three victims as Deah Shaddy Barakat, 23, his wife, Yusor Mohammad, 21, of Chapel Hill, and Razan Mohammad Abu-Salha, 19, of Raleigh. The two female victims were sisters. Barakat and Yusor Mohammad were newly weds.
National media reported they were university students, Muslims of Arab descent and regularly volunteered in the area. Chapel Hill police arrested and charged their neighbor, Craig Stephen Hicks, 46, with three counts of murder after he turned himself in for the slayings. Police say the dispute was over parking spaces in their apartment complex.
Hicks described himself as an atheist on his Facebook page, criticizing religion and denouncing religious groups. After attention was drawn to Hicks’ Facebook page, civil rights advocates from the Muslim community declared it a hate crime, accusing Hicks of targeting the students for their Muslim faith. 
The killings have sparked debate and controversy among the public, including students.
UCF alumnus Rasha Mubarak, 29, and her husband planned the vigil as soon as they learned of the killings. Mubarak is Palestine American Muslim who serves as a board director at the Arab American Community Center and is newlywed herself.
“I think what happened to three young American heroes, it shakes the core of the Muslim community and across the country,” Mubarak said. “This is very disturbing for many of us.”
UCF alumnus and social worker, Drionne Arney, 24, sat on the grass waiting for the vigil to begin.
“I feel sad,” Arney said. “As a black American woman, after everything that’s been happening in the news, I feel like we’re going through another civil rights movement that’s bigger than the one we know of.”
The vigil began at 6:50 p.m. While facing the guest speakers, children huddled together holding a banner with the victims faces, the trending Twitter hashtag, #MuslimLivesMatter, and a sign that read, “End Hate Speech, End Hate Crime #ChapelShooting.” 
Ten representatives from various on-campus organizations introduced themselves in front of the crowd. Mia Warshofsky, a sophomore majoring in international relations and Spanish, was one of those representing her organization, Students For Justice In Palestine at UCF.
Although she’s not part of the Muslim community, Warshofsky said she’s Jewish and felt “as a religious minority” she had to come out and show her solidarity.
“It’s so sad,” Warshofsky said. “We like to think of America as tolerate, so accepting and to have three people killed like this… I want [the Muslim community] to not feel alone. Hatred will not win.”
Seven speakers spoke at the vigil about the victims, including UCF alumnus Arthur Richards from ICNA Relief USA and David Williamson of Central Florida Freethought Community (CFFC). 
Jillian Emily Pikora, a freelance writer, attended the University of North Carolina with two of the victims.
Pikora held back tears as she talked of the two sisters and how she broke Ramadan fast with a dinner at the Barakat’s home. After speaking, she broke down, wiping tears away as Mubarak took the megaphone.
Mubarak asked the police to investigate the killings as a hate crime. She also asked the attendees to email the local media in covering the Muslim community stating, “It took 10 hours for some media coverage.”
Vigils were held nationwide for the victims, including in downtown Miami and at the University of South Florida.
The three students, all shot in the head, were killed Tuesday.
“It was over a parking spot. That’s questionable itself,” Mubarak said of the killings. “This vigil here is something [the three victims] would have planned. They would have been behind this mic.”



