Eleven presidential hopefuls, two moderators, and millions of Americans tune in at 8 p.m. Wednesday for the Republican Primary debate for the coveted 2016 presidential spot. The GOP debate will feature the top 10 candidates and Carly Fiorina, who made the cut off after her average poll number placed her in the ranks with her male counterparts.  
Divided into two parts, the first half of the debate features the four candidates who met the minimum one percent threshold in public polls. Those candidates include George Pataki, Lindsey Graham, Bobby Jindal and Rick Santorum. 
Former Texas governor Rick Perry was invited to join them on stage but suspended his bid after he realized his poll numbers were just as dismal as his campaign funds.
A variety of issues will be discussed at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, California. 
Keep your ears primed for several issues ranging from Immigration, Foreign Policy and National Security, Health Care, and several Civil Rights not limited to Women’s Rights and LGBTQ affairs. 
We will examine a few topics and the primary presidential potentials viewpoints, hoping to provide you with more knowledge on their platforms.
ObamaCare/ Health care
•	Rand Paul- Longtime supporter of the Republican Party, Paul pursued a life of civic engagement while attaining a medical doctor degree. Having both performed eye surgery and owning his own practice in the past 18 years, Paul has years of experience in the medical field under his belt and has felt the effects of a failing health care reform. An opponent of Obamacare, he plans to rescind government involvement in health care as to eliminate the bureaucratic restrictions that hinder development.
•	Chris Christie- Both Christie and Paul have come under fire for telling audiences that it was a parental decision on whether children should be vaccinated; however, Christie quickly clarified his position by stating that there should be a balance between what the government mandates. He supports the expansion Medicaid in his state of New Jersey because it was relatively small under ObamaCare. He called for the President to apologize to people who were getting their health plans canceled and was quoted saying that anyone who has run anything in their lives could see the problem with a state based health exchange a mile away.
•	Marco Rubio- A proponent of massive health care reform, Rubio believes that the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, also known as ObamaCare, has done more harm than good; stating that not only are states being left with unfunded liability that ultimately limits market competition. His plan would include transparency to facilitate value-based informed decisions and expanded choice in Medicaid options as well as longer funding periods.
Abortion
•	Jeb Bush- elder Bush brother and former Florida Governor, Bush has asserted his formidable pro-life stance in a variety of ways in the past 20 years. Within his first year in office he used his executive power to approve a specialty license plate promoting the right-to-life “Choose Life” that donated $20 of proceeds to adoption agencies which provided counseling, but not to clinics that provided abortion counseling. He had even a feeding tube reinserted on a severely brain-damaged woman against the family’s wishes.
•	Chris Christie- Once a pro-choice proponent, Governor Christie changed his mind when he heard his daughter’s heartbeat at 13 weeks back in 1995. He has since been pro-life and only supports abortions in cases where the mother’s life is at risk. He also eliminated state funding for Planned Parenthood stating that there were many other services women could use if they wanted family planning services.
•	Carly Fiorina- With exceptions to cases in the instance of rape, incest, and maternal endangerment, the former business executive supports the defunding of Planned Parenthood. She believes that American attention should be focused on more pressing issues.
Immigration
•	Jeb Bush- Having a fairly moderate view on immigration, Bush has since come to support a path for permanent legal residency that would hope to open the path to naturalization after years of supporting the deportation of illegal immigrants.
•	Donald Trump- Infamously known on for his disparaging comments about Hispanics during his presidential announcement speech, Trump called for a tighter southern border going so far to propose building a wall that Mexico will have to pay out of pocket. He supports legal immigration from European countries and providing legal status to international students who complete their degree at an American university.
•	Ted Cruz- Texas senator has expressed to the media about Obama’s “lawless amnesty” on his comprehensive immigration reform, which included background checks, earned citizenship for DREAMers, and strict requirements for those who would like permanent resident status. Cruz has tried to combat Obama’s executive order to cease the deportation of young, undocumented immigrants.
Foreign Policy 
•	Ben Carson- On our ally ship with Israel, the retired neurosurgeon has urged the U.S. to listen and consider Netanyahu during his speech to denounce Obama’s nuclear limitation deal with Iran. He advocates the U.S. using a proactive stance on leadership, versus waiting for what other nations will do first.
•	Rand Paul- Having changed his views of removing all foreign aid, including Israel, because of America’s rising debt, he was quoted saying that we cannot give away money we don’t have. Paul has since then broadened his stance to support American allies. (On Cuba)
•	Marco Rubio- Rubio stands as one of two Hispanic Republican candidates for the 2016 elections, and believes that Cuba must improve their position on human rights in order for American engagement with the island to be successful. He views our involvement with the country to not be enough if they don’t take measures into their own hand and initiate true, long lasting change.
Gun Control
•	Scott Walker- the Wisconsin governor believes that protecting and preserving the second amendment is not optional—in fact, it is one of the most important things a governor can do. Using his executive power, he signed a law transforming Wisconsin gun laws to one of the freest in the U.S.
•	Ted Cruz- A staunch supporter of the second amendment, he penned a brief on behalf of the 31 states that supported the right to keep and bear arms. He stands on the side of opposition to restricting magazines with more than 10 bullets and the United Nation’s Arms Trade Treaty, which sought to limit the misuse of firearms in wartime interactions in foreign countries.
•	Donald Trump- Before his campaign for presidency began, Trump was more permissive toward gun control opting to place a ban on assault weapons and proposing a slightly longer waiting period. However, he touts his support of the second amendment and mandates that guns are necessary for defense and that “not every gun is an assault weapon.”
Education
•	John Kasich- A supporter creationism, Kasich likens stories from the 4000-year-old Bible as historical facts recounting factual human history, taken from historical record. Outside of his religious views, he believes that competition in American universities is what makes this country great and would like to incorporate that drive into the refurbishing of primary and secondary school establishment.
•	Jeb Bush- An advocate for Common Core education standards, an assessment that would monitor kids K-12 progress on the English language and mathematics. However, the plan has been criticize governmental overreach and to lessen the daunting effects of it the Obama administration has incentive its usage rather than require it be done 43 states it was approved in.
•	Carly Fiorina- In Fiorina’s explanation of the private versus public school debate she lays out the downfall of a free-market voucher-driven system of public school education, stating that many schools would were only able to achieve the lowest common denominator. If we let competition reign the strongest schools would prosper and the weaker ones would be left to perish.



The U.S. Department of Energy awarded UCF mechanical and aerospace engineering assistant professor Subith Vasu $1.1 million to investigate using supercritical CO2 (sCO2), a fluid state of carbon dioxide, instead of steam in power plants.
Graduate researcher Owen Pryor, 25, said that there were nine projects in total and both Georgia Tech, the only other university awarded in the nation, wrote proposals on sCO2 although both universities are performing different projects.
Pryor said that supercritical steam is used in nuclear power plants but is being looked into being replaced since it is both corrosive and hard to compress. The theoretical idea is that with CO2 it would only take four stages to compress versus 55 it takes steam to compress.
“We use a shock wave to compress chemicals and then, in fuels for examples, if you do this right, their temperature and pressure high enough, then they start to break down and turn into different chemicals and basically you get ignition like fire and combustion. It’s all just chemical reactions so we use this to study chemical reactions,” explained 22-year-old graduate researcher, Joseph Lopez about how shock tubes work.
The shock waves sent through the tube are like a single piston stroke compressing the chemicals. With the information they collect from different chemical reactions, they record concentrations over time of different species. Pryor said the mechanism they are creating will simulate the chemical reactions that occur using two species and ignition delay times to validate the mechanism.
“The goal by the end of the project is to have a validated chemical kinetic mechanism that can be implemented in an open source CFD code. A chemical kinetic mechanism is a tool that allows people to simulate the reactions to help understand what is produced during combustion, temperatures and pressures,” Pryor explained. “The mechanism will then be added to a computer code to simulate the sCO2 combustor. Possible preliminary designs of combustors will be created.
Vasu said they aim to help industries develop technologies to use CO2 as a working fluid which can be stored underground and enable using less water which is scarce in certain areas of the nation. Florida is a leading state when it comes to power generation industry and many major gas turbine companies, including Mitsubishi and Siemens. The gas turbine companies work with UCF’s Center for Advanced Turbomachinery and Energy Research (CATER) which is headed by Prof. Jayanta Kapat from the Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Department. Prof. Vasu is a core member of CATER.
The project will take three years to perform in continuation with other projects being performed in Vasu labs.
The $1.1 Million grant covers costs such as paying for graduate students working on the project but does not pay for permanent improvements such as new facilities or buildings.



Facebook listened to the cries of many users and is developing a feature similar to a “dislike” button. However, it won’t be aimed to bash obnoxious posters or an ex’s new relationship.
Mark Zuckerberg, Chairman and CEO of Facebook, announced the addition on Tuesday during a live streamed question-and-answer session.
“People have asked about the ‘dislike’ button for many years,” Zuckerberg said according to NBC News. “Today is the day that I actually get to say we are working on it.”
However, this button won’t necessarily be a feature to “dislike” content a user disapproves of. Instead, it is intended for “showing empathy for posts that seem inappropriate to “Like,” such as news of natural disasters or loved ones dying,” NBC said.
“Some people have asked for a dislike button because they want to be able to say ‘that thing isn’t good,’ and we’re not going to do that,” Zuckerberg said, according to NBC. “I don’t think that’s socially very valuable, or great for the community.”
TIME challenged the addition by saying, “the 1.5 billion human beings using Facebook experience a variety of emotions besides ‘Like.’”
No release date has been set for the tool.



After a successful year of exceeding their fundraising goal, Knight-Thon is back again with a new theme and goal set for their annual dance marathon in support of Greater Orlando Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals.
Knight-Thon will be held April 2, 2016 with a new goal of $820,000 and theme, ‘We Are Knight-Thon’.
“We really wanted to focus on 20 years so we knew we wanted to incorporate that to our goal and our biggest thing was sustainability. It’s a 20 percent increase from last year,” said Knight-Thon executive director Nicole Ramirez. “We wanted to really unite this campus and unify everyone and that’s how we came up with ‘We Are Knight-thon.”
Last year’s goal of $500,000 was surpassed with a record breaking $688,049.19 raised. Knight-Thon became the number 7 Miracle Network Dance Marathon in the nation with the help of over 2,000 students who helped increase fundraising by percent.
Throughout the year, there is a lot of participation from students across campus but Ramirez said the Knight-Thon team hopes to go beyond that.
“It’ll be a huge growth year for us in terms of alumni in our community engagement. We’ve got a lot of involvement on campus but really are trying to expand that to Orlando so alumni and community will be huge for us this year,” said Knight-Thon executive director, Nicole Ramirez.
During Knight-Thon, the largest student run philanthropy, students and multiple school organizations will stand for 20 hours to fundraise for the Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals and spread awareness “For the Kids” (FTK). Many students have already started fundraising efforts such as bucketing through campus, posting on Facebook and sending emails.
“I hope to raise $300 myself because I know it’s a really good organization and the best part about is that all the money UCF raises goes toward local miracle network hospital,” said 20-year-old marketing major, Kaitlynn Rose.
Students who wish to donate, support or register as a dancer can do so through here.
Find out the latest Knight-Thon news through their Twitter and Facebook!



Everyone enjoys free food and this Thursday that’s exactly what customers can get at Moe’s Southwest Grill.
Walk into any Moe’s this Thursday to and get a free 6 ounce cup of cheesy goodness with unlimited chips, no purchase necessary.
The deal is a part of Moe’s Quesopalooza promotion. Customers are encouraged to hashtag #FreeQuesoRocks on their social media profiles during the event.
The closest Moe’s to the University of Central Florida can be found at 4650 N Alafaya Trail, Orlando, FL 32806.



A bill allowing guns on state university campuses moved forward on Wednesday, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
Voting 3-2, the Senate Criminal Justice Committee voted in favor of this bill that would allow concealed-weapon permit holders to to carry guns on campus, including the University of Central Florida. 
Check KnightNews.com for updates



The UCF community received praise from a Florida Senator in a public legislative delegation meeting in downtown Orlando, where the state senator talked at length to acknowledge classmates who reached out following the death of a former student.
Family and friends have proposed a traffic safety law in memory of Chloe Arenas, a biomedical-sciences student, to reduce the number of submerged vehicle drownings.
Arenas tragically died in June on her way to pick up her mother and grandmother for the airport to visit family. She would lose control of her Hyundai just three miles from UCF, near a 408 exit ramp to Alafaya Trail into a retention pond early in the morning. An autopsy report released by the Orange-Osceola Medical Examiner’s Office concluded that Arenas was not intoxicated.
A long-time best friend of Chloe, Clarissa Lindsey began the legislative proposal shortly following the student’s death. Lindsey began a petition on Change.org that has received 56,000 signatures across the U.S. and has been featured on the non-profit’s home page.
The bill has received support from both houses of the Florida government, beginning with Senator Darren Soto and House Representative Rene Placensia. Senator Soto committed to the bill in the month following the accident and expressed the need for change in the high number of vehicle-drowning deaths that occur in Florida.
“I’ve asked the Florida Department of Transportation to look into the matter and give me a proposal about how we can improve upon the formula they use and get the funding to at least deal with the worst first, and try to make our roads safer,” Soto told reporters of News 6 Orlando.
In the Federal Highway Administration’s most recent Fatal Analysis Reporting System, a two-year period saw the loss of 60 Floridians. The years 2012 and 2013 had the Sunshine State top the list of occupants killed in submerged vehicle crashes with nearly two-fold the runner up, Louisiana, at 32 deaths.
The data continues records reviewed by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration from 2008 to 2012 that show Florida carrying 49 drownings inside vehicles during the five-year period.
KnightNews.com contacted the Orange County Traffic Engineering Division who stated that a guardrail would not be considered at the location Arenas died. A spokeswoman rescinded the statement by confirming “Orange County is in fact considering putting a guardrail up at that location,” according to News 6.
On a path to becoming a veterinarian, Chloe began classes in the summer of 2012. She had a passion to treat zoo and domestic animals alike, with dreams of one day treating elephants in Africa, says Lindsey.
A dream Arenas will never realize, Lindsey, Soto and Placensia look to honor the UCF student through the bill as well as honor the victims of past drownings.
“I will follow up on the issue with our Senate Transportation Policy Committee this fall during committee meetings – I expect to have a bill filed before the end of this year,” said Soto.
“My condolences go out to her family and friends and my actions over the next few months will be my greatest contribution to her memory.”



