The Reflection Pond saw crowds of students surround its steps for one of the nation’s greatest homecoming traditions before storming the pond Friday afternoon.

The lead-up to Saturday’s homecoming game hosting the Houston Cougars featured 70’s styled ducks thrown into the crowd for “Knights Come Together,” 2015’s homecoming theme.
UCF will take on the Cougars at 12 p.m. at Bright House Networks Stadium.



Hundreds of UCF students rushed into the reflecting pond today in for the 20th annual Spirit Splash. 



Big Sean came out and stole the show once again, performing here at UCF for his second time since 2011, at Wednesday night’s annual homecoming concert knight. 
This was his second stop in Florida, performing at USF’s Sun Dome just a couple weeks back on October 9th and he came with a setup that was both visually and mentally stimulating.
Big Sean opened up the show with songs off his most recent album “Dark Sky Paradise” which the crowd was thrilled to hear. They screamed and sang back the lyrics of “Mercy” and “Play No Games” just to name a few, while Big Sean hopped and danced around the stage. 
The stage itself was set up with two big LED video screens in the shape of a triangle, which displayed his face close up as he sang each song, while the smoke machines created an eerie yet distinctive display.
Sean took some time to mention how much he loved Orlando and how he was happy to get to come back here again after performing here about 4 years ago. He also said he was very appreciative of the audience who came to rock out with him and show him some love. 
Big Sean then threw it back for us by performing some of his hit songs from his earlier albums, such as “Dance (A$$),” and “Beware.”
Big Sean also didn’t focus the whole concert on the music. He inspired the audience by telling them to make sure they follow their dreams and to do what they love. 
He told the audience about how he didn’t come from much but how he was still able to make something of himself and do what he was passionate about, so everyone should be able to try and do the same.
In a homage to his hometown of Detroit, Big Sean also brought out the Detroit Lions’ mascot to perform one of his songs with him.
Opening up for Big Sean was an up-and-coming American country music duo by the name of Dan + Shay. They are composed of the two vocalists and songwriters Dan Smyers and Shay Mooney. They signed to Warner Bros. Records Nashville and have released one album, Where It All Began.
The sold out show was a hit and it was apparent to see that Big Sean had a genuine love for the crowd and a passion for what he was doing. 
The messages he shared with the audience that night were sincere and you could tell he wanted everyone to be successful and go after their goals and dreams. It is safe to say many UCF students left that night even bigger fans of Big Sean and new fans of Dan + Shay.



Carl is a 5-year-old Rottweiler German Shepard mix that was recently diagnosed with Larger Cell Lymphoma. 

“We caught it pretty early and it’s very treatable just expensive,” Carls owner Tiara Funkhouser said. “He has gone through multiple roommate changes, final exam weeks, and parties where he was the official beer pong ball fetcher. He’s a very special dog.”
Tiara’s friends created a Go Fund Me with the goal of $6,000 to pay for Carl’s Medical bills. 
Currently they have raised a little over $1,600. 
The $6,000 will go toward the Madison- Wisconsin/CHOP Treatment. This is a 25-week protocol; this includes initial x-rays, visits to cancer specialist, chemotherapy treatments and anything else that Carl may experience in the future. 
Carl is currently going to weekly doctor visits depending on his blood levels.



Fox35 anchors John Brown and Amy Kaufeldt, along with meteorologist Jayme King, came to UCF Friday morning to host a special edition of their morning show regarding UCF Homecoming.
 
Photos by Nick Russett.



