Students looking to learn new moves and explore different cultures are provided with just that opportunity, through the Cultural Dance Series at UCF Recreation and Wellness center. 
The RWC partnered with the Multicultural student center to bring students a set of three different dance classes this semester. A class full of eager students learned the basics of the torso-driven belly dance and learned that their hips don’t lie in a free one-hour class.
Stacy Strickland, 21, a fellow Knight studying Art Education, attended last week’s class not knowing much about belly dancing. 
“I thought it was a lot of fun and new experience, I liked how the instructor went through it step by step. I felt like I had a good workout and was sweating at the end,” Strickland said. 
Strickland went on to say that she will be attending the next class in October, which will focus on African Drum and Dance.
Instructor Melanie LaJoie, from A MAJI Temple Belly Dance Company, taught this class for students at UCF the past few years. 
A former student of LaJoie, working with the Multicultural Student Center at the time, expressed interest in Lajoie instructing the cultural dance series. 
LaJoie has always received a great turn out and expressed her excitement for continuing to teach UCF students.
“I love my relationship with UCF, you guys are so much fun!” LaJoie said. 
LaJoie went on to say she felt she accomplished the goal of teaching students about a different culture and that they can take these moves and feel comfortable at any Middle Eastern event.
“The annual dance series give students an opportunity to learn and observe multiple cultural dances from across the world and as well as being active and staying fit,” said Brice Yates, Coordinator at the Multicultural Student Center.
The dance series is only offered during the Fall semester. Students still have two more opportunities to participate and learn more in the upcoming classes, featuring African Drum and Dance which will be held on, Tuesday, October 27, 2015 at 7 p.m. 
They can continue honing their cross-cultural dance skills at the last of the dance series, Masala Bhangra, a traditional Indian dance held on, Thursday, November 12, 2015 from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. 
All classes are free admission to students with a UCF I.D.



Students “rented” rescue dogs on Thursday afternoon.
The program, Rent-A-Pup, is hosted in front of the Burnett’s Honors College in conjunction with Pet Rescue by Judy and UCF HERO (Honors Educational Reach Out) each month for free.
Pet Rescue by Judy is a dog rescue located in Sanford, FL that comes to UCF once a month with an average of 10 available rescue dogs for students to rent.
Madelyn Nurge was one of dozens of students who were already lined on the sidewalk in front of the Burnett’s Honors College at 10:30 a.m., eager to play with the dogs who would be arriving at 11 a.m.
“I really miss my dog at home so it’s nice to see a dog and play with it for a while,” said Nurge, a freshman at UCF. “I don’t really care what breed, I just want to see a dog.”
By the time ‘Rent A Pup’ started, some students had to wait for over an hour in order to spend time with a fluffy companion.
“I waited in line for an hour and half,” said Kayla Budney, a freshman student who was playing with a small dog named Pudding. “I haven’t spent time with my dogs since summer classes started so it was well worth waiting for pudding.”
Some pups such as Aspen could be seen chasing lizards and sniffing every available tree in her vicinity.
While this program provides interaction and companionship for the dogs currently waiting for adoption, it also provides students with a unique way to relieve stress and homesickness.
“Being with the dogs gives them a time to relax and enjoy life, the simple things,” said Tali Trenkamp, a volunteer with Pet Rescue by Judy. “It also gives them the chance to be with someone who isn’t judging or grading them.”
All dogs who come to a ‘Rent A Pup’ event are available for adoption and further volunteer opportunities are available at Pet Rescue by Judy’s facility which is located only 30 minutes away from UCF’s main campus.



Engineering students from the University of Central Florida returned the once damaged “Wind Dancer” sculpture of Pegasus to its original glory on Tuesday, Sept. 22. 
The statue was initially damaged on Sept. 3 after UCF’s first Football game against Florida International University.
Security footage caught a man climbing the statue and damaging its mount, causing it to bend. 
The Burnett Honors College released the security video and offered a reward for any information leading to the accused vandals. No new information has been reported. 
The main focus for Dr.  Ali Gordon, College of Engineering and Computer Science Professor, has been to turn the unfortunate event into an opportunity for students to apply what they have learned in class.
“To say the students helped out is a bit of an understatement, these students did the bulk of the work, and were prepared to do this work through their classes and other hands-on experience, “ Dr. Gordon said. “It is really good to turn something negative into a positive.”
The group of student volunteers selected to work on the statue comprise of mechanical engineering majors at both the junior and senior levels. Jennifer Ambrose, Anthony Defilippo, Cullen Fitzgerald, Chad Robinson and Jared Weber were the students who provided the necessary skills to fix this once firm statue. 
The artwork was removed from its location in front of the Burnett Honor’s College last Tuesday and transported to the Manufacturing Lab at the College of Engineering and Computer Science. 
Ambrose, Defilippo and Fitzgerald designed the mount for the statue using a machine called a lathe to make the support piece. 
Weber, who is part of UCF’s Society of Automotive Engineers, contributed by welding the new support pieces together. 
Ambrose, 21, said “I was really glad to be a part of it because it allowed us to get hands on experience that we don’t get in classes and to apply the knowledge we get in class into a real life application.”
Robinson, 23, said this afternoon, “Unfortunately you can’t stop people from doing stuff like that [riding the statue]; basically all you can do is prepare, and I think we did a good job of that today.”
A $100 reward is still being offered for any information leading to the identification of the two individuals seen in the video. Any information should be sent to honors@ucf.edu or contact the UCF Police Department at 407-823-5555.
Photo credit: Aileen Perilla



The sky on Sunday night will feature a dark red moon among the typical shimmering stars.
In honor of this, the UCF Robinson Observatory will be hosting “Knights Under the Stars,” a total eclipse viewing party.
The event will be held at at Memory Mall from 9 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. tonight, Sept. 27.
10 mobile telescopes will be set up to allow those in attendance to view the lunar eclipse. 
Students from UCF’s Planetary Sciences Group and from the Astronomy Society at UCF will be there assisting with the telescopes and giving more information about what those viewing are seeing.
“This is the last total lunar eclipse visible from Florida for three and a half years,” Yan Fernandez, an associate professor of physics at UCF and director of the observatory, said in a release. 
The total lunar eclipse is supposed to last from 10:11 to 11:23 p.m. with partial eclipse viewing before and after, according to the release.
It is recommended to bring a chair and blanket to this event.
Make sure to check the UCF Robinson Observatory Facebook beforehand in case of any cancellation notices due to rain.
“This is a great opportunity to see the moon up close during a rare event. We should also be able to sneak a peek at Saturn and its rings while we’re out there. We can’t wait to share the excitement with students, faculty, staff, the general community and children especially, even if the next day they have school,” Fernandez said.
For more information about the UCF Robinson Observatory, visit their website.



