Two men were taken into custody by Orange County deputies Tuesday night after deputies blocked off streets near The Marquee, formerly Sterling Central, for about three hours. 
Orange County Sheriff’s Office said the two men taken from the residence on Khayyam Ave. had been squatting there. 
Lt. Dennis Ela said the home is a bank-owned property and when a representative from the bank came to check on the residence, the representative noticed the real-estate lock box had been removed and locks had been changed. 

Deputies were heard repetitively asking the suspects to come out of the residence with their hands up. After deputies broke down the door of the residence, the suspects started yelling at deputies. 
“You broke down my door. You have no right to be here. You’re breaking the law,” one of the suspects shouted from the house. 
Deputies responded by continuing to ask the suspect to vacate the property with their hands up, but the suspect continued to yell to deputies that they were breaking the law. 
Ela said after asking the suspects to come out of the property for about three hours, deputies entered the home. The two men who were inside the bank-owned property were taken into custody. 
Orange County deputies closed off access to parts of the area in response to the incident and told residents to stay away from the property in case the suspects had weapons. 
“For our safety we took proactive measures and it made it look like a bigger deal,” Ela said. “We don’t know them, who they are or if they had any weapons.” 
Ela said both men had fake identification but had IDs similar to those part of the sovereign citizen movement, which Ela said is a national group of individuals who don’t answer to recreational government and believe it is illegitimate. 



Students, family, friends and movie-goers have the chance to check out advance screenings of UCF student produced films at an upcoming exhibition in a newly upgraded auditorium on campus.
Each year, UCF’s School of Visual Arts & Design (SVAD) produces over 100 student films — many of which will go on to compete at festivals and showcases around the globe. On Feb. 7, students in the BFA Film Program Directing 2 class will exhibit their short films before they are sent out.
The event, located in the Visual Arts Building, will be the first to utilize newly upgraded cinema equipment made available thanks to a UCF Technology Fee award. The Film Program now has access to a Digital Cinema Initiative (DCI) compliant cinema exhibition space.
The upgraded facility will also give UCF the opportunity to begin contributing to the cinema viewing culture of Orlando, and the greater Central Florida area, by curating rare and hard to access independent and international cinema.
This free exhibition event starts at 7:00 p.m. and is located in the Visual Arts Building Auditorium, room 132.
For more information on the event and SVAD, click here.



If you like to start your day with a cup of fresh coffee, Chick-fil-A has you covered the entire month of February.
Chick-fil-A announced on its website that they are giving customers a free hot 12-ounce or 16-ounce iced coffee anytime during restaurant hours throughout the entire month of February.
No additional purchase is necessary to receive the free coffee, but the special is limited to one coffee per customer.
“Whether a few more weeks of winter or an early spring, we think our THRIVE Farmers coffee is perfect for any weather. It tastes incredible while also doing good in the world. What better way to let our customers experience it for themselves than to give it away for an entire month?” said David Farmer, vice president of menu strategy and development for Chick-fil-A.
The free coffee giveaway is part of the restaurant’s partnership with THRIVE Farmers Coffee. 



