Two UCF students, Ketan Rahangdale and Hugo Cardona, recently created an app that they hope will help unite music fans with their favorite artists through social media.
Rahangdale, CEO and founder, stressed that a major problem that many artists are having today is that they aren’t making any money off of music sales and are becoming less and less connected with their fans.
JOOX Music is an application that rewards fans in JOOX notes. Users have the opportunity to invest in songs that they like and get rewarded for investing in those songs if they become popular. 
The platform is beneficial for artists as well. JOOX Music gathers data and will be able to inform artists details about their fans such as, who their fans are by name, how many concerts they attend, how active they are on social media, and what their favorite songs are.
The app has been in the works for nearly two years after Rahangdale was given the idea while working with artists with his previous business who is responsible for the wireless technology in Beats by Dre headphones and Bose audio equipment. 
JOOX Music will be hosting their beta launch party this Thursday, October 29, at the Knight’s Pub. Special guests will include Autograf, Red Cup Nation, Kash’d Out, and MJK. Admission into the launch party is free with the app download. 




Coach O’Leary’s retirement may have come at an opportune time for the 0-8 UCF Knights.
UCF is still recovering from the shame of an embarrassing performance against the Houston Cougars by means of a 59-10 beatdown; arguably the worst lost in school history.
The players will benefit from hearing a different voice and the program can move forward in finding a new head coach.
O’Leary did take the Knights to another level and was a great coach, but he was not the best recruiter and UCF is still not in a power conference. Although UCF is the second largest University in the Country and Orlando is a tourist hotspot.
“UCF is the place to be,” said interim Head Coach Danny Barrett at Monday afternoon’s press conference. “It still is the place to be.”
UCF is the only major University in Central Florida, but O’Leary and his staff were not able to sign the best players in the Central Florida area.
Time and time again we have seen the best recruits in the Central Florida area decide to go elsewhere to continue their playing careers.
In the 2012 recruiting class, UCF went after Central Florida tandem and teammates, receiver Alton ‘Pig’ Howard and safety Karl Joseph. Both had UCF among the top of their recruiting list but decided to go elsewhere.
Howard went on to have good career at Tennessee, but got dismissed from the team this season, his senior year. Joseph went on to have a stellar career at West Virginia and is among the top safeties projected for the 2016 NFL draft.
Chris Hayes of Orlando Sentinel recruiting caught up with Joseph as a high school junior.
“It’s a good school. I really like that it’s so close to home and my mom REALLY likes it,” Joseph said. I get along great with the coaches and the football program is coming up…it’s just a great place.”
O’Leary has said that players do not come to UCF because of him; UCF’s 2016 recruiting class currently ranks 109 in the Country, according to cbssports.com. It will be interesting to see how O’Leary’s retirement impacts recruiting.
“We still have to continue to recruit,” said Barrett. We still have young man that are committed to us that we wanna keep in our program. It’s business as usual…we still have our phone list of guys that we’re gonna call each and every week, each and every night if we get a chance to.”
UCF currently has six verbal commits and three of those commits are rated 3-star prospects by cbssports.com. The Knights have verbal commits from, receiver Malick Mbodji, cornerback Dontay Mayfield, and athlete Kwon Williams.
 
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla 



University of Central Florida adjunct faculty member William Wise lost his job due to sexual harassment allegations, according to an investigative report.
The Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Programs found that Wise “committed both harassment on the basis of sex and retaliation,” the report said.
A student sent in the accusations after appealing a grade in Wise’s EDG 2311, Teaching, Learning & Strategies for Substitute Teachers class in fall of 2014, the report stated. However, the student and Wise had met prior in April 2014 to discuss two courses the student had taken with the faculty member in spring semester.
 “Oh! There’s that boy again,” Wise said to the student when reviewing the spring 2014 assignment grades, according to the report. “What’s the boy’s name?”
“What boy?” the student asked.
“The boy you are doing instead of your homework,” Wise responded according to the report.
The report also said that Wise kept asking for the boy’s name and told the student he hoped he had fun because “the boy” cost the student an ‘A’ in the class.
The student felt “uncomfortable and afraid,” according to the report.
The student did not want to take Wise’s EDG2311 in the fall due to this meeting but he was the only professor teaching the required course.
The student’s father attended the student’s interview with the EOAA and said that the student returned home “visibly upset” after meeting with Wise in the spring and that the student felt “upset and humiliated,” according to the report.
The student said that the first report of Wise to the university was a grade appeal for the class in the fall of 2014, according to the report. 
The document states that Wise denied his comments to the student and that he did not recall the meeting where this occurred.
“He stated that the student earned a failing grade in the Fall 2014 class because of poor attendance and failure on many of the class assignments,” the report said.
The student alleged that they “received an automated e-mail stating that, immediately before the grade appeal hearing, Dr. Wise tried to change [the] grade on one of the assignments for his fall 2014 semester course” from a perfect 10 to a zero, according to the report.
The report states that Wise did not provide a clear reason for the grade change.
The student provided emails between them and Wise where Wise said the student could stop by his office hours on April 3. The report states that Wise said he “searched his Outlook appointment database and could find no appointment with the student referenced.” However, this was contradicted by the student emails. 
“Well, I guess it has finally caught up to me,” Wise said at the end of the hearing, according to the report.
“EOAA learned from the Assistant Dean of the college that it had received no prior complaints of sex-based harassment concerning Dr. Wise,” according to the report.



Each year thousands of University of Central Florida students come together to run into the Reflection Pond at Spirit Splash all with a shared goal, catching a Spirit Splash duck.
Many students achieve this goal, but most do not. However, there is a small group of students who obtain multiple ducks with the intentions of selling them. The UCF Class pages have a plethora of posts advertising the sales of Spirit Splash ducks, ranging in price from 5 to 25 dollars. Many students frown upon the sale of the coveted Spirit Splash duck.
“Personally I don’t think people should sell their ducks. Spirit Splash is pretty brutal, not going to lie, so I think people should hold onto their hard earned ducks. It also takes away a lot of the pride seeing dozens of people just trying to sell them for a quick buck as well as it diminishes the appeal of getting one if I can just buy it,” UCF student Houston Palmer said.
“I think that it is wrong and pathetic that people sell ducks after Spirit Splash. Spirit Splash is meant to get students to come together to celebrate our homecoming. Yes the ducks at Spirit Splash are fun, but they are not the reason we hold the event,” UCF student Becky Klipin commented.
One-way students planning to sell ducks after Spirit Splash get so many is the use of nets, using nets makes it easier for a person to not only get one duck, but several ducks.
“I think nets should be banned because it’s unfair to everyone else that’s there and playing fair to win the duck. Plus the people with nets end up getting a dozen (ducks) and then they go and sell them instead of just giving them out around them and letting everyone have a chance to get a once at least one in their college years at UCF,” UCF student Nikhaar Surti said.
“It’s a cheap method, especially if you use it to catch more than one duck. It also ruins the chances of anyone behind you getting a duck,” UCF student Adam Tara said.
Spirit splash is a great event but sometimes students’ emotions get the better of them.
“I think it’s a cool way to rally school spirit. But I don’t like how aggressive everyone gets. This guy gloated to his friends that he pushed a girl to get a duck. And I was pushed too, which is why my whole leg is scraped. The event would be better if ducks were more abundant,” UCF student Jennifer Santana added.
Even with the nets, aggression, and students selling ducks for a profit after the event each year, UCF students still enjoyed this UCF tradition.
“I love spirit splash and the whole tradition. It was one of the factors why I chose to attend UCF. I just wish they had more ducks,” Nikhaar Surti said.
Photo by Nick Russett



Orange County Sheriff’s Office responded to an armed robbery Monday night at Boardwalk apartments near UCF. 
A boardwalk security officer told Knight News that one suspect has been caught already and two suspects are still on the loose. 
The boardwalk resident was robbed at gun point, the boardwalk security officer said. 
This is a breaking story. Check back for updates.



