The Orlando City Soccer Club announced Tuesday that they have acquired Corey Ashe in a trade with the Houston Dynamo. Orlando City traded general allocation money and a second round pick in the 2017 MLS SuperDraft for Ashe. 
The two time MLS all-star will be available for selection in the Lion’s next MLS home game against the New York Red Bulls on Saturday, July 18.
General Manager Paul McDonough went on to say that Ashe will be a great asset to the team and that he expects his defensive play to make an immediate impact.
“Corey brings a high level of experience and league success to the Lions,” said McDonough. “We expect to see his immediate contributions to the Club and look forward to having him in Orlando City purple.”
The speedy left-back joins Orlando City after making over 200 appearances with the Houston Dynamo. He ranks second all-time on the Dynamo’s appearance list. 
Ashe’s career highlights also include winning the MLS Cup (2007), two MLS All-Star appearances (2011 and 2013), and a CONCACAF (Confederation of North, Central American and Caribbean Association Football) Gold Cup Championship with the U.S. Men’s National Team (2013).
Ashe began his career with the Dynamo after he graduated from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. As a rookie, Ashe played in 22 games and had six starts with the Dynamo. Ashe later became a crucial piece of the team during his nine-year career with the club.



Amazon Prime Day starts Wednesday morning at 12 a.m. and they’re claiming to have better deals than Black Friday.
The promotion is a sale for prime members who pay 99 dollars annually for perks like express shipping and streamed entertainment content, according to ABC News. Students can get Amazon Prime for free for six months and then for a discounted rate for 49 dollars annually.
Amazon said it will have “thousands of lightning deals” with new ones as often as every 10 minutes and seven “deals of the day,” according to ABC News.
Amazon has already released as many as 31 deals. Among the deals that may interest college students are: 40-inch 1080p LED TV for $115, Chromebook laptop for only $199, and up to 50% off on all the Harry Potter Books.
Walmart announced on Monday that they will be holding a rival sale starting Wednesday as well that will include over 2,000 rollbacks including electronics and home items, according to ABC News.



The multi-platinum, GRAMMY, award winning artist will be performing at UCF at the CFE Arena  on October 15 at 6:30 p.m. The show will be apart of Zedd’s “True Colors Tour.” His opening acts will be Dillon Francis and Alex Metric.
Tickets will go on sale July 16 at 10 a.m., according to 101.9 Amp Radio.
The True Colors Tour features a totally new and re-designed show that has been creatively directed by Zedd and incepted hand-in-hand with the True Colors album, according to the CFE Arena.
It features 90 minutes of 4K visuals created by renowned visual artist Beeple and is a multi-sensory journey through Zedd’s musical and visual mind, told through music, lighting, visuals, and special effects. Each show will be its own unique experience, performed live from start to finish, according to the CFE Arena.
True Colors was released on May 19 and was No. 4 on the Billboard Top 200 Albums chart. True Colors’ first single, “I Want You To Know,” featuring Selena Gomez, spent four weeks at No. 1 on Billboard’s Hot Dance/Electronic Songs chart, according to the CFE Arena.
Check back for ticket prices.



