Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer told KnightNews.com he was looking forward to moving ahead with the UCF Downtown Campus project and that funding was the only obstacle they had left to face at Rick Scott’s Economic Growth Summit. 
Late Monday night, state leaders allocated $15 million of the nearly $60 million requested to move forward with the plans to build the $200+ million UCF Downtown Campus project. 
Dyer told the Orlando Sentinel Tuesday that the awarded amount was a “home run.”
Senate President Andy Gardner, an Orlando native and big supporter of the downtown campus, told the Sentinel “I’ll take it” and that “it’s a great start.”
UCF officials said they will continue to plan for the downtown campus to open in the fall 2017 semester, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
Dyer told the Sentinel the $15 million will pay for engineering, design, architecture and planning. He said $60 million would have funded the project’s entire first phase, but said he realistically never expected more than $10 million to $25 million this session.
UCF Spokesman Grant Heston said he expects shovels in the dirt by Summer 2016, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
“This is a great start for UCF Downtown and we are very appreciative of the Legislature’s decision to keep this project moving forward,” Heston told KnightNews.com
When asked about ways to speed up the funding process, Dyer, Gardiner, and UCF officials mentioned to the Sentinel about the importance of private donations and public-private partnerships as well as next year’s legislative session to request more state dollars.



One of the most serious charges former UCF football player Kevin Smith faced when arrested by UCFPD after a traffic accident back in April has been dropped due to a lack of evidence.
“We did not file charges against Kevin Ryan Smith for Resisting Arrest because evidence was not suitable to move forward with prosecution on that charge,” said State Attorney Spokeswoman Angela Stark.
UCF police officer James Strawn had his body camera turned on but “forgot” to record when he said Smith resisted his order to sign a criminal traffic citation, according to the arrest affidavit. UCFPD was notified and did not oppose the state’s action.
“The state attorney’s office elected to drop one charge and pursue another in order to resolve the case. UCFPD was consulted, and we did not oppose the resolution,” said UCFPD Spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin.
Smith was also arrested for driving on a suspended license, leaving the scene without providing information, and failure to sign a court mandatory citation. Those charges remain pending and Smith pleaded not guilty, according to court records.
Kevin Smith played five seasons in the NFL with the Detroit Lions. Smith then became a member of the Winnipeg Blue Bombers, a Canadian Football League team, for all of five days. The Blue Bombers released the former Detroit Lions star after pulling a hamstring on the first Sunday of training camp, according to the Winnipeg Free Press.
Smith returned to UCF in August in efforts to finish his degree after leaving UCF his junior year to pursue a career in the NFL, according to the Orlando Sentinel. 



The University of Central Florida is near the top of the middle-tier list of money-making athletic programs, according to news-press.com.
Ranked right behind UCF (#56) on the list of top grossing programs is the University of South Florida at #57, according to USA Today.
UCF generated $49.7 million with $45.3 million in expenses, while USF generated $48.3 million with $46.8 million in expenses, according to news-press.com.
Todd Stansbury, UCF’s athletic director, told news-press.com that UCF isn’t just a football school, and that many UCF athletic teams thrived this year.
“We’re also not a program where we have a football team and that’s it. This year: football, volleyball, women’s soccer, women’s golf and softball won conference championships,” said Stansbury.
Stansbury also mentioned that UCF athletes have the best graduation rate in the country.
“We have the No. 1 graduation rate for student-athletes out of any public institution in the country. Our graduation success rate was 95 percent for the latest six-year average,” said Stansbury.
UCF football is scheduled to resume on September 3 against Florida International University at 6 p.m. at Bright House Stadium.



