Orlando police are investigating after a UCF-area AT&T store was robbed on the morning of New Year’s Day.
Shortly after 11:40 a.m. on Thursday, an armed black male suspect entered the AT&T store and forced two employees into a back room while he took an undisclosed amount of cash, cell phones and other merchandise, according to the Orange County Sheriff’s Office.
The suspect then fled the store, leaving the employees unharmed. Robbery detectives are working to obtain AT&T surveillance video and interview witnesses. 
This is not the first time an Orlando-area AT&T store was robbed. On Dec. 23, there was a similar armed robbery at the AT&T store on East Colonial. Detectives are looking into whether these robberies are connected. 



Just one of twenty states to see an increase in minimum wage on New Year’s Day, Florida’s lowest paid workers will see their hourly pay climb to $8.05 an hour.
The 12-cent increase will benefit 364,000 low-wage workers and will bring an estimated $38.7 million boost to the economy, as the raise in wage will hope to increase consumer spending. The order comes from a state constitutional amendment approved in 2004 that binds an increase in pay with the rising cost of living. The adjustments following an increase in cost of living will continue to be made annually on the first of January.
Tipped workers have not been left out; those employees will see their wages grow to $5.03 an hour.
Florida joins 19 other states with the advance in pay – Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Connecticut, Hawaii, Maryland, Massachusetts, Missouri, Montana, New Jersey, Ohio, Oregon, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Vermont, Washington and West Virginia. Alaska made plans to implement the increase on New Year’s Day, but moved the date to February.
Several cities will increase salaries as well, including Washington D.C. The boost will assist 3.2 million workers nationally.
“We’ve seen a historic number of states increasing their minimum wages,” said David Cooper, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute, which researches minimum wage issues. “People’s understanding of where the wage floor should be has changed a lot, and in part caused by strikes and protests.”
Federal minimum wage remains at $7.25 an hour, much lower than the proposed $10.10 from President Obama in previous years. The Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2013, drafted to account for inflation, stalled in the Senate when members of Congress withheld a vote on the bill, blocking a debate. Despite the failed bill, over half of U.S. states have wages above the federal minimum and several cities and states have plans for hourly wages above $10 and up to $15 an hour.
Forty hour per week workers can expect $250 more a year with the increase.



Oregon Ducks football players will face internal discipline, according to their head coach Mark Helfrich, after chanting “no means no” to the tune of the Florida State “Warchant” while celebrating their Rose Bowl victory.
Oregon was apparently mocking the sexual assault allegations that were levied against FSU Heisman-winning quarterback Jameis Winston that have followed him throughout his college football career.
“We are aware of the inappropriate behavior in the postgame,” coach Mark Helfrich said in a statement released by Oregon on Thursday night. “This is not what our program stands for, and the student-athletes will be disciplined internally.”
The Ducks handedly beat FSU 59-20 in Thursday night’s Rose Bowl championship game and ended FSU’s 29-game winning streak. See the video, which was uploaded to Vine by Bear Heiser of Fox Sports West. 
 



The Knights came out with a slow start against Tulsa and were not able to recover, giving up an 8-0 lead to the Hurricanes in conference play on Wednesday.
After a series of turnovers by UCF, sophomore Justin McBride put up 8 points for his team by going 2-2 at the free throw line and 3-for-3 in the paint. However, McBride’s efforts were not enough for UCF.
UCF’s 11 turnovers allowed the Hurricanes to stay ahead through the first half, 36-21. The Knights struggled to pick off critical rebounds in the first half, as well as keep the Hurricanes at bay when making one of their 12 fast breaks.
Head coach Donnie Jones started the second half by pairing big men Stephon Blair and Justin McBride as enforcers in the paint. The 6’9” and 6’10” players gave UCF the size advantage they needed to keep Tulsa from scoring.
“We found out what this young team could handle; we challenged them at halftime and I thought we responded the right way,” Jones said. “We were able to rebound the ball and get some stops and I thought that opened things up for our guards to go and score better in the second half.”
After UCF found their rhythm on defense, the game saw Adonys Henriquez heat up from the three-point line,  drilling two back-to-back to tie the game. The performance by Henriquez rallied the crowd and had them chanting for a lead. The Knights went on an 18-3 run in that time to bring the score up to 49-49.
It would come down to the wire as the clock ticked down. With seconds on the clock, a foul by UCF turned over possession, allowing the Hurricanes to hold onto the ball for the win.
The loss puts UCF to 7-5 for the season and Tulsa at 8-5.
UCF continues conference play on Sunday, where they will face Temple at Philadelphia, at noon.



