Entrepreneurs of UCF will have the opportunity to grab hold of $75,000 in cash and business services at the Joust New Venture Challenge this April.
The Joust New Venture Challenge (NVC) is a way for student entrepreneurs to showcase their
startup proposals by introducing them to community leaders and providing resources necessary to launch their ventures. 
“The Joust is one of a handful of events in the college that squarely align with the vision for the college,” said #UCFBusiness Dean Paul Jarley. “It is at the intersection of town and gown –facilitated by faculty and judged by seasoned business professionals. It is open to any student at UCF and it takes courage to enter, research to prepare a convincing plan and swagger to win.”
The competition will judge the new ventures on criteria including proposed product/service and market opportunity, financial/revenue model and financial projectionsm team and execution plan and impact.
The winning team will received a cash prize of $10,000 and receive a portfolio of in-kind services to help launch their startup. The second-place winner will receive $5,000, and the third and fourth-place winners will take home $3,000 and $2,000, respectively.
The Joust is open to all full-time and part-time undergraduate and graduate students enrolled at UCF during 2014-2015. While the management team of the venture may be composed of alumni or non-students, at least one UCF student must have a key role and ownership stake in the venture. 
The Joust finals are open to the public and will be held at The Venue at UCF on April 17, 2015 beginning at 1:00 p.m.



For the Zagrocki and Bennett ticket, it’s all about better representation.
Brian Zagrocki, and Alex Bennett, said their slogan “A New Day, A New Knight” stands for their commitment to being a better representation for students and having more realistic platform points.
Zagrocki, the Governmental Affairs Committee Chair in SGA Senate, and Bennett, the Executive Vice President for the Panhellenic Council’s executive board have very different leadership experience.

When asked why students should vote for them, Brian said besides their leadership experience and character, it all went back to their platform.
“If you’re going to be president and vice president of an entire school, people need to know who you are and feel like they can come to you and feel like they’re connected,” Zagrocki said.
Over the next weeks, both Zagrocki and Bennett said they would be putting themselves out there as much as possible to make sure voters are informed of their 20-point platform and that their input is heard.
When asked about the 1 a.m. meeting Zagrocki held with Stein, he insisted that it was blown way out of proportion and that he was trying to get their input and hear their expectations going forward. He said he would rather put it all behind them now and focus on the needs of the students.
Zagrocki and Bennett plan to release a time and place for their campaign rally soon, where they will be sharing their entire platform, after they’ve finalized the venue.



Mills 50 District is a small section of Orlando where creativity and culture can come together in harmony. It has a variety of shops and restaurants and now, a shop called Propagation that serves as both a furniture shop and espresso lounge with a lot more in store.
Owners Travis Alexander and Brittany Reed opened Propagation Monday, March 9 after success with selling mid-century furniture on their Etsy shop of the same name.
“This place is like a culmination of our interests,” said Brittany Reed.
Located at 1121 N. Mills Ave., this minimalistic shop features charming furniture pieces from the 1960s, vintage musical instruments and plenty of cacti and succulents decorated throughout which are all for sale along with a myriad of coffee choices.
Their interest in furniture came over the years as they started to pick up European, Spanish and American pieces.
The couple started selling them through Etsy as well as succulent packages. Most sales come from New York and California but have brought them much success to where they could open a local shop/ espresso lounge. In the future, they hope to have more local sales.
Travis Reed said that the shop is a furniture store but also an excuse to have coffee where they work.
“We drink a lot of coffee,” said Brittany Reed with a beaming smile.
The coffee they sell is a savorous Italian blend which brings many locals in whether for a quick drink or to hang out and lounge in the lovely furniture and atmosphere.
Choosing this spot was not hard for them because of the great location and natural light which filters through the shop’s windows. It took them four months to prepare and they finally brought the papers down and were open for business.
Their 6-year-old daughter, Nahli Reed, said she has been having fun in the shop for the past weeks.
“She’s got a coffee shop in the back that no one’s been going into,” said Travis Reed.
Besides a love for coffee, this family shares an interest in music and plays tunes as versatile as their shop such as The Smiths, Lou Reed and Arcade Fire.
Along the way, they’ll be happy with little surprises and have a lot more that they want to do.
“Propagation means to make more of. We are constantly changing what we do. That’s why we don’t like to put ourselves in any niche of just a coffee shop or just a furniture store,” said Brittany Reed.
To contact and follow up with Propagation, follow their IG: _propagation_



