UCF’s defense helped establish their momentum early in the first half versus UMass and redshirt sophomore A.J Davis led the pack with his aggressive play on defense and offense.
“Our defense from the beginning kind of shook those guards,” Davis said. “UMass has three great guards…we did a great job of getting out there and making sure they had no easy looks and containing them the best we could.”
Davis’ defense led to offense as he scored a team high 14 points and propelled the Knights to victory. He hit a key a layup when then the team was down by four points with 2:54 remaining in the second half. Followed by a key box out to get the ball back and then tied the game at 61-61 with 1:35 remaining.
“He started driving the ball at the end and I think that’s where he’s really good,” Head Coach Donnie Jones said. “He really got to the rim and really made some big plays down the stretch.”
The leadership Davis carried was prominent during the game; his teammates seemed to feed of his play.
“A.J’s personality is very attractive,“ Jones said. ”Guys attract to him because he’s a great competitor, he’s a great practice guy, he’s high energy and he brings it. It’s hard not to respect that every day.”
“He plays with great energy every night,” Jones added. “You know what you’re getting from him.”
Davis plays with great toughness, reminiscent of his dad, Antonio Davis, who played 15 seasons in the NBA and is currently a NBA analyst for ESPN.
“At his size, he’s a little bit bigger than me, so we’re two different players,” Davis said. “But I still try to learn to play like he did.”
Having a former NBA player as a father, Davis has a lot of basketball knowledge and that helps him with his leadership.
“I’m a vocal guy, so I try my best to talk and communicate,” Davis said. “I been around the game for a long time, so I try to speak up and just encourage everybody.”



The Knights edged out the UMass Minutemen for their third consecutive win after a tip-in from Shaheed Davis gave UCF the lead with just 2.4 seconds remaining in the game on Tuesday night.
“I’m just really happy with a lot of efforts from the team tonight. They showed some toughness and executed down the stretch,” Head Coach Donnie Jones said. “We got the stops, we got the finishes we needed and it was a great team victory.”
Defense was the name of the game on Tuesday night as the Knights held UMass to just 38.2 percent from the field and 23.3 percent from beyond the arc. Sophomore guard Donte Clark, the Minutemen’s lead scorer, was held to his second lowest scoring total of the season with only 12 points.
Sophomore swingman Adonys Henriquez also seemed to find his shot early on in the game, scoring 9 points in the first half to go with 3 rebounds and 2 assists. Henriquez has seen a lot of attention from opposing defenses thus far this season, but the sophomore was able to find space regularly despite the stingy UMass defense.
UCF was stuck in a sloppy defensive battle for most of the game as both teams ended the night with a combined 29 turnovers, but the Knights’ solid shooting kept them ahead of the Minutemen for the lion’s share of the game. The Minutemen came out of halftime on a 25-12 run which eventually allotted them their first lead of the game midway through the second half.
The Knights team-first style of basketball paid off once again and allowed them to take advantage of UMass in the waning moments of the game with quality minutes from seniors Staphon Blair and Daiquan Walker.
“Last year we had to depend on one or two guys to get points for us and those were freshmen and one of those freshmen has not played this year,” Jones said. “So now we get a whole new group of guys that’s asking to be given different roles here. So I think the beauty of what we do is that it isn’t one guy that has to win for us, it is our team that can win for us.”
However, it was redshirt sophomore AJ Davis who made the difference in the final minutes when he scored consecutive buckets to pull the game back to a tie. Davis stuffed the stat sheet with 5 rebounds, 2 assists and 2 steals while also leading the team in scoring with 14 points.
“I try to drive, really thinking pass-first and get my teammates involved and get other guys easy shots because I want to help facilitate and get our shooters good looks,” AJ Davis said.
Donnie Jones final play call with seconds remaining led to an open shot for Daiquan Walker, but his shot just wouldn’t fall and senior Shaheed Davis was able to tap it in as it came off the rim to give the Knights the close victory.
“I was just waiting for [the ball] to come off, like my initial intent was to dunk it but it sat up there [on the rim] for a while so I just found a way to get it done,” Shaheed Davis said.
Still missing for the Knights is sophomore court general BJ Taylor who is working his way back from a bone bruise he suffered before the season began. UCF is a much better team with Taylor on the court and that is certainly a welcome prospect for all Knights fans considering how well the team has played without him.
UCF will take on the Florida Atlantic Owls this coming Saturday as they seek to build upon their three-game win streak. The Owls are 1-5, but their lone victory came against the Miami (OH) Redhawks who beat the Knights back on Nov. 28.
 



Chabad at the University of Central Florida will be bringing Chanukah cheer to the UCF campus throughout the week by hosting parties, various activities and a public menorah lighting.
A menorah lighting and toy drive will take place Tuesday night at 6 p.m. on the free speech lawn in front of the Student Union. Chabad will also be handing out menorahs around the campus.
“Chanukah is not just the commemoration of a situation past, but its message and lessons relate to each and every one of us today. In short, Chanukah is the celebration of the small over the many, the seemingly weak over the strong. It is about determination and faith and trusting that when we are doing the right thing with the end goal in mind, we can overcome all challenges in our way,” co-director of Chabad at UCF Rabbi Chaim Lipskier said.
The night and toy drive are supported by Alpha Epsilon Pi, Alpha Epsilon Phi, Zeta Beta Tau and Knights for Israel, according to co-director of Chabad at UCF, Rivkie Lipskier.
“On Chanukah we publicize the miracle that took place by lighting our menorah in places where all can see. For Jewish students this is especially powerful to know that even if they are a minority on campus, they should always be proud of who they are and what they represent. And whenever faced with adversity or challenge, we should never try to fight the darkness directly but rather add light as the light will instantaneously make the darkness disappear,” Rivkie said.
Rivkie also mentioned that President Hitt will be in attendance and will light the first candle on the Menorah.
Students are encouraged to bring toys to donate to JAFCO, Jewish Adoptions Foster Care Options. Online donations will also be accepted here. Make sure to add Chanukah toy drive in the comments.
Latkes and donuts will be served at the event. There will also be menorahs and dreidels for anyone who needs one.
For more information on Chabad at UCF, visit their website.



