Hundreds of students gathered together outside of the student union to celebrate with Jewish organization Chabad and its co-sponsors AEPI, AEPHI, ZBT and Knights for Israel with a menorah lighting ceremony. The event provided latkes, Chanukah music and a toy drive. 
President Hitt opened the ceremony and lit the Shamash, the center candle on the menorah which is used to light the other candles. Hitt welcomed the evening and Chabad with some inspirational words. 
“When I became president in 1992, one of the five key goals that I established for UCF was to become more inclusive and diverse. This event illustrates the inclusivity and diversity that distinguishes our campus along with the universal value of coming together for the common good,” Hitt said.
Rabbi-Chaim Lipskier took the podium to speak briefly about the holiday, shared two blessings and lit three candles for the three nights. 
Many students were excited to be at the event including freshman Rachel Huss. She explained why joining Chabad was important to her. “I went to a small Jewish school so I wanted to continue to learn about Judaism and Chabad’s a great place. I’ve learned a lot and hang out with a lot of Jews so it’s really nice. It’s like a little community.”
The highlight of the evening was the Toy drive represented by Jewish Adoptions and Foster Care Options (JAFCO). 
JAFCO is an organization that provides services to abused and neglected children. Representing the organization for the Toy Drive was Chabad member Samantha Simon. JAFCO is near and dear to her heart for many reasons and she explained why along with how she collaborated with Chabad. “JAFCO was a big part of my life, my parents were the first foster parents when the organization began in 1992, so my little sister was adopted through JAFCO. I actually had foster kids in my home growing up. I had been going to Chabad and one Chanukah I came to Rabbi Lipskier and said let’s give back, we have such a large community, I would love to find a way to reach out to them and give back to an organization I love.”
The evening concluded with some final words from Rabbi Lipskier about the message Chanukah brings, who was also celebrating the birth of his son who arrived a couple of hours before the event.
“When you see darkness in the world, when you see pain in the world, when you see what’s wrong with the world, there are two options. Either A, its god telling you this is your mission in life, its your job to fix it but that’s why he showing you these problems, or B, it’s time to bring light into your own life and you need to fix yourself. If we take that message to heart, that everytime we see pain and suffering, everytime we see a moment of darkness, everytime we see a struggle, or something that’s not okay, ask yourself, A. what can I do about it, is this my mission to fix? Cause often times it is or B. am I just seeing things a little bit off cause I need some fixing? I think it’s essentially what the message of Chanukah really is: adding light.”
To learn more about JAFCO and how to donate please visit www.jafco.org.



The Orange County Sheriff’s Office is looking for a gunman who shot a 20-year-old man at College Station, according to WFTV.
The man was shot at around 9:45 p.m. on Tuesday, according to the report.
“The gunman entered the man’s apartment bedroom, demanded money from him before and shot the man before fleeing,” deputies told WFTV.
WFTV reported that the gunman is still at large and that the victim, who has not been identified, is expected to recover.
“When I came home around midnight, the cops were still here, [the] scene over there, not even 100 feet from my door,” UCF student Doug Sessions told WFTV.
“Although deemed an isolated incident by the Sheriff’s office, management has heightened safety measures in place including an increased presence from a courtesy officer,” College Station management said in a statement to WTFV. “The wellbeing of our residents is our top priority and any action that threatens their security will not be tolerated.”
Anyone with more information should contact OCSO.
Check back on KnightNews.com for updates on this story.




The University of Central Florida community was shaken when anti-Semitic stickers and propaganda popped up throughout campus.
The University of Central Florida Police Department released the incident reports related to these displays Tuesday afternoon but some students believe UCF is not taking enough action.
Three reports were filed on Nov. 15, the day KnightNews.com broke the story about the UCF newsstand defaced with anti-Semitic labels.
An official in Tower 4 reported that they were “contacted by someone who was concerned about the nature of a sign on the front glass door and two stickers that were applied to a newspaper dispenser outside the front door,” according to the report. An RA went outside and said that whoever applied the signs did so in front of a security camera. From there, security footage of two persons of interest was released.
A second occurrence took place when a Residence Assistant in Nike “noticed ‘anti- Jewish’ stickers that were stuck to the community mailbox,” the incident report stated.
Another incident, also the same day, happened at Lake Claire where an RA’s bulletin board was destroyed and replaced with stickers that read statements such as “Truth is Treason in the empire of lies, Muh Holocaust and another one had a swastika on it,” according to the report. 
The day after those three incidents, Nov. 16, more stickers were found under the bus shelter in front of Tower 3, according to reports. 
“The stickers had markings of swastika symbols on them and appeared to have been placed there as an act of vandalism, causing minor damage to the area,” the report stated.
A similar sticker to the one found at the bus shelter was discovered on a street sign at the intersection of East Plaza Drive and Gemini Blvd.
“The sticker was white in color and displayed the Star of David with the words ‘1 percenters’ on it. That sticker appeared to be antisemitic in nature, and was eventually removed before a police report could be done on it,” according to the incident report.
UCFPD is still investigating the incidents and following up with tips that came in after the Tower 4 security footage was released.
Some students addressed the situation with President Hitt saying what has been done regarding the events “is simply not enough.”
34 Jewish and civil rights organizations emailed Hitt and copied Provost Whittaker with their concerns on the way these incidents have been handled and ways to move forward.
“We are aware that your administration has vowed to find the perpetrator(s) of these hateful acts and stated that UCF ‘has a zero tolerance policy regarding incidents or bias in any form.’  But this is simply not enough. We are dismayed that in the weeks since the stickers and flyers appeared, neither you nor any other UCF administrator has yet to publicly condemn these postings as antisemitic, specifically targeting Jewish students and causing them to feel threatened and unsafe.  A public statement demonstrates to the campus and wider communities that you will not tolerate acts of bigotry directed at Jewish students and that you are committed to addressing antisemitic acts with the same promptness and vigor as all other racial, ethnic and gender bigotry. A public statement is also the single most important step to deterring future acts of antisemitism,” the email said.
The correspondence suggested that UCF administration should publicly acknowledge and condemn these acts, publicly commit to educating university staff and police in identifying the hate crimes, adopt the U.S State Department’s definition of antisemitism to accurately identify the acts and allocate resources and educate students about antisemitism.
Some of the organizations in the correspondence include Alpha Epsilon Pi Fraternity, Committee for Accuracy in Middle East Reporting in America, Israeli-American Council, Sigma Alpha Epsilon Pi, Students and Parents Against Campus Anti-Semitism and many more.
“Taking these steps will show your students, their parents, University of Central Florida alumni, and the larger community that University of Central [Florida] stands firmly against bigotry and hatred, including antisemitism, and will protect all members of the campus community,” the email stated.
Check back on KnightNews.com for updates on this story.



