A vicious beating that happened on the steps of Millican Hall in October wrapped up in court on Thursday, with jail time for Matthew Cody Shehorn, who was a UCF student at the time of the attack.

Shehorn plead guilty at the Orange County Courthouse as a youthful offender for felony battery charges towards the victim, UCF student Dylan Lawson. 
Circuit Judge Mark S. Blechman sentenced Shehorn to six months at the Orange County Jail. 
On top of jail time, Shehorn was sentenced with five years of probation, 208 community service hours, no contact with the co-defendant and a psychological evaluation. He must also remain sober, attend Alcoholics Anonymous, pay restitution costs and write an apology to Lawson within the first two weeks of his release. 
The incident all started on Oct. 9 when Lawson accidentally stepped on the hand of one of the males involved in the altercation, according to UCF. Shehorn responded by knocking the victim unconscious, then continually stomping and kicking the victim’s head into the stairs, according to the arrest affidavit.  
Lawson’s mother spoke at the hearing. She said that cost of the assault was “immeasurable” and that she was thankful her son is alive.
Speaking about his client, Shehorn’s attorney, Richard Rhodes, said that the event was “not a characteristic of his normal behavior.” He also said that the incident would not have occurred if Shehorn had not consumed alcohol and stated his client joined AA.
To support Rhodes’ statement, Shehorn had multiple character witnesses in his defense. 
Shehorn was taken out in handcuffs, directly to the Orange County Jail.



Chegg has announced today that UCF students will have first access to presale tickets for Ed Sheeran’s September 8 Orlando concert, held at the Amway Center.
Students who entered the #EdonCampus contest will be sent a special access code via e-mail to purchase tickets in advance of sales to the general public. The student-first learning platform began e-mailing access codes on Sunday to students who entered the contest and voted for UCF.
The March 2 announcement that UCF won Chegg’s #EdonCampus contest, where high schools and colleges nationwide voted to have the artist visit their school for a day, earned the university a visit from the artist as well as an intimate master music class and $10,000 to the UCF music department. 
Sheeran will share stories and life lessons from his career, perform a live acoustic set and explain the creative process behind his songs all in the UCF Alumni Center Ballroom on May 4. Chegg aims to help UCF fans who entered the contest by providing early access to concert tickets.
Beginning on Wednesday, April 15, a limited number of presale tickets will be available for purchase to those students. The window for early ticket access will open at 10 a.m. and close at 10 p.m. through www.Ticketmaster.com.



Thousands of college students from across the nation converged on Panama City Beach for the country’s largest collegiate music festival, but the lingering effects of a recent Spring Break shooting in the area were evident throughout.
Spring Weekend brings numerous electronic music DJ’s to the beaches of Panama City for a two-day and night event, only this year, tensions were high after a Spring Break shooting left seven people injured just weeks before and, in a separate incident, a woman was gang-raped on the beach in broad daylight.

According to a press release from the Bay County Sheriff’s office, a video was discovered during a police department’s investigation into its own shooting. In that video, authorities say they found evidence of an unreported gang rape that occurred on Panama City Beach during Spring Break in broad daylight — with crowds of people standing around.
Two suspects were arrested in connection to the incident and authorities called the incident downright “disgusting.”
“This is like, no more than a group of wild animals praying on the carcass as it’s laying in the woods,” Frank Mckeithen, Bay County Sheriff, said regarding the gang rape incident.
Students did feel the lingering effects of the incidents throughout the weekend, as police presence was high and even local businesses cancelled events as preventative measures.
The Chataeu motel, located just down the beach from the event, is normally a popular post-concert pool party spot. This year, however, the pool was shut down at dusk and security stayed posted at the entrances — telling students staying at the motel that the pool party would not be happening.
“I was kind of upset, I never heard about the shooting, but I mean there are a lot of security guards around here, I feel like they could have had the pool party without anything going wrong,” UCF student Dave Linden said.
Still, students managed to have a memorable weekend, filled with music from popular DJ’s like Dada Life, 3lau, Laidback Luke and more, along with friends and fellow college students.
Check out more video from Spring Weekend 2015 here!
Photos by Katrina Poggio



























































































123► 




