UCF football head coach George O’Leary, along with players Joey Grant and Thomas Niles, spoke about the youth of the team and the importance of senior leadership at a press conference Monday.
“I think the key is that we like to have more experience in some positions,” said O’Leary. “Obviously, when you graduate your secondary and your receiver corps; you know the young players I think are very athletic, but again so many sunrises and sunsets.”
The Knights are tied for third in the FBS with just nine seniors overall, but this is nothing new for the team as they were tied for second with only eight seniors in 2013.
“I think that’s what I’m more concerned about than anything else is the speed of the game,” O’Leary said. “With the young secondary guys that are playing and the receivers as far as I think they are going against some very good corners from FIU.”
With a large amount of turnover from last year, the two familiar faces stepping into senior leadership roles will be Joey Grant and Thomas Niles.
“Anytime you are a senior you are going to take on a leadership role. [Thomas and I] are guys that have played thirty plus games, forty plus games,” said Joey Grant. “We’ve played a lot of football, we’ve been around a long time and we know how the program works.”
Niles explained a defense that will have a different look after losing seven starters from last season and the addition new defensive coordinator Chuck Bresnahan. Four of those seven starters were in the Knights’ secondary, which means an all new group of pass defenders will be entering the fold this year.
“I think [the secondary] are all doing a pretty good job, you know to be so young and inexperienced. I think they will get better and better every game,” Niles said.
The Knights will have the opportunity to put all of their youth to the test this Thursday when they take on FIU at home at 6 p.m.



UCF’s Sigma Chi fraternity has been accused of violating multiple student conduct policies, including hazing, by blindfolding a pledge and telling him to “assume the position,” according to UCF records.
On June 18, the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life received an anonymous call through their Anti-Hazing hotline and details relating to an alleged hazing incident that took place during the Spring 2015 semester were discussed, according to the UCF investigatory documents.
The UCF investigative report is eight pages long, includes interviews with people UCF declined to identify, and describes the allegations in detail:
One pledge was called by some brothers to come pick them up at Knight’s Library while he was acting as a designated driver for the fraternity. After picking up the brothers, they insisted that the pledge come back to their apartment behind Knight’s Library and drink and hangout with them for a little while. The brothers took the phone given to the pledge so that he could not leave, according to UCF’s report.
UCF’s investigation alleged, while at the apartment, that the pledge stated someone came out of the bathroom with a blindfold and told him to sit down so that they could blindfold him. Investigators said he was then told to get down on his knees and elbows and to “assume the position” (plank position). While in the plank position the pledge stated that he was being screamed at by brothers. Brothers told him to stay in the plank position and to count to 100. The brothers would scream at him and ask him what number he had counted to. When he messed up, the brothers would continue to scream at the pledge and told him to count to 150 because he wasn’t paying attention. While in the position, he stated someone threw a basketball or football at him. The brothers then told him, “We are not doing this because we don’t like you, we are doing this because we want you to be one of us,” according to UCF’s report.
STORY CONTINUES ON NEXT PAGE: What UCF says happened when the pledge asked to leave.



After being named interim athletics director in June, George O’Leary has reportedly made the decision to become a full time athletic director and step down from head coach responsibilities at the end of this season, according to USA Today Sports.
According to reports, O’Leary expressed a strong interest in transitioning titles, approaching UCF President John Hitt and other UCF officials on the move, who are currently placing the process on hold as they consider the possibility.
A source with knowledge on the situation claimed offensive coordinator Brent Key would be promoted to head coach should O’Leary become full-time athletics director. Key began at UCF in 2005 as an assistant for UCF Athletics.
This is a breaking story, stay tuned for updates.



