The UCF Campus Activities Board is bringing John Mulaney and Ali Wong to campus for its annual Comedy Knight this spring.
Comedy Knight will be held on March 25 at 8:30 p.m. in the CFE Arena, with free tickets available to students with a valid UCF ID. 
Mulaney’s comedy career took off with his work on Saturday Night Live as a writer where he created the character “Stephon” with Bill Hader. Mulaney has since gone on to create, produce and write FOX’s new comedy show, Mulaney.
Wong has made appearances on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno and hosted E! Network’s 2012 live coverage of the Golden Globes. She was named to Variety’s “10 Comics to Watch in 2011” following her stint in the Los Angeles comedy scene. 
“CAB is thrilled to be able to bring two comedians of this caliber to UCF for Comedy Knight,” said CAB Comedy Director Chris Mayhew in a release. “Both John Mulaney and Ali Wong have really established themselves on the comedy scene and we’re looking forward to having them both.”
Ticket distribution will begin on Feb. 18 in the Office of Student Involvement. General admission tickets will also be available for $25 through the CFE Arena and Ticketmaster. 



UCF went undefeated in the South Independent Rugby Conference tournament, never granting more than a try in any of their four Saturday matches and won Sunday’s overall tournament.
The victory will send the Knights to the CRC Rugby 7s Championships, a tournament scheduled for the end of May that will be nationally televised.
Heading into the tournament as the ninth seed, they were the only team to finish the first half of the tournament without a loss. 
Despite an opening-weekend loss to Florida International that’s been a thorn in the side of the reigning champs, UCF improved on their play to gain three straight wins and Saturday’s conference dominance.
The two-time DIAA national 15s champions faced tough odds, playing the No. 1 seeded Middle Tennessee State to start off, but plowed their way to a 31-7 victory. 
While other teams attempt to play with what some might call a fine-edged sword, UCF notoriously conquers their opponents with brute strength and endurance. 
The Knights played FSU in Sunday’s semi-final and won, which secured their spot against Georgia Tech in the championship. The Knights handled Georgia Tech and won their first ever championship trophy in a 7s competition. 



