The language of the UCF gym’s controversial clothing policy, and how it’s enforced, is now up in the air after a Title IX complaint was filed by Mo Barhamje.
After meeting with UCF’s Title IX coordinator Maria Beckman on Tuesday, Barhamje confirmed that Beckman will be conducting a seminar on August 22 with all of the UCF Recreation and Wellness Center employees on how to equally enforce the policy, resulting in some tank tops being banned, so as not to violate Title IX.
Barhamje said if the policy is still not being enforced equally after the seminar, Beckman will be looking at surveillance footage from the gym and will move forward with a full on investigation. [sam_ad id=”3″ codes=”true”]
“If students still feel like gender bias is going on then what Beckman would need to do is go through surveillance footage since the rule was in place … and then analyze the ratio of females at the gym and the same for the males and demographics along those lines. And from then on it would establish that Title IX was (or was not) being violated and I believe that more formal steps would be taken,” said Barhamje.
In an email setting up the meeting with Barhamje, Beckman confirmed the RWC’s director said he’s considering making changes.
“I spoke to the RWC Director, James Wilkening, on Friday. He stated that the RWC is considering clarifying the dress code language and perhaps making other revisions,” Beckman said in the email.
Barhamje said that Gary Cahen, Associate Programs Director of the RWC, informed him that the tank top policy is just one of three policies they’re working on enforcing. The second being having students re-rack the weights correctly and the third being having students wipe down the equipment with sanitary wipes.
Chad Pitton is questioning the validity of reasoning for all three policies and believes that if students are required to wipe down the equipment then string tank tops shouldn’t be an issue.
Pitton wrote a formal letter to the RWC Director, James Wilkening, and has yet to hear back. However, despite not getting a response, Barhamje said that Wilkening was familiar with Pitton’s letter when he brought it up in his meeting with Beckman.
Barhamje said he’s not going to stop challenging the policy unless he’s given the option to stop paying for the gym from his student fees.
When asked about the policy, SGA President Cait Zona said SGA is encouraging students to voice their opinions to the RWC administration if they have a conflict.
“We are working hard to represent our students and their concerns. We want students to know that there is not a ban on tank tops, just a policy regarding what parts of the body can not be exposed. We encourage any students that have a conflict with the policy to see the administration suite of the RWC and voice their concerns. We will continue serving the students and being a voice,” said Cait Zona.
Pitton was asked to change Wednesday right after walking into the gym. Pitton went on to point out various females in the RWC that were exposing the back. The RWC building manager did not go confront the females when Pitton was questioning him.
Barhamje said he has been told by the RWC staff that other universities in Florida have similar rules, however, he disagrees. Barhamje included policies from other universities in his report and presented it to the directors and Beckman.
Austin Medlin’s petition now has over 800 signatures. Barhamje gathered comments from the petition as testimonials for his report. When looking through the comments, Barhamje found one that really stuck out to him. It was from a prospective UCF student who says they are unsure if they want to attend the university because of this rule and how its being enforced.

See Barhamje’s filings submitted to Beckman:
Testimonials | Photo Documentation | Tank Top Amendment | Rule Alteration Proposal



