YouTube stars MyLifeAsEva (Eva Gutowski), Meredith Foster, Alisha Marie, Sierra Furtado, Mia Stammer, and musician Andie Case will be performing in Orlando on Sunday, Oct. 18 at The Plaza Live. 
The girls who are also all close friends have a combined fan base of more than 23 million followers. They are known on their channels for giving lifestyle and fashion tips and advice. They are using this tour to not only connect with their fans but also empower young women to love themselves and have self acceptance through their beauty, fashion, and DIY videos.
The show will be a very interactive experience for the audiences. They are bringing their videos to life with games, sketches, contests, Q & A sessions, and musical performances. Sierra Furtado described the Q and A session saying, “we take specific questions that the audience from that show, that specific venue submitted, and their username along with their question will be on the screen and we answer their question during the show and they really love that, they when we answer their specific question and pronounce their username”. When it comes to musician Andie Case, Sierra says that Andie opens the show and she’s “really awesome”, and also started her career on YouTube.
As far as their videos, on a typical “Girls Night In” the popular vloggers will get together and help each other with their videos. Mia Stammer chimes in saying, “we’ve all known each other a really long time, and so we’ll watch each other’s videos”. When it comes to their friendship and giving each other advice on perfecting their videos Alisha Marie says, “Obviously YouTube is a big part of our lives so I love how were all good friends so we don’t always have to talk about it 24/7 but when do were always there for each other to share advice and just be a support group for one another”.
When asked advice they will share with their fans who are struggling with self acceptance, Sierra said, “The thing I’m most self conscious about is my skin, and I’ve done a video with my skin completely bare, acne and all, to show them they’re not the only ones and there are other people going through the same thing”. Alisha stated, “Everyone deals with something. I still struggle with body issues and I feel a lot of people think that were these perfect confident girls on the Internet, when in reality were just like them and were relatable. You worth isn’t in your looks or your skin, you are who you are regardless of all those things”.
The girls unanimously agreed the thing they are most excited for during this tour is to meet and connect with their fans. “Making videos we obviously see people viewing them but to see our fans in real life and connecting with them is the most rewarding experience”.
You catch the girls live this Sunday October 18th at The Plaza Live. Doors open at 6:30 pm, and the show starts at 7:30 pm. To purchase tickets go to www.fullscreenlive.com



UCF is indeed having a rough football season; they have fallen short of expectations with an 0-6 record. A positive so far for the Knights is that a great deal of their young players have gotten a chance to play.
“Some of the kids are getting better, but not getting better quick enough,” said Coach O’Leary at Monday afternoon’s press conference.
UCF is one of the youngest teams in the nation, it has been a youth movement for the Knights this season. The Knights have started 71% of the incoming class of freshmen and have more first time starters than any other collegiate football team.
“Today I ran the seniors, then the juniors, then the sophomores and freshman,” said O’Leary. “I could count the seniors, they were seven of them. I could count the juniors, it was like 15 of them. The rest are all freshman and sophomores.”
With so many young players receiving valuable playing experience this season, they should grow together and develop chemistry for future years to come.
“They’re going to be a really good team in the future,” O’Leary said.
One big question mark for the Knights is whether O’Leary will be the coach leading these young players after this rebuilding season.
“I love the game of football and I don’t know what else I’ll do,” said O’Leary. “Right now, I wanna coach football.”
With Steve Spurrier calling it quits Monday evening at the age of 70, maybe O’Leary follows Spurrier and retires at the end of this season.
O’Leary has given some indication that he would like to coach beyond this season. It is difficult to imagine the respected coach riding off into retirement with such a blemish of  a season on his record.
“I’ll be 70 something years old and God willing, yes,” O’Leary said when asked whether he sees himself coaching UCF’s young players two to three years down the road.
“I think when you do leave, you want to leave on a high-note” added O’Leary.



UCF Victim Services hosted Light Up the Night for its eighth consecutive year during domestic violence awareness month. 
Attendees heard from different speakers including survivors, police officers and a florida abolitionist who talked about domestic violence stories and different local resources and tips to use when someone notices a domestic violence situation.
Christine Mouton, UCF victim services director, led the event by describing domestic violence as not just physical but also emotional or psychological abuse.
According to National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, nearly 20 people per minute are physically abused by an intimate partner in the United States. During one year, this equates to more than 10 million women and men. She said to imagine how many people were being abused from the moment the event began to when it finished.
“Awareness is one of the key elements to bring something to light that everyone needs to know about and Victim Services has done an excellent job in bringing awareness and getting the message out there that you don’t have to suffer in silence and you can have services available to you,” UCF police officer Pete Stephens said.
UCFPD officers Carl Metzger and Brett Meade continued the annual event speaking about domestic violence on campus and it’s intolerance.
“If you see something, say something” Metzger said.
Meade mentioned the various organizations which came from various parts of Florida and the gratitude he and many officers have for the work they have done over the past years. He also mentioned the close work UCF Victim Services has done over the years with the police department and success in helping survivors. 
Although he said he is grateful, he said he wished events such as this one didn’t have to take place because he hoped to live in a world where domestic violence is non-existent.
Florida Abolitionist, Inc. Founder and Executive Director, Tomas J. Lares, spoke about human trafficking in Florida and various places in which it occurs. Common places included farm lands, truck stops and international centers. Lares mentioned that across the globe, there are several other ways in which human trafficking occurs but locally, Florida is the third state with the most human trafficking.
“To act globally, think back and act locally,” Lares said.
Lares said that many human traffickers prey upon vulnerability and now lure victims through social networks. He plead attendees to act when they see signs of domestic violence or human trafficking and dial national hotlines which will respond.
UCFPD officer Eric Walton described many forms in which human trafficking and domestic violence has even started through digital means such as social media sites.
“Control the story of you,” UCFPD officer Eric Walton said multiple times throughout the night.
Although photos are deleted from various social media sites or disappear after 24 hours through snapchat, there are still digital footprints of them left on the internet. Walton suggested thinking before you post because once something is out there, it remains forever.
He mentioned many cyberstalking reports or identity thefts where victims did not have safe enough passwords or were too public with their private information.
One anonymous survivor spoke through a video about her experiences in realizing she had been domestically abused as well as using CAPS and social support to come out of her shell. She said that although it is tough and not all days are great, it takes time and patience to get better.
Michelle Jewett also spoke about her experience over the years when her sister was killed due to domestic violence.
“It’s not about the numbers, it’s about lives lost,” Jewett said.
She told everyone to not just pay attention to all the facts as numbers but as several lives lost on a daily basis. The lives of people with families and friends who cared for them.
Jewett mentioned how domestic violence was vastly overseen in the 90s and how it has luckily grown as a huge concern over the years. She said that domestic violence is all about abuse and power and is easily overseen in many situations due to accepting certain behaviors from perpetrators which shouldn’t be accepted or brushed off. No one should be treated badly and should be loved and cherished she added.
With the memorial event, An Empty Place at the Table, Mouton told the story of seven different UCF members who died due to domestic violence. An eighth table place was left for all the UCF members who have died and were never found or mentioned. The attendees held up their phones as a light for these lives lost and a moment of silence.
Multiple students walked up to the different groups tabled in the back to talk about various ways to prevent and notice domestic violence and human trafficking.
Tayler Gautier, an interdisciplinary studies student, said she was moved and inspired by Jewett’s life story and ability to come back from a place of darkness despite the multiple hardships and grief it has brought.
“I hope to raise awareness and provide education because education is the best way to prevent domestic violence from happening. I hope to educate people on what’s ok, what’s not OK, on consent, on healthy relationships, and things like that to prevent tragedies like this from happening,” Gautier said.



The University of Central Florida’s Knights for Bernie club put together an event this morning at the corner of Alafaya and University called “Honk for Bernie” to show support for the Democratic Presidential Candidate Bernie Sanders. 
“The purpose of the Honk for Bernie event is that we want lots of people to watch the debate,” President of Knights for Bernie Daniel Koster said. “We feel Bernie Sanders has a message resonate with everyday people, especially with college students. So we want to make sure lots of people hear what he has to say and we think tonight is a good time to do it.”
Knights for Bernie members created signs and waved to traffic as drivers honked their horns showing their support for Bernie Sanders.  
“We are out here. We are involved in this movement,” Knights for Bernie vice president Steven Lynch said. “There’s been a lot of apathy in the past towards politics in general; we are just trying to show people are actually interested this time, because we have a candidate to get behind. A candidate that actually represents all the people.”
Tonight is the first of six Democratic Candidate debates.  Bernie Sanders will be facing off against Poll Leader Hillary Clinton as well as Martin O’Malley, Jim Webb, and Lincoln Chaffee during the debate on CNN beginning at 8:30 p.m. 
Check back with Knight news for continued debate coverage.
Photo by Divina Rayos



Spending too much money on your college textbooks? Soon you might actually get them for free!
A bill proposed last week would make some textbooks free to college students.
Supporters argue that higher education is essential to a thriving workforce and economy. An increasing amount of students are finding themselves unable to pay for the required textbooks each year.
Between the years 2002 and 2012, the cost of textbooks went up 82 percent, making the average cost at around $1,200 per year, according to the College Board.
Sentators Al Franken and Dick Durbin are the supporters behind the bill, named The Affordable College Textbook Act. Durbin proposed a similar bill back in 2013 but it was unsuccessful.
The Affordable College Textbook Act would allow any university in the U.S. to provide online textbooks to students at no cost. Universities and publishers would have other ways of obtaining the costs of the textbooks without affecting the student.
The goal of this bill is to lessen college costs for students so they are not in a large amount of debt come graduation time. If the bill passes it could save college students across the United States about $1 Billion Dollars annually.



