UCF baseball has high expectations heading into the 2015 campaign. 
With nine total starters returning, the UCF baseball team was ranked No. 22 overall in Baseball America’s Preseason Top 25 poll. The preseason ranking is the first for the Knights since 2012.
UCF narrowly missed the 64-team NCAA tournament last season, with a 36-23 overall record. 

The Knights will have plenty of opportunities to play with some of the best in the nation and bolster their ranking this upcoming season. UCF has a three-game home stand with No. 3 Houston from March 27-28, No. 6 Florida, No. 9 Miami (Fla.), No. 16 Maryland, No. 21 Florida State.
In total, the Knights are bringing back seven all-conference honorees Zach Rodgers, Tommy Williams, James Vasquez, Dylan Moore, Erik Barber, Derrick Salberg and Sam Tolleson.
UCF baseball starts their season off on Feb. 13 with a three-day home stand against Siena. 



Bright House Networks Stadium is getting a makeover this offseason.
UCF announced on Monday that the 10,000-square-foot East Side Club (ESC) is going to be ready by the Sept. 5 kickoff against FIU. The beach-themed bar located in the East Side Club will serve beer, frozen drinks and soft drinks located between the 30-yard lines.
UCF Director of Athletics Todd Stasnbury said in a release that he hopes the new-look stadium will show off the Florida lifestyle.  
“The ESC will be a showcase for the Central Florida region,” UCF Vice President and Director of Athletics Todd Stansbury said in a release. “This is a great place to live, work and play and the ESC will exemplify that. When a viewer anywhere in the country tunes in to watch a UCF football game, they will see shorts and flip-flops – they will see the Florida lifestyle.”
Memberships to the East Side Club will start at $900 per person for a full season pass. The membership will include access to chair-back stadium seating, 15 televisions, Gold Zone parking and private restrooms.



You know it’s ICCA, the International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella, competition week when you’re drinking honey and rehearsing for 60+ hours a week.
For UCF’s award-winning a cappella groups- KeyHarmony, Gemini Blvd., and Voicebox- all that hard work pays off when they get on stage. On Saturday, they participated in one of the South Quarter Finals for ICCA. Voicebox placed 1st, BisCaydence, from the University of Miami, placed 2nd, and Gemini Blvd. placed 3rd. First and second place will move on to the Semi-finals in March, which will be hosted at the University of Florida.
Voicebox, the most recent addition to UCF’s a cappella community, competed for the first time at SoJam last fall. For them, participating at ICCA was next on the agenda.
“Everyone in this group is so focused and so positive, these guys really aim big,” said executive director of Voicebox, Christine Thomas.
The group was astonished to take away awards for best arrangement, best choreography, and best vocal percussion, having only prepared the set in two weeks. Zachary Anderson, one of the founding members, was honest about some obstacles the group faced being new to the scene.
“One of the biggest hurdles is that people don’t know who we are, so getting gigs is sometimes difficult, because people are like: who’s Voicebox?” Anderson said. “It’s also kind of fun because nobody knows what to expect.”
Their set, which included “Something Big Is Happening,” by Shawn Mendes, really defined the co-ed group, looking to make a name for themselves at ICCA this past weekend.
“Getting an ICCA set together in two weeks is an accomplishment, but Voicebox as a whole thrives under pressure,” Thomas said.
Boiling down a group’s talent into a 12 minute set is no easy feat. Especially for KeyHarmony, UCF’s only all female a cappella group. TC Skowronek, the group’s music director, encouraged the girls to give it all they’ve got since they’re limited time-wise.
“Why would we not make every single second [of those 12 minutes] worth it?” Skowronek said.
Their set, which covered “Hurt,” by Johnny Cash, and “Jar of Hearts,” by Christina Perri, among others, conveyed a powerful story that no matter what someone is going through in life, there’s always someone who will understand them. Kyrstin Walker said that their message was to say the things that people don’t usually want to hear, admit, or talk about. When asked what was the best part of joining KeyHarmony, she didn’t hesitate.
“I really like the family aspect of it. You don’t get this anywhere else,” Walker said.
The group has an album, “Uncaged,” available on Spotify, and iTunes since last fall.
For Gemini Blvd., the co-ed award-winning group on campus, placing at ICCA has been consistent. Stephanie Trull, executive business director, said that it makes them set the bar higher for themselves as they know they have placed at ICCA for the past two years.
“We are our own worst critics and after re-watching our performance there isn’t a thing we would change,” Trull said.
Trull said that the group is focused on continuing to make beautiful music and on the upcoming release of their EP. It’s set to be released in the next two weeks. The songs they have selected, however, are somewhat of a surprise. Stay tuned, as all three of the a cappella groups will continue to perform every Friday at the free speech lawn in front of the reflection pond.
























































































12► 




UCF students with the desire to uncover insight into Russia and Eastern Europe will feel at home in the Russian Club. 
Just last semester, the Russian Club brought the Russian Ballet to preform at UCF. 
The ballet raised $2,850 that went to the Ukrainian Down Syndrome Organization and the Balkan Food Relief. It also helped lower the cost for students to travel and stay in Russia for the study abroad program. 
Russian Club meets every Monday at 5 p.m. in the Student Union, Cedar Key 223. Their first meeting is scheduled to be on Jan. 26. 
This semester, the club has planned club movie nights and social outings to Russian restaurants. 
“This semester Russian Club is planning a more social approach with more member interaction,” club president Irina Pidberejna said. “We invite everyone.” 
She has served as the leader of Russian Club for two semesters now.
Along with normal club meetings and movie nights, the club also offers members the opportunity to dive into Russian culture. Russian Tea Hour, which meets separately from normal Russian Club meetings, focuses on culture and features delicious Russian dishes and tea. The meetings are hosted by Dr. Kourova, a Russian language professor at UCF. The first of these meeting are scheduled on Jan. 30 from 2-3 p.m. in Colbourn Hall, conference room 513.
UCF is also scheduled to have Russian exchange students from Grott’s School for the Blind and Visually Impaired visit later in the year. This is because of a special US-Russia Peer-to-Peer Dialogue Program that provides a grant worth $100,000.
The program serves to strengthen mutual understanding and trust, and hopes to take U.S.-Russian relations to a new level. The program sponsors a group of lucky individuals to travel to St. Petersburg to further their interaction with Russian children and experience culture. 
Tara Langford, a member of the club, stresses how important U.S. relations with Russia are now more than ever. 
“This grant program has been an incredible opportunity to learn more about Russian culture and meet some amazing Russian students,” Langford said. “We are at a critical point right now where the relationship between Russia and the United States is incredibly strained, and we need more programs like this to promote friendship and understanding between Russians and Americans.”
Although it is too late to visit Russia through the grant program, a study abroad program this summer will allow you to spend two weeks studying Russian language at Moscow State University in Moscow with included visits to other cities. This will be sponsored by Dr. Kourova. 
You can find updates and learn more about the Russian Club on the Russian Club’s Facebook page or you can contact Russian Club at russianclubucf@gmail.com.



