A University of Central Florida student got selected for the opportunity of a lifetime: to intern at the White House.
Former Student Government Association President Weston Bayes was selected into the White House Internship Program.
“The mission of the program is to make the White House accessible to future leaders around the nation and to prepare those devoted to public service for future leadership opportunities,” a White House press release said.
This is a developing story, check back for updates.




Knight News sat down with SGA President Cait Zona, Vice President Jarell Jones, and Chief of Staff Christopher Clemente to discuss progress on campaign platforms (listed on their campaign website) and goals for the remainder of their term.
Inclusivity Between UCF Campuses:
Zona: “So far, we’ve made a trip to the College of Medicine and to Rosen. We wanted to look and make sure that all the needs of students are being met at both places. For the spring, we’re planning an SGA Day at Rosen, because right now, all three branches separately have their SGA Days, but we want to make sure that we’re going out and showing the Rosen students their resources.”
Jones: “Also, we’ve donated some of our promotional items that we give out here during Knights on the Mall to the Rosen campus and also to someone that works with Graduate Student Outreach. They had a couple of fairs at the various regional campuses that aren’t Rosen, and we donated promotional items to them as well.”
Charging Stations On-Campus:
Zona: “Right now, it’s gone through the Board of Trustees and I was a huge advocate for it. It’s still pending the overall vote, but the committee voted to have a $14 million renovation to the Student Union. I urged all of the Board of Trustee members and a bunch of administration to walk through the Union, especially on Wednesdays and on Market Days. Unfortunately we see students eating on the ground. I tripped over a cord that was plugged in because people are trying to sit wherever. So, with this $14 million renovation, I think we’ll see a lot of new accents to the Student Union that will really benefit the students. That does have to go through final Board of Trustees approval, but I’m definitely standing up for students. President Hitt even noted that, and just said that we really need this for the future students.”
Diversity Initiatives:
Jones: “Today (Monday, 10/19) was Spirit Day, because this is National LGBTQ+, Suicide, and Bullying Prevention Month. We had an event where we collaborated with (diverse student body organizations). There’s wooden signs where you can write a positive message just in general, and we’re handing out ribbons as well. So that’s one of the first things we’ve done in the history of SGA, is partner with an event of that nature, and we hope to continue that with any department on campus that wants to collaborate with us in some way.”
Zona: “We shouldn’t have specific events that are just ‘diverse events’. Every program should be diverse just in nature, so we’re trying to make sure we reach out to the populations we don’t usually see. So anyone that we notice might not be coming out to SGA events, or any events hosted by the Office of Student Involvement. We’re trying to target those students to see if there’s something we can do to include them better.”
Phone Application that “Connects Students With Various Parts of Campus”:
Zona: “The phone application is up and running; it’s called KnightLife.”
Expanding the KnightLynx Service:
Clemente: “In terms of stops, the service has been extended. That’s going to be for the fall semester, and then come spring time, we’re going to be re-working that system with Lynx, and that’s going to come to fruition in changing the routes themselves. As of right now though: same routes, more stops.”
Bringing Voting to Webcourses:
Zona: “We did try to work with the Center for Distributed Learning to bring voting to Webcourses. They said it couldn’t be done for Senate (elections) because it was a really short time-frame, but we have been meeting with them to at least get an announcement on Webcourses, if nothing else. But hopefully, we’re going to look for the next Presidential Elections.”
Safety in Garages:
On Sept. 2, UCFPD sent an alert reporting the theft of all four tires on two different Honda Civics in the G and Libra garages.
The cars were discovered on cinder blocks.
Crime statistics released earlier this year by UCF report 25 motor vehicle thefts occurred between 2013 and 2014. These incidents, along with a series of recent burglaries and hit-and-runs committed in UCF parking garages, have only added to public outcry for cameras to be installed in all garages.
Last spring, a petition calling for security cameras to be installed in every parking garage and lot started by student Ryan McKinney gained nearly 1,500 supporters on Change.org.
Zona: “Garage B has video cameras that are coming, so we’re really excited about that.”
How realistic is that, considering the cost of putting cameras in every single parking garage?
Zona: “That’s not an Activity and Service Fee fund, so it’s not like students are paying for it. There’s no fee increase for this next year. Students won’t be seeing their tuition or any of that increase. Parking and Transportation has been working on this system for a while, to get Garage B cameras. They said some of the newer parking garages have hidden cameras that students don’t usually know about. That’s just a work in progress, but we wanted to make sure there wouldn’t be an increase for those things. We just use our resources better.”
One solution presented by UCFPD involved installing license plate-readers in every garage, Zona said. 
How effective would license plate readers be in preventing theft if all a thief would have to do is walk in to the garages instead of driving to bypass the plate readers?
Zona: “A lot of the crimes that are committed was people had their tires stolen, things like that. So walking out with those items–I don’t know how realistic that would be. A lot of times it is people that are stealing bigger items, things like that. The license plate readers didn’t come from our end, it came from the police department. We’re just supportive of any measurements that could help safety.”
RSO Resource Center
Zona: “It’s called the Hub. A lot of meetings in there, a few a day. They have court down there, they have consultants. They’re trying to get more people involved, and we’ve heard really positive feedback.”
Jones: “Within the meetings, I try to bring in people who can help the RSOs with whatever they need. I always try to have someone from within the Student Union and someone from OSI. In the last one, we had a great turn-out. We got a lot of suggestions, concerns, and ideas from students.”
Lighting Behind the Marquee
The area in and around The Marquee student-housing complex (formerly known as Sterling Central) has experienced several incidents of armed robberies, carjackings, and drive-by shootings over the years.
In an effort to lower the crime rate in the area behind The Marquee, which is home to several Greek houses and is known to students as the “Greek Ghetto”, several students and residents have asked for street lights to be installed.
Zona: “We were just in discussions with that since last April with the police department and different people. They’ve been trying to do this for years now. Finally, it was a unanimous decision (to install lighting) by Orange County Commission. We won’t actually see that until November 2016, but that was of utmost importance.”
Knightro’s Suits
Zona and Jones have both pushed for a new program called Knightro’s Suits, which would provide suits for students who otherwise wouldn’t be able to afford professional attire for job interviews.
Zona: “The Student Union oversees Knight’s Pantry in Ferrell Commons, and since that is activity and service fee-funded, we think it’ll definitely be a plausible thing. We just now need to reach out to the different businesses and everything. We’ve had faculty members come forth and saying they’ll donate so far.”
Jones: “One thing we’ve talked about is doing maybe a faculty fundraiser, so I don’t think that’s something that has been done before, because they’re more likely to have suits and older clothing than a college student. So that’s what we want to do, figure out how to reach out to them so they’ll donate.
Zona: “There’s some clothes in Knight’s Pantry right now, but students are able to take that with them. So in our system, what we wanted to do was rent, because we wanted to make sure it’s professional attire they really feel valued in. We think the best way to do that was a rental system, so we’re just trying to get all those details worked out.”
AEDs in Every Building
After UCF student Michael Namey tragically collapsed and passed away during a class in the Health and Public Affairs building earlier this year, a petition calling for UCF to place more AEDs around campus was started on Change.org by another student. The petition has gained 950 supporters so far. According to the American Heart Association, AEDs cost between $1,500-$2000 apiece.
Zona: “The best friend of (Michael Namey), he actually had emailed me. I said ‘let’s set up a time’, we spoke after the State of the University address. I’ve one-on-one been able to speak to President Hitt about that. What they are working to do is put an AED in every building–not necessarily in every floor. Student’s should know where they are, is what I said. They should be in every building, in every police car. So we’re definitely working on that.”
Jones: “We’re trying to work towards just pushing a safety campaign, just overall. Just so students can have knowledge of all this stuff, and also just more than that. Maybe have a sit-down from the police station or from administration, just so students can ask the questions they’ve been wondering.”
 



Is it a toy gun? Is it a real gun? More stores are starting to sell realistic-looking weapons as part of Halloween costumes in order to “complete the look,” but how dangerous can these be when you take them out in public? 
UCF Police Department Officer Peter Stevens said that law enforcement can’t take a “perceived” threat as innocent anymore; Times have changed.
“The use of fake guns as part of Halloween costume, while adding to the authenticity of the look, does not work well for officer,” Stevens said. “We can give you hundreds of examples where criminals and even legitimate manufacturers are making real weapons look like toys, and visa versa.”
After checking around at the local Halloween stores in the UCF area, most do sell a variety of weapons including fake guns like a pistol, 9mm hand gun, or even different rifles, all with realistic sounds added to them. 
So what is the ‘rule’ so to say about bringing these out in public if you choose to do so? Currently in the state of Florida it is illegal to openly carry a firearm of any kind around in public. Even if the weapon is fake it could pose as a threat to a police officer.
Officer Stevens said “even though it is not technically a weapon because it is non-functional (doesn’t shoot), that will not matter to an officer during the first few seconds of an encounter.”
Fake weapons, guns in particular are becoming harder to tell if they are real or not. Most people associate an orange tip with a fake gun but that just isn’t the case anymore. Criminals have started to paint real gun tips orange to throw off police, this in return is making it harder for the police to let these situations slide on ‘dress up’ holidays like Halloween.
Depending on where you decide to go for your Halloween celebrations could determine whether you are even able to bring a fake weapon with you. Bars around campus make these rules based on their specific venue and management, therefore it could vary. As for public property, that’s when the scenario changes. 
Knight News asked Officer Stevens what students are supposed to do if they happen to run into a conflict with their fake weapon and the police department.
“If you do find yourself in a situation where you are confronted by an officer, immediately drop the weapon, raise your hands slowly and do not make any threatening movement. They won’t care if you are telling them “it’s fake”, they are going to treat it as real until the situation is secure and there are no more threats,” Stevens said.
He also wanted to remind UCF students that the same rules apply for masks in public. There is no exemption for the Halloween holiday.
“Bottom line, have fun during Halloween. Take care though when dealing with any costume that has a weapon involved, even if it is only a simulated or fake one. Officers will make split second decisions on how to treat you if they encounter you holding even a fake weapon and we don’t want these encounters to end in tragedy over a mistaken identity due to a fake gun,” Stevens said. 
Realistic-looking fake guns can have serious consequences, even if it makes your Purge outfit “complete”. If you just keep these rules in mind while celebrating your Halloween you should be able to stay safe, and of course enjoy your Halloween night.



Dressed in a crisp blue blouse and pencil skirt, she holds her head in confidence, giving off an impression of extreme professionalism and maturity.
On the table in front of her, a laptop is open, revealing a screen of multiple browsers; a norm for those who are used to multitasking while on the Internet.
With her dark hair pulled back, Virginia Vazquez maintains steady eye contact, brown eyes brimming with intelligence; a characteristic that surely helps her to fit in with her fellow classmates at the UCF’s Burnett Honors College.
What makes Vazquez different from some students at Burnett’s Honors College, is that though she’s a second year student, she has earned enough college credits in high school to be considered junior standing at UCF.
An even more unique aspect of Vazquez’s college career, is that besides attending the classes needed to obtain her degree in English creative writing, she is the current fellow for UCF’s Francis Bok Human Trafficking Awareness Fellowship.
“I began in summer of 2015 with my internship that was concentrated in human rights and human trafficking,” Vazquez said. “Right now I write weekly blog posts as well as attend any events that occur with the program.”
The Francis Bok Human Trafficking Awareness Fellowship is offered by the Human Trafficking Awareness Program through the UCF’s Global Perspectives Office each semester to a Central Florida college or university student of at least junior standing.
Part of the responsibility of being part of the program, is that the selected fellow is required to set aside a certain amount of time each week, specifically devoted to the fellowship program.
“As of right now, I have 5 fixed office hours a week but I commit more time outside of office hours to the program,” Vazquez said.
During these office hours, fellows contribute to activities within the program, write weekly blogs, as well as devote time to work on a specific research project. The blogs that Vazquez produces each week surrounds issues regarding human trafficking as well as human smuggling.
Madeline Simmons, a freshman creative writing major at UCF, who did not previously know about the fellowship, is aware of the current human trafficking problems in America and loves the fact that UCF offers such a program.
“Helping people is such a huge deal and what she [Vazquez] is devoting to, what all the people are devoting their time too, is so important,” Simmons said. “I really hope the movement gets more recognition through this.”
Lydia Castillo, a freshman theater major at UCF, just found out about the fellowship as well and expressed interest in possibly applying in the future.
“I think that not a lot of people know about it and being able to be a part of raising awareness is very important,” Castillo said. “What she [Vazquez] is doing is great. It’s not in vain and it’s so important, a lot of people, I’m sure, are benefiting from whatever little bit that can be done to help.”
Prior to being accepted as a fellow, Vazquez had no prior experience or knowledge regarding activism with human trafficking.
“It definitely helped me grow intellectually in how I look at the news and look at what goes on in the world,” Vazquez said with a smile. “It has also helped me grow the desire to be an activist. I think that is the biggest impact.”
“The fact that she has a role at all, means she cares more than the average bear,” said Tommy Kelly, a freshman theater major at UCF. “If there’s an event that I can go to or volunteer at, then I’d be interested in becoming involved. Good job Virginia.”
Parker Phillips, a freshman mechanical engineer major at UCF who is not currently involved in any activism programs on campus, expressed interest in the fellowship that Vazquez is a part of, wishing her good luck in Spanish.
Besides the human trafficking fellowship, the office of Global Perspectives at UCF offers 10 different fellowship opportunities to interested students, each focused on a specific issue including human rights, climate change, and global economy.
“It’s just been a really great opportunity and you get to meet very fascinating people who can help you learn more about yourself in terms of what you want to do in the future,” Vazquez said. “I really want everyone to be aware of current global events and know they can make a change.”
While the fellowship may last only a semester, the experience and knowledge Vazquez has gained through the program is sure to last a lifetime. It can be safe to say that this won’t be the last time the world hears from Vazquez; accompanied by her well used laptop and extensive knowledge on global issues.



Interim Head Coach Danny Barrett’s first game at the helm of the Knights will come against his alma mater Cincinnati on Halloween.
The Bearcats have a 4-3 record heading into Saturday’s contest against the Knights with all of their losses coming against tough opponents (Temple, Memphis, and BYU). Head Coach Tommy Tuberville has a 22-11 record midway through his third season with the Bearcats and has led the team to two consecutive bowl appearances.
Cincinnati’s biggest asset lies within their multitude of offensive weapons in both the passing and ground game. Junior quarterback Gunner Kiel has NFL level talent, but just made his first start this past week coming off of a neck injury he sustained nearly a month ago against Memphis. However, backup Hayden Moore performed admirably in Kiel’s absence which resulted in a QB competition. While Kiel is probably the odds-on favorite to be the starter, the Knights will have to prepare for the possibility of either quarterback playing on Saturday.
Whichever quarterback receives the nod for the Bearcats will have a bevy of talent to throw to between senior receivers Shaq Washington, Mekale McKay and Max Morrison. Washington leads the Bearcats in catches with 47 and is only seven grabs away from breaking the school record for career receptions.  
The speedy receiver McKay has been significantly less active this season than Washington and Morrison, but his 6 foot 5 inch frame will force the Knights to pay attention to him in the redzone. McKay is regularly targeted on deep plays with success by the Bearcats as he has an average of 24.6 yards per catch thus far this year.
Max Morrison’s production falls directly between McKay and Washington as the senior receiver sees a steady amount of targets and has big play potential.  Morrison also had his biggest game of the year in a big game against the Memphis Tigers, posting nine receptions for 162 yards and two touchdowns.
The Bearcats also sport a talented trio of running backs in senior Hosey Williams, junior Tion Green and sophomore Mike Boone. All three backs have registered a 100-yard game this season and have tallied a combined total of 1,390 yards on the ground. This three-headed monster could cause a lot of trouble for the Knights after they were gashed for 366 rushing yards to the Houston Cougars just this past week.
Defensively, the Bearcats have somewhat struggled this year, but junior linebacker Eric Wilson and senior defensive end Silverberry Mouhon have been bright spots. However, should UCF gain some momentum, they could take advantage of the Bearcats lack of playmakers and make significant strides on offense.
Silverberry Mouhon is tied for the team lead in sacks and tackles for loss and has a penchant for causing disruption in the run game. The Knight’s run game was much improved this past Saturday with the return of Dontravious Wilson, but the offensive line will have to step up and keep Mouhon at bay this week if they hope to continue that trend.
Junior Eric Wilson ranks inside the top 20 in the NCAA in tackles per game and is the Bearcats leader by nearly 30 tackles. Wilson heads up a linebacker core that has Cincinnati ranked just sixth in the American Athletic Conference in run defense and gives up 167 rushing yards on average per game.
This will be the first time that Cincinnati and UCF will meet as they did not have a matchup in their first two seasons in the American Athletic Conference.  Danny Barrett enters his first game as the Knight’s interim head coach and the team will travel to Ohio for the first time since taking on Ohio State and Akron in 2012. The Bearcats are looking for their second consecutive in-conference win while the Knights will continue to search for their first win of the season at noon this Saturday in Cincinnati.
 
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla



