Orange County Sheriff’s Office and Florida Highway Patrol arrested five people total on DUI charges Friday night as part of the University of Central Florida Police Department’s combined effort to enforce alcohol laws the weekend before fall semester begins. 
Officer Rivera with UCFPD said he noticed more people walking home from the bars than usual and thinks that students passed on the information about the increased DUI enforcement. 
UCFPD sent out an email to UCF students on Wednesday to inform about the upcoming increased alcohol enforcement for the weekend before fall semester begins. 
“Our goal is to reduce the crashes, injuries and fatalities that come from impaired driving, and we will have zero tolerance for those breaking the law,” the email informed. 
“Drivers suspected of being under the influence could be pulled over by police and asked to complete sobriety tests. Those who fail the tests will be transported to jail. Drivers under the influence who are under 21 will be subject to license suspensions even if they are not DUI,” the email stated.

Law enforcement is always on the look out for drivers who are under the influence, but they are especially on alert during peak times such as holidays, game days and the start of a semester, informed Courtney Gilmartin, UCFPD Public Information Officer.



After an entire week of visiting house to house, hundreds of ladies ran from the UCF Student Union all the way to Greek Park to join their sororities Saturday afternoon.
Over 800 women participated in Panhellenic formal recruitment this year.

Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get UCF Greek News like this on your feeds!
Follow @UCFKnightNews
Formal Recruitment started on Monday, August 17. 
The Panhellenic council also puts together a recruitment session in the Spring semester. However, not all sororities participate.
Knight News visited Greek Park to check out the scene and talk to some fraternity members who were there to cheer on the new sisters.




