A University of Central Florida student has been listed as missing/endangered before returning to UCF for the fall semester, according to a Marion County Sheriff’s Office news release. 
Mikanzis Shawn Spinella was last seen on Aug. 22 around 2:30 p.m. when he left his home and “told family members he would be back home shortly to pack his things to return to school at the University of Central Florida,” the news release said.
During an investigation of the case, MCSO determined there had “been no communication with or from Mikanzis for an extended period of time and his well-being can not be verified.”
Spinella left in a 1998 white Oldsmobile Eighty Eight, a 4-door vehicle. His Florida tag number is CPCR43. He was wearing a gray short sleeve shirt with blue jeans and black suede shoes. He weighs 120 pounds and has both brown hair and brown eyes.
If you have any information on Spinella or where he might be, please call 911.
Check back on KnightNews.com for updates on this case.



After an interim suspension hearing with the UCF Office of Student Conduct, the Theta Chi fraternity had its emergency suspension lifted.
“Although the suspension has been lifted, the case still moves forward to a conduct hearing,” said UCF spokesman Chad Binette.
The date of that hearing has not yet been scheduled.
According to UCF documents, Theta Chi must adhere to two conditions.
The moratorium for all Fraternity and Sorority Life Activities for the first six weeks of the fall semester is in place. This must be adhered to without exception, according to UCF documents.
Transparency during all upcoming hearings, meetings, etc. is crucial not only to highlight all the good your organization does but to be able to provide accurate and forthcoming information as this conduct process continues, according to UCF documents.
“The spotlight during this period will be on all Theta Chi members,” according to UCF documents.
If Theta Chi fails to adhere to the following stipulations, the fraternity will be placed on interim suspension again immediately.



Fall semester classes have officially begun, and students are getting to class early.
Several UCF Knights came to class nearly 30 minutes early in the business administration building this morning and were left without a place to sit on their first day of the semester.
Room BA1 0107 holds 265 students, however the enrollment total for this particular class is near 750 students. Students who do not get to class early enough have the option of watching the lecture video online after it is archived hours later.
One UCF student arrived to class 30 minutes early and said he barely got a seat.
“I showed up 30 minutes before class started expecting it to be slightly busy. However, I never expected to have 60+ people standing in the back without a seat,” said Cody Leport.
Students have until Thursday, August 27 at 11:59 p.m. to drop classes from their schedules. They have until Friday, August 28 at 11:59 p.m. to add classes to their schedule.



The first week of fall semester at the University of Central Florida would not be complete in the Knight spirit without the official welcome week, Pegasus Palooza.
This week “is designed to help students acclimate to the campus and get connected to UCF while learning about campus resources and making friends,” according to the official Pegasus Palooza website.
Students can transition into campus lifestyle and make new friends at some of these events:
Monday, Aug. 24 LINK Amazing Race from 6 to 8 p.m. at the Reflecting Pond
Tuesday, Aug. 25 RWC Open House from 4 to 6 p.m. at the Recreation and Wellness Center
Wednesday, Aug. 26 CAB Comedy Night at 8 p.m. at the CFE Arena
Thursday, Aug. 27 CAB Presents: An Evening with T-Pain at 8 p.m. at the CFE Arena
Friday, August 28 Knight Rave at 9 p.m. at the CFE Arena 
For a full calendar of events, click here. A Pegasus Palooza guidebook is also available.



