Tower 1 and Tower 2 residents evacuated to the Venue after Orange County Fire Rescue responded to a brush fire behind the towers at 5:15 p.m.

Students wait in the Venue after being evacuated from Towers 1 and 2.
Orange County Fire Rescue responded to the fire at 5:15 p.m., Lt. Thomas Veal said. The Florida Forest Service, who deals with forest fires, arrived afterward. 
Veal said they are unsure of the cause of the fire, but they assume it started by lighting.
The towers have a total capacity of 1,000 students but it is estimated that 250 to 300 students live there during summer, said Chad Binette, assistant vice president of UCF News & Information.
There were no injuries from the fire and the fire did not endanger any other campus buildings.
UCF sent an alert that it is now safe for students to return to Towers 1 and 2. 

Brigitte Snedeker contributed to this story.



Medical marijuana made big progress in Florida when plans to implement Senate Bill 1030, “Compassionate Medical Cannabis Act of 2014,” were upheld by a judge in Tallahassee on Wednesday.
Soon, Florida will start the licensing for medical marijuana growers for a low-THC form of cannabis popularly known as “Charlotte’s Web.”
The medical marijuana will be prescribed to patients “suffering from cancer or a physical medical condition that chronically produces symptoms of seizures or severe and persistent muscle spasms,” according to the bill.
This type of medical marijuana will be oil extracted from the plant. 
There will be five dispensing locations across the state of Florida: northwest Florida, northeast Florida, central Florida, southeast Florida, and southwest Florida.
The Compassionate Medical Cannabis Act of 2014 was first signed on June 16, 2014.
The push for legalizing all medical marijuana is not over yet. 
John Morgan, Florida attorney and medical marijuana supporter, along with United for Care, are still fighting for medical marijuana to be on the 2016 ballot.
United for Care is holding a petition to support the bill going back on the ballot.



