Deputies are searching for two robbers who struck someone in a parking garage at The Marquee, previously known as Sterling Apartments, according to WKMG.  
The robbers, who are believed to be in their 20s, fled the scene in a SUV after robbing the victim of his cash and phone, according to WKMG. 
The victim was taken to the Oviedo emergency room to be seen for head injuries, according to WKMG. 
Whether the victims or the robbers are UCF students is unclear at this time, according to WKMG.
Check back on KnightNews.com for updates on this story.



A 4-1 win against South Carolina moves the Black and Gold into the second round of the NCAA Regional for the first time since 2010.
Senior Maddy Schroeder brought in an RBI single on a bases-loaded situation in the 4th inning, allowing Jessica Ujvari to tally Friday’s first score. A hit to shortstop and a close, but safe, run to first kept Schroeder on base, who would then claim UCF’s fourth and final run of the game. A pitching error from the Gamecocks allowed UCF to bring in two more runs, increasing the score to 3-0 in favor of the Knights, alluding to the win.
“Honestly, I just put the ball on the ground and it was just tunnel vision to first base. Really, my main goal was just putting it into play, cause havoc, and that’s what happened,” Schroeder said on her single.
South Carolina closed the chances of another UCF shutout at the top of the 7th, where junior Alaynie Page scored on a double, but it would be too late. A February meeting between the two ended with a 4-1 victory for UCF. The Gamecocks loaded bases and made opportunities in both games but were unable to pull through.
Friday’s win improves the Knights’ overall score to 49-7, tying a record for the most wins in program history.
“I’m very proud of our girls, just how we came out and to work today… The bottom of our line-up is having some great opportunities and pressure on the defense,” said UCF head coach Renee Luers-Gillispie.
UCF will face the winner of the No. 1 Florida State v. No. 4 Dartmouth game on Saturday at 10 a.m.



The Intercollegiate Tennis Association announced Friday that they awarded the UCF men’s tennis team the Intercollegiate Tennis Association National Team Sportsmanship award for the month of May. 
The ITA Sportsmanship Award is a monthly award that goes one men’s and one women’s team as selected by the ITA Ethics and Infractions Committee from nominations received from NCAA Divisions I, II and III, NAIA and Community Colleges. 
After posting a 15-10 record this season, the Knights were recognized for their sportsmanship, character and ethical conduct. 
“The UCF men’s tennis team is grateful to be noticed as one of those teams with high character that competes fairly by challenging ourselves and our opponents to be better players and individuals,” UCF assistant coach Mark McGuigan told the ITA. 



