Beginning July 11, University of Central Florida Football head coach George O’Leary will serve as the interim director of athletics through the end of 2015, when a decision will be made for 2016 and beyond.
The move by O’Leary follows the transfer of Todd Stansbury, former UCF Athletics Director, to Oregon State to become the Beaver’s Director of Athletics.

UCF President John Hitt described O’Leary as the ideal candidate to finish out the year as athletics director. President Hitt had no reservation on the head coach’s ability to balance football and his new administrative undertakings, citing the university staff’s willingness to ensure O’Leary’s success, on and off the field.
“George’s leadership and knowledge of athletics – which includes programs beyond football – will keep UCF moving forward academically, competitively and in the community,” said Hitt, according to UCF Athletics. “His national connections will also help us continue building the Knights’ reputation around the country.”
UCF Athletics held a media conference on Tuesday afternoon to address O’Leary’s new position.
The newly appointed interim athletics director vowed to continue the leadership, accountability, organization, responsibility and trust that Stansbury built in his years as director. O’Leary will also inherit the highest graduation success rate among FBS schools, at 95 percent, a distinction that tops his list of ambitions regarding student athletes.
“I think it’s a great opportunity,” said O’Leary at the conference. “When I met with [President Hitt] regarding the job, he gave me some time to think about it and decide what I want to do. As head football coach my time is very valuable as will be my time as [athletics director]. I think the big thing is this: The reason I’m taking the challenge on is because of the welfare of the student-athletes… You have to win so that UCF has the opportunity to become a top national program, and you have to bring in good kids and, hopefully, help make them great young men and women when they graduate.”



The funding for the University of Central Florida’s downtown campus has been cut as “Gov. Rick Scott vetoed  $461 million in spending before signing the $78 billion budget,” the Orlando Sentinel reported.
Although now cut, building of the UCF downtown campus was approved $15 million by the Legislature, even though the project was still short of the $60 million needed, according to the Orlando Sentinel
UCF President John C. Hitt released a statement regarding the vetoes.
“We appreciate the efforts our many supporters across Central Florida made to advance these projects. These are important to students, our economy and community and we will continue working on moving them forward. Time will tell what shape our efforts take, but we are not giving up.”
The Orlando Sentinel reported that the governor’s action “avoids a partial government shutdown that loomed if a budget wasn’t in place by June 30, the end of the fiscal year.”
Keep checking back on KnightNews.com for updates on the downtown campus.



