Not many students start attending college at 4 months old but there’s one student at UCF who is an exception; welcoming each school day with a wagging tail and wet velvet nose.
Her name is Robin, a four month old Labrador and Golden retriever mix service puppy in training.
Robin is a part of the program, Canine Companions for Independence, a non-profit with headquarters in California which provides trained assistant dogs for people living with disabilities.
CCI begins training and socializing their perspective service dogs at a young age through puppy-raising volunteer programs until they’re ready to begin their specific task training.
Robin is the first Canine Companion puppy-in-training to be raised and trained within UCF housing by her puppy raiser, Morgan Bell, a sophomore statistics and financing double major.
Bell, who has had no previous experience training dogs prior to joining the program, became interested in her first year upon receiving an email from housing inquiring about puppy raising.
“I applied in March 2015 and was officially approved as a puppy raiser in the middle of May,” Bell said. “In the meantime I had a phone interview and I attended a couple of obedience classes to learn how to begin puppy training.”
In July of 2015, Bell was matched with 8-week-old Robin and began teaching her basic commands which includes recognizing her name, going to her kennel, waiting at door thresholds before entering, and ‘speaking’ on command.
“This is useful when the handler falls and can’t get up or is stuck somewhere. It’s more efficient for the dog to bark for help as opposed to the handler having to scream,” Bell informed.
Although Bell is Robin’s handler at the moment, part of CCI’s puppy-raising program is that the puppy will eventually leave the care of the handler in order to begin six to nine months of advanced service dog training before being matched with her final recipient.
“The hardest part of the program will be when Robin’s training is complete. I’ll have her for 16-18 months until she goes into advance training and will then be paired up with a person with a disability,” Bell said.
“I realize she will do amazing things so it’ll be worth it,” Bell said.
Robin attends her obedience classes every Saturday, accompanies Bell to all her classes, short errands, and everyday college excursions throughout UCF’s campus. When Bell does homework in her room, Robin takes advantage of the opportunity to nap at her feet.
Although she is being taught a lot of new life skills by Bell, Bell is likewise being taught new things from raising Robin over the past few months.
“She is teaching me quite a bit about patience and I’ve learned to be quite adaptable,” Bell said. 
Bell has also been inspired to begin a new puppy program on UCF campus for people willing to raise or babysit certain service puppies-in-training called STEP@UCF, which stands for Service Dog Training and Education Program.
The first interest meeting will be held Tuesday, Oct. 13 at 7 p.m. in the Burnett Honors College Reading Room. Any students interested in learning more about what this program has to offer or how to qualify to be a puppy raiser are urged to attend.
Robin will be advancing with her training around November of next year. Until then, she can be found happily trotting by Bell’s side, sleeping under chairs during class lectures, or smiling into camera’s being directed toward her.



UCF’s Zeta Tau Alpha hosted their annual philanthropy Thursday night at CFE Arena. 
Over $32,000 dollars was raised by the chapter. Below are the dance video replays.
Keep checking back because we’ll upload each one as we get them instead of waiting to put them all up at once. 
We’ll also have photos on KnightNews.com soon, too. 

ZTA & Kappa Sig | Alpha Epsilon Pi – ΑΕΠ | Alpha Tau Omega – ΑΤΩ | Beta Theta Pi – ΒΘΠ | Delta Sigma Phi – ΔΣΦ | Delta Upsilon – ΔΥ | Phi Delta Theta – ΦΔΘ | Phi Gamma Delta – FIJI | Sigma Chi – ΣΧ | Sigma Pi – ΣΠ | Sigma Nu – ΣΝ | Tau Kappa Epsilon – ΤΚΕ | Theta Chi – ΘΧ | Zeta Beta Tau – ΖΒΤ | Alpha Delta Pi – ΑΔΠ | Alpha Epsilon Phi – ΑΕΦ | Alpha Xi Delta – ΑΞΔ | Chi Omega – ΧΩ | Delta Delta Delta – ΔΔΔ | Delta Zeta – ΔΖ | Gamma Phi Beta – ΓΦΒ | Kappa Alpha Theta – ΚΑΘ | Kappa Delta – ΚΔ | Kappa Kappa Gamma – ΚΚΓ | Pi Beta Phi – ΠΒΦ | Rho Gammas | Ruckus



University of Central Florida students protested student debt during President John C. Hitt’s State of the University address on Wednesday. 

Video package credit: Danielle Apolinar
“Sign the pledge! Sign the pledge! Hey! Hey! Hey!” the protesters chanted while holding up a banner that read President Hitt doesn’t give a *pile of poo emoji* about student debt. 
Officers escorted the protesters out of the front of the ballroom but they were able to stand in the back of the Pegasus Ballroom for the remainder of the event while they continued to hold their banner.
The organization, Student Labor Action Project, conducted this demonstration in order to raise awareness for a program called Public Service Loan Forgiveness that allows employees to have potential student loan forgiveness. 
SLAP member Nicole Hamm explained that SLAP members have reached out to Hitt in hopes of having the university agree signing a pledge that would hold them accountable to informing public service employees about the program, Hamm explained. She said they have not received a response.
“This pledge is at no cost to UCF,” SLAP member Nicole Hamm said. “It’s just something they can sign and they’re just held accountable to letting their employees know.”
Matthew Monst, SLAP member and UCF sophomore, explained that public service staff, such as professors, could benefit from this program. 
After making payments toward their student loan debt for ten years, public service staff could apply for the program and if they are accepted the remaining debt will be wiped out. 
“We really wanted to bring it to Hitt because he won’t come to us,” Hamm said.
Shortly prior to the protest, Hitt spoke about student debt and explained that about half of UCF students graduate with debt that has occurred as a part of their education.
“The least debt you can get by with is certainly desirable,” he added.
He explained that tuition and fees at UCF are low compared to other universities in the nation, however, he did recognize that funding an education can still be a financial burden.
“I would encourage students to really be thoughtful and careful how they spend on rent and other expenses that are not directly related to their education,” he stated.
UCF spokesperson Chad Binette commented on the student protest by saying the university welcomes students expressing their opinions. 
“Certainly the fact that president Hitt addressed student debt during his remarks shows it is a topic he does care about,” Binette added.



Nicklas Bajema told KnightNews.com that he resigned his position as Student Government Association’s Supervisor of Elections on Friday, Sept. 25.
Bajema stepped down just days before the senate elections, which started Sept. 28.
“The problem was that I was being harassed by certain candidates and I just didn’t want to work there anymore. It’s something I loved from my school and they made it not worth it,” Bajema said.
Bajema explained that by “candidates” he said it was for the most part the people already in senate, predominantly by senate leadership.
Something Bajema expressed was that he got amazing help from the professional staff in the SGA office. He said they were there for him and deserve the recognition of how they handled the situation.
“I expected people to act with, not only integrity, but respect for my position as well as treating me as a human being and I guess it was too high of an expectation,” Bajema expressed.
“I was appointed too late, there were unrealistic expectations as far as the timeline goes. I was working 39.75-40 something hours a week, I got payed for 15 of those. I was pulling 12 hour days, sometimes 10 hour days,” Bajema explained. “The problem was not even that, I’m more than happy to serve my school in such a manner.”
Bajema wants people to know that it’s not every senator that did this. He said he does not want anyone to vote with a proposition thinking that all senators are like this just because of a “few bad apples that made it not worth it.”
“There’s some great people that are running, and I think the best thing they, [the students] can do is to look into who they’re voting for.” 
David Oglethorpe, the Office of Student Involvement Communication Coordinator, commented on how this affected fall elections.
“Per election statutes, Whitney Barnes, Assistant Supervisor of Elections, has assumed these responsibilities. This fall’s election cycle has run smoothly as expected and we don’t anticipate any disruption in the process,” Oglethorpe explained 
KnightNews.com reached out to the Speaker of the Senate but has not heard back yet.



University of Central Florida President John C. Hitt will deliver the State of the University message Wednesday, Sept. 30 at 3 p.m. in the Pegasus Ballroom.
In addition to discussing the university’s growth and plans for the future, Hitt will also talk about the downtown campus, higher education innovation and the record-breaking freshman class. 
After his presentation, chair of the Faculty Senate Keith Koons and president of the Student Government Association Cait Zona will speak to attendees.
Check back for updates.



The fall of 2018 will see the opening of UCF’s downtown Orlando campus a year later than planned, aimed at diversified funding and less money than requested from Governor Rick Scott.
Approximately $60 million for a 165,000-square-foot academic building begins phase one of the project, where a joint partnership between UCF and Valencia State College will host 4,000 and 350 students, respectively. Expected enrollment is 7,300 for the first day of classes.
UCF officials requested the state pay for $20 million in costs to the building versus the $60 million denied by Scott over the summer. The new plan is for the remaining $40 million to be covered through donations and existing university funds, should the request be granted.
“The proposed new academic building would be the centerpiece at the downtown campus,” UCF Provost Dale Whittaker said at a trustees meeting.
The hopes of the Florida Board of Governors approving the request will go to table towards the end of 2015.
The campus looks to include 300 dormitory beds and 600 parking-garage spaces, paid through parking fees and housing revenue, with room for expansions to both when the opportunity arrives.
UCF President John C. Hitt will give his State of the University Address to the community to discuss the university’s progress on Wednesday, September 30, at 3 p.m. in the Pegasus Ballroom of the Student Union. Doors open at 2:30 and live-viewing access can be found at oir.ucf.edu/webcast.
 



A local bar in downtown Orlando has been seeing a decline in business on UCF game days since the start of this year’s season and the Knight’s starting off 0-4.
The Basement released a promotion on Monday announcing they will be giving out free beer on game days from the time of kick off until the last whistle blows, until the Knights win their first game.
“We have taken great pride in the team and we very much consider ourselves a UCF bar, as we’re operated and staffed by graduates and even some current students,” said Jake Whitacre, the bar’s marketing director
The downtown bar located about 15 miles from campus had about 50 people watching the game last week against South Carolina. The capacity of the bar is near 150.
“We hate to see the place like this,” Whitacre said.
The whole idea and hope for the establishment is that patrons purchase premium liquor and food while cheering on the Knights who play Tulane University this Saturday on the road.



The Orange County Fire Rescue will be visiting the University of Central Florida Sept. 29 to offer six free CPR classes in observance of World Heart Day.
From 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. in room 130 of the Teaching Academy, the instructors will extend basic hands-only adult CPR training to participants to teach quick and effective responding. The training will not certify students but may allow students to step in with a life-saving procedure should a medical emergency take place.
“World Heart Day takes place on 29 September every year and is a chance for people across the globe to take part in the world’s biggest intervention against cardiovascular disease (CVD),” reads the organization’s webpage.
 



The University of Central Florida’s Board of Trustees approved the acquisition of the Partnership IV Facility during the Board of Trustees meeting at the Fairwinds Alumni Center at UCF on Thursday, September 24, 2015. The $14.05 million Partnership IV Facility is located adjacent to the Partnership II and III facilities in Research Park.
The Board’s approval of the site is the first of several steps in the legal acquirement of the facility. UCF also has several conditions that need to be completed and a 90-day due diligence period before the sale can be finalized. The school is in the process of purchasing the site from two realty companies; Leidos Realty, LLC and Cowperwood Orlando I, LLC.
“This still has to go the State for approval,” said Jennifer Cerasa, Associate General Counsel while addressing the Board. “The purchase and sale agreement will require approval from the State of Florida,” in specific clarification through Cerasa’s publishing presented to the Board.
The Board also reviewed an update to the Type I Campus Proposal for the Downtown UCF project and approved and update to the Student Code of Conduct in regards to sexual assault and bullying.
The Downtown UCF project will go ahead in the Type I Campus format which will be a much more gradual and long-term project since Governor Scott’s veto last June. A revised slide-show featuring a campus vision, academic concept, criteria for planning process, new academic building proposal, center for emerging media facility and additional development in the future was shown. The update was presented by Dale Whittaker, Provost and Executive Vice president.
This additional development would consist of four primary contributors, UCF, the City of Orlando, private developers and students provided by Valencia College. The Valencia students would presumably attend UCF for their final two years of college.
“As a part of the extraordinary opportunity for UCF to develop an innovative living and learning environment that capitalizes on the economic, social and cultural activity of downtown Orlando, the university proposes updates to its Type I campus proposal for UCF Downtown,” said Diane Chase, Vice Provost for Academic Program Quality.
UCF expects a capacity of 7,314 students at the downtown UCF site in the first year with the use of one existing building which will house the Center for Emerging Media along with a new academic building. The plan also includes an expansion which includes a UCF housing/student services building, privately developed housing, Valencia Culinary/Hospitality building, 600 space parking and a power plant.
The Board reviewed specific Student Conduct rules.
“The Trustees approved an amendment to Chapter five of UCF’s regulations, which outlines students rights and responsibilities and the Student Conduct process,” said Chad Binette, Assistant Vice president of News and Information. “The changes mirror updates to policies of the Florida Board of Governors, which oversees the state’s 12 public universities and are in line with federal standard.”
The Chairman of the Board explained his boredom of the legal jargon that lasted for over 100 pages.
“If you could refresh my memory, I have to admit, it was really good for nodding off,” said Marcos Marchena, Chairman of the UCF Board of Trustees.
“This preceding will have a panel that would give a recommendation to the director of the Offices of Student Conduct and propose sanctions,” said Youndy Cook, Deputy General Counsel.
After correcting the word “target” in the student conduct proposal to “alleged target,” which changed an implication of guilt of an accused to an accusation legally, Chairman Marchena put the proposal up for a vote and it passed.



