A “White Student Union at UCF” Facebook page has caused quite a stir on the University of Central Florida campus.
UCF is aware of the site and it is not affiliated with the university or a registered student organization, according to UCF spokesman Chad Binette.
Binette said the unauthorized use of university trademarks was reported to Facebook on Monday.
Since then, the page has changed its profile picture and cover photo.
The “White Student Union at UCF” released a press statement on the Facebook page Tuesday afternoon.
The post states that the page “was created by current UCF students and alumni in response to the startling BLM protests taking place on college campuses across the country. We have seen in these protests an explicit hostility to white students, faculty, and culture, and to the freedoms of speech and association.”
“We hope to be a countervailing voice against intolerance, and we want to provide a safe space for white students on campus,” the press post said.
A blog on Medium reported that the white students unions that keep appearing throughout the United States are probably fake.
In response to the above, the page said that “it is possible that some WSU pages are trolls, but many are not. Many WSUs, some with whom we are in contact, are sincere efforts to create safe spaces for white students–including ours. We are neither a joke nor an attempt at satire, but an earnest project to protect free speech, free association, and white interests.”
The Facebook page said they are not a racist or white supremacist organization and will welcome non-white allies.
The page is still generating mixed reactions from students and those who comment on the posts.
“I can’t understand why people are getting so upset about these Students wanting to start this group. It seems to be just fine to have the NAACP,UNICEF,BLM,BET, but it is wrong because they want to be heard and stand up for their rights as well. As long as they are not promoting violence or racist remarks towards anyone, then leave them alone and let them do their thing. I am all for it, if it is done the right way,” Facebook user Luke Sleeper Granger said.
On the other hand, Facebook user Kim Court commented that “These efforts are absolutely disgusting. There are so many things wrong with this post that I’ve lost count. Perhaps you should attend some more classes and try to learn something about white privilege, systemic racism, and how you’ve actually NEVER been denied a ‘safe space’ in the history of the world. I am embarrassed to call myself a UCF alum.” 
Check back on KnightNews.com for updates on the “White Student Union at UCF.”



It is always important to be ready in the face of danger. Due to this, the University of Central Florida Police Department is offering active shooter response training classes on campus.
Alongside UCF Emergency Management, UCFPD will train students and faculty in Shots Fired, a two-part class that informs about the UCF Alert emergency system as well as what to do in the case of an active shooter.
The method of precaution that will be taught is called the “Run. Hide. Fight.” in case an active shooter incident were to occur.
“We wanted to reach out to the entire UCF community, and especially students,” Ari Schein, Training and Exercises Coordinator for the Office of Emergency Management, said.
Five classes will be held between Tuesday, Dec. 1 and Wednesday, Dec. 2:
1:30 to 2:30 p.m. Dec. 1. Classroom II room 106.
3 to 4 p.m. Dec. 1. Classroom II room 106.
6 to 7 p.m. Dec. 1. Classroom II room 207.
8:30 to 9:30 a.m. Dec. 2. Classroom II room 201.
10 to 11 a.m. Dec. 2. Classroom II room 201.
“In light of recent international and domestic incidents, this training is critically important for everyone,” Schein said.  “The focus of the training is on knowing how to think and respond during a crisis scenario regardless of your location.”
The course has also been available online since January.
For more information on Shots Fired, contact the Office of Emergency Management or UCFPD.



The University of Central Florida Police Department tweeted a UCF Alert at around 11:45 on Tuesday about a car fire on campus.
*UCF ALERT* Fire Dept and Police are on scene of a vehicle fire at Garage F. Stay clear of East Plaza and West Plaza.
Orange County Fire Rescue responded quickly to the scene, using a ladder to reach the car that was up in flames.
Still investigating source of vehicle fire in Garage F. Small amount of damage to one car nearby. pic.twitter.com/fGjRvAmakv
— UCF Police Dept. (@UCFPolice) November 24, 2015

Student of car that set fire is talked to UCFPD & OC Incident Command saying wires could have been at fault because the car was overheating in morning. The car owner described what may have been light smoke coming from the car in morning before the incident.
Nobody was hurt, according to UCFPD spokesperson Courtney Gilmartin.
The all clear was given at Garage F and all roads have been opened.
This is a developing story. Check back for updates.



This Thursday will be the end of the road for the UCF Knights’ seniors as they take on in-state rival USF (7-4, 5-2 American Athletic conference) for the final game of the 2015 season. The Knights will honor seniors: Isai Cetoute, Tarik Cook, Joey Grant, Lance McDowdell, Thomas Niles, Joseph Puopolo, Domenic Spencer, Brendin Straubel and Cedric Thompson.
As you can imagine it will be an emotional game for the Knights; for some of the seniors it will be their last football game.
“It’s sad knowing that it’s coming to an end,” said redshirt senior H-Back Joseph Puopolo. “When you’re a freshman here, you never really think like It’s gonna come to an end. It’s just crazy to think that it’s here right now.”
“All the things that we’ve been through, the championships, the wins and just ending it like this. It’s crazy to think about,” added Puopolo.
These seniors were a part of the Knights teams that won the BCS Fiesta Bowl in 2014 against Baylor and back to back conference titles in 2013 and 2014 seasons.
“My favorite memory is for sure the Fiesta Bowl,” said redshirt senior H-back Cedric Thompson. “It was just a surreal experience. Everybody counted us out…we did a great job preparing and we got the result that we wanted.”
“It was fun, to go out there and actually show that we can play with anybody,” said redshirt senior defensive end Thomas Niles. “The whole year [2013] shocking people, taking down top 10 teams like Louisville, playing with South Carolina when nobody really gave us a chance in that game either. Just that whole year [2013] was just great.”
The seniors are used to winning and they do not want to have a 0-12 season and end their UCF careers with a loss.
The Knights want to go out with a bang, win against their rivals (USF) and knock them out of contention to win the American East conference. UCF plans to blackout the Bulls as they will be wearing all black for the first time since 1995.
Everyone remembers their last game, a point touched on by UCF interim head coach Danny Barrett.
“Cause of the love for the game, you never want it to end,” said Barrett.



On Nov. 16, University of Central Florida students gathered with faculty to remember the life of former UCF journalism student and freelance journalist Steven Sotloff. 
Steven’s parents Arthur and Shirley Sotloff gathered in an auditorium at UCF to speak to students about their son and the legacy he leaves behind, inspiring young journalists all over the world.
Steven Joel Sotloff was only 31 years old when he was murdered on camera by Islamic State of Iraq and Greater Syria (ISIS) after being held captive for over 13 months. 
Sotloff is remembered for his heroic acts of journalism through his curiosity, commitment and most importantly, courage. 
Courage is the exact term to describe Arthur and Shirley who sat in front of journalism students from Professor Rick Brunson’s Principles of Journalism class and faculty members to share fond memories of their late son and his passion for journalism. 
“His curiosity and love for people had no bounds,” Shirley said of her son.
Steven attended UCF from 2002 to 2004 where he worked his way up through the publication Central Florida Future to become their senior staff writer and had several stories, most about politics, make the front page. 
After his time at UCF, according to his father, Steven went on a weeklong trip to Israel through the organization called Birthright for young Jewish adults wishing to visit Israel. When he finished the trip, he decided to complete his education there, at the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya College. He received his bachelor’s in Government, Counter Terrorism and Homeland Security. With his degrees he was also awarded Cum Laude honors. 
From there on, Steven jump-started his career working for TIME Magazine, the Christian Science Monitor and World Affairs Journal. As his father perfectly stated, Steven was “compelled to be the voice of the voiceless and report to the world what he had seen.”
Professor Brunson introduced Steven’s parents with a warm welcome and shared a few lines from a tribute to Steven he had written for the UCF Forum, which was later picked up by the Huffington Post. 
“Steven Sotloff dedicated himself to bearing and shedding light, especially in dark corners of the world torn by war and riven by age-old hatreds and intractable, systematic poverty,” Brunson read.
Shirley then stood in front of the audience and began to speak about Steven, how kind, intelligent and well liked he was. She also spoke of his passion for reporting news internationally. 
“He was dedicated to working in those areas of the world where free speech was limited or even harshly prevented. Steven showed us that no matter who you are or where you come from, if you listen and step out of your comfort zone, you will learn, you will grow, and you will experience life through a newer, larger lens,” she said.
Shirley ended by speaking about the scholarship fund she and her husband started a year ago in his name. 
“Everyone has two lives. The second one begins when you realize you have only one.” These words written by Steven in a letter to his parents is what inspired them to start the 2Lives Steven Joel Sotloff Memorial Foundation, a scholarship that has been set up to raise money for aspiring young journalists. 
Funds have provided airfare for journalists traveling to Ireland with training as part of a new global initiative for freelance reporters to help them receive first aid courses, health insurance policies and risk assessment skills.
Board Member of the fund and close family friend Frank Urrutia was sitting by the Sotloffs’ side and not only spoke of the fund but also stated although he wasn’t a dear friend of Steven’s, he said Steven was, “a big inspiration to me because he always demonstrated the characteristics that make this school very special: curiosity, courage, and commitment.”
“It was definitely inspirational, I know there was a lot of mention of death, life, and rebirth but I think its more important to know that there’s an impact today and now, on the people who are living here. For people like me going into journalism, it literally gives us the push to keep going and keep doing this,” journalism student Nicole Garcia said on how she felt hearing the Sotloffs’ speak.
For more information on the 2Lives Steven Joel Sotloff Memorial Foundation, visit the official website.



On Saturday, Nov. 14, Alpha Tau Omega hosted their annual Rock the Wreath charity
concert with a performance by University of Central Florida Alpha Tau Omega alumni, Henry Fong, to benefit The Children’s Miracle Network.

The Children’s Miracle Network raises money for 170 children’s hospitals to support research, training, equipment purchases and pay for uncompensated care to benefit the lives of children across the United States and Canada, according to their website. 
The concert was held at the on-campus fraternity house that transformed their front lawn to resemble a true outdoor concert. The event raised over $31,000 for The Children’s Miracle Network, over $5,000 more than last year’s concert featuring the Ying Yang Twins.
UCF students, alumni and members of the community came out to support the cause and enjoy
performances by UCF students Connor and EJ Dunne, DJ Alex Wood and headliner Henry Fong, with a special guest appearance from DallasK. 
“My brother and I had a ton of fun and were grateful ATO gave us the opportunity to open for Henry
Fong and drop two of our original mixes,” Connor Dunne said. “We were pleasantly surprised by the set up; from the stage, Red Bull tents, tables, audio and visuals, and of course Henry Fong bringing his own energy to the crowd. It was a great experience.”
UCF ATO brother and chairman of the event, Brandon Glaser, spent the semester planning
and preparing for the night.
“It was a pleasure being in charge of this year’s event and I’m so glad to see everyone have a great time; I couldn’t have been more satisfied with the end product,” Glaser said.
All the guests seemed to enjoy the concert: crowding around the stage, singing and dancing as the DJ’s performed and the brothers represented their fraternity and supporters by waving a UCF and ATO flag in the sea of people.
“Rock the Wreath surpassed my expectations. It was amazing to see everyone come together for a
common cause. All the money raised and hard work put into making this a success was incredible to
experience and be a part of,” UCF student Angie Marini said.
The night finished with the announcement of Zeta Tau Alpha winning the fundraising event to
participate in ATO Viking Week 2016 and Kappa Delta member, Eden Marcu, winning the position of
ATO sweetheart.
“I’ve know the gentlemen of Alpha Tau Omega since arriving at UCF and have seen all the time and
effort they put into not just this, but everything they do. I’m excited for what’s in store and thankful I get to represent ATO as their 2016 sweetheart,” Marcu said.
All in all, a lot of time, energy and heart went to making this a rewarding evening and overall
accomplishment.
“Every year we keep building on this show, and I can’t wait to see what the future holds for Rock the Wreath,” Glaser said.
Video provided by Brandon Glaser.



