South Florida’s West Broward alumni opened a second location for a fast grocery delivery service, Knight Grocery. UCF students Jeremy Batista and Justin Shapiro helped launch this business on March 31.
The first location, Gator Grocery, was founded in Gainesville by two other West Broward alumni, Alex Green and Josh Montiel. This location was launched about three weeks before the opening of the Orlando location.
“Alex told me what he was doing and I thought it had great potential,” Batista said. “So I visited him in Gainesville and he showed me the ropes.”
Orders are made online at knightgrocery.com. Once the groceries are added to the basket, one can pay for their groceries online or in-person.
The site consists of over 2,000 products to choose from. If one doesn’t see an item they want, they could contact the business through their website and request for an item to buy and they will add it to their website.
Same day delivery is only available for those that place their order before 9 a.m. Orders placed after that will be scheduled for delivery the following day. Right now, the amount of people on staff is very small, so it’s harder to make same day delivery available for every one.
“It’s only a couple of us right now, but once the business picks up we’ll be looking to make our staff bigger for better service,” Shapiro said.
Products range from subs to beauty care to frozen foods. Along with the total from the groceries bought, one has to pay a delivery fee. There is a standard delivery fee of at least $5. The more one buys, the higher the delivery fee gets. The highest the fee can get is $20 for a $150-$200 order.
“Although one is paying a service fee, they are escaping the hassles of going out to buy necessities,” Batista said.
More information on the delivery prices are available on their website, knightgrocery.com. Keep up with the website and Facebook page for future coupons and discounts available.



University of Central Florida student Jazz musicians took the rehersal hall stage Tuesday night. 
Under the direction of professor Per Danielsson, the ensemble played for the public.  
Check out photos from the concert!



The University of Central Florida’s Victim Services will have its semi-annual Clothesline Project on display in the Student Union during the month of April, which is Sexual Violence Awareness month.
The Clothesline Project is a program started on Cape Cod, Mass., in 1990 to address the issue of violence against women. The project incorporates color-coded t-shirts that each represents a different crime of violence towards women or children. Students and members of the community are invited to share their experiences and empowering statements on a t-shirt for the project.
“What we do is we offer them to anyone who’s been a victim of crime, violence or abuse, their family members or friends,” said Christey Oberbeck, a Victims Advocate within Victim Services and organizer of the project. “It’s their opportunity to say whatever they want. It’s their opportunity to voice things they probably haven’t voiced before. And we put them up.”
The shirts are uncensored, and victims/survivors are welcome to put whatever they feel best expresses their experience. This semester’s Clothesline Project uses cotton t-shirts, while the project showcased in the John C. Hitt Library last October were paper cut-outs.
Victim Services intern Kiara Montero-Reyes, a sophomore sociology major, had wanted to be apart of the project since first seeing the display her freshman year.
“I like how we use this shirt representation because you don’t know who is behind it,” Montero-Reyes said. “It doesn’t matter where they came from, how old they are, what their race is, what gender they are – these shirts just represent an experience that people went through and how they rose above it or are rising above it.”
“[Sexual violence] impacts everybody,” said Oberbeck. “Some of the things that are put on the shirts, you can look at them and you can tell who’s been impacted. And reading those is like, whoa.”
The shirts will be displayed in the atrium of the Student Union April 1 through 30.
“In the end, what we’re trying to show is that even though you may have had a violent time in your life, you can always come back from it,” said Montero-Reyes. “It’s nice to know that there are other people supporting you.”
If you or someone you know is struggling with victimization, please contact Victim Services via their 24/7 hotline at (407) 823-1200.



‘For The Kids’.
While just a saying for some, For The Kids, or FTK, is the motto for those involved in Knight-Thon, UCF’s largest student run philanthropy. 
This year, Knight-Thon set their highest goal ever of $500,000, and was able to surpass that to reach a total of $688,049.19. 
“The closing ceremony was incredible,” said staff member Lesley Crews. “It was a very emotional experience. A lot of people warned me how emotional it would be, but I didn’t really believe them.”
This was Crews first Knight-Thon, and ended up being the largest in UCF history, making Knight-Thon the seventh largest dance marathon in the country. 
“When they announced the total, I was stunned,” Crews said.  “I knew we would probably reach or exceed our goal, but I didn’t know we would go $188,000 over our goal.”
Event Operations Director Chris Hixon was astonished with the results. 
“Seeing this movement grow from $84k and 350 participants my freshman year to $688k and almost 1,100 participants my senior year was incredible,” said Hixon. 
But there was a more personal meaning to the results for him. Hixon was diagnosed with Leukemia when he was six. He credits the support of his local children’s hospital and doctors to help him beat his cancer. 
“Fast forward to college, I see a group of students participating in Knight-Thon and it raised approximately $84,000 for Greater Orlando Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals,” Hixon said. “Seeing 350 college students put aside their weekend to help kids who were just like me was incredible.”
Hixon went on.
“I was astonished by the number because it represented the efforts of thousands of students,” Hixon said. “I wasn’t surprised, however. Knight-Thon is more than an organization, it’s a culture on campus. Students truly are ‘for the kids’ and I could not be happier.”
Hixon doesn’t know what the 2016 Knight-Thon goal will be set at, but he still plans to be involved after he graduates. 
“I’m very, very excited to come back as an alumnus for Knight-Thon’s 20th year,” Hixon said.



