UPDATE: Police report released. 
KnightNews.com dug a little deeper after learning about the underage drinking investigation and discovered that a UCF student who joined Sigma Nu was found in violation of sexual misconduct by UCF’s Office of Student Conduct and is now under criminal investigation by the State Attorney’s Office. 
“We turned the case over to the State Attorney’s Office in April, and no filing decision has been made,” said UCFPD spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin.
KnightNews.com obtained a letter dated May 26 from the Office of Student Conduct confirming it found the student guilty of sexual misconduct and suspended him until Fall 2016. 
The letter shows that his punishment was to write a 2-3 page paper reflecting on a jail tour, conduct an interview with an off campus victim services to discuss alcohol related crimes and women who have been victimized, present a presentation to student conduct showing how his student conduct incidents impacted others, such as the Greek community, and 100 hours of community service, 50 of which must be completed with an alcohol outreach agency, and 50 with a women’s advocacy agency.
When asked about the member’s current status with Sigma Nu, the national office confirmed it is also looking into the incident.
“We will be looking into this matter and will provide a further response in the future as may be appropriate,” said Fred Dobry, Director of Risk Reduction.
It is unclear as to why UCFPD didn’t arrest the student, and instead turned the case over to State Attorney’s Office.
“When a victim of any crime reports to UCF, we are dedicated to helping them move forward in whichever way they decide is best for them. In this case, Student Conduct took action, and UCFPD conducted a criminal investigation. We’re awaiting possible charges from the state,” said Gilmartin.
UCF declined to discuss the case in detail, citing student privacy laws that apply when a student conduct case is brought against an individual, rather than an entire organization.



Today at IHOP, customers can get a stack of pancakes for just 57 cents. The promotion was put together by IHOP to celebrate their 57 years of business.
The deal lasts until 7 p.m. today, July 7.
The closest IHOP location to UCF is located at 11571 University Blvd. There are also various locations on East Colonial Drive and International Drive. 



