Come January, students heading to the Health and Public Affairs buildings, Business buildings, and Engineering buildings for class will have to find a new place to park.
UCF is moving staff parking spots from the C1 parking lot in front of Garage C to the D1 parking lot behind the HPA building to accommodate construction of the Interdisciplinary Research Building, according to UCF spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin. 
Gilmartin also said that Garage C will undergo an expansion in spring that will add 600 additional spots for student parking. 
UCF wanted to remind students that they are able to park near the softball fields and ride the free park and ride shuttle that will be running from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
The shuttle will drop students off at the bus stop near the Health and Public Affairs buildings. 



The recent acts of terrorism across the world are forcing everyone to elevate their security, including major theme parks. 
Walt Disney World, Universal, and SeaWorld all installed metal detectors at the front of their attractions, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
Walt Disney World would not say how long the metal detectors would be in place. Universal said they were testing the new metal detectors as guest approach the theme parks. SeaWorld said it had installed the devices to up security for the holidays, according to the Orlando Sentinel. 
Disney Land and Universal Studios in Hollywood are also installing the metal detectors, according to the Orlando Sentinel. 
After a man was arrested for trying to enter Magic Kingdom with a firearm, Disney World is no longer selling toy guns inside their theme parks. They are also banning all patrons over the age of 14 from wearing costumes, even at Halloween parties. 
The movie theatre at Disney Springs where tonight’s high profile premiere of the Star Wars will also have at least one metal detector, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
“We continually review our comprehensive approach to security and are implementing additional security measures, as appropriate,” Disney said in a statement, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
Universal spokesman Tom Schroder said the decision to test metal detectors was not driven by a specific threat. He said in an email to the Orlando Sentinel, “we want our guests to feel safe when they come here. We’ve long used metal detection for special events, such as Halloween Horror Nights. This test is a natural progression for us as we study best practices for security in today’s world.”
SeaWorld said in an email to the Sentinel that it would be “enhancing security measures for the busy holiday season, including increased security presence both inside and outside the parks.”
Metal detectors are becoming more and more common. They are used at airports, Orlando Magic games, and Major League Baseball games. Six Flags began installing them at most of their parks after the terrorist attacks on 9/11, according to the Orlando Sentinel.



