Halloween is fast approaching, and many students are looking for the right Halloween costume. Theatre UCF may be able to help these students as they offer a costume sale Friday, Oct. 23.
The sale will be from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on the second floor of the Performing Arts Center and will feature full costumes and accessories from past Theatre UCF productions, according to Daniel Jones, the costume shop manager.
“Though some specialty items are more expensive, most are priced $5 or under,” Jones said.
This year promises to have a large assortment of items, as the sale last year didn’t happen. This means a larger selection of materials and costumes for shoppers to select from.
“There’s some wedding dresses, and I know there’s some clown wigs,” said Emily Wille, workroom supervisor for Theatre UCF. “There are some really random things in there.”
The sale directly aims at UCF students and faculty, but anyone is welcome to attend and shop.
“We have a lot of high school and community drama clubs come in and see what there is,” Wille said.
In addition to costumes and accessories, they are selling fabric remnant grab bags, which is a first for the sale.
“That would be ideal for cosplayers and crafters,” Jones said in regards to the grab bags.
All proceeds from the sale will go to Theatre UCF and support the budget for future costumes, according to Jones.
Jones also adds that they will be accepting cash and checks at the sale, but not credit cards.
 
Photo credit Nick Russett.



Voting for The University of Central Florida’s homecoming court opened Monday, Oct. 19 at 9 a.m.
This yearly tradition, which was first held in 1971, allows university students to vote for their desired homecoming king and queen who will be crowned at the end of homecoming week. This year’s homecoming king and queen will be crowned at halftime during the UCFs football game, Saturday Oct. 24.
The 2015 UCF Homecoming Royalty Court consists of five candidates for both categories.
Those competing for the title of Homecoming King includes; Benjamin Destafano from the Student Government Association, Jason Skidmore from the Department of Housing and Residence Life, Michael Ingram from Zeta Beta Tau Fraternity, Michael Manglardi from Sigma Pi Fraternity, and Michael Scimeca from Honors Congress.
The candidates for Homecoming Queen includes; Casey Field from 4Ever Knights, Elaine Gerlt from Chi Omega Fraternity, Kalen Hambrick from Student Athlete Welfare and Development, Mackenzie Chase from Kappa Alpha Theta, and Meneftha Pierre from the National Council of Negro Women organization.
All students who apply to for the homecoming court are required to be of at least junior standing, have a GPA of 3.0 or higher, and meet all UCF Golden Rule Requirements.
UCF students will be able to cast their votes through their MYUCF account until Thursday October 22 at 4 p.m.



