The heart of campus now beats inside of a new corporate body: Aramark.
The proposal between Aramark and the University of Central Florida has been approved by the Board of Trustees on Nov. 19.
However, the BOT voted on an amended motion, saying that the proposal will go through if two local businesses can sublet in the union.
Besides giving Aramark rights to dining in the Student Union, the company will pay $17,850,000 to renovate the union and create their “transformative dining vision,” according to the proposal.
The deal also plans to triple the amount of seating at the union, UCF spokesman Chad Binette said.
As for student input, some UCF students spoke out during the meeting and said they were part of a food focus group regarding the proposal.
As expected from student feedback and interviews, not everyone is thrilled with the outcome out the vote. 
Student protesters from the Student Labor Action Project left the room chanting “shame” after they took a stand for small business rights.
The Catholic Campus Ministry at UCF was filled with many protest signs such as “don’t let Aramark destroy this landmark” and “keep our union ours.”
Student Government Association President and Trustee Cait Zona, who voted for the proposal, said she thinks this benefits the students, not only now but in the future.
UCF SGA Senator Jacob Milich has a different view than Zona on the deal.
“I’m disappointed with the decision that they made, without asking the students what they wanted. That’s the bottom line. The deal may or may not be a good deal, but they should represent the students and the students were never asked. A small focus group does not represent the majority of the students,” Milich said.
Many students have expressed their concern about the vote through social media.
KnightNews.com asked Zona for an interview after the BOT meeting and she said she would not be conducting interviews until next week.
Public speakers:

Raw footage:




Danny White was officially introduced to UCF as the new athletic director by President John Hitt on Thursday at an introductory press conference.
“In my view at least, we have found a true rising star among our nation’s ADs,”Hitt said. “Danny is very talented and in the brief time I’ve met him, I’ll tell you he is determined, he’s energetic and he understands that success starts with winning with integrity.”
White is currently the AD at the University of Buffalo and comes to UCF as one of the youngest athletic directors in the nation at the age of 36. The new athletic director was introduced to a crowd of just over 100 people who included media, student athletes, athletics coaches and staff.
“[UCF] is an institution that is going places very quickly, it has come a long way in a short period of time in the last couple decades,” White said. “And it was something that my wife and I realized we very much wanted to be a part of.”
White also harped on integrity as the biggest factor in developing an unwavering and formidable athletics department for UCF.
However, the biggest topic of inquiry was the search for a new football coach as the program enters the final two games of the season with interim head coach Danny Barrett. While both White and Hitt determined that it would be best for the program to have a new coach by January 1, they would not commit to the date because they want the search to be thorough.
“From what I understand, there is talent on the roster and I won’t be out there selling a rebuild in terms of a football program,” White said. “I’ll be recruiting coaches to come in and raise the bar competitively right away and get us back to where we were.”
Finding the right coach for the program is of the utmost importance to White, but he is aware that the school will have to move quickly to get a new football coach with 11 current vacancies around the NCAA.
Another main focus for the new athletic director will be the development of student-athletes and giving them the best possible experience during their time at UCF.
“Every single decision that we make is going to start and stop with what is in [student-athletes] best interest. I think if we do that, not only will they become our best recruiters, but they will become our best and most connected alumni,” White said.
The new athletic director intends to bring a lot of what he did in Buffalo with him to Orlando and was very complimentary of the school he will be leaving in favor of UCF. White’s start date as the new athletic director for UCF has yet to be determined because a timeframe will have to be worked out with the University of Buffalo.
 



