OCSO responded to a call of aggravated assault at an apartment complex on University Boulevard near UCF.
A fight broke out at Arden Villas Thursday evening and OCSO responded to the 911 call. According to the Orlando Sentinel, one of the people involved had a firearm and is now in custody, Capt. Angelo Nieves said.
Certain buildings at the apartment complex were temporarily evacuated. No injuries were reported, according to the Orlando Sentinel. The scene is now clear. 
KnightNews.com is working on getting the records for this incident. 
Check back for updates to this breaking news story.



KnightNews.com obtained an incident report from UCFPD that indicates a woman was raped by Joaquin “Rod” Mendoza on the night of October 2, 2014 around 2 a.m. at the Sigma Nu Fraternity house located at 12105 Napiers Circle. 
The victim gave a UCFPD officer a typed statement on Monday, February 23, stating that she was at the Sigma Nu house that night and woke up the next morning, October 3, at her residence and was completely nude, and “in a lot of pain and very sore.” Police were informed she “was first found … naked from the waist down in the bathroom while at the Sigma Nu fraternity house,” according to the report. 
The report says that the victim turned over after waking up and saw an empty condom wrapper and a used condom on the ground. 
Despite confirming he does have an attorney, KnightNews.com asked the suspect for a statement on the situation via Facebook and he declined to comment. 
The UCF Office of Student Conduct has already found Mendoza guilty of sexual misconduct. Student conduct’s punishment included suspending him from the university for a year in addition to educational sanctions.
Sigma Nu’s national office released a statement after the UCFPD incident report was released.
“During a Fraternity investigation of the UCF chapter into possible violations of Sigma Nu policies regarding alcohol, our office learned of the sexual assault allegations contained in the UCF Police report. We are deeply troubled by the allegations and immediately suspended the accused student, pending further developments,” said Brad Beachem, Sigma Nu Fraternity Executive Director.
The State Attorney will now decide whether UCFPD’s case will move forward.
“We turned the case over to the State Attorney’s Office in April, no filing decision has been made,” said UCFPD spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin.
Check back for updates on this breaking story.



In just a couple weeks, hundreds of girls will begin pan-hellenic recruitment here at UCF and will eventually find their home away from home for the next 4 years.
The girls go through a tiring week long process but in the end so rewarding. On bid day, Greek row is flooded with hundreds of people. Fraternity brothers will be lined along the sides of the street watching and sororities will be welcoming their new girls home.
We’re working to find other teaser videos being released. If you want your video to be featured, send a link to the video to news@knightnews.com.
Zeta Tau Alpha:

Here are some videos from 2014.
Kappa Delta:

UCF Bid Day 2014:




