The state orally announced a noelle prosequi in open court for the criminal charges against former University of Central Florida football player Kevin Smith. 
A noelle prosequi is a declaration made to the judge by a prosecutor in a criminal case, or by a plaintiff in a civil lawsuit, meaning the case against the defendant is being dropped, according to Law.com.
In April 2015 Smith was arrested for driving on a suspended license, leaving the scene without providing information and failure to sign a court mandatory citation.
KnightNews.com spoke with Angela Starke, Public Information Officer for the Office of the State Attorney: 9th Judicial Circuit, who explained why the criminal charges were dropped.

“Basically we believe that this was a just resolution of the case. Mr. Smith presented us with a valid driver’s license and plead guilty to a civil infraction of driving while a license is suspended,” Starke said.
Starke also mentioned that there was restitution made to the other driver of the car, which was “the most important thing.”
Smith was also originally charged for resisting arrest. However, the charge for resisting arrest was dropped due to unsuitable evidence. UCF Police Officer James Strawn forgot to record the incident with his body camera.
Brigitte Snedeker contributed to this article.



Orange County Sheriff’s Office announced today that they arrested James Joseph in connection to a robbery at the Marquee Apartments.
The robbery occurred on May 16, 2015 when the victim, who owns a mobile auto repair business, was lured into the parking garage where he was pistol-whipped and robbed, according to Orange County spokesperson Jane Watrel. 
According to the incident report, the victim was robbed of his iPhone 6 and $130 after Joseph hit him in the face with a semi-auto style pistol. 
The report stated that the incident began over a dispute the victim had with a customer over an estimated cost of mechanic services. The victim then received a call about a Toyota Corolla that was overheating and needed service. 
The victim met the vehicle owner at The Marquee, located at 12101 Sterling University Lane. 
Joseph hopped into the pickup and said he was going to show the driver, the victim, where the car was located. After driving through the parking garage, between the sixth and seventh floor, the victim was assaulted, according to the incident report.
Joseph told the victim, “You robbed my brother so I’m going to rob you.” Joseph also told the victim that if he called the police then he would find him and shoot him, the report stated.
Also in the vehicle during the incident was the victim’s girlfriend’s brother, who was unharmed. 
Joseph was charged with armed robbery, armed burglary, grand theft third degree, aggravated assault and aggravated battery, according to the report.



