A UCF Parking Services and Transportation employee was was arrested Wednesday night after she kicked and struck an officer during a routine traffic stop, an arrest affidavit said.
Police said Melissa Varga, 23, was driving down Greek Park Drive when she was stopped for traveling 44 mph in a 25 mph zone.  
When police stopped Varga, she told them that she couldn’t pay for the ticket and asked if she was free to leave, the arrest affidavit said. Police asked Varga for her license and registration several times, but she would not supply the documents, the affidavit said. 
According to the arrest affidavit, upon the fifth time requesting for the documents, Varga said that she was leaving and started to roll up her window. The officer then said he put his hands on top of the window to prevent Varga from rolling it up further, the affidavit said. 
The officer told Varga that she was under arrest, but Varga attempted to put the vehicle in gear, the arrest affidavit said. 
“The female driver attempted to put the vehicle in gear, and I reached in the vehicle and grabbed her arm to prevent her from successfully placing the vehicle in gear,” UCFPD Sgt. Hugh Carpenter said in the affidavit. “Once I got a grip on the victims left arm and pulled her towards me she let go of the gear shift and then swung her right arm with an open hand and struck my left arm with her right hand twice.”
Carpenter said he had his partner help him get Varga from the car when she started kicking the officers, the arrest affidavit said. UCFPD said they had to force Varga out of the vehicle by using a pressure-point technique, dragging her out by her legs then forcing her to the ground where the officers were then able to place handcuffs on her, the affidavit said. 
Police said they had to put Varga in an “arm bar” to prevent her from continuing to resist arrest, but Varga still tried twisting her body to break free of the officers’ hold, the affidavit said. 
Police were able to get Varga into the backseat of the patrol car, but when they checked on her a short time later, she had taken off her UCF Parking Services and Transportation shirt and managed to take her left hand out of the handcuffs, the arrest affidavit said. 
Police said Varga tried to resist arrest again and the officers took her to the ground to reapply the handcuff, the arrest affidavit said. 
Varga was charged with battery on a law enforcement officer and resisting arrest without violence. She was held on a $1,600 bond. 



Police closed down the intersection of North Orion Blvd. and Gemini Blvd. Monday afternoon after a female passenger was thrown from a vehicle and the driver fled the area, UCFPD said.
UCFPD spokeswoman, Courtney Gilmartin said witnesses told police a man driving a black Nissan allegedly pushed his female passenger out of the car and into the road. Witnesses said the driver then fled the scene. Police are currently looking for the suspect, who is not a UCF student. 
Gilmartin said the incident was related to a domestic dispute, and the victim, who is not a UCF student, is currently being treated at Orange Regional Medical Center and sustained non-life threatening injuries from the fall. 
An ambulance was sent to the intersection around 11:42 a.m. for a woman who was left on the ground in the middle of the intersection, an Orange County Fire Rescue Public Information Officer said.
A crew from Environmental Health and Safety arrived at the intersection to clean up a substance in the center of the street.
Sam Williams, a junior majoring in electrical engineering, said he saw a car fleeing the intersection at a high speed right after the accident occurred. When he arrived at the intersection, he said he saw the woman in the middle of the street with road rash visible on her feet, legs, arms and face.
“She was pretty messed up with a decent amount of road rash and some kind of facial injury as there was quite a bit of blood coming from her face,” Williams said.
We asked UCFPD if they are still looking for the driver of the vehicle involved in this accident, but they have not followed up with us yet. UCFPD did not release any further updates on the accident, but we’re working on finding out more.
Check back for updates on this breaking news story.



Two UCF fraternities, Sigma Chi and Alpha Tau Omega, were recently appointed the Polaris Star Student Award for their work at the 7th Annual Human Trafficking Awareness Day.
The fraternities had set up a donation drive, where over 1,000 toiletries were collected to be sent directly to victims affected in the Orlando area. A flag football tournament was then assembled, where as many as 15 Greek organizations competed, raising more than $1,200 including donations to be contributed towards the Florida Abolitionists, which work together with the Orlando Police Department to take down the trafficking rings around the area.
Tyler Wright, President of Sigma Chi played a big role in organizing the efforts.
“The main reason we chose this organization to support is because all the donations and supplies go directly to aid victims in our own community. Orlando is the third-largest trafficking market, Florida is the third-largest in the US, and the US is the number one buyer in the world,” Wright said. “The experience opened our eyes to just how many women are affected by this in Central Florida and we are very pleased that we could raise awareness for such an incredible company like Florida Abolitionist.”
Both fraternities have stated they will continue to support the cause in the future.



