A galaxy far, far away is finally coming to Orlando.
Today at the D23 EXPO 2015, The Walt Disney Company Chairman and CEO Bob Iger announced to an audience of more than 7,500 fans that Star Wars-themed lands will be coming to Disneyland park in Anaheim, Calif., and Disney’s Hollywood Studios at Walt Disney World Resort in Orlando, Florida, according to Walt Disney World News.
The expansion will be built on a 14 acre piece of land transporting guests to a never-before-seen planet, a remote trading port and one of the last stops before wild space where Star Wars characters and their stories come to life, according to Walt Disney World News.
“We are creating a jaw-dropping new world that represents our largest single themed land expansion ever,” said Iger.
Iger went on to describe the new expansion.
Click the picture to see what the park could look like:

These new land at Walt Disney World will transport guests to a whole new Star Wars planet, including an epic Star Wars adventure that puts you in the middle of a climactic battle between the First Order and the Resistance.”
But that’s not the only signature attraction. To go along with the battling experience, another ride will allow guests to take control of the Millennium Falcon, one of the most famous ships in all of the galaxy, as they take on a customized secret mission.
It is still unclear as to when the new Star Wars land will open. Click next page to see pictures of what the new Star Wars lands could look like and check back for updates on the story.



Blake Bortles’ sophomore season looks promising, based on last night’s performance.
The UCF alumnnus and now Jacksonville Jaguars’ starting QB threw 15 passes last night against the Pittsburgh Steelers, 11 of which were caught. Bortles racked up a total of 118 passing yards on those 11 completions and rushed for touchdown in which he dove across the goal line.
Bortles wasn’t the only UCF alumnnus to play in the Jaguars’ preseason opener last night. 
Storm Johnson, former UCF running back, had 7 carries for 16 yards. 
Together the former UCF Knights took the down the Pittsburg Stealers 23-21.
Bortles and the Jaguars are scheduled to play their next preseason game against the New York Giants on August 22 at 7:30 EST.



Starting this fall, one of the world’s most popular coasters will shut down for nearly an entire year.
The Incredible Hulk Coaster is scheduled to shut down on September 8 to undergo major enhancement and refurbishment work. The coaster is not scheduled to re-open until next summer, according to Universal Orlando.
Changes to the coaster will include improving the overall experience. The coaster is going to feel more immersive and high tech, according to Universal Orlando.
UCF students can purchase tickets to Universal though the SGA ticket office for a discounted price. One day park-to-park tickets cost $113, one day one park tickets cost $75, and two day two park tickets cost $146. 



Chipotle will start to charge more for their premium proteins later this year.
The company will start charging more for barbacoa and steak later this year by about 4%, according to Business Insider.
This means that a normal steak burrito that currently cost $6.65 will now cost $6.92.
Chipotle customers witnessed price increases last year as well, citing dairy and avocado costs.
Executives told investors that barbacoa and steak items costs chipotle a dollar more to make than items that include chicken or that vegetarian, according to Business Insider.
In New York City, steak and barbacoa items cost about 69 cents more. In cheaper markets like Texas and Ohio, they cost about 40 cents more, according to Business Insider.
Chicken is the top protein choice for chipotle customers, according to Business Insider. 



