Taco Tuesday was in full swing at the Kappa Alpha Theta house for their inaugural Queso for CASA event benefiting abused children.
“We thought we were going to have a good turn out, but we didn’t think we were going to have a line passed sigma chi,” said chief executive officer for the sorority Taylor Aldrich.
CASA (Court Appointed Special Advocates) help represent children who have been abused, neglected, abandoned and who are involved in court proceedings. Kappa Alpha Theta donated profits from Tuesday’s event to the local CASA chapter. 
Guests could buy raffle tickets and enter to win prizes, chat with local vendors such as Guy Harvey and InStyle Boutique, and take funky pictures in the photo booth, all while eating tacos and queso.
The Dalton Stanley Band from Jacksonville played outside on the patio throughout the night. Guests could sit and listen as the band played everything from their own tunes to Outkast covers.
The philanthropic event hit home for one sister in particular. Aliyah Wise, a senior studying communication sciences and disorders, said she knows first hand where the fundraiser money goes.
At 9 years old, Wise was taken away from her biological parents and enrolled in the foster care system. At the age of 12, Wise was adopted by a couple who were able to provide her with a life she said she never would have dreamed of without CASA.
“When I entered the foster care system, I only had the clothes I was wearing when I was taken away. CASA, through events like these, used that money and bought me the clothes and all of the basic necessities I needed,” Wise said. “It means everything to me. I know that [the money] truly touches every child in need. I am so grateful to be able to raise money with my beautiful sisters and support such a great philanthropy.”
Jamie Corey, one of the event organizers, said she was really impressed with the out pour of support from the UCF community.
“We do our superhero 5k in fall, which is really successful, but we wanted to be known for something greater this spring,” Corey said. “We’ve seen from other chapters that they’ve done Queso for CASA, so we decided to bring it to the UCF campus.” Corey, chief marketing director for the sorority, said.
Already, she could see what to keep in mind in following years to make the event even bigger and better.
“Overall I think it was a really good success, everyone was really organized and everyone seems to be having fun,” Corey said.



After numerous debates and three long days of campaigning around UCF’s campus, Cait Zona and Jarell Jones have been elected the 2015 SGA President and Vice President.

The Cait/Jarell ticket running under the “Unleash Your Legacy” slogan defeated both the Brian/Alex ticket and the Stein/Barhamje ticket after receiving a whopping 63.74% of votes from UCF students.
Zagrocki and Bennett received 28.22% of the votes while Stein and Barhamje received 8.02%. The rest were write-in ballots.
[sam_ad id=”5″ codes=”true”]
In total, 7,510 students voted in the election year. Zona/Jones received over twice as many votes as Zagrocki/Bennett with a total of 4,704. Zagrocki/Bennett received 2,083 votes and Stein/Barhamje received 592.
Last year, only 6,124 students voted in the SGA presidential election.
Among Cait and Jarell’s most aspiring platform targets is advocating for video cameras and trash cans in parking garages/lots, lobbying for more textbook affordability, expanding tutoring resources and coordinating student organizations, agencies and SGA together to implement diversity initiatives.



KnightNews.com will be live streaming the 2015 UCF SGA election results. 




ORLANDO, Fla., – The University of Central Florida is getting about $750,000 in grant money to help grow the entrepreneurship ecosystem in Central Florida, the U.S. Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker announced Monday Mar. 30 alongside U.S. Sen. Bill Nelson.
The secretary made the announcement during a press conference at UCF and praised the university for having a comprehensive plan for taking ideas from the research lab to market. UCF was one of 26 institutions to receive a total of $10 million from the department, and one of only two universities to earn both i6 Challenge and Cluster Grants for Seed Capital Funds.
“This achievement is a recognition of the university’s leadership in using innovation and commercialization to help Central Florida recover from the downturn in this region’s manufacturing sector,” Pritzker said.
She described UCF’s approach as well developed and deserving of both grants.
“This is an exciting day for UCF, the region and the state,” said Thomas O’Neal, associate vice president of the Office of Research and Commercialization at UCF who has led UCF’s I-Corps project, which is one of the reasons UCF was named a winner of both grants.
O’Neal said him and his team are working with partners and industry to make Central Florida an epicenter for innovation, technology and entrepreneurship.
“UCF has had much success through a variety of programs in helping some of our students and community members take great ideas through the commercialization and marketing process. These grants will enhance our ability to help more future entrepreneurs across five counties,” O’Neal said, referring to Orange, Seminole, Brevard, Osceola and Volusia counties.
Building on the resources developed at UCF over the past 15 years, the i6 grant will support the university’s new I-Corps project’s “Proof of Concept Center,” where engineers can translate new products – like technology for stronger and quicker prosthetic limbs – into businesses.
The commerce grant is for $500,000 with another $500,000 in matching funds. The center’s mission will be supported by a second $249,933 grant for UCF’s StarterCorps Seed Fund.
This program addresses the gap in seed funding for local entrepreneurs – which is considered one of the largest barriers faced by startups around the country, and Central Florida’s tech startups are no exception.
O’Neal estimates that in the fifth year of the program 195 companies will be created, producing 1,730 new high-wage jobs through the Maker Spaces teams.
The $10 million awarded Monday nationwide comes from the Commerce Department’s Regional Innovation Strategies (RIS) program, which is being run by the Department’s Economic Development Administration’s (EDA) Office of Innovation and Entrepreneurship.
Secretary Pritzker announced the recipients of the first two funding opportunities Monday. Recipients of the third grant will be announced in the coming weeks.



A simple bump quickly escalated into an aggravated assault outside of the Recreation and Wellness Center, police said.
Officers responded outside the gym after a man, Diego Villavicencio, a UCF student, allegedly threatened another student with a pocket knife on March 22, an arrest affidavit said.
Sadie Mercedes was walking outside of the RWC when Villavicencio, 25, bumped into her. Diego Villavicencio
Mercedes told police she wanted an apology, and when Villavicencio wouldn’t apologize, she got her boyfriend involved.
“Excuse you, you just bumped into me,” said Mercedes to Villavicencio.
After Villavicencio told Mercedes that she should have moved out of his way, her boyfriend chimed in telling the him to just say sorry.
That’s when police say Villavicencio pulled out his pocket knife and said that today was not the day to mess with him, the arrest affidavit said. Police say Villavicencio waved the knife at the girl’s boyfriend and said “I don’t feel like doing this right now.”
Mercedes and her boyfriend called police and officers were able to find Villavicencio using surveillance footage and biometrical reader at the RWC.
Villavicencio was was taken to the Orange County jail and is being held on a $1,000 bond.



