Mikanzis Spinella, The University of Central Florida student that was declared missing/endangered earlier this week, has been found safe, according to a Marion County Sheriff’s Office news release.
Spinella was found Tuesday evening at 7 p.m. in Orlando by the Orlando Police Department.
“His family has been notified and he will be reunited with them soon,” the release said.
This is all the information MCSO has at the moment. More details are expected to be released from detectives on Wednesday. 
KnightNews.com would like to thank the UCF community for getting the word out. Check back for updates on this story. 



With Hurricane Danny out of the way, the Atlantic is still stirring and now developing Tropical Storm Erika.
As of 5 p.m. today, Erika is 605 miles east of Antigua with winds at 40 mph and higher gusts, according to the National Hurricane Center. 
Currently, Florida is in the projected path of Erika’s 5-day forecast cone.

“Erika is moving toward the west near 20 mph (31 km/h), and a west-northwestward motion at a slightly slower forward speed is expected over the next 48 hours,” reported the NHC.
The fourth Tropical Storm Erika Advisory states that Erika will be in the northern Leeward Islands tomorrow night. 
KnightNews.com will continue to track Tropical Storm Erika. Check back for updates.



A “faint scent of smoke” has evacuated The University of Central Florida John C. Hitt Library, according to UCF spokesperson Courtney Gilmartin.
The cause of the smoke was “determined to be a burnt out motor inside of a humidifier,” said a release sent by Gilmartin.
UCF Police and the fire department responded to the call at around 1:15 p.m. and the UCF Alert was sent out today at around 1:17 p.m.
Both Orange County and Seminole County Fire Rescue, as well as UCFPD, were on scene and the library perimeter was  closed off.
The library has now reopened. The first floor will remain closed.




UCF Football fans will now be able to enjoy games with and purchase some of the best BBQ food around.
According to the Orlando Business Journal, 4 Rivers Smokehouse will be served in the new Black and Gold Cabana, the beach themed premium seating inside of Bright House Networks Stadium.
UCF recently named Carl Black of Orlando the official sponsor of the 10,000 square feet beach themed section.
Other announcements for the 900 seat cabana are expected soon, Andy Seeley, assistant athletics director of communications, told the Orlando Sentinel.
This is a developing story. Check back for updates. 



