June 26 will be a day to remember as the United States Supreme Court ruled same-sex marriage legal.
KnightNews.com went to campus and interviewed some students on their thoughts.

KnightNews.com reached out to a few University of Central Florida officials and Pride Coalition for commentary on this historic day.
Student Government Association President Cait Zona sent KnightNews this selfie of her and vice president Jarell Jones:

“Today is a great day for our country. We are excited for the people that didn’t have the right to marriage before, and happy that their love will [now] be recognized by all states. Love won today,” said Zona.
UCF Chief Diversity Officer Karen Morrison was not available for an interview but sent a statement:
“Today the U.S. Supreme Court handed down a decision significantly and positively impacting the LGBTQ community of the University of Central Florida. By ruling that marriage discrimination against same-sex couples is unconstitutional, the Supreme Court has put an exclamation point on the long struggle for equal access to the benefits of marriage, emotional, legal and financial. The LGBTQ community and its advocates undoubtedly agree with Justice Kennedy’s opinion as it states, when discussing the importance of the right to marriage as equal protection under the law that these citizens “…ask for equal dignity under the law. The Constitution grants them that right.”
KnightNews.com Facebook messaged Pride Coalition at the University of Central Florida, and although the message is marked as “seen” they did not respond.



Incoming freshmen gathered on campus Friday for yet another UCF Orientation. 
KnightNews.com was at the UCF Student Union to talk the freshmen and ask them about their major, favorite building on campus, and what sets them apart from the rest of the students at UCF.
As always, hilarity ensued as Justin Levy spoke to the freshmen.

Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get UCF News like this on your feeds!
Follow @UCFKnightNews
Click here to watch Part 1: The first UCF Orientation Video
Click here to watch Part 2: The second UCF Orientation Video
Click here to watch Part 3: The third UCF Orientation Video
Click here to watch Part 4: The fourth UCF Orientation Video
Click here to watch Part 5: The fifth UCF Orientation Video
Click here to watch Part 6: The sixth UCF Orientation Video



Today will go down in history as a day where everyone has the right to marry the gender they love.
Same-sex marriage was ruled legal in a 5-4 decision in the U.S Supreme Court this morning, NBC News reported.
“The constitution promises liberty to all within its reach,” Justice Anthony Kennedy, who wrote the decision, wrote according to NBC News.
“It would misunderstand these men and women to say they disrespect the idea of marriage. Their plea is that they do respect it, respect it so deeply that they seek to find its fulfillment for themselves,” Kennedy told NBC News. “Their hope is not to be condemned to live in loneliness, excluded from one of civilization’s oldest institutions. They ask for equal dignity in the eyes of the law. The Constitution grants them that right.”
Before the decision, 36 states allowed same-sex marriage, NBC News reported. It also says that this ruling lifts the restrictions in the other 14 states.
“The decision capped a remarkably quick turnaround in public and judicial acceptance of same-sex marriage. In the past 18 months, court rulings struck down marriage bans in rapid succession — nearly 60 separate decisions in more than half the states,” NBC News reported.
Check back on KnightNews.com for updates on this story and reactions from the UCF campus.



