University of Central Florida students Shearly Reyes and Alexa Fernandez are taking a gap semester and backpacking through Europe. Tonight, Nov. 13, was their first night in Paris, the night the city was attacked.
Reyes and Fernandez said they were at a cafe about three miles from the first attack and about one mile from the second.

They say this photo of them in front of the Eiffel Tower was taken maybe an hour before the attacks.
“While it was happening, there was like SWAT style trucks racing down the streets, everyone was told to go indoors so we headed back to our Hotel. Now we are finding out the borders are closed and we won’t be able to leave, all of the military is mobilized, and everything including our hotel is under police lockdown. Also there are dozens of police cars patrolling the streets but I imagine it’s because we are so close,” Reyes said.
Fernandez described the attack sounds “like fireworks.”
When asked how she felt about being there in the moment, Reyes responded “Extremely terrified, it’s scary seeing something like this ‘the worst terrorist attack in Europe since 2005’ happen just a mile away from us. At the same time it’s really impressive to see the aftermath, the unity, and the compassion towards other human beings. Regardless of age, sex, gender, and nationality.”
The two say that the way the French are responding is impressive.
“Citizens are opening their door to complete strangers stranded in the city (since hotels aren’t taking in guests) and it just honestly shows their generosity and [resilience],” Reyes told Knight News.
No one is allowed to enter or leave their hotel and all the guests are watching television in the common areas consoling each other.
CNN reported that there were at least 128 killed and “eight extremists are dead after attacks. Seven of them were killed in suicide bombings.” However, these numbers have not been confirmed by Knight News.



There are not many things university students are willing to do on a Monday – but quite a few attendees arrived to the Pegasus Ballroom early on Nov. 9 to get some cultural awakening that morning.
The University of Central Florida’s very own College of Arts and Humanities held a demonstration from the Wakayama Performance Group of a Japanese Lion Dance. 
This traditional dance – also known as “Edo Satokagura,” has been around for generations as a form of storytelling and also provides an influence on many of Japan’s other performing arts.
The first performance introduced an interesting character to the audience – one who wore the mask of a man on one side, and the mask of a woman on the other. In this dance called “Ryōmen Odori”(two-sided dance), the lone dancer alternates between the man and the woman by turning around at certain moments. When the woman’s mask was facing the audience, there was a composed, yet playful feeling to it; the woman you were seeing was open to others and willing to show off her talents. The man was far more playful, taking a fan that was open at some point and spinning it around on his finger. The male portion of the mask showed his tongue sticking out – almost as if he was being comical for the audience, his smile reaching you as you watched him play around on stage.
Going from a joyful dance to a flute solo – Wakayama Performance Group’s leader, Suzuki Kyōsuke performed a piece about “raging waves crashing against a rock in stormy seas.” The sound of Suzuki’s flute resonated through the hall – at first anyone who did not know the story behind the pitches would not understand why they were so high – but it works perfectly, since the intensity helped picture the strength of nature. It was an ironic strength of sound that measured up to the message it was trying to send.
Edo Bayashi (Edo band) came next, where four performers were spread across three instruments: two were on the Shime daiko (a small drum), one on the Okedou (a large drum) and the final performer played the Shinobue (bamboo flute). This performance is a part of Tokyo Shitamachi area festivals, and the arrangement in comprised of five parts, all representing portions of a festival, from the Yatai (food stalls) to Shouden (entry into the shrine/temples). It was an extravagant suite comprised of varying sounds, sure to get anyone into a festive mood.
The final portion of the event and a perfect way to end it all – with the Edo Kotobukijishi (Edo Lion Dance). Suzuki once again too reign of the stage beneath a lion costume, performing this dance representative of victory and used to dispel bad spirits and bring good luck. The “lion” so to speak, adventured around stage, took a quiet nap and even interacted with the audience as much played, changing dependent on its “mood.” Suzuki’s skill and command of the costume could truly make anyone think they were watching an elegant creature on stage.
Wakayama Performance Group truly gave everyone in attendance a delightful way to start their week, while exposing the UCF community to yet another extravagant culture that is among those in our very own community.
Photo credit: Katherine Ceballos



