The Iota Theta chapter of the Theta Chi Fraternity will have to take down their letters from Greek Park.
Theta Chi’s housing contract was terminated two weeks after a house party which violated the fraternity’s lease agreement with the university with alcohol, fire safety and disregard for property, UCF spokesman Chad Binette said.

The fraternity is facing the following violations according to the housing incident report:
Alcoholic beverages violation
Disruptive conduct
Harmful behavior
Larceny/property damage
Misuse or unauthorized use of university facilities and grounds
“The UCF Police Department responded to a fire alarm at Theta Chi around 8:45 p.m. Nov. 19. Officers found a bicycle lock placed around the front door, preventing people from entering or leaving that way. They also found multiple people passed out and intoxicated – one was treated and released at an area emergency room — and no apparent measures to prevent underage people from drinking,” according to Binette.
The incident report said various resident assistants from Lake Claire realized a fire alarm was going off in Greek park and informed graduate residence coordinators to check on the students who were being evacuated, the incident report stated. The GRC’s were then informed that one fire alarm was pulled intentionally.
Two GRC’s entered the house and “observed medical assistants aiding two intoxicated individuals,” the incident report stated. They were told by Officer Holt “that the students had originally been monitored by student ‘sober monitors” before police and medical response teams arrived on scene.”
A GRC then walked through the house with two officers who located other intoxicated students passed out in other rooms throughout the house, according to the incident report.
“During the past few years, the University worked with the fraternity to resolve numerous issues and actions, which individually could have constituted a default of the Lease. The current actions of the fraternity are intolerable and demonstrate an unwillingness to comply with the covenants and conditions of the lease,” the termination letter said.
The lease agreement the fraternity had with UCF Housing and Residence Life said it would be breached if “any major violation, or three (3) or more minor violations within any lease year, committed by chapter members, of the terms and conditions of this lease agreement, ‘The Golden Rule,’ the ‘Community Living Guide’ and/or the Housing Rules and Regulations, which in landlord’s sole discretion demonstrates a ‘lack of institutional control by nationals, housecorp and/or chapter.”
The fraternity was notified of the termination during a meeting on Friday with the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life. The 35 men currently living there must be out of the house by the end of the semester.
UCF is helping the brothers returning to campus find housing for the spring and summer semesters.
“This behavior clearly does not reflect the values we expect our students to uphold, and we acted swiftly to address it,” Binette said.
Theta Chi Fraternity International Headquarters released the following statement:
“Theta Chi Fraternity International Headquarters has been notified of the reports of concerning activities that took place on November 19, 2015 at the University of Central Florida. Student health and safety is the Fraternity’s primary concern. Theta Chi Fraternity has placed its University of Central Florida Chapter on suspend status and has staff on campus conducting an investigation. The Fraternity has been cooperating with University of Central Florida administrators and will take appropriate action based on the outcome of the investigation.”
The Theta Chi house has been on campus since 2009 and is one of four houses in Greek Park owned by the university.



A clench of the jaw or a few twitches of a cheek can now propel a wheelchair into action thanks to a collaboration between dedicated individuals.

A group of five mechanical engineers at the University of Central Florida took on the task of designing an idea from the non-profit and UCF-based Limbitless Solutions. The product is a 3D printed box with electromyography (EMG) sensors attached that allows a hands- free operation of a wheelchair. The sensors pick up the pulse of facial muscle movement, which then makes its way to the box that transfers these movement into analog signals. As a result, these movements trigger the joystick present on the majority of wheelchairs on the market today. Christian Rodriguez, one of the team members, said more independence for quadriplegics is now a reality.
“Facial muscles are usually the only muscles they can use, so we can use the temporal muscles to turn left and right and go backward and forward,” Rodriguez said.
This product is universal and can be transferred from wheelchair to wheelchair. Another advantage of this product is the low cost in comparison to other options. While other hand-free wheel chairs can go above $1,000, this option costs around $300. The team and Limbitless Solutions hope this will provide more independence regardless of financial situation.
The name the team chose for their end of the semester project….Project Xavier, and for a very appropriate reason.
“We decided this as we were watching, of course,  X-men, and we noticed that a lot of people of thought  Professor Charles Xavier was controlling his wheelchair with his mind. And a lot of people saw us using our wheelchair and thought the same, so we though it would be a good fit,” Rodriguez said.
Another team member, Steven Hellmann,  hopes to see the EMG controlled wheelchair go beyond the prototype and reach mass production.
“We’re hoping to get the final version completed that is safe and reliable which can be delivered to anyone who needs it,” Hellmann said.
Rodriguez said that there is interest coming from all over to utilize this innovative technology. He said Limbitless Solutions is the first to use EMG sensors to control a wheelchair.



The University of Central Florida Police Department responded to an aggravated assault on campus at around 4:30 a.m. Friday morning.
A silver handgun was pulled on some chapter members of the Sigma Chi Fraternity outside of Greek Park Court, according to a UCF alert.
The three men were on campus and the alert states they “saw an opportunity” when they spotted people outside of the fraternity house.  
“The men approached chapter members sitting on the front porch and questioned them. The men then began to walk through the parking lot and suspiciously look at cars. A silver handgun was pulled when they were approached and asked to leave,” according to the alert.
The men took off on a silver Mustang with chrome wheels towards Gemini Blvd. and right on Alafaya Trail.
The white males, who the fraternity brothers did not recognize, were wearing a yellow hoodie, back with a gray hoodie, and middle eastern with a hoodie, said the alert.
“We believe this to be a random act of crime, and we encourage you to remain vigilant and contact police if you see activity that seems suspicious,” the alert stated.
This investigation is still ongoing. UCFPD asks anyone with information to contact them at 407-823-5555.
Listen to the 911 call released by UCFPD:



