The plaza containing the CFE arena was evacuated Tuesday night after a gas leak was reported in Knightro’s, a UCF campus dining hall, officials said. 

Orange County Fire Rescue arrived at Knightro’s around 9:15 p.m. and blocked off East Plaza Drive. They also evacuated all students and employees from All Knight Study, the CFE Arena and Jimmy John’s because of the leak.
Knightro’s supervisor Kelly Underwood told KnightNews.com that she was sitting in her office around 9 p.m. Tuesday night when a strong smell of propane was so overwhelming that she thought she was going to pass out. 
Underwood told KnightNews.com that she tried to air out Knightro’s, but the smell was so strong that she called 911 and evacuated all the employees. The dining hall was closed at the time and only employees were in Knightro’s when it was evacuated. 
OCFR had all the pipes turned off around 10 p.m., shortly before employees were allowed back inside of the plaza to get their belongings.
Courtney Gilmartin, spokeswoman for UCF Police, said officials will be working through the night to test every pipe individually so they can find the leak and repair it. 
UCF sent out an alert Wednesday morning notifying students the CFE arena and surrounding businesses were reopened for business. 
A UCF Basketball game wrapped up shortly before the gas leak was reported. Gilmartin said less than 100 people in total were evacuated from the plaza, most being employees. 



Have a craving for some funnel cakes and candy apples? Or maybe you just want to ride the Ferris wheel, the ring of fire and then see some livestock? 
Well you’re in luck, the Central Florida Fair will be in town from Feb. 26 to March 8. The fair is located at 4603 West Colonial Drive and will have all the typical fair food, rides and entertainment you know and love.
Special Nights:
Thursday, February 26:
-For the opening night, you bring a canned food item for $1 admission and $1 rides all night long.
Tuesday, March 3:
-All rides will only cost $2
Wednesday, March 4:
-For college student night, there will be with free admission with a student ID.
All other nights of the fair the admission will cost $10 for adults at the gate and $25 for the unlimited ride wristband (on weekdays) and $30 (on weekends)
You can also buy the tickets online here. 



Toast to Craft Beer throughout Downtown Orlando this Saturday.
Axis Magazine is hosting the 3rd Annual Great Orlando Craft Beer Festival at Wall St Plaza on Saturday, Feb. 28, from 3 to 7 p.m.

Participants will have the opportunity to sample 15 unique American craft beers at 15 Downtown Orlando bars.
Participating breweries include:
Brooklyn Brewery, Two Henry’s Brewing Company, Abita Beer, Stone Brewing Company, New Belgium Brewing, Anchor Steam Beer, Oskar Blues, Orange Blossom Brewing Company, Orlando Brewery, Dogfish Head, Terrapin Beer Co, Lagunitas Brewing, Sam Adams, Sierra Nevada and Rogue. 
The event will finish with a festival after party at Hooch featuring live bands on stage.
Advance tickets are available for $20 plus a $2.09 fee.
Tickets are $30 the day of the event.



It’s Monday morning and for the half-asleep, zombie-like students making their way to class, their morning walk got a little shaken up as 500 fifth graders took over UCF. 
The Burnett Honors College hosted their annual Achieve a College Education, or Ace Day benefiting local Title 1 elementary schools.

The event is organized to give fifth graders the opportunity to shadow college students and experience what college is like. According to Kelly Astro, the Director of Research and Civic Engagement, it’s all about planting that seed in their minds. Fifth graders from Pineloch, Winegard, Shingle Creek, Lake Weston, and McCoy attended workshops with UCF faculty in a range of studies, from nursing to astronomy, to theater and biology.
[sam_ad id=”5″ codes=”true”]
Astro explained they can only host as many fifth graders as they can afford, but their goal is to fill the Pegasus Ballroom someday. That’s where the day started with a pep rally hosted by UCF cheerleaders. A highlight for many kids was their Firehouse Sub lunch, which they enjoyed alongside Knightro, at the Reflection Pond. Astro said that the day’s activities would not be possible without the help of all the students who volunteered.
The funding for Ace Day came primarily from a grant from Orlando SOUP, a micro-granting dinner for creative projects in the Orlando community. Members of the community chose Ace Day among the four projects that were presented, which awarded Ace Day with $700 for its funding.
For Daniel Washburn, a senior and industrial engineering major, Ace Day means a lot as he has mentored quite a bit. He believes every kid should have the opportunity to attend college if he or she chooses.
“I think it’s realistic for anyone to go [to college]. I think the more support they have from their family members and friends, and more acceptance of it would be beneficial,” Washburn said.



In honor of National Eating Disorder Awareness Week, several UCF organizations came together to host the Loves EveryBODY campaign. Loves Every Body is a week-long event going on from Feb. 23-27 that hopes to promote healthy body image to college students.
UCF Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS), Health Services, Wellness and Health Promotion Services and the Recreation and Wellness Center teamed up to host Loves EveryBODY, which includes programs and events geared towards educating people about eating disorders.
“This week is in celebration of National Eating Disorder Awareness Week,” CAPS psychological resident Susan Tweeten said. “It is a national event where people get to learn about eating disorders, warning signs and symptoms. We also want to generally promote a culture of body and self-acceptance on our campus.”
The week began with all the involved organizations setting up a photo booth in front of the Student Union on Monday, Feb. 23. Students were able to write positive messages to themselves on white boards and take photos with them.
“I really love how it makes talking about body image part of the conversation,” UCF Project HEAL President Amy Maitner said. “I really feel like people don’t talk about it enough. We want to see people walk by and look at it and then start to really question how they’re looking at their body and whether that’s a healthy relationship they have going on.”
Project HEAL: Help to Eat, Accept and Live, is a non-profit organization that raises awareness of eating disorders and also fundraises for treatment scholarships for people who cannot afford to go to professional treatment.
“Our main purpose at UCF is to hold biweekly support group meetings and educational meetings on healthy body image,” Maitner said.
CAPS provided mirrors for students to write positive messages to themselves on, and will continue to provide inspiring materials throughout the week.
“We embrace the opportunity to come out on campus and talk to different students about what they may be experiencing and give them the support they need,” CAPS intern Rebecca Lowe said.
UCF Loves EveryBODY will continue with other events and programs during this week. Tuesday will be dedicated to Multicultural Perspectives on Body Image and Eating Concerns. Wednesday is Healthy Eating 101, and Thursday is Journal To Self Discovery Day.



A Valencia College student was stabbed outside of the Knight’s Pub early Tuesday morning, according to the Orange County Sheriff’s Office.
UCF sent out an alert at 2:18 a.m. warning students of an apparent stabbing outside of Knight’s Pub. According to OCSO, a fight broke out in the parking lot outside of Knight’s Pub just after closing and an 18-year old Valencia student, identified as Alex Martinez, was stabbed multiple times in the stomach. 
According to OCSO, Martinez was transported to Orlando Regional Medical Center in critical condition. The Orange County Sheriff’s Office sent an update Tuesday evening saying Martinez is in critical, but stable condition. 

KnightNews.com has learned that Martinez is doing better after surgery and is now able to start talking again.
KnightNews.com reached out to Knight’s Pub who said that they are going to be ramping up security following the stabbing. 
“We definitely don’t want something like this happening again. We try our best to make this place safe and we’re going to work with officials in the investigation,” said an employee of Knight’s Pub who identified himself as a manager.  
The UCF Alert described the suspect as a light skinned black male wearing a red shirt. Cops say the suspect fled the scene. 
According to OCSO, the several witnesses that were interviewed by deputies could only provide limited information due to their intoxication levels.  



One student has not only overcome her own struggles but is now helping pave the way for others to as well.
When it comes to helping people, Ketney Jean, a social worker and junior at the University of Central Florida, has no limits.
“The thing is that I always knew what I liked,” Jean said. “I love helping people that are going through tough times and struggling. Helping them at their very low point is what I find most fulfilling.” Jean said, adding that she finds happiness every time she helps someone.
Jean started helping out at the Covenant House in January. The company is a privately funded agency that provides immediate help the homeless. Since she started volunteering there, Jean said she has gotten a clearer vision of where she wants her life directed.
Jean had a rough start in life. She didn’t get much attention from her mother and didn’t feel much of her support growing up.
“It was more like tough love,” Jean said. That led to different personal situations that she said sank her into constant depressions and auto-destructive situations to the point of having suicidal thoughts.
She said this is one of the reasons why she finds helping homeless people so fulfilling and also why she takes so much interest in helping them.
“In my opinion, they’re at the lowest, lowest point in their lives. That is the best time to look up at where you can go,” Jean said.
Recently, as Jean was driving to work she saw a homeless family walking down the street and decided to stop to see if she could help them in any way. After learning that they had been homeless for a while, she offered them a ride to a hotel on Lee Road and ended up spending half of the day with this family.
Kaylum Manuel, Tabatha Malley and their three kids have been homeless for seven years. They have tried different ways of finding a way out, but after losing everything they had and being stuck with no money, Manuel said it becomes very hard.
“The system doesn’t make it easy,” Manuel said with watery eyes.
Manuel and Malley said Jean not only gave them a ride to a hotel, but also paid out of her own pocket for them to stay three nights. They said she talked to them about the available options they have to get back in their feet. They described Jean as a great human being and said the world needs more people like her, willing to help.
Jean wants to start a company in the near future to financially be able to sustain the vision she has to help out her community and give to the people that are most in need, such as the homeless. She said she hopes to provide a place to stay as well as counseling to help them get out of the financial and mental situations they are unable to brake by themselves.
Jean is thankful for her past, because it has made her into the woman she is now.
“If I didn’t go through half the stuff that I’ve done, I wouldn’t be the person I am now,” Jean said.  
Jean said is not about how you act is when everything is good, but how you are when everything is chaotic.
“Regardless of what happened to me, today I still remain grateful because there’s always something that I can learn from,” Jean said.



