Update, 11 p.m.: Tropical Storm Erika has shifted slightly east off its previous projected path.
The storm is now predicted to hit Florida from the east coast late Sunday into Monday as a hurricane, according to the National Hurricane Center 5-day Forecast Cone.
“No significant change in strength or perhaps some slight weakening is anticipated during the next 48 hours,” the NHC reported.
There is still a lot of uncertainty in the storm’s path. KnightNews.com will continue tracking Tropical Storm Erika.
Check back for update in the morning.
Is Florida ready for a hurricane after 10 years? Tropical Storm Erika seems to be heading toward the Sunshine State as it continues gaining strength. 
According to the 5-day Forecast Cone from the National Hurricane Center, Erika is predicted to enter Florida around Sunday night and reach Central Florida by Monday.
The Forecast Cone presumes that Erika will strengthen into a hurricane. 

As of the latest NHC Intermediate Advisory, Erika is around 155 miles (250 kilometers) east of Antigua with winds at 45 mph (75 km/h).
“A west-northwestward motion at a slightly slower forward speed is expected over the next 48 hours,” The NHC advisory said.
However, Erika will have to face some obstacles before the storm makes it to Florida. 
“Erika is forecast to move through an area of moderate to strong westerly shear during the next two to three days. Although the NHC intensity forecast during that time shows no change in intensity, weakening is possible during the next couple of days,” according to the NHC.
“Erika also has the potential to temporarily stall or move very slowly somewhere near the Florida peninsula next week. Depending on the exact path, this has the potential to bring excessive rainfall and flooding to parts of the Sunshine State,” the National Weather Service reported.
Erika is expected to make its way through the Leeward Islands overnight.
KnightNews.com will continue to track Tropical Storm Erika. Check back for updates.



Blaze Fast Fire’d Pizza knows the way to college students’ hearts: free pizza.
The pizza joint is officially set to open its doors to the University of Central Florida community on Thursday, Sept. 3 at Plaza on University.
To celebrate its opening, this Blaze Pizza location will be hosting Free Pizza Day the day after, Friday, Sept. 4 where people can enjoy free 11-inch artesian pizzas from 11 a.m. – 11 p.m. 
Besides their artisanal pizzas, fresh salads, blood orange lemonade and s’more pies, Blaze Pizza will also offer gluten-free dough, vegan cheese, wine and craft beers.
“Blaze uses an interactive assembly line format that allows guests to create their own artisanal pizzas. Customers choose an unlimited amount of toppings from a wide variety of house-made sauces, fresh vegetables and hand-selected meats and cheeses – all for under $8. The 11” personal pizzas are then sent to a blazing hot open-flame oven — the centerpiece of the restaurant — where dedicated pizzasmiths ensure that the thin-crust pies are “fast-fire’d” in under 180 seconds,” a press release sent back in April stated.
The hours of operation will be 11 a.m. to midnight Sunday-Wednesday and 11 a.m. to 1 a.m. Thursday-Saturday.
“The Orlando community expects greatness for every venture, and that’s just what we’re giving them with this unique pizza experience,” Laurie Ruggles, Managing Partner for Blaze in Florida, said. “Blaze Pizza is great for UCF students looking for a fast, quality pizza option that won’t break their budget. We are bringing back the classic pizza joint, but with a modern, fast-as-lightning twist.”
For more information on Blaze Fast Fire’d Pizza, visit their official website.



UCF Homecoming revealed its 2015 theme at noon Wednesday to be Knights Come Together.
Homecoming Week begins Oct. 18 with Kidz Carnival and will close with the UCF vs. Houston homecoming game on Oct. 24. All events are free for UCF students.
A list of events during the week includes:
On Monday, royalty voting opens at 9 a.m. and on Thursday Coins Wars will take place at 11 a.m.
The UCF vs. Houston Homecoming game will kick off at 5:00 p.m. at Bright House Networks Stadium.



