The College Democrats at UCF will host ‘UCF Stands with Paris’ on Monday from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. outside the Student Union to show the university community’s support for Paris after the terrorist attacks. 
Students will sign the banner to show unity between the UCF community and the victims of the terrorist attacks. The banner will then be sent to the Consulate of France in Orlando, Fla. 




Along with many Republican presidential hopefuls, the University of Central Florida was well represented by a large crowd of UCF Young Republicans.
Students couldn’t be happier with their political party and had a great time learning more about their favorite politicians.
During the Republican Party of Florida’s event, UCF’s College Republicans got the opportunity to shake hands take pictures and even discuss policy with the party’s presidential candidates.


Watch the video to hear more about the College Republicans day at the Sunshine State Summit.



A UCF student reported anti-Semitic labels on a campus newsstand to the university early Sunday afternoon.
Knight News received reports from students upset the Nazi flag with a swastika on it was found glued to the front of the box, under a Star of David labeled “1% Bankers.”
Knight News has learned the offensive symbols have since been removed and that Sunday’s incident appears to be the first of an isolated act to happen in the residential area.
Outrage from UCF students quickly spread throughout social media, expressing their sorrow and
disappointment that behavior of this nature was found on their campus.
Knight News has learned at least one security camera pointed away from the location did not capture the act as it took place.
KnightNews.com’s Jake Hood and Joe Klawe contributed to this report.



Republican primary presidential candidates gathered in Orlando at the Rosen Shingle Creek Hotel for the Sunshine State Summit Friday and Saturday.
Conservatives from across the state came to see their party’s potential presidential nominees discuss the issues that conservative voters care most about. These issues included immigration, taxes and terrorism.

The candidates that were in attendance at the Summit were Ben Carson, Donald Trump, Marco Rubio, Ted Cruz, Jeb Bush, Rand Paul, John Kasich, Bobby Jindal, Mike Huckabee, Carly Fiorina, Rick Santorum, Chris Christie, Jim Gilmore and Lindsey Graham.
During the event, conservatives would pack a large ballroom and listen to the candidates make their case for why they should be the party’s nominees.
Friday evening, while the summit was occurring, news of the terrorist attacks killing around 120 in Paris  spread. ISIS later claimed responsibility. This attack was a terrible tragedy and all the candidates have since given their personal condolences to the families and the victims of the attack.
During the candidate’s press conferences, the candidates were asked a series of questions ranging from policy differences between them and other candidates to how they will improve the lives of college students. 
Watch the links below for Knight News full press conference footage and videos of the Republican Presidential candidates. Click here for interviews with UCF College Republicans who snapped selfies with candidates at the event. 
John Kasich’s press conference:

Ben Carson’s press conference:

Mike Huckabee press conference:

Rand Paul press conference:

Bobby Jindal press conference:

Jim Gilmore one-on-one interview with Knight News:

Donald Trump’s speech (he did not have a press conference):

Carly Fiorina’s speech (she did not have a press conference):




Alpha Tau Omega held its annual Rock The Wreath Concert Saturday night. The fraternity told Knight News it raised over $30,000, benefiting the Children’s Miracle Network, a non-profit organization that raises money for more than 170 children’s hospitals.

Former UCF Alpha Tau Omega member Henry Fong headlined the event. Knight News was a proud media sponsor of the charity concert.
ATO also announced Kappa Delta member Eden Marcu as winner of their sweetheart competition this year. Zeta Tau Alpha came in first place fundraising for last night’s event, being chosen to participate in the fraternity’s 2016 Viking Week.




Check back for video soon.

Check back for video soon.



