Walt Disney Imagineering has already begun collaborating with film director James Cameron and film production company Lightstorm Entertainment on an Avatar-themed park expansion, but the first long awaited sneak peek at what’s behind construction walls has been released to the public.
Park officials claim the expansion will be unlike anything at any other Disney Park and that it will allow guests to “fly with (Pandora) banshees.”

“This creative process has been one of the most dynamic and collaborative ones we’ve ever undertaken,” said Bruce Vaughn, Chief Creative Executive of Walt Disney Imagineering. “We’re having a lot of fun dreaming up ways to bring life to the land’s iconic elements from the magnificent floating mountains to the interactive bioluminescent forest, and even to the soaring banshees.”
Disney’s Animal Kingdom will be expected to host the expansion, with towering cranes hanging over the construction zone visible from the parking lot.

The “Pandora” inspired land, based off of James Cameron’s blockbuster Avatar movie, will be expected to open around 2017, following a 2016 release of an Avatar sequel.
Discovery Island’s Discovery River will be the center of a new event called “Rivers of Light.” Additional changes to Animal Kingdom will be a true “full day” experience with extended park hours, intended to engage guests as nightfall arrives. 
Animal Kingdom usually stays open until 8 p.m. at the latest, and 5 p.m. at the earliest for guests wanting to visit animal exhibits. Other additions to Animal Kingdom, such as a nighttime version of Kilimanjaro Safari, will be phased in, separate of Pandora, according to Tom Staggs, chairman of Walt Disney Parks and Resorts.



UCF’s fishing club, Reel Knights, has teamed up with the Coastal Conservation Association of Florida to create a Knight’s chapter of the association.
The Coastal Conservation Association is a non-profit that works to preserve the Florida we know for the next generation through various sustainability practices.
This is one of the first college chapters of the CCA and with the support of sponsors like Costa, Bass Pro Shops and Carl Black Chevrolet the Knights chapter will host its first banquet.
Tickets are $40 for single admission or $70 for a couple’s ticket.  The ticket includes admission to the banquet, membership in the CCA, dinner catered from Ale House, access to the open bar, an event t-shirt, a Tervis Tumbler, participation in the silent auction and other raffle prizes.  The money raised will go towards funding the CCA’s efforts to conserve Florida’s vast fisheries.
President of Reel Knights, Ryan Hullihan, says the event welcomes everyone.
“The banquet is for everyone, not just the people at UCF who fish. The CCA’s banquets are always a great time and all the proceeds go towards helping sustain Florida’s many habitats.”
The banquet will take place on Thursday, April 23 at 6 p.m. Carl Black Chevrolet on Colonial Drive will host the event.
You can buy your ticket at the Reel Knights’ meeting located in HPA 125 on April 16 at 8 p.m. or you can purchase a ticket online at http://www.ccaflorida.org/index.php/cca-florida-chapters/knights.



It’s UCF finals week and Katie Noll gets ready to study only to discover her computer hard drive has failed. 
Noll, a freshman general business major at UCF, decided to give laptop notes a try last semester, which was a change for her. She was disappointed in how her grades dropped due to her computer distracting her in class and the misfortune of her hard drive failing.
“I lost everything on my computer and I didn’t do good on the final because I lost all my notes, so yeah I stick to hand writing notes now,” Noll said.
Researchers at Princeton University and the University of California, Los Angeles, published a study last year that found handwritten notes to be more effective in helping students retain information. The study asked approximately half of the 67 Princeton students and 151 UCLA students to take notes by hand and the other half to take notes using a computer while watching a 15-minute TED talk.
The study found that students who used a computer for notes had more typed in an organized manner but typed the exact information. Students who wrote the notes had fewer words but they used keywords, which allowed them to comprehend the topics.
“Although more notes are beneficial, at least to a point, if the notes are taken indiscriminately or by mindlessly transcribing content, as is more likely the case on a laptop than when notes are taken longhand, the benefit disappears,” the study states.
Simone Delahoussaye, a UCF junior psychology major, takes all her notes by hand. She thinks that using electronics for notes is just too distracting and takes away from what is being said in the present.
“I comprehend more writing it just because I, I don’t know, it takes a little bit more effort and a little more time,” Delahoussaye said. “I even use notecards because it helps reinforce it for me, at least.”
Emily Kitsmiller is a first year graduate student who is majoring in psychology. She said she still takes all her notes by hand even though it sometimes causes some problems for her later. 
“I think in the moment I pay better attention with the hand-written notes but my hand writing is terrible and so after the fact its hard to read them so sometimes I wish I had typed up notes that were more legible,” Kitsmiller said. 
Some teachers all around the country, including UCF, are taking a stance to reduce the presence of technology in the classroom. Some teachers state in the syllabus that electronics are not allowed in the classroom, which requires students to hand write their notes. 
“Some of my teachers don’t really allow you to use a laptop, which is kind of ridiculous,” said Nicholas Pitre, a freshman mechanical engineering major.
Pitre said he splits up how he takes his notes in each of his classes because of different sets of rules each teacher has put in place. It is mainly his chemistry class that does not allow laptops in the classroom, which then forces him to take hand written notes.
Robby Hamoud, a senior in marketing, takes his notes in a notebook and said a couple of his classes restrict electronics. 
“It’s because they want their students paying attention to them and when everyone is searching the web or on their phone and things like that they aren’t paying attention to the teacher,” Hamoud said.
Kitsmiller has a similar situation; some of her classes restrict electronics.
“The reason given by the professor I’ve had, who restricts electronics, is that he wants us to like stay focus and engage with the class and even if you aren’t necessarily distracted by your laptop like someone sitting around you might be, which I think is understandable,” Kitsmiller said.
The study shows that using laptops for notes can actually negatively affect performance on educational assessments. Even though that means there is more typed out, it could affect how you retain the information and it was proven that students retain more when writing out the notes they are taking.
“I definitely see how taking notes on laptops can cause a problem for students learning and study habit,” Noll said. “Laptops are just so distracting and easy to get off track and so many problems can happen with the technical side of things.”



It Follows is the perfect example of how a film can be extremely well made, without being interesting or enjoyable, at all. 
The movie is well shot, with an incredible soundtrack and it relies on tension that builds slowly, as well as its superior technical aspects. 
These do not make up for the dull characters, however, or the plot that begins with great promise, but leaves viewers without any payoff or resolution. If you’re in desperate need to see a scary movie, then It Follows might satisfy, but for most people, it will leave you feeling frustrated over its lack of a clear conclusion, or many real scares.
It Follows tells the story of a young girl who is pursued by a supernatural entity anywhere she goes, after having sex with her most recent partner, who was attempting to pawn the creature off on her. While this analogy to sexually transmitted diseases might have been interesting, albeit a little too on the nose, people have no incentive to actively attempt to pass on their STDs. 
However, that lapse of reasoning would be excusable if I didn’t feel like the narrative was relying almost entirely on its metaphor. None of the other aspects of writing were clear or interesting. The characters were dull stereotypes, such as the pretty girl who never pays attention to the boy who clearly loves her, or the boy who is always hopelessly admiring the girl. Something I did appreciate about the characters in this film, however, was the fact that it took the time to explain why the protagonist’s parents were never around. Characters’ parents are almost entirely ignored in horror films, and I’m glad to see that wasn’t the case here.
Although, that’s still not enough to make up for how frustrated I was by the end of the film, realizing they were never going to reveal the origin of the entity, or why they exhibited certain characteristics. There were a lot of very creepy, disturbing features to these beings, and it’s sad that we never received more of a backstory to them.
In regards to the more technical aspects, it was nice to see a horror film that looked gorgeous. 
The coloring was incredible from beginning to end, placing large emphasis on yellows, blues and reds as well as framing each shot to grab your attention and hold it there. The music sounded like someone took the soundtrack from Halloween, but attempted to make it sound more interesting and varied. Every scene that featured those ominous tones or notes brought my ears the greatest of joy and it was a delight to listen to each piece of music. I just wish the action on screen could have captivated me the same way.
It Follows is a nicely done film, that just doesn’t manage to intrigue story-wise, the way its visuals would lead you to believe. It’s a technical achievement, but one that will probably leave most viewers dissatisfied and irritated. 



Odd Future alumni Earl Sweatshirt will be making a stop in Orlando on his “Not Ready 2 Leave” tour, having recently released his second studio album late last month. 
The show will occur on Sat. May 2, at Venue 578 in downtown Orlando. Doors open at 7:00 p.m. with the show starting at 8:00 p.m. This is an all-ages show.
For those unfamiliar with the young rapper, Earl Sweatshirt has been in hip-hop for years, gaining major attention with the release of his mixtape Earl. Even though he was only 16 at the time, it received critical acclaim due to its intricate wordplay as well as controversy, thanks to its more violent and distasteful themes. 
Between then and the release of his first studio album Doris, however, Earl Sweatshirt made many public references concerning his desire to mature, lyrically. Since then, he has become known for a much more somber, almost depressing tone surrounding his work as well as dark production.
Remy Banks is billed as the show’s opener along with frequent Earl Sweatshirt collaborator, Vince Staples. The latter’s name should be familiar to most underground hip-hop fans with a slew of fantastic mixtapes, as well as his first official EP released last year. 
Notable credits Vince Staples has shared with Earl Sweatshirt include the songs “Hive”, “Burgundy” and “Wool”. 
Tickets can be purchased here at starting at $30.




A power outage stretching from near Colonial Drive to Lake Underhill Road caused chaotic driving and sadness from hungry students Sunday afternoon.
Numerous businesses and restaurants were forced to close because of the outage. Both sides of Waterford Lakes were affected and fire alarms went off in response to the outage. 
Traffic lights were out of order, which caused a stir of angry drivers and blaring horns. 
Orange County Fire officials said the outage could last for two hours. 
Lots of hungry students and residents of the area tried to get something to eat at the local favorite Chipotle. They were all shocked and disappointed when they saw it was closed. 

UCF student Jennifer Carvel was hoping to get some Chipotle and was upset when the restaurant was closed. She and her two friends said they had to battle their way through the disorderly traffic to get to the restaurant.
Power was back on in the Waterford Lakes area at 6:15 p.m. Sunday night. Fire officials didn’t immediately respond to the reasoning behind the power outage.



