At the busy intersection of Alafaya and University just outside of the University and Central Florida, a small group of protesters gathered with signs speaking out against guns on campus.
The small protest was arranged Thursday through emails sent by Diane Rambo, who wanted to focus on spreading awareness of the Florida bill that would allow people to be armed with a gun on campus. Another bill is being considered to allow open carry in Florida. 
“Live by the Gun, Die by the Gun,” was written on a sign held by Dexter Rambo, co-organizer and a member of East Side Progressives. 
Rambo said he believes guns on campus will lead to more mass shootings and student deaths. He referenced the recent campus shooting in Oregon and said he wants to prevent that from happening again.
Although most consider safety when it comes to guns, Aurora Cox also thinks about the effects guns will have on the economy.
“Our bread and butter is tourism,” Cox said about the Orlando economy.
Cox raised the question of whether or not people would feel comfortable visiting an area where people can have a gun.
“It could be detrimental to our economy,” Cox said.



The University of Central Florida 2015 football season has disappointed many Knight fans.
One fan in particular, the twitter popular UCF Problems, started a petition aimed at UCF president John C. Hitt to fire head football coach George O’Leary.
“George has done a lot of great things for UCF’s football program but it’s time for him to go,” the petition states.
The creator of UCF Problems commented on the reason he changed his stance on O’Leary even though he once defended O’Leary.
“I defended him after one loss. That was before we lost to Furman, before we got spanked by 1-2 Tulane. There’s no consistency, the players look flat, nobody looks motivated,” he responded.
He also commented that, “George looks apathetic at all times, and I’ve heard from multiple sources that our recruiting is absolutely terrible this year too. Recruits coming on UCF visits have been quoted saying we showed no hospitality and ignored them.”
Regarding the impact he thinks his petition will have, UCF Problems said, “I don’t think my petition will have any direct impact but it doesn’t hurt. When your head coach is athletic [director] also, there’s not much you can do.”
The twitter user behind UCF Problems is not the only individual who thinks O’Leary should be fired. Many fans have taken to Twitter with the hashtag #FireOLeary.
This is the worst UCF team I have ever seen. #fireoleary #ucf
— Joseph Benson (@JoeBensonJr) October 3, 2015

@UCF_Football There are some MAJOR changes need to happen in this program, starting w/ the Coach, & no he shouldn't ever be AD. #FireOLeary
— Christopher Marrazzo (@cmarrazz_) October 3, 2015

It has become embarrassing to be a @UCF_Football fan #FireOLeary
— Jeremy Taché (@jeremytache) September 26, 2015

The user of UCF Problems has asked for his name to not be disclosed.
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla



One of the most critical games for Orlando City’s playoff hopes had the Lions finish 2-1 against the Montreal impact in a Saturday night thriller.
Only four minutes into play, the Lions’ Rafael Ramos and Tommy Redding collided after both going in for a cross-field header. The starters spent several minutes on the field as trainers and paramedics evaluated and soon escorted the players off the field on stretchers, with Ramos sent to Orlando Regional Medical Center for a gash to the head. Luke Boden and Seb Hines subbed in to play the rest of the match.
Cyle Larin struck in the first half at the 33rd minute to put City up 1-0 on a break that saw Larin sail a ball off the defending goalkeeper Evan Bush for a 15th season goal.
Montreal quickly equalized the score after Impact’s Dominic Oduro kicked in a ball that seemed to be in possession of goalkeeper Tally Hall. Instant replay led to backlash from supporters and speculation from commentators but the match would go on. Oduro subbed in later on for Didier Drogba and his deflection for Orlando City late in the second half.
“It was a must-win game for us  and to have all the hard work the team put in, all the hard work that I put in to be able to hold on to shots, to have that undone is extremely frustrating,” Hall said on the controversial goal.
The Lions’ game winning goal came from Seb Hines, a player who didn’t make the opening lineup but saw game time after the two-player collision. A corner kick made its way to the face of the goal and bounced to Drogba, who attempted to clear the ball, but Hines would get a foot on the ball and send the game-winner into the upper-right corner of the goal.
“It came to me and it was just instinct to have a shot on goal,” Hines said. Lucky for me it went in the goal and it’s amazing for the team as well.”
The remaining ten minutes of regulation and four of stoppage time had the club and supporters in high-energy to avoid an equalizer and an elimination from post-season play. Hall stepped in to prevent several late attempts from Montreal and allow Orlando to hold time before sealing the score after referees signaled end of game.
“It was about staying together and I though the guys handled it extremely well. It was a difficult game to play in and I’m extremely proud of the guys,” Hall continued on the minutes before winning the game.
Orlando City’s post-season goal set at the beginning of the season is still alive. With only two matches left in the regular season, both are a must win.
On Oct. 16 at 7 p.m. at the Orlando Citrus Bowl the Lions face rival NYCFC in a match that will likely see a sellout crowd.



