	Every time I attend a concert, I try to judge the event not on the quality of the musician’s catalogue, but on the actual performance they give. Sometimes, I find myself disappointed, witnessing one of my favorite bands remain stoic and emotionless on stage, appearing to do little more than run out the clock. On occasion, however, I’m shocked to find a musician, who’s work I possessed very little respect for, previously, completely capture an audience. T-Pain was a wonderful example of just such a phenomenon. Say what you will about his music – after all, taste is subjective – but the man truly knows how to put on a show, and leave a crowd craving more.
	Going in with low expectations is usually a sure fire way to leave any show impressed and my expectations could not have been lower for T-Pain. From the moment he took the stage, however, I knew I was going to be leaving pleasantly surprised. You could see the passion T-Pain had for performing splattered across the stage, from his full backing band, The Electric Company, to an additional vocalist and singers. He could have easily stood up there, alone with a DJ and done the bare minimum, but instead the audience was treated to instrumental interludes during brief lulls as well as crisp production bolstered by live instrumentation.
	Even tracks he only featured on originally, or had nothing to do with at all, sounded superb thanks to excellent transitions. Though T-Pain’s portion of the Kanye West hit “The Good Life” was brief, it managed to refrain from sounding fragmented or clumsy thanks to the DJ’s impressive skills. However, that isn’t to say the DJ was spotless, by any means. If I had one major complaint during the evening, it would have to be that the DJ overused certain sound effects such as gun shots or glass breaking. Sprinkled in to a show, they can easily be utilized to add the necessary punctuation to the end of a song, but frequent use leaves it feeling stale and irritating, rather quickly.
	A DJ was not the reason anyone came to see the show, however. T-Pain was the star of the evening and he owned that status well. From the bravado and swagger in his steps to the high energy he possessed, T-Pain knew that if he wasn’t having fun, there was no way the crowd was going to have any either. It might have been nicer to see him give a little more audience interaction, but what he did provide was one amazing performance that really showed how much passion can carry any concert.



Excitement filled the student union at the University of Central Florida Wednesday afternoon as students awaited the UCF Homecoming 2015 theme reveal.
Three banners dropped reading Knights Come Together along with a banner with symbols of love and peace, revealing that this year’s homecoming will be 60’s themed to embrace the hippie era.
“It brings everything together. The 60’s was all about peace,” said UCF junior Health Science major Michael John. “UCF is promoting unity and all of us coming together,” John added.
“The theme is open for interpretation,” said Rebecca Reichel, a senior Early Childhood Major and special events coordinator for homecoming.
Brittany Jones, a sophomore character animation major said, “I haven’t seen any theme like this in all the schools I’ve attended. I want to see everyone’s interpretation of old school.”
Additionally, the comedians for the comedy show and the artists for the concert was also announced. Damon Wayans Jr. will take the stage, along with Jimmy Tatro. Country artists “Dan + Shay” will be performing at the concert and their opener will be hip-hop artist Big Sean. 
Senior Julian Vann, a business management major said it’s cool that UCF got Big Sean and a good comedy show.
“I’m going to be there, it’s going to be lit,” Vann said.
Joey Wolf, a senior Finance major and the executive director of homecoming said we are hoping that homecoming 2015 is that and more. 
“We are all stronger together and we make our school great,” Wolf said.
Jean Racine wrote this article. 



Former UCF Knight Darnell Sweeny made his Major League Baseball debut this August after spending three years in the minor leagues.
The new member of the Philadelphia Phillies became the first UCF player recruited by head coach Terry Rooney to be called into MLB.
The Dodgers selected the alumnus in the 13th round of the 2012 MLB First-Year Draft as a middle-infielder. His first season yielded an All-Star title with Oklahoma City, with a .271 batting average, 30 doubles, nine home-runs and 49 RBI.
Sweeny and the Phillies faced the Miami Marlins in a four game series in late August, with the series ending at 3-1 in favor of the Phillies.
Darnell’s first hit came off as a home run at the top of the ninth inning to break a 2-2 tie, leading to a 4-2 win.



Party Tutor was “created by students for students” in order to wrap up the entire college experience into one website and App as said by the website. Its creator and CEO, Brent Henderson, hopes to provide a similar but more enhanced experience to not only college students but residents of Orlando with their new App Zupp.
Zupp is a mobile App that helps you discover what’s happening in Orlando by providing you with instant access to a centralized feed of events, specials and live entertainment experiences.
Henderson, a UCF alumni who double majored in Finance and Marketing, spoke about his inspiration for
Zupp. 
“I have been doing party tutor since 2011, it’s been 4 years since I started that, and I have always
had the vision to do something like party tutor but on a big city level,” Henderson said. “The time came where I felt Party Tutor has been successful and I have the resources now to do something that I have been dreaming
about for a while, which is to create Party tutor but on a big city level,” he added.
The app works by pulling up a feed that tells you what is happing in Downtown Orlando. Even though drink specials are featured in Zupp, night life is not the sole purpose. 
Zupp will notify users of various deals, and upcoming events in Downtown Orlando. Users can find out more about a specific event by clicking on it, and doing so allows them to see time, location, and prices for the
event. Zupp provides a method for the user to purchase tickets for events that offer them.
Users are also able to give feedback through a voting system called “Zuppvotes” for a particular event.
The more “Zuppvotes” equals the more popular the event is. The feed will re-order itself based on what’s popular according to the amount of votes. 
There are a multiple methods provided to users that help narrow down searches, such as a favorites feed, were users can add their favorite venues and filter settings, such as distance through proximity.
Zupp is currently available in Downtown Orlando, but will not stop there. 
The creator plans to expand to other regions of Orlando, as well as other cities.
“We want to surprise people with unique experiences that they might not know about and that’s one of the main things we want to do with this App, to help people discover experiences that interest them and might not have otherwise found if it wasn’t for Zupp,” Henderson said.
Zupp was released on Aug. 8 and is currently available for download in the app store for free and will be available for Android users soon.



