 
The Knights are 0-4 and they are still ranked dead last in the FBS rankings for total offense. UCF accounted for 230 yards of total offense against South Carolina last Saturday, far from an improvement to the 270 yards they racked up against FCS Furman the previous week.
“I thought we mixed the ball up pretty well, said Coach O’Leary at Monday afternoon’s press conference, in regard to the offense. “The thing that I don’t see right now is the running backs making anybody miss.”
The Knights accounted for 26 yards rushing yards against South Carolina; 1.3 yards per rush. The running game should get a boost this Saturday when the Knights take on 1-2 Tulane, as red-shirt junior Dontravius Wilson is expected to play.
“There should be three backs available (Wilson, McGowan, Jones) to play as far as getting things done,” said O’Leary.“There all different style guys…they gotta get hidden yards.”
UCF’s passing game showed slight improvements against South Carolina, notching 204 passing yards and a milestone for true-freshman quarterback Bo Schneider – who threw his first collegiate touchdown.
“Bo is a tough kid, he handles himself really well,” said red-shirt senior HB Joseph Puopolo. “I really think he’s done a great job as a quarterback. He’s kept his composure and he’s led us on some good drives, so I’m really proud of him.”
Coach O’Leary is still not satisfied with the performance of the receiving corps.
“One of the biggest issues I have is really with the receivers,” said O’Leary. “I mean we completed balls, but really when you look at hidden yards after the catch or after the first hit, there’s only about 11 yards…they gotta be able to run through things and make people miss.”
Perhaps the Knights will feature true-freshman, Tristan Payton and red-shirt red-shirt sophomore, Chris Johnson even more going forward. Both Payton and Johnson have shown the ability to make people miss in the return game. Payton is coming of a game where he recorded five receptions for 42 yards and returned two kick-returns for 48 yards, his longest return was for 27 yards.
The Knights are going to battle with their 3 headed monster in backfield; Taj McGowan, C.J Jones, and Dontravius Wilson.“We have to get more youth out there in my opinion and add more speed” said O’Leary. “The key to the passing game is getting people on the move and getting yards after the catch.”
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla 



ORLANDO, Fla. — Coach George O’Leary keyed in on the start of conference play and the team’s second half play at his weekly Monday press conference.
“Right now you go into conference play and this is conference week,” O’Leary said.  “And that’s something I preach all the time and that’s been the only goal we’ve ever had since I’ve been here is to win the conference.”
Missed opportunities, missed assignments and protecting the ball were all harped on by Coach O’Leary as reasons that the team has gotten off to the slow start that they have. Redshirt senior H-back Joseph Puopolo returned to the field against South Carolina after missing the first three weeks of the season and was adamant about the back to back AAC Champions difficult push towards the conference schedule.
“I feel like we have a big target on our back [as back to back AAC champions] because people know when they play us that we are a hardworking team and we are going to go out there and we are going to compete every game,” Puopolo said. “We’re not going to give up and [conference opponents] know they have to bring their A-game when they come and play us.”
A huge concern for the Knights is their depth with the amount of injuries seemingly piling up, but that load will be lessened this week when the team returns week one starting running back Dontravious Wilson. Justin Holman, on the other hand, will likely miss the Tulane game and will return at the discretion of the doctor according to Coach O’Leary.
The Knights have led three of their first four games at half time with the only exception being a ten point deficit to Stanford in week two. Finishing the game has been something the team has been struggling with, but this troubling trend has not gone unnoticed by the coaches or the players.
“It really comes down to in the second half with this football team is turnovers, missed tackles and [missed assignments]. There is almost two and a half times as many in the second half as the first half and that’s what is causing the problem,” said Coach O’Leary.
Going forward for the Knights, learning from their mistakes and being able to overcome them is what can help them turn the tide against Tulane. Redshirt sophomore linebacker Chequan Burkett was in good spirits on Monday and was happy that UCF had a tough non-conference schedule.
“We learned good lessons. I’m glad we were able to go through that, go through the first few games we had,” Burkett said. “So we can go into the conference knowing what we need to work on, improve on, so we can go into the conference and just win.”
The Knights take on the Tulane Green Wave in New Orleans on Saturday at 12 p.m. as they hope to start the AAC conference play with a victory.
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla



By Natalie Duque & Joseph Klawe-Genao
On Friday, September 25th, Knight News went behind-the-scenes at Universal Studios’ Halloween Horror Nights to meet with the show director, Charles Gray, who explained what one should expect at this year’s 25th Anniversary event.
This year, Halloween Horror Nights features nine terrifying haunted houses, including fan favorites such as The Walking Dead, Insidious and Freddie vs. Jason, where the two classic horror characters battle it out while one walks through the haunted house.
The other six houses include: The Purge, An American Werewolf in London, 25 Years of Monsters and Mayhem, ‘Run: Blood, Sweat, and Fears,’ Asylum in Wonderland, and Body Collectors.
Each house is themed and detailed by Universal’s design and special effects teams, who have mastered the science of fear, to ensure that every corridor of their monstrous mazes will have guests in fear and suspense throughout the night, according to Gray.
There will be 5 scare zones on this year’s anniversary, where the streets of Universal Studios comes alive with more chainsaws and “scareactors” than in previous years to frighten and follow guests as they walk around the park and from house to house.
Gray spoke on An American Werewolf in London, the first house to make a second appearance in the park event’s 25-year history, as well as Asylum in Wonderland and Body Collectors.
“We’ve installed a house called ‘Asylum in Wonderland’ – and that’s a lot of fun – because we took that Alice in Wonderland idea and we put it into the UV and 3D house, so when you go through it we have glasses and we have a lot of the tricks of the trade with use of 3D but this house is crazy. The vortex, I was told by the tech teams earlier ‘oh, this vortex is intense,’ and I said ‘yeah, yeah I’ve seen vortexes before’ and I walked through and I was walking like ‘whoa!’,” Gray said behind-the-scenes.
“And of course we have another one of our original tales which is body collectors. We’ve combined it with ShadyBrook so you walk in and you see snow and the gorgeous façade of ShadyBrook and come face-to-face with these body collectors who are ‘killing and maiming’ and that’s the situation you walk through. You go over to the next house, sound stage 22, and you have American Werewolf in London. Two years ago, we had American Werewolf in London and it was one of our most popular houses we’ve ever had and created. It was enough to let us do it again. We’ve never repeated a house – ever – so this is a great opportunity, our 25th year, to bring back American Werewolf in London. More teeth, more blood, more action.”
Park guests can check out two live shows, which include the popular Bill & Ted’s Excellent Halloween Adventure and The Carnage Returns, which features the Jack the Clown, who makes his ‘triumphant and twisted return’ to present Halloween Horror Nights: 25th Anniversary.
Tickets can be purchased online on the official Halloween Horror Nights website, as well as at the park entrance. The Halloween Horror Nights 25th Anniversary event will be going on from September 18th through November 1st, for 30 nights of mayhem, where visitors will experience some of the most bone-chilling moments in horror history.
UCF night at this event takes place on two selected nights in October. Tickets can be purchased for either Wednesday, October 14th or Wednesday, October 21st. Cost of the tickets are $55.00 per ticket and UCF students that present a valid UCF ID can purchase a maximum of six (6) tickets, according to the SGA Ticket Center in the Student Union.



UCF students were disappointed that the overcast night kept them from enjoying the super moon total eclipse Sunday night.
But it didn’t stop Knights from charging Memory Mall in hopes of catching a small peak of the eclipse. Optimistic students filled the mall at 9:00 p.m., along with ten telescopes provided by UCF Robinson Observatory, waiting for the blood moon to rise high enough in the sky. “It’s disappointing it’s on the other side of the garage” said a fellow sophomore, Daniel Hyun, 19, when he first arrived. Other students rushed to the nearby garage roof tops to try and spot it sooner ‒ once the clouds eventually parted.
That moment never arrived. “Just too cloudy here @UCF tonight. No ‪#‎LunarEclipse to be seen,” posted UCF Robinson Observatory at 11:22 p.m. The lunar eclipse began at 9:07 p.m. and the total eclipse began at 10:11 p.m. The total eclipse would last over an hour and end at 11:23 p.m.; the partial ends at 12:27 a.m.
Knights still made it a fun time. “It turned into a giant social event,” said Ramsay Newman, 20, a sophomore when asked how he felt about the event. Knights lounged around in chairs or blankets they had brought for the event; hanging out with friends as they waited patiently.
This special celestial event won’t happen again until 2033, according to Orlando Sentinel. This is also the last total lunar eclipse visible from Florida until 2018, according to timeanddate.com.
“This is a once per year kinda event we do, in the fall every year, and we just decided to coincide it with this eclipse,” said Akbar Whizin, a Ph. D. graduate student working with the Observatory to help Knights with using the telescopes.  The UCF Robinson Observatory also hosts the “Knights Under the Stars” events weekly at the UCF Observatory located near the UCF Police station on Ara Dr. It’s open and free to the public.



A University of Central Florida student is taking his revolutionary hummus industry all the way to ABC.
Jesse Wolfe, UCF College of Business Administration senior and founder of O’Dang Hummus , will compete in the business-themed reality show “Shark Tank” on Oct. 2.
O’Dang Hummus “is a hummus based sauce that give you the creamy taste you love in any dressing without ANY of the dairy, oil, or preservatives,” according to its official website.
In the show, business entrepreneurs present their ideas to a panel of “sharks.”
These sharks are “tough, self-made, multi-millionaire and billionaire tycoons” who can give contestants “the chance to chase the American dream and potentially secure business deals that could make them millionaires,” the “Shark Tank” website explained. 
“Things are going really well for us,” said Wolfe in a release. “We’re going to Publix and launching in over 1,100 of their stores. Now the whole world is going to know about our product. It’s a little like winning the lottery.”
Wolfe told KnightNews.com back in September  2014 that he was in the process of applying for the television show. 
“In the beginning, I had six different farmers’ markets tell me no,” Wolfe said. “Don’t fear failure. You’re going to fail. It’s inevitable. But push on and don’t be afraid to pivot because that’s what keeps you going forward.”
The UCF College of Business Administration is hosting a watch party event in the Student Union.
“I’ve had a unique opportunity to watch Jesse’s entrepreneurial journey the past three years,” Cameron Ford, founding director of the UCF Blackstone LaunchPad, said in a release. “I couldn’t be more proud of him.  He’s a great role model for UCF’s student starters.”



Gemini Blvd. in front of Garage A at the University of Central Florida was blocked off by a large police presence Sunday night around 9 p.m.
Barbie Mendez, a witness who called 911, told KnightNews.com that a male student who was on a bike was hit by a car.
“He was wearing a blue shirt and the driver hit him because he couldn’t stop fast enough. His bike was literally torn in front of my eyes and I saw the wheel go up in the air with his body. Both driver and victim were males,” Mendez said.
The victim was transported to Orlando Regional Medical Center, UCFPD spokesperson Courtney Gilmartin informed.
This is a breaking story. KnightNews.com is working on getting more information. Check back for updates.
Original post: 3:48 a.m.
Updated to include newest information. 



