UPDATE: 
The UCF police department announced an all clear for Knights Circle. A bomb squad from the Orange County Sheriff’s Office identified the substance in four bottles as a mix of acid and foil. This mixture causes closed bottles to pressurize and explode, resulting in a loud noise.
“The call came around 9:15 a.m. from a maintenance worker at Knights Circle who was doing routine clean-up in the parking lot,” stated Courtney Gilmartin, assistant director of UCF News & Information.  He found a Powerade bottle filled with a liquid that seemed pressurized in the median of the parking lot between buildings 12 and 13.”
When UCF Police officers arrived on scene, they found three additional bottles nearby. 
As a result, Knights Circle residents had to evacuate building 12 to allow a bomb squad from the Orange County Sheriff’s Office to investigate. Residents were evacuated for approximately three hours, according to Gilmartin. 
UCFPD wrote in a tweet, “Our response required the evacuation of a building and assistance from Orange County’s fire department and sheriff’s office…not cool.”
UCFPD is requesting the public’s assistance with identifying those responsible for this incident. Those involved could face criminal charges.
If you have any information, please contact CRIMELINE at 800-423-TIPS.
—-
The UCF police department tweeted that bomb techs and fire rescue are on the scene at Knights Circle.
—-
The University of Central Florida sent out a UCF Alert regarding a suspicious package in the UCF-affiliated student apartment complex Knights Circle. 
The UCF alert states,
UCF Police are working a suspicious package in the area of Knights Circle Bldg 12. Please stay clear of area until further notice.
The UCF police department tweeted that evacuations in Knights Circle are “out of an abundance of caution due to some suspicious items.”
“It’s an ongoing situation, and we’ll make updates on Twitter as they become available,” Gilmartin said. 
Check back on KnightNews.com for updates on this story.



