About 300 students pledged to not eat for a day on Friday as part of Fast-A-Thon at the University of Central Florida to raise awareness for fighting hunger and homelessness.
The Muslim Student Association organized the event to raise awareness for the hundreds that experience chronic hunger on a daily basis in the Orlando area. 
Partnering with Project Downtown, Orlando, and ICNA Relief Hunger Prevention Program, 300 students pledged to fast for a day.
Muslim Student Association members at banquet for Fast-A-Thon.
Huddled in the Pegasus Ballroom, located in UCF’s Student Union, the Fast-A-Thon participants silenced themselves for a moment to honor the three victims of the Chapel Hill shooting last week. They then broke their fast for a banquet and heard from guest speakers, Arthur Richards and Nadine Abu-Jubara. 
The banquet was open to the public and people from all different faiths were welcome.
Abu-Jubara, executive director at Nadoona a non-profit health and fitness center, is a UCF alumna. She said fasting gives her clarity and brings her closer to her Creator. After the tragedy of the Chapel Hill shooting this week, clarity and comfort are what Abu-Jubara sought, especially when she learned the victims were distant relatives of hers whom she’d never met.
“As Palestinians we have a lot of long-lost cousins, we like to plant our seeds far, and this really shocked me,” Abu-Jubara said.
Islam teaches that followers should not eat in excess. Abu-Jubara said that since our bodies are gifts from God we should take care of them and simultaneously end the rising obesity issue by helping to feed the hungry.
Project Downtown: Orlando, a branch from the original in Miami, is a non-profit focusing on the needs of the homeless in Orlando. On the third Sunday of every month, volunteers of all different ethnic and religious backgrounds come together to serve hot meals to the homeless. But for them, it is much more than a bite to eat. Mahnoor Ashraf, co-director of Project Downtown, said that it is all about the interactions and conversations that are started.
“Part of the Project Downtown project is not just to hand them a meal and be on our way, but to stop and listen and get to know their situation, greeting them with a smile because that is it’s own form of charity,” Ashraf said.
Arthur Richards, Hunger Prevention Director at ICNA, inspired students to pledge to fast, and raise awareness for the 3,000 children in Orange County alone who do not know where their next meal is coming from on a daily basis. He challenged MSA to start a food drive benefiting the homeless in Orlando and to check out nation-wide campaigns happening at feedtheirlegacy.org.
“We would like UCF and specifically MSA, to organize a campus-wide food drive, so that when [the homeless] see and feel the love that you have for them maybe, just maybe it will be enough for them to become the presidents and leaders of tomorrow,” Richards said. “I offer you an opportunity to be the crutches that our broken members of our community need and allow them to go and help others in need.”



UCF repeated its final second victory against Houston Sunday afternoon when freshman B.J. Taylor sunk a two-pointer off the glass with 2.7 seconds to go.
Taylor finished the game with only five points chalked up in 34 minutes but his second field goal of the night would be enough break the heart of the Houston bench.
“I hadn’t been playing well in the game, so I was just thinking, ‘man, I’ve got to do something for them tonight’,” said Taylor after the game. “I’ve got to make up something to help the team win.”
UCF’s Staphon Blair took the lead on the court after tipoff, scoring 6 out the Knight’s first 11 points with two lay-ups and a fast break dunk.
Sophomore Brandon Goodwin drew in the first buzzer beater against Houston in the previous matchup, on Jan. 6, scoring 13 points that night and the last 3-pointer for the win. In Sunday’s he game logged 14 points and 7 assists as well as three steals and two turnovers.
Neither the Cougars nor Knights gave enough ground for more than an 8 point lead, going the last 9 minutes with six points scored total from both teams. The dry spell continued before Taylor would break the tie and allow the UCF to close out a win.
“I just felt in my heart that putting the ball in his hands down the stretch that they weren’t expecting that, it was all misdirection” said head coach Donnie Jones. “He did a great job. He’s very strong for a freshman and he’s able to finish one-on-one. He made a great play.”
UCF improves to (11-13, 4-9) with the victory, sitting in the seventh seed in the conference with only five games left in the regular season.
The next match will be played at Tulane on Thursday, Feb. 19 at 7 p.m. Last time out they beat the Green Wave in triple-overtime 103-100.



Students may notice their route to class just got a bit more graphic. That’s because a large mural display showing abortion photos is now on display on the free-speech lawn. 
The Center for Bio-Ethical Reform is bringing the Genocide Awareness Project to the UCF’s free-speech lawn on Feb. 16, 17 and 18. 
GAP is a large-mural display consisting of images of historical and contemporary genocide. This project is meant to educate students about abortion.
“Showing photos of the victims of abortion may make some people uncomfortable, and that’s because of the nature of abortion: it’s a gruesome, bloody procedure that ends the life of an innocent human,” said Devorah Gilman, CBR spokeswoman.
Gilman said that the use of bloody images is not anything new and has been shown throughout history by different social reformers. She said that CPR is doing the same. 
The display has been shown over 200 times at nearly 75 universities and several urban areas across the United States. 
Various CBR partners as well as a team of pro-life students will stand by the display. 
Gilman said their goal is to change minds, save lives and have women seek help and healing. 
For more information about The Center for Bio-Ethical Reform, visit their website (Warning: Graphic Material).



Students passing the Student Union this afternoon may notice Big Red Bus parked on campus, but what actually goes on behind those doors?
The Big Red Bus program is operated by OneBlood, a blood center that supplies more than 200 hospital partners. They serve 72 counties throughout Florida and southern Georgia and Alabama. 

“I’ve seen a lot of cases in hospitals where donating blood actually helps lives,” said senior Biomedical Sciences major Afif Abu-Hanna who donated blood Monday afternoon.
“If you’re passing by the Student Union, definitely come by and donate blood, it helps a lot of people,” Abu-Hanna said.
Abu-Hanna has been donating since freshman year, estimating this is near his twentieth time. 
If the thought of knowing you helped save lives isn’t enough, donors also receive a drink, snack and a Fandango voucher that is good for a free movie ticket.
Additionally, the OneBlood organization is opening a video contest that starts today. They’re encouraging blood donors, blood recipients and anyone else who has a story to share to enter the contest.
The winner of the contest will receive a two-night stay at a Walt Disney World resort and eight park hopper tickets.
“We encourage people to get creative and have fun with this contest,” said Susan Forbes, Senior Vice President of Marketing and Communications at OneBlood.
Video submissions should be similar to that of a 30 second commercial and will be judged on originality, creativity, as well as viewer online votes.
“People who have a connection to blood donation have compelling stories to tell.  It is our hope they will share their story by entering the contest and help inspire others in the process,” said Forbes.
More information on the contest, which closes April 17, is available at www.oneblood.org. 
For anyone interested in donating on campus, the Big Red Bus will be in front of the Student Union through Friday, and again next week on Monday and Tuesday.



Over 7 years ago, Gray’s College Bookstore opened its doors to sell and rent out books to college students and now the business is set to close by the end of February. 
The bookstore, located near the corner of Alafaya Trail and McCulloch Road in the Publix shopping center, announced its closing via their Facebook page. 
“Over the past seven years it has been our honor to serve the students of UCF and the surrounding community. It is with our deepest regret to inform you all that this location will be closing at the end of the month,” the post reads. 
Gray’s said they hope the UCF community will take advantage of their closing discounts in the coming weeks.
Gray’s will contact students renting books at the end of their rental period to tell them where they can return the books.



Former UCF wide receiver Breshad Perriman could potentially hear his name called in the first round of the 2015 NFL Draft.
Last year, former UCF QB Blake Bortles was selected No. 3 overall by the Jacksonville Jaguars in the 2014 NFL Draft, but some NFL analysts could also see Breshad Perriman being selected in the first round of the draft.
ESPN’s Mel Kiper’s insider draft board currently has Breshad Perriman going No. 15 overall to the San Francisco 49ers. 
NFL.com senior analyst and former VP of player personnel for the Dallas Cowboys, Gil Brandt, praised Perriman on Twitter, noting that he comes from the pedigree of his father, Brett Perriman, who played 10 NFL seasons.
“UCF WR Breshad Perriman is ascending. Father Brett played in NFL for 10 years, 2nd-round pick. No surprise if Breshad went in 1st,” Brandt said on Twitter. 
Perriman has a chance to increase his draft stock further this upcoming Wednesday, Feb. 18, at the NFL combine in Indianapolis, IN. Perriman will join former UCF players Rannell Hall, Jacoby Glenn and Clayton Geathers at the combine. 



SnapChat is providing new, innovative ways to express school spirit, including an all new “Knight Nation” geofilter, exclusive to the UCF community. 
Colby Huggins, a 21-year-old student at Valencia College, finally had his design for a geofilter — a location specific banner that SnapChat users can add to their Snaps — approved. 
“Many of my friends go to UCF, and I wanted to give the something that they could represent their school with,” Huggins said regarding why he created a geofilter. 
Huggins said he has made it his personal project to ensure Central Florida is well represented through SnapChat geofilters. Although he did not create the Orlando filter, SnapChat has approved his filters for Daytona Beach, New Smyrna Beach and St. Augustine. 
“Because of UCF’s prominence in the Central Florida community, I figured it was only natural for them to have their own filter,” Huggins said. “I also knew the student population would appreciate having something they could use to show school spirit via social media, which is why I chose the phrase ‘Knight Nation.’”
He also said he believes the filter will get great usage on game days. 
“SnapChat is incredibly personable, and that’s what makes it unique,” Huggins said. “And they’ve only reinforced this further with the creation of geofilters.” 
The first draft for the Knight Nation filter was submitted back in November and had Knightro in the place where the horse currently stands. It was rejected due to the UCF representation. After a few more rejected filters, Huggins finally had one approved. The current geofilter was approved because there are no distinct school-affiliated images. 
“I like it and think it’s cool that we’re one of the first to get one,” UCF student Clayton Cuteri said. “It’d be nice to have more options.”
Although SnapChat Geofilter Submission Guidelines clearly state, “Absolutely no logos or trademarks, including school crests and similar marks,” geofilters are still being created with a geofence exclusive to specific college campuses. 
A geofence is the location specific boundaries in which the SnapChat filter can be accessed on SnapChat. The Knight Nation filter is only accessible on the UCF main campus. 
Being the only school in Florida with a geofilter may make UCF unique in the SnapChat world for now, but other schools will have their own soon enough. 
Florida State University might be the next university in Florida to have a school-spirited SnapChat filter. Florida State University officials tweeted they were upset over a denied geofilter design.



A University of Central Florida student was charged last week with purchasing 47 grams of marijuana from California and having it shipped to his on-campus dorm, the Orlando Sentinel reported.
Peter John Faucella, 18, was arrested by UCFPD after police were tipped off that the shipment, addressed to Faucella’s apartment at the Towers at Knights Plaza, was being mailed “in a manner consistent with the shipping of controlled substances,” the affidavit obtained by the Sentinel said. 
When Faucella went to pick up his package at the mail room, police seized the package and found 47 grams of marijuana, the Sentinel reported. 
Faucella was charged with importing cannabis into the state and attempted possession of more than 20 grams of cannabis, court records show. 



UCF Police is hoping to help keeps students’ valuables safe by hosting a property engraving event.
On Feb. 17, UCF Police will be outside of the UCF Library from 10 a.m. to noon engraving driver’s license numbers onto student’s laptops, tablets, bicycles, skateboards and other valuables for free as part of the Operation ID program.
In the event of a valuable item being stolen, the engraving helps police identify and track down the property to the rightful owner.
Students are also able to register other property information with police as well, including an item’s make, model and serial number, all which help the process of tracking down stolen items. Property registration is free and can be done anytime by visiting here. 
If you are unable to make the engraving event on Feb. 17, there will be additional events on Feb. 24 from 10 a.m. to noon outside of the library, 5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. that night in the Hercules Community Room and March 4 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Ferrell Commons courtyard.



