UCF’s running game fell below expectations during week 1 of the college football season, after facing an unranked Florida International in the season opener.
“Teams that usually have a lot of success week 1 are teams that’ve been together for a while… We still have an offensive line that’s growing,” said former UCF running back and member of the UCF coaching staff, Kevin Smith.
UCF’s veteran running backs, Dontravius Wilson and William Stanback, struggled to get anything going last Thursday night against FIU.
“Thirty carries for forty-six yards – you can’t live like that in a football season,” said head coach George O’Leary.
Practice intensified for the Knights this week as they get ready to take on the Stanford Cardinals Saturday night, Sept. 12.
“All the backs have practiced hard this week,” said Smith.
One UCF running back that is expected to get more carries this week is true-freshman Taj McGowan.
McGowan enrolled early at UCF in the spring and has already made an impression during his short time with the university’s football program with his explosive speed.
“He is a faster back, but that can be a gift and a curse…he has to know when to use his speed,” said Smith. “He’s just improving and continuing to grow.”
Regardless of who’s running the ball for the Knights on Saturday, the offensive line has to get more push off the line of scrimmage.
“We have to be more physical up front. We have to come of the ball harder and establish the line of scrimmage,” said o-lineman Joey Grant.
The Knights are not expected to give up on their system of running the ball.
“We take pride in the running the ball and, although we didn’t get it done, I don’t think we’re going to give up on the run game. That’s who we are – that’s our MO,” said Grant.
“Coach O’leary is not going to stop running the ball, we just have to execute,” added Grant.
Photo credit: Nick Russett



The University of Central Florida’s Research Park will be conducting a six-hour anti-terrorism training exercise on Thursday, Sept. 10.
The U.S Army, along with Orange County Fire Rescue and others, will be combining efforts during an exercise mock terrorist attack on the Orlando Tech Center and select buildings on Research Parkway.
“Commuters and media are advised that the exercise will produce noise and law enforcement activity in and around the Orlando Tech Center, but it is only an exercise and does not constitute a real emergency. There will also be some activity in the parking lot of University Tower on Research Parkway, where emergency vehicles will be staged,” a UCF Police Department release stated.
The exercise will carry on between 6 a.m. and noon. Access to the Orlando Tech Center will be limited but Research Parkway and other roads nearby will remain open.
This is a closed exercise. Media and public cannot attend.
“The U.S. Army Research Laboratory is leading the exercise, which will not only give local and federal agencies the opportunity to work together, but is also a requirement of military installations around the country to ensure readiness for any emergency,” the release said.



Once again, the University of Central Florida gains recognition for being an up and coming university. 
UCF ranks alongside Harvard, MIT, Stanford, and Duke among the most innovative universities in the country, according to U.S. News & World Reports Most Innovative Schools.
UCF was tied at No. 13 with Georgia Tech and the University of Southern California on the list. This is the first year the category has been included in the magazine, according to a UCF press release.
“We added this ranking so that college officials could pick schools that the public should be watching because of the cutting-edge changes being made on their campuses,” according to the magazine.
The rankings were made by university presidents, provosts, and admission deans from around the nation. The rankings were based off of which universities had the most innovative curriculum, students, faculty, campus life, and technology or facilities, according to a UCF press release.
UCF also moved up four places in the rankings for all national universities from No. 173 to No. 168 and eight places amongst all public institutions from No. 99 to No. 91, according to a UCF press release.
UCF was tied at No. 50 for online programs and ranked at No. 131 for best business programs. The university also ranked amongst the best colleges for veterans, according to a UCF press release.



