KnightNews.com was at the first freshman orientation for the class of 2019 on Thursday to meet some of the incoming freshmen on their first days as UCF Knights.
UCF orientation aims to assist new Knights in navigating their way around campus, choosing classes, and learning more about the university as a whole.
KnightNews.com reporter Justin Levy was at the UCF student union today to talk to the new freshmen about their hidden talents, choice of major, and favorite places on campus.
As usual, humor hit the stage as Levy conversed with the new Knights.
Like us on Facebook and follow us on Twitter to get UCF News like this on your feeds!
Follow @UCFKnightNews

Click here to watch Part 2: The second UCF Orientation Video
Click here to watch Part 3: The third UCF Orientation Video



The Florida Supreme Court ruled in favor of the UCF Athletic Association in the case involving football player Ereck Plancher.
In 2008, Plancher died after conditioning drills under the watch of UCF Athletics’ coaching staff.
UCF Athletics will pay the Plancher family $200,000 instead of $10 million in damages, according to The Orlando Sentinel. An Orange County jury awarded the family $10 million in damages and ruled that the UCF Athletics Association was negligent in preventing Plancher’s death in 2011, said the Sentinel.
UCFAA appealed this ruling and argued that the association should be considered a state agency and eligible for sovereign immunity, which would allow a limit of $200,000 in the case of jury judgments, according to The Orlando Sentinel.
On Thursday, the Florida Supreme Court upheld the Fifth District Court of Appeal ruling that stated the UCFAA was eligible for sovereign immunity, said the Sentinel.
According to the Orlando Sentinel, the Plancher family must go to the Florida Legislature to collect any more money in damages that exceeds the $200,000 that the UCFAA is ruled to pay under sovereign immunity.



Over 4,769 feet of steel track will make up SeaWorld’s next venture, Orlando’s tallest, fastest and longest roller coaster.
Mako, named after the speedy mako shark, is scheduled to open in summer of 2016 and will travel at a whopping 73 mph, beating out the the Incredible Hulk Coaster at Universal’s Islands of Adventure which travels at 67 mph. Additionally, the coaster will have nine hills with the first drop occurring from 200 feet up in the air.
The shark-inspired attraction will not include any inverted twists or dangling legs because the coaster is designed for “relentless air time,” according to SeaWorld. SeaWorld also said that the sound and lighting will make the rider feel as if they are a predator in the sea.
The attraction will be the center of a new two-acre shark-themed plaza that will “…be fully shark themed, including Mako, Shark Encounter, Sharks Underwater Grill, shops, shark and shipwreck theming and educational experiences featuring sharks.”
While this attraction will hold the Orlando record for a while, the time will be short-lived as the world’s tallest coaster, the Skyscraper, is set to open on International Drive in 2017.



