Written by: Isabelle D’Antonio

“Everyone has two lives; the second one begins when you realize you only have one.”
Those were the impactful words written by freelance journalist Steven Sotloff to his family as he remained in captivity before he was beheaded by the Islamic terrorist group ISIS in 2014.
Sotloff’s parents, Shirley and Arthur Sotloff, spoke at UCF Monday night in a presentation put on by the College of Science and Nicholson School of Communication.
More than 100 people were in attendance, including 85 journalism students.
Steven was a former UCF student and freelance journalist who wrote for publications including Time and the Christian Science Monitor.
In August of 2013, he was kidnapped whilst covering the Syrian civil war. On September 2, 2014, a video surfaced of Islamic State showing Steven’s beheading at the hands of ‘Jihadi John.’ He was only 31.
Steven attended UCF for two years and was a senior staff writer for the Central Florida Future. 
After a trip to Israel in his second year, he realized he wanted to cover the Middle East. His parents were proud but concerned for his safety.
“I would tell him, ‘Steven, you’re walking around with a target on your back,’” said Arthur. “But he wasn’t worried – he said had to do what he had to do.”
Steven often became known for his want to provide a “voice to the voiceless,” later travelling regularly to the Middle East to cover unfolding events as a freelance journalist, making little money, although eager to continue pursuing his dreams.





Places like Syria drew his attention, where people had no way of sharing their accounts.
“He never wanted to go for the big stories – it was always about the common people,” Arthur said. “It was about the voiceless, the people standing in the breadlines and the hospitals, the people that were suffering.”
Arthur and Shirley opened a panel to students and described the journey taken by their son at UCF and through his career.
UCF sophomore journalism student Gianna Doxey was honored to have been able to hear the Sotloffs speak.
“We all needed to hear this extra push and inspiration, especially after the recent Paris attacks,” she said. “Last week, the whole country was concerned by the red cups at Starbucks, and then a real story happened. Now we’re here tonight, and I think it was meant to be.”
To honor Sotloff and continue his legacy, the Sotloffs created the 2LIVES: Steven Joel Sotloff Memorial Foundation to provide scholarships for journalism students.
“The scholarship not only memorializes our son, but also contributes to the future in a way that lives on for future journalists,” Shirley said.
The Foundation will soon award its first scholarship to a University of Miami journalism student. The first Steven Sotloff endowed scholarship will be presented on December 6 at 1 p.m. at the Miami Dolphins vs. Baltimore Ravens game.
“Knowing that our son lives on, and the endowment will touch the lives of students with similar interests truly touches our entire family,” Shirley said.
Though the Sotloffs have made strides in their acceptance of Steven’s death, they are still devastated.
“My son was murdered in front of the entire world,” said Arthur. “I still can’t put my feelings into words.”
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla



Where the tents sprout like mushroom caps and dangling lights illuminate the night sky, individuals from all walks of life joined together this past week at Tent City: Rising, an event of unity.
Biannually, the Campus Peace Action club illustrates an ideal, peaceful community that befalls within the tranquil surroundings of the UCF Arboretum. For seven days and six nights from November 9th through 14th, familiar and unfamiliar faces are invited to come together and coexist through music, art, and a whole lotta love. All workshops are hosted and executed by members of the CPA club and shared with the community.
“Tent City started back in 2003 as a response to the wars in Iraq. The event has moved around campus from the free speech zone, to memory mall, and now the arboretum. Over the years, the event became less politically fueled, evolving into a place for peaceful gathering and self-expression.” Said Jaimie Lanning, host of Tent City: Rising. “It’s the first place I felt at home at UCF. I’m just happy to be involved in creating an event that continues to spread that feeling.”
The event has evolved just as its participants have. Tent City is a space where anyone can explore the purest parts of themselves and share those parts securely within the community. Each day of the event is devoted to unity, expressed through drum circles, yoga, art, meditation, and various educational workshops. “On Tuesday night my band, Garden Party, played a surprise set to an amazing crowd,” Lanning said. “There’s just an indescribable feeling that you get from creating music with your friends.”
Past and present members of Tent City alike have expressed that the best way to experience the event was to enter with a clear mind, free of premature suppositions of the world, and allow the light emulating from surrounding people shine onto you. This allows people to experience a world without routine and enables them to bask in the now; something these members wish to carry on in their every day lives.
Some walk in alone, but none walk out alone. 
“You can’t walk alone. Many have given the illusion, but none have really walked alone. Man is not made that way. Each man is bedded in his people, their history, their culture, and their values.” – Peter Abrahams



Tour of Asia, hosted by Asian Student Association for the eleventh year, enthralled its audience at the University of Central Florida. 
The tour began in Japan and crossed the seas to indulge its Orlando audience with unique renditions of traditional and modern Asian dance and unique sounds. The first to immediately captivate the audience was the Orlando Taiko Dojo. 
Orlando Taiko Dojo is a Japanese drumming troupe who demonstrates the Japanese traditional art of drumming, hence the name “Taiko.”
The sound of the drums permeated the atmosphere and everyone was immediately drawn to the steady rhythmic beats as the performers kept in perfect sync. It was impossible for one’s attention to stray away from the sounds and the enthusiastic energy at which these performers demonstrated an age old craft; it was captivating to both sight and sound.
The enchantment continued as the C-Melody dancers representing Vietnam told their stories “through the eyes.” The rendition used the manipulation of fans and flowing silk fabrics to kept the focus on the dancer’s upper body movements. 
This beautifully synchronized dance used the richness of the flowing fabrics to portray a classic tale of young love with a “demonic” twist. The majestic colors and graceful movements of the dancers truly did tell the tale to the fullest. The seemingly effortless dance charmed the audience as the young women evoked the passion and conflict existing between two lovers.
The non-stop sensory explosion continued with a duo known as “Philipinese” further as they further immersed everyone in the romantic mood by serenading them with unique acoustic sounds. The pair blended pop culture top hits with Studio Ghibli (animation film producers) music strung in between; stimulated by the sounds, the audience accompanied the music with rhythmic strikes of the palms.
After intermission, a one-man show brought out the child in everyone with the Chinese interpretation of “I’ll Make a Man Out of You” from Disney’s animated motion picture, Mulan. Shuyu Liu’s performance proved that, despite our cultural differences, we all share an emotional connection; it was the perfect segway in appeasing the audience’s thirst for more entertainment as the dance troupe followed suit with legendary dances from the Philippines. 
The dancers engaged the audience with their face-paced footwork. This performance included wooden beams strategically laid out on the stage where the dancers demonstrated their technical skills as they rhythmically moved to the essence of the music. Different members of the same dance group then stirred the rhythmic juices as they engulfed the stage with their synchronized gesticulations of “punches” in combination with the powerful artist skill of tumbling, somersaults and once again, amazing footwork that captivated the audience throughout the performance.
The culminated feature was Knights Kangna, representing India whose agility and graceful gestures brought out the rich culture of their country’s dance as the artists incorporated modern movements. Modernizing the typical hand gestures or “mudra,” the dances combined the upbeat music of Bollywood and popular western hits as they told the story of two sisters whose family was tragically separated and eventually brought together. The visual narrative was a perfect ending to both the show and the emotionally moving evening.



The University of Central Florida Police Department forwarded a case involving a former UCF director of the Nicholson School of Communication to the state attorney’s office, according to the Orlando Sentinel.
In April of 2015, Knight News broke the story about Robert Chandler becoming pressured to resign after accusations arose of misusing travel reimbursements and university resources on business trips.
Apparently double-dipping 40 times on the trips in amounts of $30,000 drew suspicion from the university, which looked into Chandler’s expenses and concluded foul play may be at hand.
As a result of the investigation, Chandler reimbursed UCF about $30,000 for the “overpayments and double payments” he received, according to UCF records. Chandler denied wrongdoing, telling UCF there were delays but not a “purposeful fraudulent intent.”
Michael Johnson, the UCF dean of Sciences, wrote a letter in response to Chandler’s explanation shortly after, saying “It is impossible for me to accept an explanation of ‘sloppiness’ on your part. Theft constitutes misconduct and your actions have resulted in an irrevocable breach of trust.”
The penalty for the “thefts,” as Johnson described, could result in 15 years in prison, among other penalties, said Knight News legal analyst Lisa Figueroa.
Chandler began at UCF in 2009 and received an annual salary of approximately $200,000, according to reports.
College of Science associate dean Dr. Arlen F. Chase currently takes the role of acting director for the school of communication.



After many rumors of incidents at the University of Central Florida’s affiliated housing complex Knights Circle, the UCF Police Department confirmed over a UCF alert that it was a sexual battery case.
“UCF Police alerts you to a sexual battery that took place overnight at Knights Circle off-campus student housing. The victim is a minor with no UCF affiliation, and UCFPD is investigating the incident as statutory rape,” the UCF Alert email said.
The victim said the suspect was a 20-25 year-old black male approximately six feet tall. He was of medium build wearing a gray or white sweatshirt with black sweatpants and a hat, according to the alert.
“The victim and a female friend met the suspect around 11 p.m. near Alafaya Trail and McCulloch Road and voluntarily followed him to another location before hopping a wall to enter Knights Circle.” 
UCFPD is still investigating the case that allegedly took place in the parking lot this morning.
Knights Circle residents were worried for hours, asking Knight News what happened. After Knight News inquired with UCFPD, a campus wide alert was sent to students.
UCFPD spokesperson Courtney Gilmartin explained that the information was not released right away because of the ongoing investigation and that the statutory rape posed no immediate danger to the community.
Students also contacted Knight News with concerns about how Knights Circle deleted a post regarding the information on Facebook and that it felt that they weren’t receiving enough information.

If you know anything about this incident, please contact UCFPD at 407-823-5555.
Check back on KnightNews.com for updates on this case.



