The Marquee, previously known as Sterling Central, was the scene of an armed robbery  on July 3.
KnightNews.com obtained the incident report from Orange County Sheriff’s Office uncovering new details.
The victim was “walking back and forth on Sterling University Lane talking on his cell phone. While he was talking on his phone 4 black males and 2 white females approached him. The males demanded his money, when he told them that he didn’t have any money they asked for his phone,” the incident report states.
The victim said one of the suspects tried to scare him with his gun. The victim then said he was punched in his left arm which led him to drop his phone.
The victim’s 32GB iPhone 6 was the only item stolen, according to the report.
The report states that the victim and the male who punched him argued back and forth but the suspects took off in a vehicle when they spotted security coming. 
When describing the subjects, the victim saw a “pretty” white female get into the car as well as a male who was 18-22 years old and had his face covered by his jacket, according to the report. This male had a small black handgun. The make, caliber or model is unknown.
The suspects escaped in a “dark colored car and drove off,” according to the report.
The report also states that a witness ran towards the vehicle and shined his flashlight into it. 
The witness “observed a white female driving the car, she had brown hair and was wearing a blue shirt. In the back seat on the driver’s side he saw a black male with a black mask over his face.”
The witness also stated that when the car fled the area it struck a Hyundai Accent, according to the report.
Although the incident occurred between 1:15-1:30 a.m., the UCF Alert email was not sent out until 6:22 p.m.
Courtney Gilmartin, spokeswoman for the University of Central Florida Police Department, explained the reason for the delay.
“UCFPD was not immediately notified of Friday morning’s incident at the Marquee. Once we became aware, we worked to clear up some conflicting information about the suspect’s vehicle and then sent out a campus awareness email,” Gilmartin said.
“The UCF Alert system allows us to send messages to our community through text, email or a combination of the two. In this case, we selected the email option because although there was no immediate threat to the area, we did want the community to be aware of what took place and to look out for the suspect.”
KnightNews.com also obtained an email The Marquee sent its residents.
The email states that “At approximately 1:15 am, multiple individuals, one armed, were spotted by a security guard standing near Phase 2 garage.  As the guard approached, 4 male figures ran toward Aristotle Ave and turned north to immediately escape in a car waiting outside the gates.   Based on the appropriate and responsive actions of the security guard, no one was harmed and the suspects fled immediately.”
The email did not include any information about the victim and his stolen iPhone 6 or about the crash with the Hyundai.
Check back on KnightNews.com for updates on this story.



The Mu Psi chapter of Sigma Nu is currently under investigation after the national headquarters was made aware of an allegation of underage drinking.
While under investigation, the chapter has been suspended from holding activities with alcohol. 
It is not known who reported the allegation to Sigma Nu’s national office.
Fred Dobry, Director of Risk Reduction for Sigma Nu Fraternity Inc. told KnightNews.com that the national headquarters for Sigma Nu was recently made aware of the information and is taking action to suspend the Mu Psi chapter from all activities with alcohol.
“Recently, our office was made aware of possible violations of Fraternity policy related to alleged underage consumption of alcohol by certain members of the Mu Psi Chapter of Sigma Nu Fraternity at the University of Central Florida.  In keeping with Sigma Nu Fraternity’s appropriate and normal procedure when receiving such concerning information, we have begun an investigation of the information received and have taken action to suspend the chapter’s activities with alcohol, pending completion of the investigation,” said Dobry.
As of last check, UCF’s Office of Student Conduct had not yet launched its own investigation.
“The Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life supports the national office, but Sigma Nu is not currently under organizational review by the university,” said UCF spokesperson Courtney Gilmartin.



