
The Swing Knights at UCF took over the breezeway on Thursday, letting loose and inviting any passerby to join in the fun.
The swing dancing students often take to the breezeway to showcase their swing dancing skills and try to get new people to join the club. Jennifer Santana, who’s studying speech pathology, was one of the people passing by and decided to give it a try.
“I don’t get to do this a lot, and everyone is so nice and welcoming,” Santana said.
The Swing Knights practice on Mondays, and Wednesdays every week, with an open invitation regardless of skill level. Every Friday they host a dance, and Victoria Morris, a member of the club, said it’s a blast. One of the best parts of joining the Swing Knights for her has been the family aspect.
“Everyone in the group and in the UCF club is a lot of fun,” Morris said.
Kyle Killough, an information technology major, said dance is his outlet. He got hooked with swing dancing when he first attended the Swing Knights Winter Formal.
“I was hooked from then on just because it was an awesome place with an awesome atmosphere. It’s probably been the club that’s had the most impact on all of my years here and I’ve been here for seven years,” Killough, said.
Killough said after trying swing dancing he tried other dances including blues, tango, ballroom, and Latin dances. He now knows over 25 dances. Killough is graduating this May, but he plans to still be active in the swing dance community.
“The dances are open to everyone- student or non student,” Killough said.



Former star UCF football player Kevin Smith issued an apology on Facebook Thursday, one day after he was arrested by UCFPD on campus for resisting an officer without violence.
“I want to apologize for my actions yesterday as they are not a direct representation of who I am or my feelings toward UCF. My disrespectful statement towards the university was out of frustration and anger. I definitely could have handled things differently. I will learn from this experience and I am certain that I will make better decisions moving forward. I take pride in representing this university and I love the University of Central Florida with my heart. Go Knights,” Smith said on a Facebook post. 
Following his arrest on Wednesday, Smith posted a Facebook status that was soon after deleted, saying “shame on UCF” and that “being black in American is a real crime.”
According to the arrest affidavit, Smith, 28, was being investigated for a crash he was involved in over the weekend by a UCFPD officer. When the officer approached Smith in the Harris Corporation Engineering Center on campus, Smith claimed there was “no crash”, according to the affidavit.
When the officer tried to hand Smith the citations to sign for improperly backing, driving on a suspended license and leaving the scene of an accident without providing information, Smith said he had to go, according to the affidavit.
According to the affidavit, when Smith started to walk away, the officer then seized him.



