Representatives of the Orlando Police Department discussed career opportunities for women in law enforcement during an intimate breakfast on Thursday, Oct. 15.
“As a progressive agency, we like to mirror the demographics of our community, and so women make up about little over 50 percent of the community here in Florida, and we’re very low as far as women coming into law enforcement,” Sergeant Frank Chisari said as he addressed the crowd.
Background investigator Daisy Lajas sympathizes Chisari’s sentiments about the lack of women in law enforcement, which is one of the main reasons she wanted to talk with UCF students.Officer Beasley speaks to the all-female group of students about balancing life as a mother, teacher and officer. (Photo by Marissa Mahoney.)
“I don’t know if it’s a cultural thing, but we are short [of] women, so we are trying to reach out to women, let them know what the career is about, and let them know that they can have a fulfilling career and have a family,” Lajas said.
The officers also discussed the process of becoming a police officer in Orlando, and four women involved in various departments at OPD offered their personal experiences as a woman treading through the system.
During the breakfast portion of the event, the female attendees had the opportunity to talk with the officers one-on-one. 
Junior Shandreana Sanders came to the breakfast to inquire about employment opportunities other than being a police officer at OPD.
“I’m a finance and accounting major and the Orlando Police Department is a good police department, but if they have anything other than just being a police officer– maybe that would use my skill set in finance,” Sanders said.
Besides talking students through the recruitment process, the officers also provided information regarding the many benefits attached to working for OPD including pension plans and yearly salary increases.



For the first time ever, Spirit Splash fans will be able to enjoy the excitement and chaos of UCF’s signature Homecoming event from the comfort of their dry desks.
UCF Homecoming will live stream spirit splash starting at 1 p.m. on Oct. 23, according to a UCF press release.
“This is such a great opportunity to involve students and alumni that may not be able to make it back to campus for Spirit Splash,” said Homecoming Executive Director Joey Wolf. “We know how important this event is to people and we’re so thrilled to be able to bring it to them live.”
The feed will be available online though the Homecoming website wwww.ucfhc.com and will be available from 1-3 p.m. The recording will also be archived and be available for viewing after the live streaming of the event is over, according to a UCF press release.



The family of a UCF student has turned to GoFundMe to ask for help in efforts to raise money for her mother, who is in need of a heart transplant.
Julie Zebrauskas first started her uphill medical battle in 1992 at the age of 24 years old when she was diagnosed with Stage 3 Hodgkin’s Disease and was given a 40% chance to live. 
After being given heavy radiation therapy and going into remission, Zebrauskas experienced a reoccurrence of Hodgkin’s and was admitted into an aggressive chemotherapy drug trial. 
Despite being in and out of the hospital constantly, God gave the Zebrauskas family a blessing with their daughter Kimberly in 1994, according to the GoFundMe.
Kimberly is a 21 year old college student at UCF majoring in Event Management and Public Relations. She is also a sister of the Kappa Delta sorority on campus. 
Today, Julie is 47 years young and lives here in Orlando, Florida. The family moved to Orlando 3 years ago because it was Julie’s dream to visit Walt Disney World often. She worked there part time so she could spread her love of Disney to all who visited, according to the GoFundMe.
Just yesterday, Julie had surgery to get a defibrillator implant after staying in the hospital for 30 days. 
Medical bills for Julie amount to nearly $100,000 for just the past 3 years. The heart transplantation is a $1.2 million surgery. The anti-rejection medications will be approximately $5,000 per month and are only paid at 80%.
Julie is listed as a 1A(b) transplant. The family has stressed that every dollar helps towards their goal of $100,000. 
“If I can touch 100,000 people with $1, we can do this for Julie!  She has a lot more life to give this world, and I am not ready to say goodbye,” said Gregory Zebrauskas, Julie’s husband.



The UCF Knights will travel to Philadelphia to take on the Temple Owls and their star quarterback PJ Walker this Saturday night at Lincoln Financial Field.
Temple enters the contest undefeated and just barely missed making the Associated Press’ top 25 ranking in college football this past week. The Knights have yet to grab a win in their first six games of the season and there is no reason to think that that may change on Saturday. However, if the Knights can limit mistakes and convert their third down opportunities they will stand a chance against this staunch conference opponent.
“As far as Temple is concerned, they are undefeated, they are a very good football team and we’ll have our work cut out for us,” Head Coach George O’Leary said.
Junior quarterback PJ Walker will be a familiar face for Knights fans as this will be his third game starting against UCF and he was the quarterback for the Owls as a freshman two years ago when JJ Worton hauled in the catch that made him so famous.  This PJ Walker is a different monster than those first two seasons though; his development has seen him become incredibly efficient and effective.
Those developments in Walker’s game have been widely credited to Temple’s QB coach Glenn Thomas who spent the previous three seasons in the same position for the Atlanta Falcons and their starting QB Matt Ryan. The junior quarterback has not only decreased his TD/INT ratio significantly from last season, but he has increased his completions percentage by nearly 10 percent.
Temple is at its most dominant when their defense has the opportunity to take full advantage of the opposing team’s mistakes. Defensively, Temple ranks in the top 30 teams in the nation and has been a turnover-producing machine throughout the first half of the season. Led by senior linebacker Tyler Matakevich and defensive end Nate Smith, the self-proclaimed ‘Bash Brothers’ have brought the Temple Owls defense to new heights.
Matakevich has 399 career tackles and is on pace to become the seventh player in FBS history to record 100+ tackles in four consecutive seasons. His fellow ‘Bash Brother’ Nate Smith is ranked ninth in the NCAA in sacks with 5.5 this season after converting to defensive end from linebacker. Collectively, the Temple defense will prove to be a lot for Justin Holman to handle in his second game back from injury as they’ve held opposing quarterbacks to just 6 touchdowns while forcing 9 interceptions.
The Owls also excel in an area that has proven to be a weakness for the Knights: second half scoring.
Temple has outscored their opponents 107-26 in the second half this season which could mean trouble for a Knights team that has been outscored by 62 points in the second half. This is the third meeting between both teams and the second time that the Knights will travel to Lincoln Financial Field. UCF has not lost to Temple since they became regular opponents in 2013, but these are two entirely different teams then they have been the past two seasons and that does not bode well for the win-less Knights.
 
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla



