Summer is almost over and back to school shopping is finally here.
Tax free week began Friday, August 7 and will last until Sunday, August 16 at 11:59 p.m.
During this time period, there will be no sales tax on these items:
– Clothing, footwear, and certain accessories selling for $100 or less per item
– Certain school supplies selling for $15 or less per item
– Personal computers and certain computer-related accessories on the first $750 of the sales price, when purchased for noncommercial home or personal use
This holiday however does not apply to several items, which are listed on the next page. 



The Ultimate Fighting Championship will return to Orlando this December, according to ESPN 580.
UFC’s Orlando debut featured a sellout crowd of 17,000 people at the Amway Center in April 2014, the company’s second largest crowd of that year.
No fights have been announced yet. The last Orlando show included current heavyweight champ Fabricio Werdum, lightweight champion Rafael dos Anjos, Miesha Tate, and Donald (Cowboy) Cerrone, according to ESPN 580.
Tickets are scheduled to go on sale Friday, October 16.



The Orlando Magic will kick off their 2015-2016 season right here in Orlando at the Amway Center.
The Magic will host the Washington Wizards at the Amway Center on Wednesday, October 28 at 7 p.m.
Some of notable games this year for the Orlando Magic include playing the Washington Wizards on New Year’s Day at 7 p.m., and playing the Toronto Raptors in London, England just two weeks later at 3 p.m. EST.
The Magic will host the Miami Heat the day after Christmas at the Amway Center as well.
The last game of the regular season for the Magic will be on April 13 against the Charlotte Bobcats.
The full Orlando Magic schedule can be found here.



With exclusive access to campus prime tailgating spaces, UCF students and alumni can begin reserving spots for the first home football game of the season on Monday morning. 
Registration for tailgating spaces for the FIU vs. UCF home opener will open Monday morning at 10 a.m.  Tailgating activities for the first football game of the season will begin at 1 p.m., and kick off will start at 6 p.m. at Bright House Networks Stadium. 
Students and alumni can select their tailgating spaces here when registration begins. 
For the first time ever, Memory Mall will also host numerous food trucks as well as live bands in the Student Government Association tailgating area. 
Student reservations will be closer to the UCF Student Union while alumni reservations will be closer to the CFE Arena. 
UCF says the change was made to ensure students and alumni a spot to tailgate without having to show up hours before kick off. Fans will be able to check as early as one hour before tailgate activities begin and as late as three hours before kick off.
Unreserved spaces (if any) will be available to students and alumni at check in time, noon for the FIU game. Those interested should go to the student check-in table.
Students or alumni who do not register for a tailgate reservation in time can set up tailgate anywhere on campus except Memory Mall. All fans are welcome to journey to Memory Mall to enjoy the live bands and food trucks.



Walt Disney World’s shopping and entertaining complex will no longer be called Downtown Disney starting this fall. 
“Starting this month, you may notice the name ‘Disney Springs’ will begin to appear on guide maps, brochures, roadway signs and other places,” a Disney World spokeswomen told the Orlando Sentinel Wednesday. 
The revamped area is based on the look of an early 20th century Florida town, according to the Orlando Sentinel. 
The new remodeled complex will include two parking garages, several retail outlets, and new restaurants. 
Expected to open this fall are Morimoto Asia, a Pan-Asian restaurant, and Jock Lindsey’s Hangar Bar, an aviation-themed lounge featuring a pilot character from “Indiana Jones,” according to the Orlando Sentinel. 



