For the first time in 17 years, Orlando recorded triple digit temperatures on Friday.
According to the National Weather Service of Melbourne, the 100 degree high tied the old record for this time period that was last set in July 1998.
Despite this record, the highest recorded temperature of 103 degrees occurred on September 8, 1921.
KnightNews.com would like to remind readers to stay safe in the heat of the summer. If you or your friends experience symptoms of a heat stroke in the form of a body temperature of around 104 or higher, nausea, rapid breathing, sweating, and a headache – please call 911 immediately.
Heat strokes are very dangerous and according to the American Academy of Family Physicians, if you suspect someone is having a heat stroke, bring this person into a cool place, spray the person’s skin with cool water, and fan the person with warm air to help the water evaporate on their skin, which will help the cooling process.
In order to prevent a heat stroke, dress in light clothing, remember to stay hydrated, and do not exercise when it is too hot or humid. Also if you feel overheated, DO NOT drink alcohol as it can dehydrate your body further. These tips can prevent you or those surrounding you from bodily damage or even death.
We hope everyone stays safe and has a great summer!



Many gathered Friday afternoon at the student union, after having to avoid the rain, to honor those who were murdered in the Charleston church shooting.
Alpha Phi Alpha men’s fraternity hosted the candlelight vigil. The pastor who was shot was a member of the Alpa Phi Alpha fraternity at Allen University.
Vice President Kevin Young told KnightNews.com that the ceremony wasn’t about them, but about the families and friends of those who were killed.
President Cass Brown said that the event was put together in just a couple hours, with the help of UCF. Word of the event was spread throughout the student body.
The families of the deceased forgave the suspect Friday morning during his first court hearing and told him they are praying for him despite losing their loved ones. That hearing was only for the charge related to possessing a firearm. The suspect has not yet gone before a judge for the 9 murder charges.
Check back to KnightNews.com for updates on this heartbreaking story.
See photos below by KnightNews.com’s Aileen Perilla




