UCFPD is searching for a man who they say indecently exposed himself in Garage D on UCF campus.
UCF sent out an alert at 3:36 p.m. on Saturday afternoon. The suspect is white male with dark brown hair, wearing a white shirt and jeans, according to UCFPD.
The reported indecent exposure incident comes at the same time UCF students are participating in Knight-Thon, across the street from Garage D in the CFE Arena. 
A female reported the incident to UCFPD and she says the man looked like he was in his 20’s. 
Keep checking back for updates as we learn them. 



KnightNews.com is exclusively live-streaming Knight-Thon 2015!
Watch students, friends and families stand and dance for 20 hours to benefit the children!

This year, students aim to raise $500,000.



Student Government Association candidates Brian Zagrocki and Alex Bennett are being accused of violating election statutes with catering food at a recent rally, according to an affidavit obtained by KnightNews.com
The affidavit was filed on Friday and accuses Zagrocki and Bennett of catering food for attendees at their rally on Tuesday at Buffalo Wild Wings.
Section 604.2 E of the Election Statutes says, “Only items that are for the sole purpose of education may be distributed during Active Campaigning. Such items include but are not limited to: brochures, pamphlets, stickers, and palm cards. A final proof of each such item must be approved by the Election Commission prior to distribution,” and section 604.2 F says, “At no point can a candidate, group of candidates, ticket, or third party (with the exception of the Election Commission) provide food, drinks, or prizes to voters. Such items shall be considered bribes. This rule applies both on and off university controlled property.”
Zagrocki said the accusation held no merit. He and Bennett provided a written statement signed by the general manager of Buffalo Wild Wings stating they didn’t cater the event in order to disprove the affidavit.Document signed by Buffalo Wild Wings manager that Brian and Alex did not cater event.
“The food at the campaign rally was purchased at the expense of our attendees, including the tray of wings that were purchased by Alex’s parents during their surprise visit,” Zagrocki said.
Zagrocki said that at no time did they purchase food for their attendees.
“I am very disappointed that some people are trying to falsely attack Alex and I instead of focusing on the students and what we stand for,” Zagrocki said.
He said that they will continue to run a clean campaign and hope this demonstrates the integrity that they will bring to their positions as Student Body President and Vice President, if elected.
A violations hearing will take place April 3 at 7 p.m. in the Pensacola Board Room 222. This hearing will be one day after elections wrap up. Check back for updates to this story.



