UCF got its first victory in the fight to secure funding and approval for a downtown campus.
On Thursday, UCF presented to the Florida Board of Governors and received an initial vote recommending $2.77 million be funded by the Legislature, allowing UCF to keep planning a downtown campus.

“The alternative would be either we’re done or we’re kind of going laterally. We’re moving foward, we’re very pleased with the action of the board today,” said UCF President John C. Hitt minutes after the unanimous vote.
The total cost of a downtown campus would hover over $200 million and would be placed where the old Orlando Magic arena was, in the open area between Amelia and Robinson street. 
Over a hundred supporters came out in favor of the downtown campus on Thursday, including Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer and Senate President Andy Gardiner.
“Ultimately the legislature will decide on the funding, we get that, but it’s important to have a partnership with the Board of Governors,” said Gardiner. “Where it’s going to be located, the housing, it’s just very important to our community.” 
The Board of Governors did have concerns that they need to have addressed before UCF continues to keep moving forward, notably state board member Norman Tripp who wanted to see more planning for parking and housing downtown.
“I don’t see the commitment to the parking that is going to be necessary to handle all of this,” Tripp said in board member discussion.
While the downtown campus is still in premature stages, Hitt acknowledged that the fall 2017 opening date in the presentation could potentially be pushed back.
“I think we still can have a good opening whether it be fall of 2017 or 2018. I think we’re still on schedule to move a high impact program in for Central Florida within the next few years,” Hitt said. 



After 3-D printing a bionic arm and devoting their spare time to helping children with missing limbs, UCF’s “Limbitless” team will be highlighted through several Microsoft-sponsored events during the last week of February.
Families in more than two dozen countries have sought the help of the student-run team. Medical conditions and war have resulted in millions of children missing limbs, and the students, who call themselves Limbitless Solutions, aim to share hope that technology can address this need.
Through their recently debuted national social media campaign dubbed #TheCollectiveProject, Microsoft will be looking to raise awareness of children with this disability.
According to Microsoft’s Tumblr, Engineering Week Events sponsored by the Fortune-500 Company will include:
2/26/15 – Hand-A-Thon to assemble mechanical hands
Join your fellow students in helping assemble 3D printed hands for children and adults around the world. When you build these special mechanical hands, you’re also helping to build confidence and joy for another human being.
Can’t be there in person? Tweet about the event and mention #CollectiveProject and #BionicKids to help raise awareness.
2/27/15 – Design-A-Thon for bionic limbs
UCF engineering student Albert Manero and his team are in search of artists, 3D designers, and people with great ideas to create a catalog of bionic arms to send to children around the world in need of limbs.
2/27/15 – Hi-Five Chain to set a new World Record
Raise a Hand and help us raise awareness for Limbitless and #BionicKids by being part of the world’s longest high-five chain. With over 60,000 students and many dedicated faculty, staff, alumni, and friends we want to beat the record of 1,647, and we need your help. Every hand counts!
[Check out a video released by Microsoft on YouTube about the campaign https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WxCDZquT2Yk&feature=youtu.be]



