Orlando City’s first home win as a Major League Soccer team left 2014’s defending MLS champs, the Los Angeles Galaxy, scoreless before the game’s end.
The second highest attended match for the season saw over 40,000 fans take to the stands to cheer on a focused and well-equipped Lions team.
Midfielder Eric Avila set the pace with a score in the 12th minute, assisted by Brek Shea who caught a pass from Rafael Ramos. The leading goal allowed Orlando City to gain momentum, offensively and defensively, and prevent an LA equalizer shortly after.
Cyle Larin’s fourth goal of the season, now the most goals for the team, extended Orlando City’s lead to 2-0. Larin made attempts on goal at the 21st and 27th minute, the latter on an empty goal, but could not connect. Seven minutes later, for the forward’s third attempt, Larin received an assist from Kaká and blew past the goalie for an easy kick in.
Brek Shea followed Larin’s aggressive plays and claimed a shot in the 44th minute with a lone defender at his side but Galaxy goalkeeper Jaime Penedo would prevent the score, leaving Orlando with a two point advantage and LA with zero points on the board come halftime.
The second half opened with the same ball pressure and control from the Lions as the first, with defender Seb Hines leading the charge, taking an assist from Luke Boden and sending a shot to center goal. Hines’ shot would be saved and sent back to midfield.
Orlando’s Kaká saw a free kick on the left wing at the 52nd, but the ball soon bounced out. The forward would earn a penalty kick and misguide LA’s goalkeeper for a clear shot through the post. After the score, Kaká held a fan’s “(Kevin) Molino” jersey in the air in support for the midfielder, leading to a yellow card for excessive celebrating. Kaká finished the night with one goal and an assist on another.
“Today, everything that I tried I could get, so I am happy for my goal, and to celebrate [for the players],” said Kaká on the match. “It’s amazing. It’s an amazing day for us and I think is what we needed – one day like this. It’s a special day for Orlando city.”
A fourth goal, made by Darwin Cerén, sealed the match for the Lions. Cerén’s first goal of the season rocketed through the LA defense and deflected off of Galaxy defenseman Tommy Meyer before reaching the back of the net.
Goalkeeper Tally Hall returned from a late summer ACL injury and ended the match with zero goals allowed and 1 save, with 10 LA attempts on goal, and only 1 on target.
“It’s phenomenal [to be back],” said Hall on his first home debut. “Watching this team, the fans, I’ve been dying to get back in it. It is truly something to get back on that field. To get a win in the fashion that we did, it felt great to be a part of that.”
The four goals made on Sunday match the total of four goals made through the previous four games. Orlando finished the match with 11 attempts on goal, 7 attempts on target, 8 corners, 24 open play crosses, and 44 duels won.
“I’m delighted for everyone that connected with the club, especially the supporters who have been incredible for us,” said head coach Adrian Heath. “A lot of thank you’s to them, they’ve been incredible. I’m thankful for the players, they’ve been working so hard. The one thing about them is they come here and work hard every day and (tonight) they get a reward from it.”
San Jose welcomes Orlando City next at Levi Stadium, in Santa Clara, on Sunday, May 24th at 7:30 p.m. EDT. The neutral site match will be broadcasted on FOX Sports 1.



