Crime has been a problem at UCF’s Knight’s Circle apartments over the past couple days. A day after a rape was reported at the student affiliated apartments, an attempted burglary was reported early Tuesday morning. 
Two suspects knocked and twisted the door handle in an attempt to break in but were unsuccessful. The suspects had fled by the time UCF Police had arrived and the K9 unit had negative results, said UCFPD Spokeswoman Courtney Gilmartin.
The victims observed the two suspects through the peephole in the door. One was described wearing a black shirt, dark pants, and a ski mask while the other was said to be wearing a black and red shirt, said Gilmartin. 
Gilmartin said for anyone who saw or has info on the incident to call UCFPD at 407-823-5555. 



University of Buffalo Director of Athletics Danny White has been reported to leave the New York institution and become UCF’s new Director of Athletics, according to a ‘reliable source’ as reported by WKBW Buffalo.
White was scheduled for an interview with UCF for the position on Monday in Chicago, according to WKBW Buffalo, in the search by UCF Athletics to fill in an opening left by former interim A.D. George O’Leary.
‘Multiple reports out of Florida’ have penned White as a finalist in the search, WKBW Buffalo attributed in the report.



After seeing multiple swastika stickers around campus, more and more students are becoming concerned with their safety, expressing themselves on social media.
“This is terrifying,” one student tweeted to Knight News this morning. 
To go along with the anti-Semetic stickers, one student said his friend was handed a flier on November 8 that reads “Florida, lets kick it off! Join your local nazis, the Atomwaffen division!”
Knight News first reported the anti-Semetic stickers found on a campus newsstand, but more have been found since then in other locations.
A UCF student also messaged Knight News saying that “an RA in Lake Claire had her bulletin board stripped and replaced with Nazi propaganda.”
UCF Police has confirmed they are aware of the swastika stickers on campus and are investigating. 
Early this morning, Eastern Florida State College sent out an alert about a suspect threatening gun violence. UCF has classes on this campus as well. There is no evidence linking the gun violence threat on Cocoa’s campus to the Nazi flyers, however.
Check back for updates on this story.



 
Red-shirt freshman wide receiver, Tre’Quan smith is currently having a very productive year. The freshman receiver got national recognition for his incredible catch against Tulsa; Smith jumped over a Tulsa defender to snag an under thrown pass in mid-air.
“It was a big catch, it was an all-out effort to go up there and catch that ball and it really gave us a little bit of momentum,” said senior H-back Joseph Puopolo. “Just seeing him do that really encouraged the rest of us to go out there and give our all-out effort because we knew he was doing the same for us.”
Smith leads UCF in receiving yards and he is having a record-breaking year for a freshman receiver. He is tied with J.J Worton in most receptions by a freshman receiver with 41 catches, second behind Kamar Aiken in receiving yards with 572 and tied for six in receiving touchdowns with three this year.
“He’s stepped up and made some plays for us throughout the year,” said UCF interm coach Danny Barrett. “Obviously when you can tie a freshman record going into your last two games, that says a lot.”
Smith needs one catch, 12 receiving yards, and three touchdowns to beak all the UCF freshman receiving records.
There has been an obvious chemistry between Smith and Junior Quarterback Justin Holman from the first game of the season against FIU when Smith recorded nine receptions for 104 yards.
Smith recorded his second 100-yard game of the season with 131 yards against Tulsa, a career high, due to Holman’s improved play at quarterback. Holman seems to be getting his rhythm back after coming back from his hand injury, and he looked sharp last week.
“I think right now he’s probably at his best [Holman], than where he’s been all year, mentally and physically,” said Barrett.
With Holman’s improved play and the offense clicking on all levels for the first time this season. It is almost a forgone conclusion that Smith will break the UCF freshman receiving records and go on to have stellar college career.
“[Smith] is a guy that if we can keep healthy is going to have a very good career here at UCF,” said Barrett.
 



She calls her group “Grannies for Carson.” She is for traditional family oriented American values, such as manners and eating together at the dinner table. 
She came to the Sunshine State Summit in support of her favorite candidate, Dr. Ben Carson.
This “granny” believes that the soft-spoken neurosurgeon turned Republican presidential candidate can get America back to its roots, as a family-oriented, polite, kind nation.
Watch the video to hear more of “Grannies for Carson’s” views.




