The UCF chapter of NORML, which works toward cannabis reform, invited herbalist Emily Ruff to talk with students about sacred plant medicine on Tuesday, Oct. 27.
Sacred plants, such as cannabis, psilocybin mushrooms and peyote, are used ceremonially to explore the spiritual world. They are also considered sacred for the healing properties found within the plants.
“While these plants may bring about certain hallucinatory experiences, a lot of them don’t, and more broadly what they do is they help us connect with our God-like nature within,” Ruff said.
Ruff studied ethnobotany, philosophy and women’s studies at UCF. She graduated in 2005 and has since become the executive director at the Florida School of Holistic Living. Her research with plant healing has taken her to three continents where she studied with a variety of healers over the past decade.
She spoke about research that has been conducted by the U.S. Navy in relation to the human heart’s neuro-electrical response to something impeding that individual’s electromagnetic field. This research led to further discoveries about ancient societies who revered cannabis plants.
“They said that plants spoke to their hearts and gave them their wisdom,” Ruff said.
Ruff stressed many times that people need to respect plants more by pointing out that they, too, are living beings. She referenced a study from the University of Virginia showing that depressed individuals who sat in a garden with plants caused an increase in essential oil emission.
“That means when you’re depressed, plants are trying to make you happy,” she said.
Herbalist Emily Ruff reads a section from “The One-Straw Revolution” by Masanobu Fukuoka, a well-renown natural farming philosopher. Photo by Marissa Mahoney.
“I definitely agree that plants have senses that we don’t acknowledge all the time, and that we should try to be more one-with-nature,” mechanical engineering major Brady Alter said. 
The sacred plant medicine learning experience concluded with Ruff passing around a bag of fresh tobacco for each student to take a portion of. She wants them to ceremonially offer the tobacco to a plant.
But what they actually do with the tobacco is entirely up to them; she just asks that they offer a little prayer before, should they choose to smoke it.



UCF Knights were thrilled when Jimmy Fallon brought “The Tonight Show” to Universal Orlando for tapings last June, but in 2017, all comedy-lovers can enjoy the full Tonight Show experience in the brand-new Universal Studios attraction called Race through New York Starring Jimmy Fallon.
This new ride will be replacing Twister, Ride it Out…
“Jimmy and his creative team are working closely with Universal to develop the ride’s storyline and bring his vision to life,” according to Universal Orlando.
“The adventure will begin as guests step right into Studio 6B, where Jimmy will challenge them and their fellow audience members to a white-knuckle race. Guests will twist, turn and laugh as they speed through the streets – and skies – of The Big Apple – encountering everything from iconic landmarks to the deepest subway tunnels – and anything else that comes to Jimmy’s mind.”




The University of Central Florida’s Board of Trustees Compensation and Labor Committee met Wednesday morning to discuss changing Hitt’s contract, performance goals for the institution and performance pay for Hitt and the vice presidents.
Making Hitt abide by a yearly contract instead of his current rolling contract was discussed at the meeting. The contract change is only a suggestion and requires a full vote from the trustees.
UCF spokesman Chad Binette explained that “this is because the Board of Governors prefers one-year contracts for university presidents. Because of the timing of the fiscal  year, this term would be through June 30, not a full year. Previously, Dr. Hitt had a rolling contract that was automatically renewed unless either party terminated it.”
At this meeting, Performance Unit Play payments earned for the 2012-15 cycle were approved to move forward at total of $364,239 for Hitt and vice presidents of the university.
The motion moved forward for the PUP plan recommends that university vice presidents receive a total of $206,214 performance pay combined. 
The motion also recommends that Hitt receives a total of $158,025 performance pay. Hitt’s base salary is $505,730. This base salary was called “non-competitive” compared to other universities by a UCF consultant.
The final vote for the PUP will take place in November.
It was suggested at the meeting by a UCF board chair to keep Hitt’s pay at the same amount. Instead, he could have an increase in available performance pay, which would result in about a two percent increase in his compensation. The performance pay mentioned in this section would be possible beginning next year.
The committee also conducted an evaluation for Hitt, which was deemed very positive.
“His passion for the University, his concern for educational opportunity and student success, as well as his commitment to the citizens of this region and state remain undiminished,” the consultant’s report said.
The overview of Hitt’s evaluation mentions how enrollment at UCF has increased from 22,000 to over 63,000 students over his 23 years at the university.
“John Hitt has had a profound impact on the University. What the University is, in good measure, is a reflection of his values and decisions,” the overview states.
Hitt’s evaluation also credits him with other factors such as raising UCF’s national profile and making the university recognized as one of the nation’s leading “Innovation” universities by US News and World Report.
It is important to note that the suggestions discussed in this article are not final. All motions require full vote of the trustees and will be decided in upcoming months. 



