NASSAU – Sophomore Adonys Henriquez led the UCF men’s basketball team to victory Sunday night, closing game one after defeating the Real Deal Shockers 87-77.
Henriquez completed the foreign tour opener with 27 points and five three-pointers. The 2014 season’s American Athletic Conference All-Freshman honoree hooked 13 rebounds and five assists, claiming a double-double before the game’s end.
Senior Daiquan Walker earned 14 points, seven rebounds, seven assists and four steals in game one, the most of this season’s three seniors.
The Knights take Monday off in the Caribbean island before returning to face the Patron Regulators on Tuesday at 9 p.m. at Kendal Isaac’s National Gymnasium.
Wednesday, Aug. 12, will close the three-game summer tour with the IBA Elite at 5:30 p.m. and Thursday, Aug. 13, will see the student-athletes return to Central Florida.



Former University of Central Florida Student, Victoria King, was found guilty of resisting an officer and battery when UCF Police Officer Timothy Isaacs shattered her window during a stop back in September 2013.
King appealed her court ruling but lost the appeal in July 2015. 
Taxpayers paid for her to appeal the case with a public defender, according to court records.
King argued that “when the officer ordered her to roll down the window and to get out of her car, he was not engaged in the execution of a lawful duty since he had already completed his duty of writing the traffic citation,” according to a final order affirming trial court document.
The document stated that “The trial court did not err in denying the motion for judgement of acquittal because the State presented competent evidence that the officer was engaged in a lawful duty and issued a lawful command which Appellant disobeyed.”
King’s battery conviction was also upheld and although she lost her appeal, King’s motion to terminate her probation was granted on June 26, 2015.



A reward of up to $1,000 is now being offered to anyone who shares information with the Orange County Sheriff’s Office that helps catch the person who shot UCF football player Chris Williams. 
Williams was shot outside of King Tut’s Lounge on July 18 around 1 a.m.
The suspect is believed to be a white/hispanic male. 
Williams was released from the hospital on July 20 after he had faced non-life threatening injuries, two gunshot wounds to the arm.
If you have any information on the suspect, please contact the Orange County Sheriff’s Office. The number to remain anonymous is 800-423-TIPS.



