Meet the future global leaders with knowledge expertise in science, technology and math—elementary school-aged children. 
The UCF College of Education and Human Performance hosted its first Hour of Code event on Tuesday Dec. 8, 2015, where children and adults operated robotics using coding concepts simply from their smartphone devices and tablets. 
The event, held during Computer Science Education Week, was part of a current research study being performed by UCF education professor and educational researcher, Dr. Megan Nickels. 
The research study focuses on how students with terminal illnesses can learn mathematics through computer science. 
Several of the children that intended the event and demonstrated coding practices in front of the audience were students Nickels works with currently from Florida Hospital. Other students at the Hour of Code event were visiting from the Galileo School for Gifted Learning. 

One of Nickels’ responsibilities involves going into hospitals with Dash and Dot robots, invented by Wonder Workshop, and Lego Mindstorms EV3 robotic kits to supplement the learning processes of coding with children who have terminal illnesses. 
“I take those (robots) in and I give them authentic, meaningful experiences so I can help keep them (students) on track with their academics in non-traditional settings,” Nickels said. 
Nickels first opened her speech at Hour of Code by mentioning that we live in a world driven by computer science and that the trend is only going to increase. 
“Computer science hasn’t made its way into schools in the way that it should,” Nickels said.  “As part of the college of education, it is our job to prepare future teachers.” 
Nickels said the goal behind the event was making the initial introduction to computer science and being engaging in the ways that it introduces concepts through robotics or Star Wars-themed, coding module activities. 
Part of the coding process involves applications of mathematics to help students learn. For example, for a Dash or Dot robot to make a 90-degree turn, the user must be knowledgeable in angles and geometry basics. Programming the robot can range from using simple to complex mathematical applications. 
Several of Nickels’ undergraduate students, who are members of the registered organization known as (pig-e) Pediatric Interest Group Education were at the event volunteering and assisting children with operating the Dash and Dot robots through obstacle courses set upon the floor of the education building’s gymnasium. 
Savannah Stephenson, an elementary education major, said there are various apps to use with the robots to match with different age groups and learning abilities among the students. 
“It gives you that visual kinesthetic hands-on learning approach to mathematics that you don’t usually have,” she said. 
Stephenson said that it is incredible to have children see their own displays of work whether it’s coding or having the robot work on different activities.
“Not everything is handed to you; people create these things,” Stephenson said.  “You can be one of those people.  You can make your mark on this world and create something that no one’s ever seen before, which inspires them (students) to get involved whether it’s in technological or computer science fields. They can apply this knowledge to anything to be able to synthesize something new for the world.” 



Orlando, Fla. – With a tremendous second-half comeback, the UCF Knights beat the Bethune-Cookman Wildcats in overtime to move to 6-4.
“What an emotional roller-coaster tonight’s win was,” said UCF Head Coach Donnie Jones. “We started out, obviously, not very good and I give Bethune-Cookman credit for that, but I was really proud of how the guys fought back.”
UCF got off to a slow start and made some immediate substitutions, but couldn’t find the right formula to stop the wildcats and the Knights began playing catch-up. BCU’s Mario Moody was on fire, hitting 3-4 three-pointers and scored 17 points in the first-half.
“I can’t even tell you any changes I made, it was so many changes going on,” said Jones. “I was living in the moment…it was one of those undersized teams that was playing unbelievable tonight. And we just had to find a way to match their intensity with whoever we could put out there.”
BCU shot lights out from the field with a blistering 61.5 percentage in the first-half, but towards the end of the half, the Knights seemed to find their shot after back-to-back three-pointers by senior guard Daiquan Walker and sophomore guard Adonys Henriquez.
UCF made some line-up changes to start the second-half by starting Walker in place of freshman guard Chance McSpadden and Matt Williams into the small-forward positon, which slid red-shirt sophomore A.J Davis into the power-forward position and senior Shaheed Davis to the center positon.
That line-up worked for UCF as they started the half with an 18-4 run and took the lead with 17:20 remaining in the second-half.
“They got up on us and we didn’t give up,” said Daiquan Walker. “We came out in the second-half, coach got on us and we all knew what we had to do…we came out and press, brought the intensity up, and it was just a team effort at that point.”
The Knights took a 15-point lead with 8:23 remaining in the second half, but the Wildcats made a comeback and brought the game to within two points with 0.28 minutes remaining in the game and eventually tied the game and took the Knights into overtime.
Bethune-cookman’s, Jordan Potts, hit one of his seven three-point field goals to send the game into overtime.
“Because I had a chance to finish out the game…I was mad, so I kind of like put my head down,” said Walker. “Not like I was giving up, but coach came up to me and told me ‘don’t put your head down, keep your head up.’ That kind of got me focus and ready to go into overtime. So I knew we were going to win at that point.”
UCF was able to maintain their composure and claim their victory.
“Coming off the lost from Detroit, this was an important game for us,” said Jones. “Our guys locked in, I thought in the second half and we gutted it out.”
The Knights’ next game will be at home against George Washington on December 29, at 7pm.



There has been a lot of buzz within the Greek community about which fraternity or sorority is going to take over the former Theta Chi fraternity house, however, Knight News has learned it might not be given to a Greek organization at all.
When asked if UCF has any future plans for the house and what criteria they would be considering when determining who the next tenant would be, UCF spokesman Chad Binette said, “The answer to your question is that we haven’t made any decisions about the use of the house.”
Knight News responded and said “Does that mean it’s not even certain the house will continue to be Greek housing on campus? It sounds like everything is up in the air.”
Binette responded and said, “Your interpretation is correct.”
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”79256″]
It’s not clear what UCF would do with the house if it’s no longer a fraternity house, as it has been since it was built decades ago.
If UCF changes the use of the building, it won’t be the first time the use of a building has changed.
For example, an SGA information kiosk outside the library has since been turned into a restaurant where Aramark sells food under the Nom Nom Bowls brand.



