A woman was shot in a UCF-area neighborhood while searching for directions on her GPS Sunday night and the suspects are still on the loose, Orange County Deputies said. 
The woman, Jessalynn Mestre, 20, was parked outside University High School located at the intersection of Kaylas Court and Eastwood Drive, near UCF, deputies said. She and her two male passengers were stopped looking for directions using a GPS, when deputies say three men wearing hoodies approached the vehicle and fired several shots using a laser, one hitting Mestre. 
Mestre was driven to Florida Hospital East and is in stable condition. The two male passengers, both in their 20s, were unharmed. 
This shooting is still undergoing investigation. Anyone with information should call Crimeline at 407-423-8477.



A man was arrested Saturday after allegedly burglarizing two apartments at a complex near the University of Central Florida, deputies said. 
Christopher Bryan Woods, 27, was arrested after deputies were called to Northgate Lakes Apartment Complex by a resident, Seminole County Sheriff’s Office said in a release. The resident, called deputies around 6 a.m. and told them she heard someone trying to get into the apartment she was staying in. Christopher Woods
She told deputies that she also believed that the suspect went inside the apartment next door. 
When deputies responded to Northgate they saw a vehicle leaving the complex with its lights turned off, the release said. Deputies said that Woods was driving the vehicle and was found with several stolen items including a guitar, wallet and computer. Deputies later found additional stolen items stashed in a stairwell in the apartment complex, the release said. 
“It was our next door neighbor’s apartment, and we heard him take things out of his apartment and rumble them down the staircase,” She told KnightNews.com. “We called immediately, and the cops caught him driving out of Northgate as they came in.”
This wasn’t the first time she had to deal with someone breaking into the apartment she was in. On Jan. 26, her apartment was one of three burglarized in the middle of the night at Northgate Lakes. 
She had her Apple MacBook Air, Beats headphones and 32″ Samsung Smart TV stolen in the January burglary. Almost $6,000 in items were stolen from the three apartments. 
Investigators discovered that Woods was allegedly responsible for a burglary that occurred at the complex on Feb. 11 where credit cards were stolen, the release said. Deputies said that surveillance footage captured Woods purchasing about $300 worth of items at the Walmart located on East Colonial Drive near UCF.  
“The investigation remains ongoing as investigators look into the possibility of Woods being involved in other burglaries,” the release said. 



Universal Orlando is bringing a new water park to their park as well as a new attraction to Islands of Adventure, according to Local 6.
A permit application was submitted by a geo-technical engineering service for Universal Orlando and filed with the South Florida Water Management District. Documents within the application show a plot of land south of Cabana Bay Beach Resort where the park plans to build the new attraction. 
“The project is a proposed water theme park to be constructed to the south of the recently opened Cabana Beach Resort,” reads the application. “The site is a vacant tract of land that occupies a plan area of some 25± acres. The site is generally triangular in shape, bounded by Interstate 4 to the south, Turkey Lake Road to the west and the new hotel to the north.”
The new park will include slides, pools and various recreation facilities. In the southern portion of the site, a tall volcano with slides will be constructed as well as a series of low-rise buildings throughout the site. Several will contain equipment pits. The application mentions a wave pool, lazy river and rapids ride as well.
According to Local 6 Theme Park World Blogger Ken Pilcher, Universal has trademarked the name “Volcano Bay”.
Along with the new water park is another attraction coming to the theme park.
Inside of Islands of Adventure, construction has begun for a new King Kong ride next to Jurassic Park and Toon Lagoon. At a recent Diagon Alley media event, Universal Orlando President Bill Davis mentioned new announcements in the coming months for the resort.



Following advanced schematic designs completed in the fall, preliminary construction of a 21st Century Library Project on the John C. Hitt Library is set to launch in 2016.
The construction aims to support research and education for students, faculty and the community in the decades to come, evolving alongside advances in technology and an increased potential for student development.
Arguably one of the largest improvements to the soon-to-be 47 year old building will be the plans for an Automated Retrieval Center (ARC), built to house 1.2 million additional volumes of books that can be available in minutes at the touch of a computer screen. According to a Nov. 2014 technology newsletter released by UCF, the ARC will be a four-story building added to the north side of the current library.
The funding for the ARC is already in place, with the money coming from two years’ worth of the Capital Improvement Trust Fund, totaling $19,313,132, for planning, design, construction and equipping, according to a UCF spokesman. The ARC is expected to be completed by the end of 2016. 
The images of the library, released by UCF, are purely conceptual, but the brick building seen to the left of the library is where the ARC is going to built. The glass entrance depicted in the rendering is currently not funded and is not likely to be built for five years, according to a UCF spokesman.  
The Automated Retrieval System housed inside of the center will hope to create more efficient access to books and other printed materials by organizing existing volumes through storage of older, less popular materials to another building, opening space for student seating, computer workstations and other library services.
Additional plans may include the redesign and reimagining of the building interior, including creation of an area for graduate students, more group study rooms and alcoves outfitted with technology. By moving the stacks in the library to the ARC, it would create more room in the existing library for the aforementioned updates.  
Jake Rakoci contributed to this report.



Ever wanted to soar high and overlook all of Orlando and beyond? Now you can when the Orlando Eye opens this coming May 4.
Merlin Entertainments, which owns Legoland Florida, is opening its Orlando Eye this coming May 4, according to the Orlando Eye’s twitter account.
This observation wheel will be the tallest ferris wheel on the East Coast at 400 feet high.
On a clear day, it can overlook Cape Canaveral, which is 55 miles away from the wheel’s sky high location on International Drive.
This wheel includes 30 capsules that can fit up to 15 people as it rises high to overlook the city of Orlando and its surroundings, according to The Orlando Eye’s website.
The Orlando Eye will also include a 4D Cinema experience.
Also opening that day are London Based Merlin Entertainments other attractions, Sealife Orlando Aquarium and Madame Tussauds Orlando. All locations are next to each other on International Drive and have ticket specials to experience each other.
Sealife Orlando Aquarium will feature over 5,000 species, a 360 degree ocean tunnel and educational talks and feeds. Ticket prices vary for children and adults and no student discounts can be seen on its website, visitsealife.com
Madame Tussauds Orlando features wax models of famous A-listers, celebrities in Arts and Science, athletes in a Sports section and many History and World leaders. Ticket prices vary for children and adults and are cheaper if bought online before your visit, according to its website.
Purchase tickets to visit The Orlando Eye from $18 now as well as ticket deals to other Merlin Entertainments attractions like Sealife Orlando Aquarium, Madame Tussauds Orlando and LegoLand Florida.



ESPN host Stephen A. Smith, TED Talk leader Drew Dudley and many other leaders will be speaking on campus for Step It Up Leadership Week starting Feb. 23. 
Leadership Week, Sponsored by the LEAD Scholars Academy is a week specifically established to recognize and develop leaders on campus. The week will begin Feb. 23 and run until the 27th.
“Leadership week is a LEAD Scholars Academy sponsored week of awesome keynote speakers, informational workshops, and fun events dedicated to bringing involvement and leadership awareness to the University of Central Florida and the surrounding community,” said Kyle Jaimes, the Leadership Development Director of the LEAD Scholars Academy.
The speakers this week include Stephen A. Smith, Kyle Bryant, Demetrius Frazier, Drew Dudley and Tiffany Moore Russell.
As stated in a previous KnightNews.com article, “Smith has been at ESPN since 2003 and regularly appears as a commentator on SportsCenter, along with his ESPN show First Take and The Stephen A. Smith show on Sirius XM radio.”
“Stephen A. Smith kind of came out of nowhere about a month ago!  My advisor for Leadership week said that MSC was looking for collaborations to help get him here for Black History Month, the rest fell into place and we were able to get Mr. Smith to come speak,” Jaimes said.
Kyle Bryant is the founder and director of Ride Ataxia, a nation-wide bike ride fundraiser, according to the official leadership week website. His full bio can be found here.
“Luckily, Kyle Bryant was a keynote speaker we wanted from the beginning.  His charisma and awesome personality really drew us toward having him as a speaker for the week,” Jaimes said.
Another keynote speaker, Drew Dudley, is known for his famous TED talks on leadership. Dudley is also the Founder & Chief Catalyst Nuance Leadership, Inc. His full bio can be found here.
“Drew Dudley kind of just came out of the blue when I was at my first Resident Assistant staff meeting and I was so surprised I hadn’t thought of him from the beginning.  His TED talk was the first I had seen and remains my favorite,” Jaimes said.
Demetrius Frazier is a UCF Alum who works for the Golf Channel. “Mr. Frazier’s work experience and success in the corporate environments parallel with his personal successes, exemplifying his well roundedness and ability to thrive in a variety of settings,” the Leadership Week website said.
Tiffany Moore Russell is the Orange County Clerk of Courts. She will be part of a special event called Elect-Her, which empowers women in higher positions and leadership. According to her website, she was County Commissioner for District 6 for the past six and a half years.
Other Leadership Week events include Yoga After Dark, Verbal Judo, and Project HEAL Purple Ribbon Program Certification Courses.
Jaimes and his committee have been working since summer to make this week a reality. He exclaimed that his committee was fantastic. The departments working with LEAD to make this possible are the Multicultural Student Center, Residence Hall Association, Office of Student Involvement,  Student Government Association, UCF Recreation and Wellness center and Athletics.
For a full list of events, visit the Leadership Week calendar.
Jaimes encourages students to come out and take advantage of all Leadership Week has to offer.
“This week is not for us, it is for the UCF student body, faculty, and anybody that wants to have a little fun!”
For more information on Leadership Week visit their official website, Facebook, or contact the Lead Scholars Academy at leadscholarsacademy@ucf.edu.



