The Kappa Sigma fraternity officially totaled over $31,000 raised for the Military Heroes Campaign at their annual Key West Fest held on Friday.
Knight News is the proud media sponsor of Kappa Sigma’s philanthropy, which was held at its on-campus fraternity house. Kappa Sigma filled their parking lot with 200 tons of sand for the event, transforming their entire parking lot into a full beach that even had a sandcastle building contest. 
Knight News stopped by the event on Friday afternoon to check out the beach setup:

The Military Heroes Campaign has donated over $500,000 to non-profit organizations that help men and women that have been wounded serving this country. 
Later Friday night, Kappa Sigma finished off their successful philanthropy by having Instant Party play a set on the stage.  



It’s almost time for UCF football to be making its annual spring appearance at Bright House Networks Stadium for the spring game.
The annual “UCFamily” 2015 spring game will be held April 18 at 2 p.m. at Bright House Networks Stadium. Although the game starts at 2 p.m., the family friendly festivities start at 11 a.m.
Located on the south side of Bright House Networks Stadium, the pre-game festivities will include food trucks, game booths, kid’s fun zone, skills challenges, photo opportunities and even face painters. 
The current list of food trucks are tentatively scheduled to be Sonny’s BBQ, Rubio’s Baja Grill, It’s All Greek to Me, Curbie’s Sidewalk Café, Caketeer, Philly’s Best Cheesesteaks, Voodoo Kitchen, Chi Phi, Fat Daddy’s BBQ, Barnwood BBQ, TJ’s Seafood Shack, Kona Ice, Mayan Grill, El Cubanito, 900 Degreez Pizza, Fork in the Road and Melissa’s Chicken & Waffles.
As always, the spring game is free, open to the general public and free parking lots open at 8 a.m. 



Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer, Central Florida Sports Commission President and CEO John Bisignano, and the Orlando City Soccer Club announced their bid Monday to host one of the world’s largest soccer events – Copa America Centenario USA 2016.
The tournament consists of six teams from the Confederations of North America, Central America and the Caribbean Association Football, and ten teams of the Confederacion Sudamericana de Fútbol: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Columbia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay and Venzuela.
Usually, the bids are sent on a flash drive and in a folder through the mail to the Federation’s headquarters. Orlando City wanted to ensure that US Soccer noticed their bid by encasing the documents in aluminum metal, with etchings of a packed stadium panoramic from the inaugural March 8th match against NYCFC as well as the typeface “Orlando | we’re fluent in fútbol.”
And as an extra measure to impress the judges, two of Orlando City’s standout academy players hand delivered the bid to the US Soccer Federation’s office in Chicago. One of the academy players, Gorka Aperribay, has committed to play for UCF’s soccer program. Along with Aperribay to deliver the bid, Orlando City academy player Natalie Michelle Fouque has committed to play for Villanova University in Pennsylvania and their soccer program. To top it all off and establish momentum, Orlando City photographed Aperribay and Fouque with the aluminum cases at different sites and started #DefyExpectations on their social media accounts as the bid made its way through Chicago.
The motive to host the cup is high, as economic impact to the region would be an estimated $30-$50 million, making it the largest sporting event Central Florida has hosted since the 1994 World Cup. The event will draw approximately 10,000 international travelers that come to watch their country participate in the match, adding to the more than 45,000 room night stays at local hotels that may come as a result. Foreigners are also likely to return to the Orlando metro-area in hopes of enjoying attractions and other events that the region offers.
The newly renovated Orlando Citrus Bowl, with capacity for upwards of 70,000, will host the cup should Central Florida earn the bid. Now that potential host cities have submitted their bids, the decision-making process will begin, with eight to thirteen stadiums coming out as recipients for the cup in May.



The Campus Activities Board, Late Knights, and Knights of the Turntables will be hosting UCF’s first Light the Knight 5K Friday evening, featuring music zones, DJ battles and an after party following the race.
The anticipated annual event will be glow-themed and is intended to be an experience for participants as they walk/run across campus. The race will not be timed, and pace is set by the students taking part in the event.
Along with the 5K comes a DJ battle from Knights of the Turntables, where 4 people will have the chance to compete for the title of UCF’s Best Disc Jockey as well as take the opportunity to DJ for Late Knights’ Splash Down Pool Party that will close out the 2015 Spring semester.

The battle takes place during the after-party following the race where party-goers can enjoy color changing water bottles, lights and glow sticks, pizza, shirts and music. Votes for Best DJ are determined partly by text-in votes and by the scores of the judges.
Students are encouraged to be creative with what they wear to the event and are further encouraged to match the glow theme. Comfortable clothes and closed-toed shoes are a must for the run, which will take place at 8 p.m. at Memory Mall. Check-in will take place at 7 p.m. outside of the Career Services and Experiential Learning building on Memory Mall as well. Free t-shirts earned by the 5K participants may be picked up after the race.
Registration on the Office of Student Involvement’s website closes at 12 p.m. Friday, although last-minute registration will take place prior to the event, from 7 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. To ensure a guaranteed spot, early registration is highly recommended.
The run is exclusive to current UCF students, although non-UCF students may come to the event and spectate all that the 5K has to offer. Both students and spectators are invited to the after party to enjoy snacks and activities.
Early registration can be found here. Light the Knight 5K and the after-party are free for all.



