By: Cait Zona
As I stand here today and reflect on my past three years at the University of Central Florida, I am left to consider my start on campus. 
Had I been asked when I first stepped onto this campus if I would ever run for President of Student Government, I would have found that hard to imagine. Starting my freshman year, I started to unleash my own legacy at UCF through campus involvement, and in the process, I made UCF my home, rather than just my school. I started engaging in the Office of Student Involvement through Volunteer UCF, and I quickly realized that I had succeeded — UCF was my home. 
I wanted to branch out and increase my involvement, so I applied for a vacant Senate seat so that I could begin the process of unleashing my legacy in Student Government.
In joining Senate, I had the opportunity to meet the friend of a lifetime and an ally in good times and bad — Jarell Jones. As two freshmen involved in Student Government, we bonded quickly and began a record of working together to move our campus forward. Over the years, as our involvement in Student Government changed and evolved, I realized how lucky UCF students are to have him working every day on their behalf. Standing here today as a presidential candidate, I cannot imagine having anyone else by my side, running with me. 
His drive and knowledge of the campus, which stems from a wealth of experiences in Cabinet, is impressive. I am honored to put my full faith and trust in Jarell as my running mate, and I am confident that he will continue to serve UCF students with honor and distinction.
Working together, I am confident that we have the experience required to bring about the change that UCF students need. We have worked together through three different Student Government administrations, and in doing so, we are uniquely positioned to build on their successes and to learn from their mistakes so that we can unleash our own legacy. With Jarell’s experience in the executive branch and my experience in the legislative branch, we know what it takes for leaders to achieve their goals and what bureaucracy must be overcome to bring about real change for our students. 
Our platform, therefore, is formed on a foundation of our direct knowledge of what works and what does not, and on our belief that there is always room for improvement and always time to strive towards perfection. It represents what we as a hopeful administration aim to see happen to make life at UCF more enjoyable for our students, and it represents our own values.
We would be honored by the opportunity to continue to serve you. For all of our time at the University of Central Florida, it has always been our goal to serve you, and we are confident that we have delivered real accomplishments for you. 
Our campaign is predicated on a serious, realistic and pragmatic vision for what our university can be. No jokes, no gimmicks, no backroom politics — just serious leadership and results for our students. 
Join with us to make our campus a better place to go to school, and together, we can unleash our legacy.



By: Brian Zagrocki
Students should vote for Alex and I because we have a unique vision for the Student Government Association (SGA) here at the University of Central Florida (UCF). 
Our vision is one of change in SGA and we have three major initiatives for our platform – connecting students to SGA, better leadership, and promoting student success. 
First, Alex and I believe in a SGA where every single student is connected to SGA and their input is heard. As the representative body for UCF students, it is imperative that SGA is accountable and relatable to the people it serves. 
Better leadership represents Alex and I’s commitment to integrity. We understand the lasting impact that the position of Student Body President and Vice President imprint on the students of our school and we promise that we will uphold our duties to the highest standard. 
Additionally, promoting student success is the single most important criteria for evaluating the services that SGA provides. We have developed a list of platform points that stem from our approach to promoting student success and we firmly believe our platform not only represents student input but is also accomplishable during our term in office. In fact, Alex and I sat down with directors across campus to receive their input on how we can collaborate to accomplish our platform goals. So not only are we bringing a robust platform that represents diversified student interests, we are promising results. 
Some of our more specific platform points include increasing the efficiency of parking on campus, refurbishing the Student Union, advocating for the health center to expand its hours to the weekend, and lobbying at the state level for no increase to student tuition. This list of ideas for SGA merely scratches the surface of our entire platform and we encourage students to follow our campaign so they can remain informed on the issues that will be impacting them in their collegiate career and how we plan to address these issues as the next Student Body President and Vice President. 
Alex and I are qualified for the job at hand because of my extensive experience in SGA, coupled with her proven leadership across campus, complements one another’s background immensely and together we make a fantastic team. However, beyond our proven track record, what sets Alex and I apart is our sincerity and passion for UCF. 
We are happy to call UCF our home and proud to consider ourselves fellow Knights. By addressing the disconnect in SGA representation, proving that our actions speak louder than words as leaders, and committing ourselves to developing a SGA where student success is the number one priority, Alex and I strongly believe that we are the change that the student body deserves. 



Breshad Perriman dazzled UCF football fans throughout the entirety of his three-year college career. 
Today, he did the same at UCF Pro Day in front of scouts of reportedly all 32 NFL teams. 
Perriman clocked in at an unofficial 4.22 in the 40-yard dash. 

The pro day served as the final display of talent for UCF prospects, prior to the 2015 NFL Draft. Much like the NFL combine, held in late February, players were put through a number of workouts to allow scouts and coaches to gauge their talent. 
Among those in attendance at this year’s pro day was four-time Super Bowl champion and head coach of the New England Patriots, Bill Belichick.
Finishing his college career with 115 receptions for 2,243 yards and 16 touchdowns, Perriman had been slowly creeping up a number of team’s draft boards. Everyone who had watched the 6’2”, 212-pound receiver knew that one of his biggest assets was his incredible speed. Unfortunately, due to a hamstring injury, he was forced to miss the NFL combine and was, therefore, unable to showcase his skills.
The 21-year-old showed no signs of injury as he blazed through the 40-yard dash at UCF. According to UCF Athletics, they heard times ranged anywhere from 4.15 to 4.27 for his two runs. A time that would have been the fastest at the NFL combine if he had he participated. 
While Perriman was securing his status as one of the draft’s fastest receivers, his fellow Knights were opening eyes as well. Receivers Rannell Hall and Josh Reese, linebacker Terrance Plummer, offensive lineman Torrian Wilson, and defensive back Clayton Geathers all showcased their talents in front of scouts as well.  



The University of Central Florida has partnered with Daytona State College to offer students the chance to direct connect.
Like UCF’s current partnership with Valencia, the direct connect partnership with Daytona State College will guarantee entry into the university for students who receive associates degrees from the college, News 13 reports. 
“The program a great advantage to our students who have a desire to transfer to University of Central Florida,” Tom LoBasso, president of Daytona State College, told News 13. “It’s going to allow them to easily transition by joint advising, early advising so that they can go to UCF and be successful there.”
UCF has similar partnerships in place with other colleges like Eastern Florida State and Seminole State colleges.



By: Richard Stein
Part of my vision for this campaign was to shed some light on how SGA really works. 
I think students are entitled to know how their money is being spent.  Student Government needs to be fair, honest and fiscally responsible.  
But it’s not.
Let’s talk about the President: 
The President of SGA is given $15,000 every year for his “President Initiative Fund”. This money is given to the President to accomplish promises he made to the students during the campaign. This money is supposed to be used for the benefit of the students.
So, what has the President been doing with this money? When I went to the books, I was surprised to learn that the “Presidents Initiative Fund” almost doubled to $27,140.00 for this year.  Where did all those thousands of extra dollars come from? When I consulted the Activity and Service Fee (A&SF) budget office, I learned that they had been taken from you. President Bayes took money away from A&SF for his own purposes. He took hundreds of dollars from the Scantron and Blue Book Fund; that fund now has only three and a half dollars left in its account. He took thousands of dollars from the Executive Employee Compensation fund; that fund will soon run a deficit.
You may be wondering where Brian and Cait were. What were they doing? Were they calling meetings to defend you? Were they bringing this issue to you so you could have a say in how your money was spent? No. Instead, they were nothing. And now they want you to vote for them. They want you to vote for the Status Quo. For bullsh*t.
Our Student Government was built with three branches: (1) Executive, (2) Legislative and (3) Judicial. Our Government was designed this way to preserve checks and balances. It was designed to be fair. But instead, I have learned that SGA runs like something out of House of Cards. Resident “king-makers” decide who will be President before they are ever elected. This isn’t the time of Government I want. I know it’s not the one you deserve.
And now with Weston’s endorsement of Cait, what will we do? Do we allow the king-makers to continue their control of “our” democratic process, or do we do something about it? We need to stand up and take SGA back.  
While there may be three tickets, there are only two options. Do you want a President who works for you or just another member of the SGA political machine? 
My opponents claim to be different from one another. But let’s look past rhetoric and stick to the facts, because Brian and Cait have more in common than they’d like you to believe.
Fact 1: Brian and Cait have time and time again voted together.
Fact 2: While Brian claims to be against the SGA establishment, he and Cait have almost always sided with the majority.
Fact 3: Despite claiming to care about you, they’ve never once sponsored legislation accomplishing the goals they’ve set out in their platforms. 
I want you to think about these facts and the type of Presidents these people will be. 
It’s time to change a broken system. 



Students voting in the 2015 SGA Presidential election will still be able to receive food and goodies in exchange for casting their vote.
Here’s the catch — the SGA Election Commission will be providing the goodies, not the candidates themselves. To be exact, the Election Commission will be providing 200 Topper’s ice cream cones the first day and 200 the second day inside of Election Commission voting areas. Along with the ice cream, students will also be receiving a free t-shirt as well. 
These voting areas ran by the Election Commission will be unbiased and students voting in them will not be encouraged to vote for any single candidate, however, looking up the candidate’s platforms before voting is encouraged. Nicklas Bajema, Supervisor of Elections, spoke with KnightNews.com following Tuesday’s Nicholson School of Communication debate. 
“We really want to entice students to come out and say ‘hey we have a voice in this and we wanna change this’ and we want to say, ‘hey you showed that you care about your school, why can’t we show that we care for you too?’” said Bajema. 
The 2015 SGA Presidential election will be the first election where candidates themselves are not permitted to provide voters with food, drink and prizes during the candidate voting process. The bill, which was not signed in time for the 2014 SGA Presidential election, now considers all the aforementioned items a bribe. Candidates are now only allowed to provide students with educational materials, such as pamphlets and stickers. 
Bajema said the funding for the ice cream and t-shirts come from the allocated budget for SGA elections. 
“There will be laptops for students to vote and all you have to do is go up, logon to myUCF, go on the voting page, click vote and choose the candidate you want to choose and we will give you the goodies,” said Bajema.



SGA candidates Brian Zagrocki and Alex Bennett released their platform points at their rally at Buffalo Wild Wings on March 24.
“In your opinion, what does SGA do?” Zagrocki asked attendees at the rally. Besides a brief, “Free scantrons!” guests had little idea what to say. Zagrocki and Bennett said they would be working hard to ensure students are informed voters when elections begin.
Junior Renzo Mendieta expressed his concern that there is a significant disconnect between SGA and students.
“It’s just so obvious that SGA supports one type of candidate and that’s it; they’re not really open to any other ideas, or to change,” Mendieta said.
According to Zagrocki and Bennett, their primary aim is to bridge that disconnect and to address students’ concerns.
“We’re students too, and we’re here to hear your concerns,” said Zagrocki.
Zagrocki said their platform is totally feasible. Unlike past and current administrations that make promises that are not fulfilled, such as the pedestrian bridge on Alafaya. He said they’re taking the necessary steps to ensure their points will be fulfilled, if elected.
A major point Zagrocki and Bennett addressed was the parking issue on campus. He said he would aim to integrate an app, currently being developed at a college in New York that is able to track open parking spots on campus. It allows students to see the availability in parking garages and save time finding a spot, instead of driving around in circles.
“We’re not making the usual grandiose promise saying that we’re going to make more parking garages or build them higher because that’s not going to happen. With this app, you’ll be able to find parking spaces in five minutes instead of an hour,” Zagrocki said.
During the SGA Debate earlier that afternoon, opposing candidate Stein, asked how Zagrocki planned to fund these services. Zagrocki said their utmost priority as president and vice president, if elected, would be fiscal responsibility.
“We want to create an exploratory committee and just kind of figure out what our different options are for developing that application and then choosing whichever one is the most effective and the most cost affordable,” said Zagrocki.
For a detailed view of their platform, visit www.new-knight.com.



UCF knows video games. 
In a new ranking list published by the Princeton Review on Tuesday, the University of Central Florida’s video game design school was again named number two in the world as being the best school to study game design. 
UCF’s Florida Interactive Entertainment Academy (FIEA), located in downtown Orlando, earned a the No. 2 spot for the second year in a row, falling only behind to the University of Utah. 
“With our 10-year anniversary approaching, it’s great to see the Princeton Review continue to recognize the outstanding work of our faculty, staff and students,” said executive director Ben Noel. “We’re proud to be part of Central Florida’s growing digital economy.” 
The sixth annual ranking list focused on criteria in four areas: curriculum, facilities, technology, and career services. 
The top five schools for best graduate programs were: 
1. University of Utah (Salt Lake City, UT)
2. University of Central Florida (Orlando, FL) 
3. Southern Methodist University (Plano, TX) 
4. University of Southern California (Los Angeles, CA) 
5. DigiPen Institute of Technology (Redmond, WA) 
Full Sail University was also named as a top school to attend for game design, earning No. 18 on the list for undergraduate programs and No. 24 for graduate.
Click here to view the full list.



