
Police are still searching for a man they say exposed and touched himself in front of a woman in a UCF garage Saturday afternoon.
UCF sent out an alert at 3:36 on Saturday telling students a man indecently exposed himself in Garage D on UCF’s main campus. New details released in the incident report and 911 call say the victim had to fight the man off, and the suspect committed a sex act in her presence, leaving evidence on her and her vehicle.
The woman, who is not a UCF student, told police she was walking to get something out of her friend’s car in Garage D when she felt someone behind her. When she turned around, she saw a man was standing behind her exposing and touching himself through the zipper of his jeans, the incident report said.

The woman yelled “get off me” and grabbed the man by the shirt to push him away, the report said. Police said evidence of the sex crime was found on the woman’s skin, clothes and her vehicle.
The man ran off and got into a blue or gray minivan. The man’s van was caught on surveillance footage while he was traveling along Gemini Boulevard. The suspect is described as a white man about 20 years old with dark brown hair, police said.
Spokeswoman for UCF Police Courtney Gilmartin said the UCF alert didn’t include these details because they were trying to get out the information as quickly as possible. She said the investigation is still ongoing and police are continuing to work with the victim, who wasn’t injured in the incident. 
The victim talked to WKMG Local 6 and told them she thought she was going to be raped, and she was outraged when she found out UCF didn’t have cameras in the garage.
KnightNews.com has been following UCF student Ryan McKinney’s plea for more cameras in garages. He appeared in front of the Board of Trustees Thursday asking officials to put cameras in the garages after his car was vandalized during the first week of spring semester.



The 2015 Student Government Association Presidential Elections have started with yet another controversy within the campaigns: table wars.
Knight News received a tip this morning that candidates Cait Zona and Jarell Jones had taken over the table at the Student Union patio that was assigned to Brian Zagrocki and Alex Bennett.
When we approached Brian, he said, “We had an agreement, that’s our spot for tabling. UCF SU made an agreement with the election commissioner. We got here to find out that they already had our spot and they told us that we couldn’t have it.”
Zona had set up the tent closest to the Student Union, on the left side when facing the entrance. According to Zagrocki, the spot the tents are placed at really makes a difference.
“Why else would they have gotten here at five o’clock and stolen what we’ve already reserved?” said Zagrocki.
KnightNews also approached Zona regarding the information. She told us that, “Statutorily, any of the spots are open” and that, “Per statute, it’s first come first serve.”
Zona admitted that they picked numbers through the EC, but she had asked the SU for approval to table there.
Nicklas Bajema, Supervisor of Elections for the Election Commission, disputed Zona’s previous statement.
“It was not first come, first serve. There was an agreement had by the candidates initiated by me. They basically drew in a snake style fashion, basically if you had an NFL draft, kind of fantasy football style, so everyone gets a first, second, and last choice. And then, they pick the spots and they were supposed to honor that,” Bajema said.
Regarding the numbered spots Zona talked about, Bajema said that, “There was a preconceived notion that each person had a spot available to them in a fair manner, because it was established beforehand in an agreement with the elections commission.”
After receiving Bajema’s statement, we went back to Zona and asked her why she had said that the spots were first come, first serve.
Zona said that they received building permission and anything that was reserved was for Election Commissioner general.
“We just decided with our team we just wanted to be as close to students and this was actually not a spot previously. So there was one spot per candidate, one spot per ticket, and they still have their own spot right there. This was actually not a spot on the map,” she said.

KnightNews.com was able to attain the map with the numbered spots the candidates received and compare that to the spot that Zona’s table was located.
As shown in the pictures, Zona’s table appears to be in a spot in the map, a spot assigned to Brian and Alex.
We also spoke to event services, who gave us a screenshot of the patio reservation schedule.
The entire patio was reserved for elections, but no reservation was made specifically for that table, which is shown to be a numbered table in the EC document, not an Event Services table.
Zona did request permission for that spot to be closer to students and Event Services agreed because the patio was open for elections. However, Event Services was not in charge of the table the EC had previously assigned,
Keep checking back to Knight News for continuing SGA election coverage.



When she was growing up, Alexis Lemay remembers her mother getting up early every day for cancer treatments. 
It was breast cancer. 
The disease put a strain on their family, but her mother wouldn’t give up. She continued teaching kindergarten and wouldn’t miss a day of work. 
After a year-long battle, Lemay’s mother beat the disease. 
Lemay, now a senior at UCF majoring in business, and a group of UCF students have been raising funds for the organization Base Camp. 
Base Camp provides a place for children fighting cancer to be just be kids. There’s video games, drawers of makeup, beautiful clothing for dress up and tons of food. 
They celebrate birthdays and milestone parties at their facility in Winter Park. The organization also helps the families of patients by providing food and support, even donating lunches and dinners to nearby hospitals every week. 
“My mom may have been an adult with cancer but to be a child with cancer, it affects me even more,” Lemay said. “You think how scary that must be for them and to see them keep smiling throughout treatment is truly amazing.”
Lemay’s six-person group, Base Knights, has raised over $500 for the organization. They are just one of the almost 10 cornerstone groups helping Base Camp this semester. 
Terri Jones, president of Base Camp, estimates that students from UCF would bring in about $30,000 in cash, food and donations this semester.
Jones said their organization is starting a new campaign #ConquerTheClimb, which hopes to raise $100,000 in 10 years. With the help of these UCF students, they are one step closer.
“We are able to do so much because of these students,” Jones said. “We’re so thankful for their hard work, and I can’t imagine what we’d do without them. The kids just adore them.”



Imagine graduating high school and rather than experiencing the freedom of going away to college, you are thrown into the front line of warfare. 
Not worried about which party to go to this Friday night, but of all the civilian lives you are responsible for protecting. 
That is what the average teenager experiences in Israel.
Beneath the Helmet began as the sun set Thursday night Mar. 19 at 8 p.m. in SU Room 221. Students could enjoy cookies and coffee while watching the premiere screening of the documentary Beneath the Helmet: From High School to the Home Front by Jerusalem U.
Deputy Company Commander, Aviv Regev, who is featured in the film, was present during the screening, and afterward spoke to students about the IDF (Israel Defense Forces) and answered any questions they had about the film and about Israel.
“The film was produced over a 2-year period. We followed the soldiers’ lives during their 8-month training period, both in—and out—of the army. That was followed by an extensive post-production period,” Wayne Kopping said, the director and editor of Beneath the Helmet.
Kopping’s documentaries have been seen by over 40,000,000 people worldwide. His work has been featured on CNN and Fox News, as well as in The New York Times and countless other publications and blogs.
“As Eilon Kohan, one of the recruits we feature in the film tells us, kids his age in just about any other country are thinking about what college to attend, which parties to go to, and where to travel. But as a soldier, he’s having to crawl over thorns, realizing that he may be called to put his life on the line to defend the country,” Kopping said.
Kopping said he found it remarkable to witness that this process didn’t leave the soldiers bitter and angry, but rather, filled with courage and a selfless desire to serve and ‘give back, just as those who came before them took a stand to protect the nation.
The audiences often have insightful questions, he said, and who better to answer them, than those soldiers and officers who’s lives are depicted onscreen.
“Over and above all else, these soldiers are some of the coolest people you’ll ever meet, so who wouldn’t want to come out to a screening to meet them?” Kopping said.
During his time in the service, Regev was in charge of 120 soldiers, logistics in training, at the time of the film. Meaning, all of the soldiers seen in the film were his soldiers.
When he was 16, he was tending to his family’s orchards when a missile hit near him launched by a terrorist group in the second Lebanon war.
“I realized that for 16 years I had been living peacefully and happily without a worry or care in the world, thanks to the soldiers who were protecting me and my family and that in a few years it would be my turn to do the same,” Regev said.
“Try to think of it, when was the last time you did something that you thought was impossible that there was no way to finish it?” he said to the audience. “It doesn’t happen very often.”
“It’s something that I think is really unique of the Israel Defense Forces, we train our soldiers to pass these mental and physical barriers to realize that nothing is impossible.” At the end of the soldier’s training, as featured in the film, the soldiers are required to walk a distance of 57 miles.
At the age of 21, his skills and motivation allowed him to climb the ranking ladder to become an officer of a platoon. It was at the age of 23 that he became deputy company commander, the age at which he was featured in the film.
“[The film crew] was my biggest worry. The camera man thinks it’s nice to shoot the guns when they’re firing towards the camera, very creative,” Regev said, making the audience laugh. “But they were able to capture the process that we go through, especially in training.”
He explained the responsibilities of being a commander at a young age, and all the sacrifices made and decisions that carry the lives of so many others. Regev did not lose any of his soldiers under his command and he did not have to kill anyone during his time in the service.
After finishing his service in Nov. 2013, Jerusalem U approached him and asked if he would be interested in representing the film in the United States.
“As you can imagine after 5 years in the army it was not on the top of my to-do list,” he said.
He then told them politely no, and later found himself crossing China by himself. He traveled 2,000 miles from north to south, and hiked a few hundred miles in New Zealand. It was during that time that he met a lot of teenagers from over a dozen countries who were were interested in his story and asked him many questions.
“The problem is that these questions were based on propaganda and lies and misconceptions. And that was when I realized there was this whole other war going on in the international media and on campuses,” Regev said. “And once I understood this that there’s not only a physical battlefront but a verbal one I felt like I couldn’t sit on the sidelines and watch.”
It was for this reason that he decided to represent the film in the states; to share his stories and to answer any questions about Israel that students may have.
Rebekah Kanefsky, 19, is a senior majoring in Psychology.
“The club is pro-Israel and aims to educate students and the Orlando community about Israel,” she said.
Kanefsky is the event coordinator for knights for Israel, and first got involved in the club because she knew the current club president in high school, and had introduced her to Knights for Israel when she came to college.
“I am really passionate about Israel and advocating for it, so that’s why I wanted to get involved,” she said.
“I liked [the film] because it was an effective reminder that Israeli soldiers are human too. The Israeli people just want their children to come home safe and the soldiers are very similar to you and I in many aspects,” Kanefsky said.
“Other pro Israel groups around the country also are screening [the film] and I think it’s an interesting documentary that makes students feel supportive of the soldiers. I think the film was beneficial because it was inspirational to watch the soldiers go through those experiences,” Kanefsky said.
For more information the film, visit www.beneathhelmet.com. To learn more about Jerusalem U visit www.jerusalemu.org.



