As Knight News previously reported, University of Central Florida Professor Terri Fine wrote an opinion piece titled “A Holiday Greeting That Applies to Everyone” which calls on everyone to begin saying “Happy Federal Holiday” as opposed to Merry Christmas, Happy Chanukah, or Happy Holidays.
“Because the U.S. government in some cases and the state government in others have identified certain days during the year as state and federal holidays, including those that fall during the late fall and winter season – Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Year’s Day –we have no choice but to observe these holidays whether we want to or not,” Fine said in her article explaining why we should say “Happy Federal Holiday.”
Since writing this, the professor has received national attention.
On Tuesday morning, UCF College Republican Vice Chairman Abigail Hirn was featured on the Fox News Channel, “Fox & Friends” to discuss Professor Fines article.
“Happy federal holiday is a stretch that I’m just not willing to make,” Abigail Hirn said after her interview on “Fox & Friends.”
“Professor Fine’s article is overwhelmingly analytical, and I believe this is the root of the problem for this “PC” movement- there are too many people who are overthinking what we’re actually talking about. Saying Merry Christmas or Happy Hanukkah was never meant to be a divisive tool,” Hirn continued.
Head of UCF College Republicans sounds off on prof who wants to replace 'Merry Christmas' w/ 'Happy Federal Holiday'
https://t.co/CWcXE0jvwb
— FOX & Friends (@foxandfriends) December 22, 2015
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”79256″]

College Republicans and Christians weren’t the only ones outraged with Fine’s piece.
“Say whatever you want. Most people do not get offended if you get the holiday wrong. They’ll appreciate your kind remark and return the favor,” Jewish student and Knights for Hillary President Jesse Rubens said.
However, some students agree with Fine’s idea about saying “Happy Federal Holiday.”
“I’m glad to see the conversation about religious inclusiveness being heard, It’s so easy for us to get all caught up in the commercialism of the “holiday season” and forget what’s really important- spreading joy and acceptance,” President of College Democrats at UCF Nikki Mariutto said.
“But really, I’m glad our generation is bringing these issues to the front line. Of course there is a point where there seems to be a lot of saying PC things and not doing PC things, which hopefully will evolve.” Mariutto continued.
Fine has not spoken to the public about “Happy Federal Holiday” since the media backlash.
“Thank you for your note; I am not available to take on this interview,” Fine emailed when asked about her article.
To read Fine’s full article click here.



