The UCF student business O’Dang Hummus was offered $50,000 by Lori Greiner and Robert Herjavec on the ABC television show “Shark Tank.”
Students gathered at an on-campus watch party this evening and watched the pre-recorded show with Jesse Wolfe.

“Does life get any better than this?” Wolfe responded when Knight News asked him how he felt.

O’Dang Hummus’s Twitter has doubled in followers and the website hits dramatically increased, according to the company’s vice president of marketing Ryan Atkins.
Photos: Aileen Perilla



About halfway in to the set of Tuesday night’s “Drop the Mic” event, the performance halts because of a slight bump in the road: one of the acts is a no-show. After the emcee calls his name two or three times, a voice rises from the corner of the HPA Starbucks.
“I’ll go.”
Noah-Mykal Mackey, a freshman, boldly stands up and approaches the front of the room. The emcee gives him the mic and allows him to perform. 
The second Noah drops his first line, the audience is captivated, grasping onto his every word. They snap their fingers and voice their approval when any particular verse resonates home. He paces the front of the room, gesturing with his arms like an old-fashioned Baptist preacher. The crowd gathered at Starbucks is his congregation, the notepad filled with poems is his gospel. 
Even the back of the room—occupied by regular patrons who were noisily chattering during the previous acts—sits in a stupefied silence, enthralled by the walk-on poet at the other side of the cafe. 
To Project: SPIT (Student Poetry Initiating Thought), the club who ran the event in conjunction with the Campus Activities Board, it’s just another day.
At the end of the event, some of the performers gather outside of the Starbucks. A circle forms, somebody lays down a beat, and an impromptu freestyle battle begins. The energy bounces back and forth between each performer. Random people walking along Memory Mall stop and listen, nodding their heads and voicing their approval with each verse.
Shelby Birch, a senior Interdisciplinary Studies major who co-founded Project: SPIT along with Sapphire Huie, stands in a separate circle and explains the mission of the group: to change lives and change souls
“Spoken word is the art of getting people’s attention in a cool and different way,” Birch went on to explain. “We’ve been saying the same thing for years. We just decided to switch up the message.”
Although Project: SPIT is a spoken-word poetry club, Tuesday’s Drop the Mic event wasn’t limited to just poets. A variety of musical acts, poets, and performers took the stage, including a group called The Side Notes, who performed a soulful rendition of Coldplay’s “Viva La Vida”. Anybody who had a message and wanted to share it could go up and pour their heart out, without restrictions on the medium. 
Project: SPIT prides itself as being welcoming group of poets and artists who can share their message without fear of judgement.
“I feel privileged to be in their presence,” Birch said about the performers. “I feel proud. I feel grateful. I feel honored because they saw fit that Project: SPIT was a safe place for them to tell their personal stories. I would’ve never thought in a million years that I could create a place that would liberate people. For that, I am humbled.”
Project: SPIT gathers under the gazebo in front of Howard Phillips Hall every Tuesday at 7 p.m. Their next open mic night is next week, and their 3rd annual poetry slam, One Night Slam, and SPIT week are all coming up in November.



The UCF Knights have had the roughest possible start to the 2015 season, but the team can put that all behind them with a victory against the Tulane Green Wave to open up conference play.
“[Tulane is] 1-2 but they are really an improved football team. I like what they are doing on defense and I like what they are doing on offense and we are going to have to go in a play,” Head Coach George O’Leary said.
The Tulane Green Wave open the season with a 1-2 record and enter the game in New Orleans on Saturday coming off of a bye week. Tulane thrives on the ground with a pair of strong tailbacks running behind an experienced O-line while defensively they have struggled to find their identity.
True sophomore Dontrell Hilliard and redshirt sophomore Sherman Badie form a very dangerous two-headed monster at running back for Tulane. The sophomore duo has combined for 574 all-purpose yards this season which makes up 45.7 percent of the Green Wave’s output. Both backs produce in the pass game just as often as they do the run though, with Badie hauling in as many passes as he has carries (11) and Hililard adding in 84 receiving yards of his own.
Despite the gaudy numbers from Badie and Hilliard, neither will be expected to punch in the ball on the goal line as that role belongs to redshirt junior fullback Lazedrick Thompson. Thompson leads the Green Wave in carries with 33 and is a bruiser at 6 foot and 219 pounds.
Thus far this season, the Knights have done a solid job of containing backs like Thompson while getting burnt by shiftier backs like Badie and Hilliard which will be something to watch for on Saturday. The Knight’s defensive coordinator Chuck Bresnahan needs to get his front seven working on all cylinders if he hopes to stop the Tulane rush attack.
“We’re out there to win the conference, that’s our main goal. [Coach O’Leary] said that the past is the past and now we just have to move forward,” senior H-back Joseph Puopolo said.
Head Coach Curtis Johnson is in his fourth year with Tulane after spending time as the wide receivers coach for the New Orleans Saints. Johnson has posted a 13-27 record in his four seasons, but maneuvered the Green Wave to the New Orleans Bowl in 2013 and has an impressive pedigree with a National Championship and Super Bowl under his belt as a receivers coach.
With Johnson’s extensive experience working with receivers, Tulane still sports a solid group of pass catchers despite depth concerns due to injuries. One of only five receivers under scholarship left on the active roster is standout redshirt junior Devon Breaux who leads the Green Wave in receiving yards this season.
Breaux is ranked fifteenth in the NCAA in yards per reception and has a penchant for the deep ball which has been a weakness of the UCF secondary thus far this season. Unfortunately for the Knights, Breaux is not the only player on the Green Wave that has explosive capabilities as Tulane has had 13 offensive plays go for 20+ yards.
On the defensive side of the ball, Tulane has been manhandled in the first three games of the season. That doesn’t mean they are without playmakers though as both junior linebacker Nico Marley and redshirt sophomore cornerback Parry Nickerson have made names for themselves in New Orleans.
Nico Marley, son of University of Miami linebacker Rohan and grandson of Bob Marley, leads the American Athletic Conference in average solo tackles per game and has progressively improved in his three years with the Green Wave. Parry Nickerson, on the other hand, started off his Tulane career with a bang; tallying six interceptions as a freshman and found himself on the Jim Thorpe Award watch list to open the season.
The Knights will likely look to returning running back Dontravious Wilson to take advantage of Tulane in the same way the Georgia Tech did a few weeks ago, gashing them for 439 yards and six rushing touchdowns. While AAC Conference play has atypically been good for the Knights in their first two seasons, they need a win now more than ever if they hope to turn the tide on this season. UCF is 5-1 against Tulane all-time including a 20-13 victory just last season and they kickoff against the Green Wave in New Orleans on Saturday at 12 p.m.
Photo Credit: Aileen Perilla



O’ Dang Hummus, a company started at the University of Central Florida, is swimming in deep water on ABC’s “Shark Tank” tonight, Friday Oct. 2.
Jesse Wolfe, UCF senior and CEO/founder of O’Dang Hummus spoke with KnightNews.com about his television experience and the journey of his business.

The UCF College of Business Administration is hosting a watch party at the Student Union which begins at 8 p.m. on Friday, Oct. 2. and the “Shark Tank” episode airs at 9 p.m. 

Wolfe has had to keep his “Shark Tank” opportunity secret for about five to six months.
“Fifty people a year out of the entire country get that opportunity so like, for me to sit here and think I was picked for that is just mind-numbingly cool,” Wolfe explained. “We’ve done business plan competitions and we beat  rocket companies and tech companies and we’re just guys who make dip.”
Wolfe first began making hummus when he had his wisdom teeth pulled out and couldn’t consume much. He expressed that he drank plenty of milkshakes and although it was a “dream come true,” he said his hips didn’t agree. Wolfe began making his own hummus as a better alternative but realized it lacked variety.

“I was bored at home, I liked to cook, and I got a little out of control and made about literally 40 pounds of hummus in all these different flavors,” Wolfe said.
With all the excess hummus, Wolfe began giving it away. One of his co-workers then asked him if he could make it for a baby shower and that’s when the hummus craze began.
Jesse Wolfe’s company O’Dang Hummus will be on ABC’s Shark Tank tonight at 9 p.m.
Photos by: Aileen Perilla




On Wednesday, Sept. 30, The University of Central Florida Student Government Association announced Student Body Senators for the 2015-2016 school year. The Senators were elected after a weeks-long campaign and are responsible for allocating funds to Registered Student Organizations.



