Maria Beckman, UCF’s Title IX coordinator, confirmed that UCF’s Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action launched an inquiry into whether the UCF Recreation and Wellness Center is in violation of Title IX.
“I can confirm that I am looking in to whether the RWC is applying its dress code in a discriminatory manner based on sex,” said Beckman.
Mo Barhamje, a former SGA vice presidential candidate, filed the Title IX complaint Thursday morning with Beckman. The complaint came just one day after Barhamje was asked to leave the UCF RWC for wearing what he believes was within the clothing policy, especially considering what women are being allowed to wear.
UCF’s policy on the Title IX states, “Prohibited conduct includes treating a member of one sex differently than the other, based on sex.” The entire document can be found here.
Barhamje said Beckman told him that since the policy does not specify what gender it applies to, that it applies to both genders. She proceeded to tell Barhamje that if the rule is being enforced differently amongst genders, that it would be a violation of Title IX, according to Barhamje.
Barhamje said that Beckman was very intrigued by the complaint when he presented it to her.
“When I explained the underlying reasons behind it though, she definitely appeared sympathetic,” said Barhamje.
Barhamje is just one of the students who are upset with the controversial policy.
After starting a petition to rethink the string tank ban, and calling out the staff for failing to enforce the policy with women, Austin Medlin says he has been banned from UCF RWC for “continuous disrespect.” The petition has been signed by over 800 people and has been given constant attention over social media sites like twitter and Facebook. 
Since being banned from the RWC, Medlin has signed up at LA Fitness and says he hasn’t been confronted for wearing a string tank. Medlin said he was welcomed at LA Fitness with a high five after signing up.



The University of Central Florida and Orlando City Soccer Club partnered together Friday to present a 6-year-old Brazilian boy with a bionic arm to call his own, at no cost to the family.
Paulo Costa Boa Nova made the trip with his father from Brazil to Orlando, covered in full by Orlando Health, to meet the creators of his soon-to-be new arm. Paulo was discovered to have been born with a genetic defect that led to a complication in the growth of his arm.
Limbitless Solutions, a team founded by UCF doctoral students in the summer of 2014, created a 3-D printed right arm specific for Paulo, and designed the arm to feature one of Brazil’s soccer teams.
The student-led non-profit along with Orlando City Soccer Club held the presentation of the bionic arm to Paulo in Sanford, where Orlando City’s Brazilian team captain Ricardo Kaká joined his teammates in congratulating Paulo and Limbitless Solutions.
Following the first bionic arm created by Limbitless Solutions, for a then six-year-old Alex Pring, and a featured video of Pring and Robert Downy Jr. as “Iron Man,” the requests for a new arms and hands have reached an international level. Paulo became the first to receive an international delivery of a bionic arm by the Limbitless Solutions team.
“I don’t have the words for how grateful we are,” said Claudio Boa Nova, Paulo’s father. “When I saw arms they do on YouTube, I hold onto hope for the opportunity for my son. I can’t believe today, his dreams came true.”
Alex Pring and his mother attended Paulo’s memorable presentation at the Orlando City soccer training facility, where he and Paulo shook hands and kicked soccer balls to one another with members of the Orlando City team, including Lions’ goalkeeper Tally Hall and defender Aurélien Collin.
Orlando City Soccer Club, commemorating Paulo and his new arm with the community, will feature the achievement at their home match against the New York Red Bulls Saturday, July 18, along with team members from Limbitless Solutions.
“As an organization, we are thrilled to partner with UCF and Orlando Health for this very special presentation to Paulo,” said Leonardo Santiago, vice president of communications for the team. “He’s got the true heart of a Lion, having shown tremendous spirit and courage. Hats off as well to the Limbitless Solutions team from UCF on their hard work and dedication – they have changed Paulo’s life, and those of many other children, for the better.”
The family will spend Saturday at Universal Studios, where they will meet Marvel Superheroes before heading to the Orlando Citrus Bowl to be recognized at the Lions’ match.
“I believe this process to meet others equal with the same problems is very important to him to show it [can] happen to anyone,” said Claudio. “I’m very excited to see the next step of my son. I want to see him growing with his hand.”
The Lions v. Red Bulls match will begin at 7:30 p.m. at the Orlando Citrus Bowl.
To support or learn more about Limbitless Solutions, visit here.



The Black and Gold look to begin a three-game foreign tour to close the summer, planning six days in the Bahamas in preparation for the 2015-16 basketball season.
In Nassau, on Aug. 9 and 11, the Knights will face the New Providence Basketball Association’s Real Deal Shockers and Patron Regulators, respectively. In 2014, the Patron Regulators made an appearance in the Bahamian professional league’s championship series.
To complete the three-game summer tour, UCF will match up against the International Basketball Academy Elite in a game scheduled for Aug. 12.
UCF will be one of thirteen collegiate basketball teams to play at Kendal Isaacs National Gymnasium in the capital city through August.
“We are excited to take this trip to the Bahamas in August,” said head coach Donnie Jones in his announcement. “It is a great opportunity for our young team to learn and bond with each other before the school year. The competition will be great, but team building and having fun will also be very important for us on this trip.”
The NCAA permits member institutions to schedule a foreign tour once every four years, with 10 practice days provided prior to the flight. UCF made a similar trip to the Bahamas in 2011 to take part in the Battle 4 Atlantis basketball tournament, advancing through the finals before falling 49-59 to Harvard in the championship game.
Among the players to make the trip, incoming freshman Tacko Fall will reportedly join UCF basketball’s early start to the season. Jones emphasized team chemistry as a key component to involving incoming players in the trip.
“You get 10 full days of practice which is huge… we’re bringing in really four new players at this point, [and we] had two sitting out from last year so you’re really implementing six new players to our team, and that’s half our team,” Jones said. “With those six new guys is a huge opportunity to implement those guys in our system, teach them what we’re doing, see how those guys play together… to have that snapshot before the fall begins gives us a chance as coaching staff to really look at them coming into the fall and how they need to improve, or what combinations we think could really help our team as we start the fall.”
The Knights depart for the Bahamas on Aug. 8 and return to Florida on Aug. 13.



A 20-year old man has been paralyzed after he jumped off a third floor balcony at student housing apartments The Edge, according to Paul Spike Hopkins, Orange County Sheriff’s Office Night Watch Command.
The man was “in the third story apartment balcony when a witness observed him unsuccessfully jump to a nearby tree,” deputies said.
Deputies responded to the mandown call at 3:10 a.m.
The man was taken to the Orlando Regional Medical Center with paralysis from the waist down. The victim cannot remember the incident, according to OCSO.
Hopkins confirmed that the jumper is not a UCF student and that OCSO does not believe it was a suicide attempt.
Check back on KnightNews.com for updates on this story.



