KnightNews.com has high quality videos for every group from Beta’s Best Dance Crew 2015! 
Zeta Tau Alpha placed first, Alpha Xi Delta placed second and Kappa Delta placed third in the dance competition. 
Please take a second to like this story by clicking the like button up at the top, so your friends see this story on Facebook. Also, make sure you like KnightNews.com on Facebook and Twitter, so you get all the major UCF news you need to know — plus UCF community stories like this!
Beta Theta Pi:
 
Beta from Knight News on Vimeo.
Knight Moves:

Pi Beta Phi:

Gamma Phi Beta:

Kappa Delta:

Alpha Epsilon Phi:

Chi Omega:

Zeta Tau Alpha:

Kappa Alpha Theta:

Alpha Xi Delta:

Delta Delta Delta:

Ruckus:




UCF is extending its resources past our borders. A new program, Global UCF, is building on stretching the UCF culture and bringing in students from all around the world.
In partnership with Shorelight Education, Global UCF will bring a new flood of international students to the UCF Campus.
Currently at 50 students, the program aims to attract over 1,000 students annually.
Along with growing the size of the program, Global UCF has began construction for their own program building. As many students know, half of lot “D” has been closed off for construction since December.
The Global UCF building will be located on Memory Mall and across from the Fairwinds Alumni Center.
This three-story, 50,000 square-foot building will have administration offices, faculty offices, meeting rooms, congregational areas and a total of 21 classrooms.
This new building will cost approximately $15 million dollars. It will be funded through international student fees, auxiliary funds and investment earnings. No tuition dollars will be going to it.
Construction of the Global UCF building is aimed to be completed by December 2015, with doors opening January 2016.



At 38 years old, Heather Abbott was a beach-loving, single, human resources manager whose life changed in a matter of seconds.
Every year, Abbott and her friends would go to the Red Sox game, followed by a visit to a restaurant near the finish line to watch the runners come in.
“We were just about to walk inside when we heard the first explosion,” Abbott said. “12 seconds later the next bomb went off and the next thing I remember was being catapulted inside of the restaurant.”
Abbott was directed to a hospital where she spent a few days and underwent four surgeries.
The doctors presented Abbott with a decision while admitted in the hospital: she either amputates her leg, or risk the chance of being in a wheel chair the rest of her life.
“At the time, I had no idea what that entailed, so I researched amputees from my hospital bed,” said Abbott.
Abbott explained how she was “far from a tom boy” and was worried she would lose some of the things that make her feel like a woman; things such as wearing heels.
“I worried if I was going to be able to wear dresses, skirts and high heels,” said Abbott. 
After research and speaking to other amputees she proceeded with the operation, which resulted in amputation of her left leg below the knee.
Through her hardship, Abbott has come up with three ways to “overcome adversity”:
With that realization, Abbott became devoted to impact others around her through her story.
Abbott made her “mess her message,” something that anchor Robin Roberts from ABC once advised her to do.
Now 20 months post-amputation, Abbott has started her own foundation, the Heather Abbott Foundation which helps provide prostheses to those who suffer limb loss through trauma and is specifically focused on women.
“I’m really focused on the foundation,” Abbott said. “I would eventually like to expand it, and be able to do other types of support such as emotional support and peer visits.”
Abbott has touched the lives of many around her and continues to tell her story in hopes to teach people how they, too, can overcome adversity, all while strutting heels with her “high heel leg” in true womanly fashion.



Daniel Kendrick courtesy of Orange County Sheriff’s Office.University of Central Florida police arrested a UCF student on Thursday for allegedly stalking a female student, police said.
UCF student Daniel Tucker Kendrick, 29, was arrested for stalking a female student at the Nicholson School of Communication, UCFPD spokeswoman, Courtney Gilmartin, said. 
UCFPD responded at about 3:30 p.m. on Thursday following a report of Kendrick making disturbing comments to a female student, the report stated. The female student told police that it wasn’t the first time Kendrick, a communications major, had approached her.
According to the UCFPD, there were no injuries. 
Kendrick has been previously charged with possession of drug paraphernalia and disorderly conduct, court records show. 
Kendrick was arrested and charged with stalking and booked in the Orange County Jail. 



