Vegan: a person who does not eat or wear animal products or use products tested on animals. But why go vegan? 
On Thursday, the Body of Animal Rights Campaign (BARC) and the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA2) gave many reasons when both organizations hosted a virtual simulation event for students to experience a chicken’s everyday life on a factory farm.
According to PETA2, it’s no life at all. A simulation device with a special backpack and head gear gave participants the ability to feel, see, and hear what it’s like to be a chicken on a factory farm before heading to the slaughterhouse.

The non-graphic video cut just as the chicken was crammed inside a truck on the way to the slaughterhouse. PETA members said that the video really does not even come close to portraying the magnitude of animal abuse.
For Kenzie Everett, a junior studying social science, becoming vegan was a whole lifestyle change.
“When I first started I had to make a lot of life changes at once. I had to change my clothes and makeup. I don’t have any health problems anymore and I know it’s because of this,” Everett said.
She said that most people who choose a vegan lifestyle have done extensive research so that when people criticize their choice they can counter it intellectually.
Though passionate about this cause, she said that there are some challenges.
“It’s been hard at times. It can be hard to go out and eat with my friends,” Everett said.
PETA activists are promoting a vegan lifestyle and petitioning for healthier, on-campus, vegan food options.
“We’re going to see if we can get vegan stations set up in the dining halls,” Hunter Menning, president of BARC and business management major, said.
Menning hasn’t always been vegan, but started just few years ago when he was a freshman at UCF. It was then that he became passionate about animal rights.



The University of Central Florida ranked third among Florida’s 11 universities based on performance measures — meaning the school could receive additional money from the state.
The performance ranking is measured using several factors, including graduation rates and graduates’ employment and wages. UCF earned 39 out of a possible 50 points, putting it in the third highest spot. 
“Our new faculty members will help UCF strengthen academic programs in STEM fields and other strategic areas, and they will help students across our university thrive in the classroom and in research labs,” said UCF President John C. Hitt. “We hope this year’s allotment of performance funding will enable us to create a significant number of new faculty positions.”
Last year, UCF earned $21.8 million in performance funding, which is currently being used to hire new faculty members in high-demand areas from molecular biology to mechanical engineering and to pay for new software programs aimed at promoting student success.
If the Legislature funds the Board of Governors’ request for performance funding this year, UCF says it plans to use its share to hire more faculty members.



It’s that time of year again where the Kappa Sigma fraternity will be filling their parking lot with 200 tons of sand and hosting Key West Fest. 
This year, Knight News is proud to be the media sponsor of this great philanthropy, which benefits the Military Heroes Campaign. Since 2007, the Military Heroes Campaign has donated over $500,000 to non-profit organizations that help the brave men and women that have been wounded serving this country. 

[sam_ad id=”5″ codes=”true”]
Key West Fest will be held on Friday, April 3, from 3 p.m. to 9 p.m. at the Kappa Sigma fraternity house on UCF campus. The event will be split into two parts, first the sorority competition from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. and then a two hour break before the entertainment portion, which runs from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
This year, Kappa Sigma will be bringing Instant Party to their on-campus fraternity house, an up-and-coming EDM artist.
If you want to attend the event tickets can be bought here, or if you want to simply donate, the GoFundMe can be found here.



A rap battle, Stan the SteinMonter, and “no bullshit,” are at the core of the Stein and Barhamje ticket.
On Wednesday, KnightNews.com got a chance to sit down with these UCF presidential candidates, Richard Stein and Mo Barhamje. 
The candidates discussed their qualifications, why they believe NOT being involved in SGA is an advantage, and even their views on tuition hikes.

Throughout the interview, Stein and Barhamje expressed concern towards the way SGA is being run at the moment.
“SGA is broken right now. If my resume drew from that source, that’d be a disadvantage for us,” said Stein.
Something they emphasized was the importance of transparency between SGA and the student body, which is one of their platform points. Stein even described UCF SGA voting record transparency as “absolutely a disgrace.”
The candidates also commented on the so called “House of Cards” meeting and described it to be a “political move” from their competitors. 
Other points of their platform emphasize jobs, parking and student health/safety. A full platform can be found on their website.
When asked why students should vote for them, Barhamje responded, “Do you guys want the current administration that’s been screwing us over stay in place? Or would you like average students like us, who know exactly what’s going on and what the students need, to takeover and actually fix what needs to be fixed?” 
To follow the Stein and Barhamje ticket, visit their website, Facebook, or Twitter. 



