It’s simple: if you plan on drinking, don’t be driving. 
The University of Central Flordia Police Department will be stepping up DUI enforcement tonight to help get drunk drivers off the road, according to an email sent to students on behalf of UCFPD Chief Richard Beary. 
The Orange County Sheriff’s Office blood alcohol testing trailer will be stationed on North Orion Boulevard near Bright House Networks Stadium.
“Drivers suspected of being under the influence could be pulled over by police and asked to complete a roadside sobriety test,” the email says. “Those who fail the test will be taken to the trailer for a breath sample and then, if they fail that test, transported to the Orange County Jail.”
The email also reminded students to keep an eye on drinks and never leave your drink unattended. Also, do not accept drinks from people you don’t know or trust. 
“Never put lives at risk by getting behind the wheel if you’ve consumed alcohol, and don’t let your friends make that mistake. Make responsible choices that help to keep you and your fellow Knights safe.”



Nearly 90 employers will gather in the UCF Pegasus Ballroom on Monday, March 30 for the Spring Intern Pursuit, an internship fair hosted by Quotes, the PR Club at UCF.
From 6:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m., UCF students have the opportunity to meet with 87 potential employers who are looking to hire interns. These companies include the City of Orlando, the Arnold Palmer Medical Center, and Target, among others.
“We want to make sure that we put on a great event,” Intern Pursuit Event Coordinator Xenecia Farrell said. “We want to make sure that both students and employers are satisfied with what we’re doing.”
A new feature added to the Spring Intern Pursuit this year was the IP Boot Camp, sponsored by Quotes and Ad Club. Both clubs came together to help prepare students before the event.
“The whole reason we decided to do the boot camp was to make the students feel as prepared as possible for intern pursuit,” Ad Club President Bailey Morris said. “Practice makes perfect.”
IP Boot Camp included a joint meeting with the two organizations on Thursday, March 25, followed by a hands on resume workshop on Friday, where club members and advisors will assist attendees on creating and fixing their resumes before presenting them to potential employers.
“We’ve really been pushing preparation for the event,” Farrell said. “We’re expecting to see a lot more satisfied reviews this semester.”
Students are encouraged to bring resumes and business cards, and must be dressed professionally to receive admittance into the event.
“I am very excited about Intern Pursuit,” Morris said. “It’s a great opportunity for any student. Even if you’re not looking for an internship right now, it’s still a good networking opportunity.”



With John Mulaney’s show, CAB has proven that they’re capable of picking quality comedians, once again, continuing their fine string of choices that started with Amy Schumer and Chris D’Elia. 
Having been familiar with very little of John Mulaney’s work, I was impressed with his highly animated stage presence as well as delivery. Even if his material wasn’t always unique or inventive, Mulaney still managed to leave me bursting with laughs more than once, but it’s too bad, the same can’t be said about his openers.
The first comedian to grace the stage was Ryan O’ Toole, a former UCF student who exemplified the importance of timing. A lot of his material had potential, but, unfortunately, it was often wasted, as he paused too long between a punchline and his next joke, as well as stumbling over many lines. Couple this with the relatively niche group his jokes were aimed at, as well, and what we were left with was a young comedian who has an eye for humorous inspiration, but not much else.
Once Ryan O’Toole’s set ended, Ali Wong was up. Completely juxtaposing O’Toole, Wong had a sharp and confident delivery, leaving the audience with much more laughs, and a lot less boredom. Unfortunately, halfway through her performance, Wong began to discuss her past desire for a marriage in which she wouldn’t have to work as well as her disdain for feminism. 
I realize, as a comedian, all these sentiments could have been expressed in sarcasm, but her opinion seemed genuine and I feel like it alienated a large part of her college audience. Still, when she walked off the stage, I was glad to have seen her. She was funny, often offensive as well as extremely energetic. She might not have been the greatest comedian I have ever seen, but she was certainly worth the time.
Finally, the headliner of the evening, John Mulaney appeared. From the beginning of his set, Mulaney placed an emphasis on audience interaction, not always succeeding, but getting enough people involved to mix it up, in comparison to his openers. By the time he left, he had provided more than enough laughs to make the night a success, as well as giving me plenty of reason to see him again.
Click here to see photos from the show!



