The Orange County Sheriff’s Office responded to calls about a fight and stabbing in the area outside of Knight Library around 2 a.m., records show.
Manuel Lazaro, 26,  was arrested for aggravated battery with a deadly weapon, according to the affidavit.
When the first deputy arrived at scene, two males were “in a physical altercation in the middle of the intersection” between Rouse Road and University Blvd., the affidavit stated.
The deputy that responded said he exited his vehicle and “held both subjects at gun point knowing that one of them could be the suspect still armed with a knife,” the affidavit stated.
The affidavit identified the victims as brothers Joseph and Maxwell Donnelly.
“Joseph confirmed that Mr. Lazaro had stabbed him and his brother with a knife at the Knights Library. Joseph had a cut on his torso under his left arm, a small stab wound on his upper abdomen, and blood on his face,” the affidavit said.
Joseph was transported to the Orlando Regional Medical Center where “the doctor stated that the wounds seemed to be superficial with no damage done to internal organs,” according to the affidavit.
Joseph stated that he and his brother “left the club and were walking through the parking lot, ‘hollering at girls.’ Joseph and Maxwell started ‘hollering’ at a girl, later identified as Kara Elwood. Ms. Elwood’s boyfriend (Mr. Lazaro) came up to Joseph and Maxwell and got into a verbal argument with them,” according to the affidavit.
“Joseph stated Ms. Elwood then ran up to him and began yelling at him and slapping him. Joseph pushed Ms. Elwood away and observed Maxwell and Mr. Lazaro in a physical altercation. Joseph ran over and punched Mr. Lazaro to get him off of Maxwell. Joseph stated he, Maxwell, and Lazaro all got into a short physical fight when Mr. Lazaro finally backed up. Maxwell then told Joseph that Mr. Lazaro had just cut him in the face with a knife and that Joseph was also bleeding,” according to the report.
This is when Joseph noticed that he had been stabbed by Lazaro’s knife.
Lazaro tried to run away but Joseph punched him and told Lazaro “(You’re) not getting away, (You’re) going to jail.” After running, the two ended up at the intersection of Rouse Road and University Blvd. Meanwhile, Lazaro had thrown the knife to the ground, the affidavit said.
In a written statement, Maxwell said he was leaving the club with Joseph when Mr. Lazaro began swinging at him. “Maxwell got into a physical altercation with Mr. Lazaro when he noticed a small pocket life in Mr. Lazaro’s hand. Mr. Lazaro then cut Maxwell in the face with the knife. Mr. Lazaro took off running and Joseph chased after him while Maxwell called the police.”
The brothers both want to testify and press charges, according to the affidavit.
Elwood also made a statement that said “she was outside of the club when three to four males started yelling at her.” The affidavit also said she stated that “the males began telling that they were going to “beat her up” and that she was pushed and her foot “stomped” on by one of the subjects.
Elwood stated that Lazaro came to help her when Joseph and Maxwell “jumped” him, the affidavit said.
Lazaro was not a UCF student, according to UCF Police Department spokesperson Courtney Gilmartin.
However, according to the affidavit, Lazaro lives at The Lofts, a popular student housing complex for UCF students.
KnightNews.com has not yet found out if the Donnelly brothers are UCF students.



