It sounds like something straight out of a Hollywood movie — a man manages to fight off an attacking shark by punching it — only this time it was real.

UCF student and Phi Delta Theta pledge Josh Green was swimming at Cocoa Beach around 3 p.m. Thursday when what is believed to be a black tip shark attacked and bit him several times.Josh Green received 18 stitches after an apparent shark bite
According to Green, he was able to punch the attacking shark to fend it off and swim to shore on his own to get help. 
“I didn’t realize it was a shark until I punched it, thinking it was someone messing with me and then felt the face,” Green said.
Green was the only person out of his group in the water at the time and says he was relatively close to shore when it happened.
“Everybody wanted to tan so I just went out by myself. I was riding with the waves and body surfing when out of nowhere I feel something grab my leg and yank,” Green said. 
That’s when Green says he punched the shark and was able to get free and head to safety.
“When I hit it, my foot was sort of released and I just swam to shore as fast as possible. I limped out over to my friends and they brought me up to the lifeguard,” Green said.
Green received a total of 18 stitches in his calf, foot and ankle. Josh Green received 18 stitches after an apparent shark bite
“The lifeguard drove me to my friends car and they drove me to the clinic. The doctors that helped me were kind of shocked because they said they had not seen a shark attack in person,” Green said.
While Green said he never actually saw the shark, the lifeguard told him that based on the injuries, the bites looked to be from what was most likely a 4-5 foot black tip shark. He also said that it happened quickly and people didn’t even have a chance to see it happen.
“Now that it’s over, I’m surprised I didn’t scream,” Green said. “I was more in disbelief that it happened. People saw me once I got on shore when my leg was bleeding.”



For the first time in program history, the UCF softball team claimed a regular season and tournament title Saturday afternoon, topping Tulsa 1-0.
A 16-2 record in conference play earned UCF a regular season title and a shot at the AAC Semi-finals and Championship this Friday and Saturday, respectively.
The Black and Gold passed the first round of the tournament and moved on to face USF Friday night, where they held the Bulls to 3-1 by the game’s end. A bases loaded, two-out inning set the scene for junior Jessica Ujvari as she approached the plate. A single to left field from Ujvari brought in two runs, giving the Knights the 3-1 victory against USF.
Saturday afternoon’s walk-off home run from junior Samantha McClowsky has the crowd cheering and on their feet. A hit towards far left field sealed the win for the Knights as they cleared the final round. Following the run, McClowsky was named the tournament’s Most Outstanding Player.
UCF softball makes their first title claim in seven years, and earns an automatic bid for the NCAA Tournament.
The NCAA Selection show, to be televised on ESPNU, will be the center of a watch party hosted by UCF Softball. The watch party will take place at Bar Louie and begin at 9 p.m. ET, just before the Selection show premiers at 10 p.m. ET.



