The heart of campus is opening its doors to new employees.
The University of Central Florida Student Union has started fall semester employment applications for both Guest Services and Event Services.
The application opened on Monday. The priority application deadline is Aug. 18 at 11:45 p.m. and the final deadline is Aug. 25 at 11:45 p.m.
Applicants will be informed about the group interview on Aug. 28 if selected. The group interview will be held Aug. 31 at 6 p.m.
The notification of hire date will be Sept. 4 with new hire orientation Sept. 12 and Sept. 13.
Those seeking employment must be UCF students and “In order to be eligible for employment with the UCF Student Union you must have an overall UCF Cumulative GPA of 2.75,” the application states.
Incoming freshmen without a UCF GPA can still apply.
The application is available on Knight Connect. 



The number of future sorority members planning to go through formal recruitment has already topped last year’s numbers — and it still isn’t too late to sign up. 
According to the UCF Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life, there are currently 872 women signed up for formal recruitment compared to 833 women who went through recruitment last year.
Monday marked the beginning of spirit week for all of the Panhellenic sororities. The process starts one week before formal recruitment and is put into place so that sorority sisters can practice rushing the potential new members during recruitment. 
All sororities take the recruitment process very seriously. Every sister in Greek life must deactivate their Facebook during spirit week and formal recruitment to keep the potential new members from finding out more about the sisters. 
The vast majority of girls in Panhellenic sororities are prohibited from going out to local bars and consuming alcohol during spirit week and formal recruitment. UCF fraternity brothers took to twitter to joke about the lack of sorority women at UCF bars.
A beer & barstool kept in honor of the Sorority girls who have fallen dry in line of recruitment #DrunkLivesMatter pic.twitter.com/5M9MVtMXYy
— Seb Rougemont (@SebRougemont) August 11, 2015

Women spend countless hours every day during spirit week preparing for recruitment. They go through countless workshops that will help them be able to show potential new members why they think their sisterhood is the best.
Formal recruitment ends on August 22. Potential new members will go through preference night the night before and will rank their top 3 choices. The sororities will pick who they want to join their sisterhood the same night. New members will wake up Saturday morning to find a bid card with their name and the sorority they will spend the rest of their college career with.
If you haven’t signed up for formal recruitment yet, The registration fee is now $85 and registration closes on August 15 at Noon Eastern Time.
Here is a video of last year’s bid day.



In an announcement made by the American Athletic Conference on Thursday, the UCF vs. USF game will air nationally on the night of Thanksgiving on ESPN.
The Knights originally had a timeslot on Black Friday against the rival Bulls, but rescheduling led the game to move forward to Thursday, Nov. 26 at 7:30 p.m. ET.
The change of date becomes UCF’s first Thanksgiving Day game in school history and aims to kick off a weekend in college football popularly known as “Rivalry Week.” ESPN did not have a game previously scheduled on Thanksgiving Day.
“ESPN called regarding a possible change from an early Friday game to a Thursday night game on national TV. All parties concerned agreed to the change,” said George O’Leary, UCF football head coach and Interim Director of Athletics. “I think it’s great for this game to be featured on a huge stage like this.”
“We are excited to have the USF at UCF game on Thanksgiving evening to kick off Rivalry Week,” said American Athletic Conference commissioner Mike Aresco. “It is fitting that this outstanding rivalry game will be played in prime time on Thanksgiving and available to a national ESPN audience.”
Pregame festivities will be announced as soon as they are finalized, according to UCF Athletics.
“We’ll be encouraging our fans to swap out [… the main courses] of their Thanksgiving Day Tailgate,” Assistant Director for Athletics for Fan Development Jimmy Skiles said. “Hosting our fans on a national holiday will certainly provide a memorable backdrop to our annual rivalry game with USF.”
The Black and Gold won the last two meetings against USF, emerging victorious 23-20 in 2013, while handing a 16-0 shutout to USF at Raymond James Stadium in 2014. 



U.S. Soccer announced two more matches for the U.S. Woman’s National Team as part of their Victory Tour, one of which will take place in Orlando at the Orlando Citrus Bowl on Oct. 25.
The fifth and sixth games of the ten-game ‘Victory Tour’ follow the Women’s World Cup title claimed by the USWNT, where they defeated Japan in a stunning 5-2 victory in early July.
A third World Cup title for the program, the U.S. Women’s National Team partnered with Orlando City Soccer Club and the City of Orlando to host the FIFA champions in the milestone rivalry match.
“We are proud to continue giving our community the soccer it craves,” said Orlando mayor Buddy Dyer. “It’s very evident that the soccer legacy has grown exponentially over the years, and opportunities like this one, with the U.S. Women’s National Team, will only strengthen Central Florida’s prominence on the global soccer scene.”
“We’re so excited that the world-champion U.S. Women’s Soccer Team and their Brazilian counterparts are coming to Central Florida,” Orange County mayor Theresa Jacobs said. “The physical fitness and capabilities of these athletes are simply remarkable, and their commitment to teamwork sets a wonderful example for us all – especially for our young people. It’s such an honor to have been selected as the location as part of their Victory Tour. I can’t wait to help fill the Citrus Bowl on October 25th for these world-class athletes.”
The 2015 Women’s World Cup champions face Brazil in Seattle on Wednesday, Oct. 21, before facing Brazil again in Orlando on Sunday, Oct. 25.
Tickets for the Orlando match go on sale on Friday, Aug. 21 at 10 a.m. ET through ussoccer.com and by phone at 1-800-745-3000. Tickets will also be available at Ticketmaster ticket centers (most Wal-Mart locations) as well as the Amway Center.
Tickets will not be sold at the Orlando Citrus Bowl except on the day of the event.
The October 25 matchup is scheduled to kick off for 2:30 p.m. ET, according to U.S. Soccer, and will be broadcasted live on Fox Sports 1.



