A homecoming week would not be complete without the crowning of a king and queen.
At the University of Central Florida’s homecoming game, Jason Skidmore was crowned king and Mackenzie Chase queen.
Skidmore ran through the Department of Housing and Residence Life and Chase through Kappa Alpha Theta.
Congratulations, Jason and Mackenzie!
Photo credit: Rachel Additon



The University of Central Florida Knight’s long football season got even longer after the #21 Houston Cougars plowed through them on the ground for 366 yards to a 59-10 blowout victory.
The UCF offense was clicking early on as Justin Holman got them off to a fast start with a 44-yard completion to redshirt freshman Tre’Quan Smith. However, in a sign of things to come, a Cam Stewart fumble on the subsequent play was picked up by Houston’s Brandon Wilson and returned 85 yards for a touchdown.
Tristan Payton made a good play on a 46-yard pass from Justin Holman for UCF’s first score of the game to keep the Knights in it at 7-7. Penalties also played a major role in keeping the Knights in the game early on as Houston was forced to punt twice following a holding call and a personal foul.
The defense also had Greg Ward Jr. stifled early on with stop after stop in the first half, but everything took a turn for the worse following a 47-yard field goal for Matthew Wright.
Houston scored 17 points consecutively over the span of just two and a half minutes to close out the first half and take the lead 24-10. The Ty Cummings field goal to close out the half came after Justin Holman’s second interception that looked like it was intended for Houston’s William Jackson III.
“I can’t lie, it hurt. But we still knew we had it, we were right there,” redshirt junior defensive end Luke Adams said. “The game was not over yet, we just have to learn how to keep fighting.”
When the Knights came out after halftime, they gave up 79 yards on just three plays to running back Kenneth Farrow to put the Cougars up 31-10. This winless Knights have consistently performed poorly in the second half of games and the Houston game was no different.
“The trend I see is that they don’t sustain. I think some has to do with lack of strength and some has to do with youth,” Coach George O’Leary said. “The other part is mental toughness, bad things are going to happen and normally you just recoup and the other kids get that, but we don’t have a lot of them.”
UCF’s first offensive drive of the second half showed some life, but it came to an abrupt end following a false start call and another dropped pass on third down.
“I think we have a lot of growing up to do regarding what it takes to win games and it’s a 60-minute game. You can’t play 30, you have to play sixty minutes and then sustain it,” O’Leary said.
Redshirt freshman Mac Loudermilk may have been one of the lone bright spots for the Knights, registering seven punts and downing two of them inside the 20. Houston continued their scoring at a blistering pace, posting two more scores on a 67-yard shovel pass and a 29-yard run, bringing the game into blowout territory at 45-10.
On the Knight’s ensuing drive, Justin Holman misplaced another pass which resulted in his third interception of the game and all but sealed the Knight’s homecoming fate.
“I think [Holman’s interceptions] were bad decisions. One was underthrown before the end of the half and the others were just bad throws,” O’Leary said. “You just can’t turn the ball over like that, especially with the field position that we had.”
Knight fans slowly poured out of the stadium as the Houston offense took it down the field and scored their fourth touchdown in the third quarter bringing the game to 52-10. Redshirt freshman Tyler Harris was thrown into the game to close out the third quarter, but the drive resulted in another quick 3-and-out and Houston bringing in their second-team offense for the remainder of the game.
Holman returned after the Harris 3-and-out, but his drive resulted in a punt as well which led to Bo Schneider getting some playing time as well in the fourth quarter. However, Schneider didn’t throw the ball once as UCF had to punt again after three rushes couldn’t pick up the first down.
“It’s tough when you’re losing like that. It’s hard. There’s really nothing to say,” redshirt junior Taylor Oldham said. “We’re losing. We are 0-8 now. We’ve got to keep fighting.”
The air was sucked out of the stadium for the entirety of the fourth quarter as Houston’s second team managed one more score against the Knights bringing the game to its final score of 59-10. After taking the 10-7 lead, UCF gave up 52 unanswered points and the Houston Cougars never looked back. Unfortunately, the Knights hope to right this perennially sinking ship against another scary American Athletic Conference team in Cincinnati next week on Halloween.
Photo courtesy of UCF Athletics Communications



University of Central Florida Knight fans woke up bright and early to tailgate before the homecoming game against the Houston Cougars.
The 8 a.m. tailgate kickoff did not stop fans from celebrating out on Memory Mall.
KnighNews.com asked fans if they thought the Knights had a chance against the Houston Cougars and about O’Leary keeping his contract private.

Check back on KnightNews.com for more coverage on 59-10 loss against the Houston Cougars.




ORLANDO, Fla. – UCF kicks off against the 6-0 Houston Cougars at noon in the pursuit of their first win. Check back at the end of the quarters for live updates and follow @UCFKnightnews and @Knightnewssport for play-by-play action.
UCF has won the coin toss and elects to recieve.
First Quarter:
UCF opens strong with a forty-four yard pass receiver Tre’Quan Smith followed by a seven yard pass.
Houston picks off Holman’s third pass and returns the ball for an eighty-five yard touchdown.
TOUCHDOWN, Houston. UCF – 0  Houston – 7
The Knights made a gain of seven yards on a short drive, sending the ball to Houston over forty-five yards.
Houston picks up seven yards on a rush and keeps the ball in the air on the following three plays – only two successful for ten yards total. No success in the air led the Cougars to rush for 32 yards to the UCF 40. A sack began the decline in the Cougar’s play. UCF’s defense found its spark at the end of the Houston drive by shutting down the visiting team’s offense and forcing a bad pass.
Half the distance to the goal after a holding penalty at the UCF 6, Wilson rushes through the defense for twenty-three yards. The break to open field continued with Tristan Payton for seventeen. Small gains and a three yard loss had Holman follow up wit a throw deep into the red zone to Payton for forty-six yard touchdown.
TOUCHDOWN, UCF! UCF – 7  Houston – 7
The start of the No. 22 ranked Cougars’ next drive saw a faltering offense, making a sixteen yard rush as well as a fourteen yard rush but also two losses for yardage, two incompletes and a fifteen yard penalty. UCF would receive a fifty-five yard punt.
The final possession by the Knights racked up a few small gains to the UCF 33. The second quarter opens on a UCF 3rd and 8.
Second Quarter:
UCF ended their drive with a punt from Mac Loudermilk but Houston’s Demarcus Ayers was pulled back nine yards to the HOU 6.
The Knights’ defense shut down any advance for a first down within the ten yards from the end zone, forcing an early punt to midfield. Over three plays nine yards were gained by the visiting offense.
A pass interference and fifteen yard penalty opened up a chance for UCF to go for a field goal after three incompletes. The forty-six yard attempt went wide left.
Houston’s offense had another chance to make the most of their next set of plays but again would be shut down by the defense by seeing a two yard pass completion, an incomplete and a sack for a loss of two yards, making it a zero yard gain for Houston’s drive.
A long but successful UCF drive began a mix of pass and rush gains over an average of about five yards. Two offsetting penalties cleared UCF an interception and allowed the Knights to continue down the field. Two sacks forced a field goal good for forty-eight yards.
FIELD GOAL, UCF! UCF – 10  Houston – 7
The Cougars brought back a rhythm to their offense and defense on a Greg Ward rush for twenty yards to the HOU 49, twenty yards to the UCF 31 and sixteen yards to the UCF 16 for the running back. Ward’s last rush led to the end zone but a holding penalty overturned the call. Kenneth Farrow made up for his team’s loss of yardage with a twenty-six yard rush for a touchdown.
TOUCHDOWN, Houston. UCF – 10  Houston – 14
An interception off Holman’s pass turns over possession and quickly leads to a touchdown out of favor for the Knights. Two passes for fifty yards brought Houston to UCF’s doorstep three yards from the end zone.
TOUCHDOWN, Houston. UCF – 10  Houston – 21
UCF opened their drive to an interception. The pick would be rushed into the red zone and a field goal to bring the opposing score to 24.
HALFTIME: UCF – 10  Houston – 24
Third Quarter:
Kenneth Farrow leads the Cougars for a rush of twenty yards, twenty-nine yards and then seventy-nine yards for a touchdown, respectively.
TOUCHDOWN, Houston. UCF – 10  Houston – 31

Another UCF set of plays drew little ground with a fifteen yard defensive penalty and a Tre’Quan Smith fifteen yard rush making up thirty out of the thirty-five yard drive summary.
The second half continued to drop off when Cougars’ Ryan Jackson found a lane up the middle of the UCF defense on a twenty-nine yard touchdown. Jackson and Farrow made up forty-eight yards in rushes and twenty-eight yards over the air, respectively.
TOUCHDOWN, Houston. UCF – 10  Houston – 38
Farrow makes a break for four and five yards and then three yards. Greg Ward completes a pass to Demarcus Ayers to bring in sixty-seven yards to the UCF endzone.
TOUCHDOWN, Houston. UCF – 10  Houston – 45
Shqll Griffin blocked the extra point attempt but a penalty by Griffin caused the would-be touchdown to be a no play.
Holman completes a pass to Aaron Cochran for five yards to the UCF 20. An interception to the red zone made three picks for Holman in the game.
Ryan Jackson rushed for one yard and Ward soon finds a man for thirteen yards. Kenneth Farrow continues his running game with 24 yards picked up to the UCF end zone while bringing his average to 12.8 yards this game.
TOUCHDOWN, Houston. UCF – 10  Houston – 52
An unsuccessful UCF set led to Houston possession and a running out of the clock to end the third.
Fourth Quarter:
Houston sent in its secondaries after building a 42 point lead. The second-stringers held the ball to the ground beginning with a Kaliq Kokuma series of rushes. Kokuma made up twenty yards over five plays. UCF ball at the UCF 2.
Wilson finds room for a six yard rush and a three yard reception from Holman for nine yards on the set. Mac Loudermilk punts away forty-eight yards on a 4th and 1.
Small gains on the ground were broken by a rush from Kyle Postma for thorty-eight down the field. A forced fumble is recovered by the Cougars. Ten yards later, Houston posts another touchdown with 3:41 left in the fourth quarter.
TOUCHDOWN, Houston. UCF – 10  Houston – 59
Willet runs out the clock over three small rushes. Loudermilk punts away for forty-nine. Houston finishes the fourth quarter clock on small rushes.
FINAL: UCF – 10  Houston – 59



